Tenth of December The pale boy with unfortunate Prince Valiant bangs and cublike mannerisms hulked to the mudroom closet and requisitioned Dad’s white coat. Then requisitioned the boots he’d spray-painted white. Painting the pellet gun white had been a no. That was a gift from Aunt Chloe. Every time she came over he had to haul it out so she could make a big stink about the woodgrain. Today’s assignation: walk to pond, ascertain beaver dam. Likely he would be detained. By that species that lived amongst the old rock wall. They were small but, upon emerging, assumed certain proportions. And gave chase. This was just their methodology. His aplomb threw them loops. He knew that. And revelled it. He would turn, level the pellet gun, intone: Are you aware of the usage of this human implement? Blam! They were Netherworlders. Or Nethers. They had a strange bond with him. Sometimes for whole days he would just nurse their wounds. Occasionally, for a joke, he would shoot one in the butt as it fled. Who henceforth would limp for the rest of its days. Which could be as long as an additional nine million years. Safe inside the rock wall, the shot one would go, Guys, look at my butt. As a group, all would look at Gzeemon’s butt, exchanging sullen glances of: Gzeemon shall indeed be limping for the next nine million years, poor bloke. Because yes: Nethers tended to talk like that guy in “Mary Poppins.” Which naturally raised some mysteries as to their origin here on Earth. Detaining him was problematic for the Nethers. He was wily. Plus could not fit through their rock-wall opening. When they tied him up and went inside to brew their special miniaturizing potion—Wham!—he would snap their antiquated rope with a move from his self-invented martial-arts system, Toi Foi, a.k.a. Deadly Forearms. And place at their doorway an implacable rock of suffocation, trapping them inside. Later, imagining them in their death throes, taking pity on them, he would come back, move the rock. Blimey, one of them might say from withal. Thanks, guv’nor. You are indeed a worthy adversary. Sometimes there would be torture. They would make him lie on his back looking up at the racing clouds while they tortured him in ways he could actually take. They tended to leave his teeth alone. Which was lucky. He didn’t even like to get a cleaning. They were dunderheads in that manner. They never messed with his peen and never messed with his fingernails. He’d just abide there, infuriating them with his snow angels. Sometimes, believing it their coup de grâce, not realizing he’d heard this since time in memorial from certain in-school cretins, they’d go, Wow, we didn’t even know Robin could be a boy’s name. And chortle their Nether laughs. Today he had a feeling that the Nethers might kidnap Suzanne Bledsoe, the new girl in homeroom. She was from Montreal. He just loved the way she talked. So, apparently, did the Nethers, who planned to use her to repopulate their depleted numbers and bake various things they did not know how to bake. All suited up now, NASA. Turning awkwardly to go out door. Affirmative. We have your coördinates. Be careful out there, Robin. Whoa, cold, dang. Duck thermometer read ten. And that was without windchill. That made it fun. That made it real. A green Nissan was parked where Poole dead-ended into the soccer field. Hopefully the owner was not some perv he would have to outwit. Or a Nether in the human guise. Bright, bright blue and cold. Crunch went the snow as he crossed the soccer field. Why did cold such as this give a running guy a headache? Likely it was due to Prominent Windspeed Velocity. The path into the woods was as wide as one human. It seemed the Nether had indeed kidnapped Suzanne Bledsoe. Damn him! And his ilk. Judging by the single set of tracks, the Nether appeared to be carrying her. Foul cad. He’d better not be touching Suzanne inappropriately while carrying her. If so, Suzanne would no doubt be resisting with untamable fury. This was concerning, this was very concerning. When he caught up to them, he would say, Look, Suzanne, I know you don’t know my name, having misaddressed me as Roger that time you asked me to scoot over, but nevertheless I must confess I feel there is something to us. Do you feel the same? Suzanne had the most amazing brown eyes. They were wet now, with fear and sudden reality. Stop talking to her, mate, the Nether said. I won’t, he said. And, Suzanne? Even if you don’t feel there is something to us, rest assured I will still slay this fellow and return you home. Where do you live again? Over in El Cirro? By the water tower? Those are some nice houses back there. Yes, Suzanne said. We also have a pool. You should come over next summer. It’s cool if you swim with your shirt on. And also, yes to there being something to us. You are by far the most insightful boy in our class. Even when I take into consideration the boys I knew in Montreal, I am just like: no one can compare. Well, that’s nice to hear, he said. Thank you for saying that. I know I’m not the thinnest. The thing about girls? Suzanne said. Is we are more content-driven. Will you two stop already? the Nether said. Because now is the time for your death. Deaths. Well, now is certainly the time for somebody’s death, Robin said. The twerpy thing was you never really got to save anyone. Last summer there’d been a dying raccoon out here. He’d thought of lugging it home so Mom could call the vet. But up close it was too scary. Raccoons being actually bigger than they appear in cartoons. And this one looked like a potential biter. So he ran home to get it some water at least. Upon his return, he saw where the raccoon had done some apparent last-minute thrashing. That was sad. He didn’t do well with sad. There had perchance been some pre-weeping, by him, in the woods. That just means you have a big heart, Suzanne said. Well, I don’t know, he said modestly. Here was the old truck tire. Where the high-school kids partied. Inside the tire, frosted with snow, were three beer cans and a wadded-up blanket. You probably like to party, the Nether had cracked to Suzanne moments earlier as they passed this very spot. No, I don’t, Suzanne said. I like to play. And I like to hug. Hoo boy, the Nether said. Sounds like Dullsville. Somewhere there is a man who likes to play and hug, Suzanne said. He came out of the woods now to the prettiest vista he knew. The pond was a pure frozen white. It struck him as somewhat Switzerlandish. Someday he would know for sure. When the Swiss threw him a parade or whatnot. Here the Nether’s tracks departed from the path, as if he had contemplatively taken a moment to gaze at the pond. Perhaps this Nether was not all bad. Perhaps he was having a debilitating conscience attack vis-à-vis the valiantly struggling Suzanne atop his back. At least he seemed to somewhat love nature. Then the tracks returned to the path, wound around the pond, and headed up Lexow Hill. What was this strange object? A coat? On the bench? The bench the Nethers used for their human sacrifices? No accumulated snow on coat. Inside of coat still slightly warm. Ergo: the recently discarded coat of the Nether. This was some strange juju. This was an intriguing conundrum, if he had ever encountered one. Which he had. Once, he’d found a bra on the handlebars of a bike. Once, he’d found an entire untouched steak dinner on a plate behind Fresno’s. And hadn’t eaten it. Though it had looked pretty good. Something was afoot. Then he beheld, halfway up Lexow Hill, a man. Coatless, bald-headed man. Super skinny. In what looked like pajamas. Climbing plodfully, with tortoise patience, bare white arms sticking out of his p.j. shirt like two bare white branches sticking out of a p.j. shirt. Or grave. What kind of person leaves his coat behind on a day like this? The mental kind, that was who. This guy looked sort of mental. Like an Auschwitz dude or sad confused grandpa. Dad had once said, Trust your mind, Rob. If it smells like shit but has writing across it that says Happy Birthday and a candle stuck down in it, what is it? Is there icing on it? he’d said. Dad had done that thing of squinting his eyes when an answer was not quite there yet. What was his mind telling him now? Something was wrong here. A person needed a coat. Even if the person was a grownup. The pond was frozen. The duck thermometer said ten. If the person was mental, all the more reason to come to his aid, as had not Jesus said, Blessed are those who help those who cannot help themselves, but are too mental, doddering, or have a disability? He snagged the coat off the bench. It was a rescue. A real rescue, at last, sort of. Ten minutes earlier, Don Eber had paused at the pond to catch his breath. He was so tired. What a thing. Holy moly. When he used to walk Sasquatch out here they’d do six times around the pond, jog up the hill, tag the boulder on top, sprint back down. Better get moving, said one of two guys who’d been in discussion in his head all morning. That is, if you’re still set on the boulder idea, the other said. Which still strikes us as kind of fancy-pants. Seemed like one guy was Dad and the other Kip Flemish. Stupid cheaters. They’d switched spouses, abandoned the switched spouses, fled together to California. Had they been gay? Or just swingers? Gay swingers? The Dad and Kip in his head had acknowledged their sins and the three of them had struck a deal: he would forgive them for being possible gay swingers and leaving him to do Soap Box Derby alone, with just Mom, and they would consent to giving him some solid manly advice. He wants it to be nice. This was Dad now. It seemed Dad was somewhat on his side. Nice? Kip said. That is not the word I would use. A cardinal zinged across the day. It was amazing. Amazing, really. He was young. He was fifty-three. Now he’d never deliver his major national speech on compassion. What about going down the Mississippi in a canoe? What about living in an A-frame near a shady creek with the two hippie girls he’d met in 1968 in that souvenir shop in the Ozarks, when Allen, his stepfather, wearing those crazy aviators, had bought him a bag of fossil rocks? One of the hippie girls had said that he, Eber, would be a fox when he grew up, and would he please be sure to call her at that time? Then the hippie girls had put their tawny heads together and giggled at his prospective foxiness. And that had never— That had somehow never— Sister Val had said, Why not shoot for being the next J.F.K.? So he had run for class president. Allen had bought him a Styrofoam straw boater. They’d sat together, decorating the hatband with Magic Markers. WIN WITH EBER! ON THE BACK: GROOVY! Allen had helped him record a tape. Of a little speech. Allen had taken that tape somewhere and come back with thirty copies, “to pass around.” “Your message is good,” Allen had said. “And you are incredibly well spoken. You can do this thing.” And he’d done it. He’d won. Allen had thrown him a victory party. A pizza party. All the kids had come. Oh, Allen. Kindest man ever. Had taken him swimming. Had taken him to découpage. Had combed out his hair so patiently that time he came home with lice. Never a harsh, etc., etc. Not so once the suffering begat. Began. God damn it. More and more his words. Askew. More and more his words were not what he would hoped. Hope. Once the suffering began, Allen had raged. Said things no one should say. To Mom, to Eber, to the guy delivering water. Went from a shy man, always placing a reassuring hand on your back, to a diminished pale figure in a bed, shouting CUNT! Except with some weird New England accent, so it came out KANT! The first time Allen had shouted KANT! there followed a funny moment during which he and Mom looked at each other to see which of them was being called KANT. But then Allen amended, for clarity: KANTS! “You are breaking so many laws right now I don’t even know where to begin.”Buy the print » So it was clear he meant both of them. What a relief. They’d cracked up. Jeez, how long had he been standing here? Daylight was waiting. Wasting. I honestly didn’t know what to do. But he made it so simple. Took it all on himself. So what else is new? Exactly. This was Jodi and Tommy now. Hi, kids. Big day today. I mean, sure, it would have been nice to have a chance to say a proper goodbye. But at what cost? Exactly. And see—he knew that. He was a father. That’s what a father does. Eases the burdens of those he loves. Saves the ones he loves from painful last images that might endure for a lifetime. Soon Allen had become THAT. And no one was going to fault anybody for avoiding THAT. Sometimes he and Mom would huddle in the kitchen. Rather than risk incurring the wrath of THAT. Even THAT understood the deal. You’d trot in a glass of water, set it down, say, very politely, Anything else, Allen? And you’d see THAT thinking, All these years I was so good to you people and now I am merely THAT? Sometimes the gentle Allen would be inside there, too, indicating, with his eyes, Look, go away, please go away, I am trying so hard not to call you KANT! Rail-thin, ribs sticking out. Catheter taped to dick. Waft of shit smell. You are not Allen and Allen is not you. So Molly had said. As for Dr. Spivey, he couldn’t say. Wouldn’t say. Was busy drawing a daisy on a Post-it. Then finally said, Well, honestly? As these things grow, they can tend to do weird things. But it doesn’t necessarily have to be terrible. Had one guy? Just always craved him a Sprite. And Eber had thought, Did you, dear doctor/savior/lifeline, just say craved him a Sprite? That’s how they got you. You thought, Maybe I’ll just crave me a Sprite. Next thing you knew, you were THAT, shouting KANT!, shitting your bed, swatting at the people who were scrambling to clean you. No, sir. No sirree bob. Wednesday he’d fallen out of the med-bed again. There on the floor in the dark it had come to him: I could spare them. Spare us? Or spare you? Get thee behind me. Get thee behind me, sweetie. A breeze sent down a sequence of linear snow puffs from somewhere above. Beautiful. Why were we made just so, to find so many things that happened every day pretty? He took off his coat. Good Christ. Took off his hat and gloves, stuffed the hat and gloves in a sleeve of the coat, left the coat on the bench. This way they’d know. They’d find the car, walk up the path, find the coat. It was a miracle. That he’d got this far. Well, he’d always been strong. Once, he’d run a half-marathon with a broken foot. After his vasectomy he’d cleaned the garage, no problem. He’d waited in the med-bed for Molly to go off to the pharmacy. That was the toughest part. Just calling out a normal goodbye. His mind veered toward her now, and he jerked it back with a prayer: Let me pull this off. Lord, let me not fuck it up. Let me bring no dishonor. Leg me do it cling. Let. Let me do it cling. Clean. Cleanly. Estimated time of overtaking the Nether, handing him his coat? Approximately nine minutes. Six minutes to follow the path around the pond, an additional three minutes to fly up the hillside like a delivering wraith or mercy-angel, bearing the simple gift of a coat. That is just an estimate, NASA. I pretty much made that up. We know that, Robin. We know very well by now how irreverent you work. Like that time you cut a fart on the moon. Or the time you tricked Mel into saying, “Mr. President, what a delightful surprise it was to find an asteroid circling Uranus.” That estimate was particularly iffy. This Nether being surprisingly brisk. Robin himself was not the fastest wicket in the stick. He had a certain girth. Which Dad prognosticated would soon triumphantly congeal into linebackerish solidity. He hoped so. For now he just had the slight man-boobs. Robin, hurry, Suzanne said. I feel so sorry for that poor old guy. He’s a fool, Robin said, because Suzanne was young, and did not yet understand that when a man was a fool he made hardships for the other men, who were less foolish than he. He doesn’t have much time, Suzanne said, bordering on the hysterical. There, there, he said, comforting her. I’m just so frightened, she said. And yet he is fortunate to have one such as I to hump his coat up that big-ass hill, which, due to its steepness, is not exactly my cup of tea, Robin said. I guess that’s the definition of “hero,” Suzanne said. I guess so, he said. I don’t mean to continue being insolent, she said. But he seems to be pulling away. What would you suggest? he said. With all due respect, she said, and because I know you consider us as equals but different, with me covering the brainy angle and special inventions and whatnot? Yes, yes, go ahead, he said. Well, just working through the math in terms of simple geometry— He saw where she was going with this. And she was quite right. No wonder he loved her. He must cut across the pond, thereby decreasing the ambient angle, ergo trimming valuable seconds off his catchup time. Wait, Suzanne said. Is that dangerous? It is not, he said. I have done it numerous times. Please be careful, Suzanne implored. Well, once, he said. You have such aplomb, Suzanne demurred. Actually never, he said softly, not wishing to alarm her. Your bravery is irascible, Suzanne said. He started across the pond. It was actually pretty cool walking on water. In summer, canoes floated here. If Mom could see him, she’d have a conniption. Mom treated him like a piece of glass. Due to his alleged infant surgeries. She went on full alert if he so much as used a stapler. But Mom was a good egg. A reliable counsellor and steady hand of guidance. She had a munificent splay of long silver hair and a raspy voice, though she didn’t smoke and was even a vegan. She’d never been a biker chick, although some of the in-school cretins claimed she resembled one. He was actually quite fond of Mom. He was now approximately three-quarters, or that would be sixty per cent, across. Between him and the shore lay a grayish patch. Here in summer a stream ran in. Looked a tad iffy. At the edge of the grayish patch he gave the ice a bonk with the butt of his gun. Solid as anything. Here he went. Ice rolled a bit underfoot. Probably it was shallow here. Anyways he hoped so. Yikes. How’s it going? Suzanne said, trepidly. Could be better, he said. Maybe you should turn back, Suzanne said. But wasn’t this feeling of fear the exact feeling all heroes had to confront early in life? Wasn’t overcoming this feeling of fear what truly distinguished the brave? There could be no turning back. Or could there? Maybe there could. Actually there should. The ice gave way and the boy fell through. Nausea had not been mentioned in “The Humbling Steppe.” A blissful feeling overtook me as I drifted off to sleep at the base of the crevasse. No fear, no discomfort, only a vague sadness at the thought of all that remained undone. This is death? I thought. It is but nothing. Author, whose name I cannot remember, I would like a word with you. A-hole. The shivering was insane. Like a tremor. His head was shaking on his neck. He paused to puke a bit in the snow, white-yellow against the white-blue. This was scary. This was scary now. Every step was a victory. He had to remember that. With every step he was fleeing father and father. Farther from father. Stepfarther. What a victory he was wresting. From the jaws of the feet. He felt a need at the back of his throat to say it right. From the jaws of defeat. From the jaws of defeat. Oh, Allen. Even when you were THAT you were still Allen to me. Please know that. Falling, Dad said. For some definite time he waited to see where he would land and how much it would hurt. Then there was a tree in his gut. He found himself wrapped fetally around some tree. Fucksake. Ouch, ouch. This was too much. He hadn’t cried after the surgeries or during the chemo, but he felt like crying now. It wasn’t fair. It happened to everyone supposedly but now it was happening specifically to him. He’d kept waiting for some special dispensation. But no. Something/someone bigger than him kept refusing. You were told the big something/someone loved you especially but in the end you saw it was otherwise. The big something/someone was neutral. Unconcerned. When it innocently moved, it crushed people. Years ago at “The Illuminated Body” he and Molly had seen this brain slice. Marring the brain slice had been a nickel-size brown spot. That brown spot was all it had taken to kill the guy. Guy must have had his hopes and dreams, closet full of pants, and so on, some treasured childhood memories: a mob of koi in the willow shade at Gage Park, say, Gram searching in her Wrigley’s-smelling purse for a tissue—like that. If not for that brown spot, the guy might have been one of the people walking by on the way to lunch in the atrium. But no. He was defunct now, off rotting somewhere, no brain in his head. Looking down at the brain slice Eber had felt a sense of superiority. Poor guy. It was pretty unlucky, what had happened to him. He and Molly had fled to the atrium, had hot scones, watched a squirrel mess with a plastic cup. Wrapped fetally around the tree Eber traced the scar on his head. Tried to sit. No dice. Tried to use the tree to sit up. His hand wouldn’t close. Reaching around the tree with both hands, joining his hands at the wrists, he sat himself up, leaned back against the tree. How was that? Fine. Good, actually. Maybe this was it. Maybe this was as far as he got. He’d had it in mind to sit cross-legged against the boulder at the top of the hill, but really what difference did it make? All he had to do now was stay put. Stay put by force-thinking the same thoughts he’d used to propel himself out of the med-bed and into the car and across the soccer field and through the woods: MollyTommyJodi huddling in the kitchen filled with pity/loathing, MollyTommyJodi recoiling at something cruel he’d said, Tommy hefting his thin torso up in his arms so that MollyJodi could get under there with a wash— Then it would be done. He would have preëmpted all future debasement. All his fears about the coming months would be mute. Moot. This was it. Was it? Not yet. Soon, though. An hour? Forty minutes? Was he doing this? Really? He was. Was he? Would he be able to make it back to the car even if he changed his mind? He thought not. Here he was. He was here. This incredible opportunity to end things with dignity was right in his hands. All he had to do was stay put. I will fight no more forever. Concentrate on the beauty of the pond, the beauty of the woods, the beauty you are returning to, the beauty that is everywhere as far as you can— Oh, for shitsake. Oh, for crying out loud. Some kid was on the pond. Chubby kid in white. With a gun. Carrying Eber’s coat. You little fart, put that coat down, get your ass home, mind your own— Damn. Damn it. Kid tapped the ice with the butt of his gun. You wouldn’t want some kid finding you. That could scar a kid. Although kids found freaky things all the time. Once, he’d found a naked photo of Dad and Mrs. Flemish. That had been freaky. Of course, not as freaky as a grimacing cross-legged— Kid was swimming. Swimming was not allowed. That was clearly posted. No Swimming. Kid was a bad swimmer. Real thrashfest down there. Kid was creating with his thrashing a rapidly expanding black pool. With each thrash the kid incrementally expanded the boundary of the black— “Go on in—he’s expecting you.”Buy the print » He was on his way down before he knew he’d started. Kid in the pond, kid in the pond, ran repetitively through his head as he minced. Progress was tree-to-tree. Standing there panting, you got to know a tree well. This one had three knots: eye, eye, nose. This started out as one tree and became two. Suddenly he was not purely the dying guy who woke nights in the med-bed thinking, Make this not true make this not true, but again, partly, the guy who used to put bananas in the freezer, then crack them on the counter and pour chocolate over the broken chunks, the guy who’d once stood outside a classroom window in a rainstorm to see how Jodi was faring with that little red-headed shit who wouldn’t give her a chance at the book table, the guy who used to hand-paint bird feeders in college and sell them on weekends in Boulder, wearing a jester hat and doing a little juggling routine he’d— He started to fall again, caught himself, froze in a hunched-over position, hurtled forward, fell flat on his face, chucked his chin on a root. You had to laugh. You almost had to laugh. He got up. Got doggedly up. His right hand presented as a bloody glove. Tough nuts, too bad. Once, in football, a tooth had come out. Later in the half, Eddie Blandik had found it. He’d taken it from Eddie, flung it away. That had also been him. Here was the switchbank. It wasn’t far now. Switchback. What to do? When he got there? Get kid out of pond. Get kid moving. Force-walk kid through woods, across soccer field, to one of the houses on Poole. If nobody home, pile kid into Nissan, crank up heater, drive to— Our Lady of Sorrows? UrgentCare? Fastest route to UrgentCare? Fifty yards to the trailhead. Twenty yards to the trailhead. Thank you, God, for my strength. In the pond, he was all animal-thought, no words, no self, blind panic. He resolved to really try. He grabbed for the edge. The edge broke away. Down he went. He hit mud and pushed up. He grabbed for the edge. The edge broke away. Down he went. It seemed like it should be easy, getting out. But he just couldn’t do it. It was like at the carnival. It should be easy to knock three sawdust dogs off a ledge. And it was easy. It just wasn’t easy with the number of balls they gave you. He wanted the shore. He knew that was the right place for him. But the pond kept saying no. Then it said maybe. The ice edge broke again, but, breaking it, he pulled himself infinitesimally toward shore, so that, when he went down, his feet found mud sooner. The bank was sloped. Suddenly there was hope. He went nuts. He went total spaz. Then he was out, water streaming off him, a piece of ice like a tiny pane of glass in the cuff of his coat sleeve. Trapezoidal, he thought. In his mind, the pond was not finite, circular, and behind him but infinite and all around. He felt he’d better lie still or whatever had just tried to kill him would try again. What had tried to kill him was not just in the pond but out here, too, in every natural thing, and there was no him, no Suzanne, no Mom, no nothing, just the sound of some kid crying like a terrified baby. Eber jog-hobbled out of the woods and found: no kid. Just black water. And a green coat. His coat. His former coat, out there on the ice. The water was calming already. Oh, shit. Your fault. Kid was only out there because of— Down on the beach near an overturned boat was some ignoramus. Lying face down. On the job. Lying down on the job. Must have been lying there even as that poor kid— Wait, rewind. It was the kid. Oh, thank Christ. Face down like a corpse in a Brady photo. Legs still in the pond. Like he’d lost steam crawling out. Kid was soaked through, the white coat gone gray with wet. Eber dragged the kid out. It took four distinct pulls. He didn’t have the strength to flip him over, but, turning the head, at least got the mouth out of the snow. Kid was in trouble. Soaking wet, ten degrees. Doom. Eber went down on one knee and told the kid in a grave fatherly way that he had to get up, had to get moving or he could lose his legs, he could die. The kid looked at Eber, blinked, stayed where he was. He grabbed the kid by the coat, rolled him over, roughly sat him up. The kid’s shivers made his shivers look like nothing. Kid seemed to be holding a jackhammer. He had to get the kid warmed up. How to do it? Hug him, lie on top of him? That would be like Popsicle-on-Popsicle. Eber remembered his coat, out on the ice, at the edge of the black water. Ugh. Find a branch. No branches anywhere. Where the heck was a good fallen branch when you— All right, all right, he’d do it without a branch. He walked fifty feet downshore, stepped onto the pond, walked a wide loop on the solid stuff, turned to shore, started toward the black water. His knees were shaking. Why? He was afraid he might fall in. Ha. Dope. Poser. The coat was fifteen feet away. His legs were in revolt. His legs were revolting. Doctor, my legs are revolting. You’re telling me. He tiny-stepped up. The coat was ten feet away. He went down on his knees, knee-walked slightly up. Went down on his belly. Stretched out an arm. Slid forward on his belly. Bit more. Bit more. Then had a tiny corner by two fingers. He hauled it in, slid himself back via something like a reverse breaststroke, got to his knees, stood, retreated a few steps, and was once again fifteen feet away and safe. Then it was like the old days, getting Tommy or Jodi ready for bed when they were zonked. You said, “Arm,” the kid lifted an arm. You said, “Other arm,” the kid lifted the other arm. With the coat off, Eber could see that the boy’s shirt was turning to ice. Eber peeled the shirt off. Poor little guy. A person was just some meat on a frame. Little guy wouldn’t last long in this cold. Eber took off his pajama shirt, put it on the kid, slid the kid’s arm into the arm of the coat. In the arm were Eber’s hat and gloves. He put the hat and gloves on the kid, zipped the coat up. The kid’s pants were frozen solid. His boots were ice sculptures of boots. You had to do things right. Eber sat on the boat, took off his boots and socks, peeled off his pajama pants, made the kid sit on the boat, knelt before the kid, got the kid’s boots off. He loosened the pants up with little punches and soon had one leg partly out. He was stripping off a kid in ten-degree weather. Maybe this was exactly the wrong thing. Maybe he’d kill the kid. He didn’t know. He just didn’t know. Desperately, he gave the pants a few more punches. Then the kid was stepping out. Eber put the pajama pants on him, then the socks, then the boots. The kid was standing there in Eber’s clothes, swaying, eyes closed. We’re going to walk now, O.K.? Eber said. Nothing. Eber gave the kid an encouraging pop in the shoulders. Like a football thing. We’re going to walk you home, he said. Do you live near here? Nothing. He gave a harder pop. The kid gaped at him, baffled. Pop. Kid started walking. Pop-pop. Like fleeing. Eber drove the kid out ahead of him. Like cowboy and cow. At first, fear of the popping seemed to be motivating the kid, but then good old panic kicked in and he started running. Soon Eber couldn’t keep up. Kid was at the bench. Kid was at the trailhead. Good boy, get home. Kid disappeared into the woods. Eber came back to himself. Oh, boy. Oh, wow. He had never known cold. Had never known tired. He was standing in the snow in his underwear near an overturned boat. He hobbled to the boat and sat in the snow. Robin ran. Past the bench and the trailhead and into the woods on the old familiar path. What the heck? What the heck had just happened? He’d fallen into the pond? His jeans had frozen solid? Had ceased being bluejeans. Were whitejeans. He looked down to see if his jeans were still whitejeans. He had on pajama pants that, tucked into some tremendoid boots, looked like clown pants. Had he been crying just now? I think crying is healthy, Suzanne said. It means you’re in touch with your feelings. Ugh. That was done, that was stupid, talking in your head to some girl who in real life called you Roger. Dang. So tired. Here was a stump. He sat. It felt good to rest. He wasn’t going to lose his legs. They didn’t even hurt. He couldn’t even feel them. He wasn’t going to die. Dying was not something he had in mind at this early an age. To rest more efficiently, he lay down. The sky was blue. The pines swayed. Not all at the same rate. He raised one gloved hand and watched it tremor. He might close his eyes for a bit. Sometimes in life one felt a feeling of wanting to quit. Then everyone would see. Everyone would see that teasing wasn’t nice. Sometimes with all the teasing his days were subtenable. Sometimes he felt he couldn’t take even one more lunchtime of meekly eating on that rolled-up wrestling mat in the cafeteria corner near the snapped parallel bars. He did not have to sit there. But preferred to. If he sat anywhere else, there was the chance of a comment or two. Upon which he would then have the rest of the day to reflect. Sometimes comments were made on the clutter of his home. Thanks to Bryce, who had once come over. Sometimes comments were made on his manner of speaking. Sometimes comments were made on the style faux pas of Mom. Who was, it must be said, a real eighties gal. Mom. He did not like it when they teased about Mom. Mom had no idea of his lowly school status. Mom seeing him more as the paragon or golden-boy type. Once, he’d done a secret rendezvous of recording Mom’s phone calls, just for the reconnaissance aspect. Mostly they were dull, mundane, not about him at all. Except for this one with her friend Liz. I never dreamed I could love someone so much, Mom had said. I just worry I might not be able to live up to him, you know? He’s so good, so grateful. That kid deserves—that kid deserves it all. Better school, which we cannot afford, some trips, like abroad, but that is also, uh, out of our price range. I just don’t want to fail him, you know? That’s all I want from my life, you know? Liz? To feel, at the end, like I did right by that magnificent little dude. At that point it seemed like Liz had maybe started vacuuming. Magnificent little dude. He should probably get going. Magnificent Little Dude was like his Indian name. He got to his feet and, gathering his massive amount of clothes up like some sort of encumbering royal train, started toward home. Here was the truck tire, here the place where the trail briefly widened, here the place where the trees crossed overhead like reaching for one another. Weave-ceiling, Mom called it. Here was the soccer field. Across the field, his house sat like a big sweet animal. It was amazing. He’d made it. He’d fallen into the pond and lived to tell the tale. He had somewhat cried, yes, but had then simply laughed off this moment of mortal weakness and made his way home, look of wry bemusement on his face, having, it must be acknowledged, benefitted from the much appreciated assistance of a certain aged— With a shock he remembered the old guy. What the heck? An image flashed of the old guy standing bereft and blue-skinned in his tighty-whities like a P.O.W. abandoned at the barbed wire due to no room on the truck. Or a sad traumatized stork bidding farewell to its young. He’d bolted. He’d bolted on the old guy. Hadn’t even given him a thought. Blimey. What a chickenshittish thing to do. He had to go back. Right now. Help the old guy hobble out. But he was so tired. He wasn’t sure he could do it. Probably the old guy was fine. Probably he had some sort of old-guy plan. “I just worry that it’s affecting our work.”Buy the print » But he’d bolted. He couldn’t live with that. His mind was telling him that the only way to undo the bolting was to go back now, save the day. His body was saying something else: It’s too far, you’re just a kid, get Mom, Mom will know what to do. He stood paralyzed at the edge of the soccer field like a scarecrow in huge flowing clothes. Eber sat slumped against the boat. What a change in the weather. People were going around with parasols and so forth in the open part of the park. There was a merry-go-round and a band and a gazebo. People were frying food on the backs of certain merry-go-round horses. And yet, on others, kids were riding. How did they know? Which horses were hot? For now there was still snow, but snow couldn’t last long in this bomb. Balm. If you close your eyes, that’s the end. You know that, right? Hilarious. Allen. His exact voice. After all these years. Where was he? The duck pond. So many times he’d come out here with the kids. He should go now. Goodbye, duck pond. Although hang on. He couldn’t seem to stand. Plus you couldn’t leave a couple of little kids behind. Not this close to water. They were four and six. For God’s sake. What had he been thinking? Leaving those two little dears by the pond. They were good kids, they’d wait, but wouldn’t they get bored? And swim? Without life jackets? No, no, no. It made him sick. He had to stay. Poor kids. Poor abandoned— Wait, rewind. His kids were excellent swimmers. His kids had never come close to being abandoned. His kids were grown. Tom was thirty. Tall drink of water. Tried so hard to know things. But even when he thought he knew a thing (fighting kites, breeding rabbits) Tom would soon be shown for what he was: the dearest, most agreeable young man ever, who knew no more about fighting kites/breeding rabbits than the average person could pick up from ten minutes on the Internet. Not that Tom wasn’t smart. Tom was smart. Tom was a damn quick study. Oh, Tom, Tommy, Tommikins! The heart in that kid! He just worked and worked. For the love of his dad. Oh, kid, you had it, you have it, Tom, Tommy, even now I am thinking of you, you are very much on my mind. And Jodi, Jodi was out there in Santa Fe. She’d said she’d take off work and fly home. As needed. But there was no need. He didn’t like to impose. The kids had their own lives. Jodi-Jode. Little freckle-face. Pregnant now. Not married. Not even dating. Stupid Lars. What kind of man deserted a beautiful girl like that? A total dear. Just starting to make some progress in her job. You couldn’t take that kind of time off when you’d only just started— Reconstructing the kids in this way was having the effect of making them real to him again. Which—you didn’t want to get that ball roiling. Jodi was having a baby. Rolling. He could have lasted long enough to see the baby. Hold the baby. It was sad, yes. That was a sacrifice he’d had to make. He’d explained it in the note. Hadn’t he? No. Hadn’t left a note. Couldn’t. There’d been some reason he couldn’t. Hadn’t there? He was pretty sure there’d been some— Insurance. It couldn’t seem like he’d done it on purpose. Little panic. Little panic here. He was offing himself. Offing himself, he’d involved a kid. Who was wandering the woods hypothermic. Offing himself two weeks before Christmas. Molly’s favorite holiday. Molly had a valve thing, a panic thing, this business might— This was not—this was not him. This was not something he would have done. Not something he would ever do. Except he—he’d done it. He was doing it. It was in progress. If he didn’t get moving, it would—it would be accomplished. It would be done. This very day you will be with me in the kingdom of— He had to fight. But couldn’t seem to keep his eyes open. He tried to send some last thoughts to Molly. Sweetie, forgive me. Biggest fuckup ever. Forget this part. Forget I ended this thisly. You know me. You know I didn’t mean this. He was at his house. He wasn’t at his house. He knew that. But could see every detail. Here was the empty med-bed, the studio portrait of HimMollyTommyJodi posed around that fake rodeo fence. Here was the little bedside table. His meds in the pillbox. The bell he rang to call Molly. What a thing. What a cruel thing. Suddenly he saw clearly how cruel it was. And selfish. Oh, God. Who was he? The front door swung open. Molly called his name. He’d hide in the sunroom. Jump out, surprise her. Somehow they’d remodelled. Their sunroom was now the sunroom of Mrs. Kendall, his childhood piano teacher. That would be fun for the kids, to take piano lessons in the same room where he’d— Hello? Mrs. Kendall said. What she meant was: Don’t die yet. There are many of us who wish to judge you harshly in the sunroom. Hello, hello! she shouted. Coming around the pond was a silver-haired woman. All he had to do was call out. He called out. To keep him alive she started piling on him various things from life, things smelling of a home—coats, sweaters, a rain of flowers, a hat, socks, sneakers—and with amazing strength had him on his feet and was maneuvering him into a maze of trees, a wonderland of trees, trees hung with ice. He was piled high with clothes. He was like the bed at a party on which they pile the coats. She had all the answers: where to step, when to rest. She was strong as a bull. He was on her hip now like a baby; she had both arms around his waist, lifting him over a root. They walked for hours, seemed like. She sang. Cajoled. She hissed at him, reminding him, with pokes in the forehead (right in his forehead), that her freaking kid was at home, near-frozen, so they had to book it. Good God, there was so much to do. If he made it. He’d make it. This gal wouldn’t let him not make it. He’d have to try to get Molly to see—see why he’d done it. I was scared, I was scared, Mol. Maybe Molly would agree not to tell Tommy and Jodi. He didn’t like the thought of them knowing he’d been scared. Didn’t like the thought of them knowing what a fool he’d been. Oh, to hell with that! Tell everyone! He’d done it! He’d been driven to do it and he’d done it and that was it. That was him. That was part of who he was. No more lies, no more silence, it was going to be a new and different life, if only he— They were crossing the soccer field. Here was the Nissan. His first thought was: Get in, drive it home. Oh, no, you don’t, she said with that smoky laugh and guided him into a house. A house on the park. He’d seen it a million times. And now was in it. It smelled of man-sweat and spaghetti sauce and old books. Like a library where sweaty men went to cook spaghetti. She sat him in front of a woodstove, brought him a brown blanket that smelled of medicine. Didn’t talk but in directives: Drink this, let me take that, wrap up, what’s your name, what’s your number? What a thing! To go from dying in your underwear in the snow to this! Warmth, colors, antlers on the walls, an old-time crank phone like you saw in silent movies. It was something. Every second was something. He hadn’t died in his shorts by a pond in the snow. The kid wasn’t dead. He’d killed no one. Ha! Somehow he’d got it all back. Everything was good now, everything was— The woman reached down, touched his scar. Oh, wow, ouch, she said. You didn’t do that out there, did you? At this he remembered that the brown spot was as much in his head as ever. Oh, Lord, there was still all that to go through. Did he still want it? Did he still want to live? Yes, yes, oh, God, yes, please. Because, O.K., the thing was—he saw it now, was starting to see it—if some guy, at the end, fell apart, and said or did bad things, or had to be helped, helped to quite a considerable extent? So what? What of it? Why should he not do or say weird things or look strange or disgusting? Why should the shit not run down his legs? Why should those he loved not lift and bend and feed and wipe him, when he would gladly do the same for them? He’d been afraid to be lessened by the lifting and bending and feeding and wiping, and was still afraid of that, and yet, at the same time, now saw that there could still be many—many drops of goodness, is how it came to him—many drops of happy—of good fellowship—ahead, and those drops of fellowship were not—had never been—his to withheld. Withhold. The kid came out of the kitchen, lost in Eber’s big coat, pajama pants pooling around his feet with the boots now off. He took Eber’s bloody hand gently. Said he was sorry. Sorry for being such a dope in the woods. Sorry for running off. He’d just been out of it. Kind of scared and all. Listen, Eber said hoarsely. You did amazing. You did perfect. I’m here. Who did that? There. That was something you could do. The kid maybe felt better now? He’d given the kid that? That was a reason. To stay around. Wasn’t it? Can’t console anyone if not around? Can’t do squat if gone? When Allen was close to the end, Eber had done a presentation at school on the manatee. Got an A from Sister Eustace. Who could be quite tough. She was missing two fingers on her right hand from a lawnmower incident and sometimes used that hand to scare a kid silent. He hadn’t thought of this in years. She’d put that hand on his shoulder not to scare him but as a form of praise. That was just terrific. Everyone should take their work as seriously as Donald here. Donald, I hope you’ll go home and share this with your parents. He’d gone home and shared it with Mom. Who suggested he share it with Allen. Who, on that day, had been more Allen than THAT. And Allen— Ha, wow, Allen. There was a man. Tears sprang into his eyes as he sat by the woodstove. Allen had—Allen had said it was great. Asked a few questions. About the manatee. What did they eat again? Did he think they could effectively communicate with one another? What a trial that must have been! In his condition. Forty minutes on the manatee? Including a poem Eber had composed? A sonnet? On the manatee? He’d felt so happy to have Allen back. I’ll be like him, he thought. I’ll try to be like him. The voice in his head was shaky, hollow, unconvinced. Then: sirens. Somehow: Molly. He heard her in the entryway. Mol, Molly, oh, boy. When they were first married they used to fight. Say the most insane things. Afterward, sometimes there would be tears. Tears in bed? Somewhere. And then they would—Molly pressing her hot wet face against his hot wet face. They were sorry, they were saying with their bodies, they were accepting each other back, and that feeling, that feeling of being accepted back again and again, of someone’s affection for you always expanding to encompass whatever new flawed thing had just manifested in you, that was the deepest, dearest thing he’d ever— She came in flustered and apologetic, a touch of anger in her face. He’d embarrassed her. He saw that. He’d embarrassed her by doing something that showed she hadn’t sufficiently noticed him needing her. She’d been too busy nursing him to notice how scared he was. She was angry at him for pulling this stunt and ashamed of herself for feeling angry at him in his hour of need, and was trying to put the shame and anger behind her now so she could do what might be needed. All of this was in her face. He knew her so well. Also concern. Overriding everything else in that lovely face was concern. She came to him now, stumbling a bit on a swell in the floor of this stranger’s house.Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Sun City They floated into the afternoon in their little stucco submarine, the blinds shut against the sunlight and the swamp cooler whistling on the roof. Bev sat on the couch, Rose knelt on the matted carpet, and in the artificial air the two women wrapped jewelry in tissue paper and placed it in egg cartons. Rose had had this idea, the egg cartons, on the plane to Arizona, and it had made her feel organized. In the aftermath of her grandmother’s death, at least there were omelettes to be made. When she realized just how much stuff her grandmother, Vera, had owned, and how little of it Bev wanted to keep, Rose should have come up with a new plan. Instead, they just kept eating eggs. Cline, Bev’s guinea pig, wandered out from under the couch. “It’s Cline after Patsy Cline, you know,” Bev explained for the fifth time that week, as the album spun to silence on the stereo in the hallway. She heaved herself off the couch and over the child gate that kept Cline in the living room. Bev was majestically huge. The lift of her legs over the gate reminded Rose of dockyards, cranes, and I-beams, vast weight swinging dangerously free. If the house weren’t a concrete box laid flat on the dirt, the floors would shake. Rose, solid herself, envied this size; Bev looked armored, untouchable, as if nothing could come at her that wouldn’t bounce straight off. Vera’s death, the divesting of her possessions—at the end of the week, Bev would step over it all and disappear into some other hallway of her life. “They eat these, you know,” Rose said, scooping Cline off the floor. “In South America.” “That’s disgusting.” Bev swung herself back into the room, and Patsy Cline went walkin’ after midnight on the stereo. Rose moved Cline’s front legs in a little dance. “It’s a delicacy. There’s a painting of the Last Supper in some church in Peru where Jesus eats guinea pig.” Bev lifted Cline onto her shoulder. “No one’s going to eat you here, sweetie. We aren’t savages.” “They roast them whole, eyes and toenails and everything.” “Why are you telling me this?” Bev cuddled Cline defensively. It was a real question, and Rose felt sheepish. “Sorry,” she said, and held up a pair of clip-on silver bird earrings, still on the plastic backing from the store. “Are you sure you don’t want these?” “I don’t need Vera’s old costume crap. I’ve got enough junk of my own.” Rose agreed with her there. The house bulged with it: cowboy figurines and Kokopellis and monotonous Southwestern art, cheerful brown children in brown pueblos. Bev’s own cheerful white grandchildren smiled from every wall, in frames shaped like hearts or guitars or kitten heads, the pictures cut off at awkward angles inside. “This pair’s real silver,” Rose offered. “Take ’em for yourself. Take anything you like. We’ve been through this.” “I wear pierced, not clip.” “I noticed. Five times in the one ear, four in the other.” Bev peered more closely at the pair of birds. “She never wore those. Your mother sent them to her one Christmas. She hated them.” “O.K., then. To the consignment store.” Rose tried to tuck them into an egg cup, but the plastic backing didn’t fit. The birds eyed her, wedged on top of the coiled necklaces. Bev wore almost no jewelry, just a tiny gold cross with a diamond in the center. The back of the chain disappeared between two rolls of her neck and emerged on either side to end in a dainty point of light. It blinked at Rose from Bev’s oceanic chest. Vera had lived in this house for eight years, a long quiet twilight filled with card games at the neighborhood clubhouse, a bowling league, classic-movie channels. Vera and Bev were both retired and hadn’t seemed to miss their jobs. They’d both been widowed, and made it known that they didn’t miss their husbands. Vera had been a secretary for a company that made plastic garbage cans. Bev had been an electrician. She kept her hair short and played softball and, in the photos Vera sent, wore overalls, until her weight ballooned and she switched to housedresses. They co-wrote their Christmas letters, trading off every paragraph to crack jokes about each other. They included pictures of themselves at the botanical garden, or at a Diamondbacks game, their full names—Vera Beasley and Beverly Morrison—written on the back. They filled the frame, these two old ladies, one large and one lean, smiling and pressing their cheeks close. “Say hi to Bev,” Rose wrote in every note to her grandmother—postcards or thank-you notes for the five-dollar bills that still came on her birthday. Each time, she felt as if she were winking, their eyes meeting over the decades, seeing something true in each other. Rose had once dated a woman who’d had a whole other life—a marriage, two kids. “You’ve always known who you were,” she’d said, when Rose had talked about high-school girlfriends and coming out to her mother in the car home after a tonsillectomy, still high on painkillers. Her mother had just pulled into a drive-through to buy her a milkshake and said, “Oh sweetie, I know. We’ve known for a while, haven’t we?” “I envy that,” the old girlfriend had said. “It must have made life so much easier.” “It’s never easy,” Rose had said, meaning life in general, or romance, or sex, or relationships. She’d realized only later that the woman had simply meant self-knowledge, and that had been easy for Rose; it had come plainly and she’d never wanted to deny it, never felt she could. Vera’s story was beautiful and sad to her—how long it had taken to find Bev, to find herself. It was a story that had allowed Rose to love her grandmother less complicatedly than her mother had been able to. After Vera died, of a heart attack, about as suddenly as a seventy-three-year-old woman can die, Rose flew in from Portland for the week, partly because she knew that her mother wouldn’t. Rose rented a car at Phoenix Sky Harbor and drove to the house in Sun City. But when Bev showed her into Vera’s room there was only one person’s clothes in the closet, and a tightly made single bed with rough white pillowcases. “I’m across the hall,” Bev said, then peered more closely at whatever expression was on Rose’s face. “She didn’t actually die in here, you know. It happened at the hospital.” Bev explained that she’d already paid for a booth at a local consignment store. Vera’s stuff had to be out of the house by the end of the week. “I’ll need another roommate,” Bev said. “The homeowner-association fees out here are something else.” Vera herself was a brown cardboard box on the dresser, dangerously like the pile of mail left sitting beside it, the sales pitches and charity pleas that had arrived after her death. “I suppose you’ll be taking this back to Portland,” Bev said, holding it up for inspection. “Unless you want it here,” Rose offered, carefully. “You’re family and it’s yours. And why would I?” Roommate. Rose had assumed in those Christmas letters that it was a euphemism. But maybe it wasn’t. The other bedroom door had been closed since Rose arrived. Bev disappeared into it every night after dinner to play the most miserable country album Rose had ever heard. A woman’s lone howl crawled out from under the door, and Rose thought that if she listened hard enough she’d eventually hear Bev crying along. But Bev popped out each morning clear-eyed and so brusque that Rose couldn’t imagine just asking her, putting her question into words that Bev could laugh or take offense at or just deny. Bev gave up on a tangle of necklaces and pushed the clot of metal across the coffee table. “I’m going for my swim,” she announced. “You said you’d call U-Haul about her furniture.” Rose picked at the clasps until she heard the sliding door to the back yard open and shut. Then she sneaked toward the kitchen window. She hunkered down, her arms in the sink, her head as close to the windowsill as she could get and still see the back-yard pool. Bev couldn’t actually swim. She got from side to side somehow, but with wild movements of her arms and great gasps of breath. Sometimes she turned onto her back and shot a flute of water into the air as if from a whale’s blowhole. At the edge of the pool she pulled herself up with an elbow, the flesh of her upper arm spreading over the concrete. She caught her breath, practiced a stroke one-armed, hung on to the side, and kicked her legs. Put her face back into the water and blew delicate bubbles. Then she set off back across and it looked exactly the same, her strokes a broken windmill, her hips swivelling, water spraying three feet up on the concrete deck. It was the worst swimming Rose had ever seen, and it was the best entertainment of the past three days. After fifteen minutes, Bev climbed out of the pool and Rose ran back to the living room, dropped to the carpet, and grabbed the necklaces. “Doesn’t look like you’ve made much progress,” Bev said, closing the sliding door behind her. A gulp of outside air came in with her, hot enough to reach Rose in the living room but already dissipating, a flame thankfully snuffed. Bev stood in her swimsuit, dripping a puddle onto the tiled floor. Rose shrugged. Bev tucked her towel around her waist. “The swimming. Can’t ever stop learning. That’s when you die. Anyway, you going to make us some dinner? Something other than eggs.” Rose wanted to protest, but Bev was already down the hallway. Behind her bedroom door, the miserable country album started up again. A banjo twanged and the singer howled. Rose thought of her first girlfriend. She’d left lyrics in Rose’s locker, written out like poems. Some were about love, but most were about suicide. They’d put on a CD and smoke pot and try to feel more than their lives at the time had given them to feel. Rose listened and pretended she was the girl that her mother must have envisioned when naming her. She imagined the beauty, imagined the thorns. Dark things were the deepest. Every teen-ager knew that, gay or straight. The singer in Bev’s bedroom shrieked as if something were biting her. “I’m going to the store!” Rose shouted. Bev had the single song on repeat, too loud to hear or answer, and Rose thought that if she’d owned this album as a sixteen-year-old she might have hurt herself for real. Buy the print » Rose’s mother worked at the U.S.A. Dry Pea and Lentil Council trade group. She was the kind of admin who prided herself on being able to merge across five distribution lists, kick the vending machine in the right place to free a stuck soda, and fix a paycheck, all at 4:55 P.M. on a Friday. Iris had worked fifty weeks a year for thirty years and counting. One week of vacation she used to take Rose somewhere edifying, a national park or a historic battlefield. One week she went to Cabo San Lucas alone. There were plenty of men in her life, usually one at a time for a few months each, but they never went with her. Iris had used Rose as her excuse—single parenthood, the need to not let her little girl fall too hard for men who might not last. But Rose never fell too hard for anyone. During Iris’s vacations, Rose stayed with Grandma Vera, who took her bowling and made cookies with ingredients seemingly left over from the last time Rose had visited, the brown sugar crusted into jagged points at the bottom of the bag. “What does your mom do all week in Cabo? I mean, the same vacation, every year. If I had the money to go somewhere, I’d try to actually see something. I’d see the world.” Vera rolled the dough into balls as if she were annoyed with it, and pressed them onto the baking sheet so firmly that Rose knew they’d spread too much and burn. The first batch was already out of the oven, brown and crispy. Rose ate them anyway. “Your mother’s wasted her life,” Vera said. “She was a smart girl, and she’s wasted it with those pea people.” Rose went very still, chewing her cookie as quietly as she could. She felt as if a wild animal were coming into view, a dangerous specimen that her mother knew but Rose rarely saw. She imagined the hushed voice of a nature-program narrator, excitedly announcing the find. The Old Vera had been a drinker. The Old Vera had been sharp-tongued, quick to insult, frequently cruel. Iris avoided talking about the angry version—she could acknowledge Vera’s newer self without quite wanting a relationship with it, or believing that she could manage one. “Don’t you waste your life, too,” Vera used to tell her. “Not like your mother.” She didn’t think she had, but she suspected Vera might: mid-twenties, tending bar, no college degree, no marriage, no children. Her mother had sent Vera the reviews of all the places Rose worked. They almost never mentioned the drinks, but her mother would find something, like “attentive service,” to run a pink highlighter across. They had all figured out a way to live around, rather than directly with, one another—the restaurant reviews mailed to Vera, the notes of congratulations that Vera then sent to Rose. It was a careful dance around one another’s loyalties. The most recent review was in a still sealed envelope, piled on Vera’s dresser with the rest of her mail. Rose was mentioned by name, as the “mixologist and mastermind behind the exquisitely crafted cocktails.” Rose stuck the review in the mirror frame and pretended that her grandmother had had the chance to read it. Looking at it, posted above the blank brown box, felt like both vindication and disappointment. Whatever big goals Vera might have had for herself remained a mystery. She didn’t seem especially proud of any one ability or accomplishment, her family included. Moving in with Bev had seemed like an explanation that justified everything, misbehavior and devotion both. But if Vera had died alone, surrounded by Kokopellis and pictures of someone else’s grandchildren, with a roommate, a guinea pig, and an estranged daughter, then what was her excuse? How angry was her life, and how small, there at the end, if it was without love? In late afternoon, the heat was every possible cliché: blast furnace, oven, kiln, campfire, house fire. Rose’s jeans were marshy before she’d even pulled out of the driveway, and at the Safeway she lingered as long as she could, buying food and a two-dollar pair of flip-flops, her feet suffocating in sneakers. Her mom called while she was stalling in the magazine aisle, actually reading Us Weekly instead of just flipping through the pictures of celebrity cellulite. “I still don’t hate myself,” Iris announced as soon as Rose picked up. “I’m still not coming.” “O.K.” “How are things?” “Weird.” “Is Bev there? Can you not talk?” “I’m at the grocery store.” “How are things going?” “Weird. Did you know they didn’t—” “My therapist says he thinks it’s fine if I don’t go. He said people grieve in their own way. Or don’t. I don’t know yet if I’m grieving. But I’m not coming down.” “I wasn’t asking you to.” “You don’t know what she was like.” “No.” Rose put Us Weekly back on the rack. “I don’t. I really don’t.” “I just wanted to check in. I have aerobics. I’m outside the studio right now.” “Then go inside.” “O.K., I’m going. I’m going,” she said, and hung up. Rose looked for a circuitous route home, which wasn’t hard. Sun City was a giant suburban hamster maze. In one of the strip malls, she spotted a red sign that read “BevMo!” She turned into the parking lot. She could get Bev something with the name, a labelled bag or a business card. Maybe she would find it endearing. Maybe she’d tell Rose the truth. The store turned out to be a giant liquor emporium, and Rose felt foolish asking for just a bag, so she grabbed a bottle of vodka. There was no liquor in Vera’s house. Rose had looked. At home, Bev had pulled all the dishes out of the cupboards, wrapped half of them in newspaper, and stuffed them in boxes on the counter. Rose had to put her three bags of groceries on the floor. “I thought you were hungry,” she said. “I am.” “Should we do this later, then?” “I’ve already started. No point in putting them all back just to pull them out again.” “Do you want me to help?” “You don’t know what was whose.” “I’m pretty hungry.” “So order in, if you don’t think you can wait.” Bev’s hair was wet from the shower, and Rose realized how much longer it had got since all those pictures of her with a blunt cut, in overalls. It spread across her shoulders, the damp gray strands soaking the fabric, saturating the colors and pressing the pattern against her skin. The combination of dark-pink peonies, thin hair, and freckled skin looked vulnerable in a way that the rest of Bev didn’t. “I brought you this.” Rose unfolded the BevMo! bag and snapped it in the air like a matador’s cape. “It reminded me of your name.” The bottle of vodka was in the glove compartment of the rental car. Bev looked at it for a long time. She was holding a beige mug labelled “CardioFunRun ’89,” and Rose tried to imagine what possible incarnation of either Bev or Vera, in any decade, went running. “What’d you buy?” “Nothing. Just the bag.” “Too bad,” Bev said. She wrapped the FunRun mug in a piece of newspaper and then put it in the BevMo! bag, consignment-store bound. She picked up a plastic Hamburglar cup and tossed that in, too. Rose took the hint, and let her clatter around by herself until there was enough room to cook. The meal was as quick as she could make it—broccoli and instant mashed potatoes and two chicken breasts. She was just waiting on the chicken when her cell phone rang. “I’m done with aerobics,” her mother announced. “Headed home.” Rose could hear the murmur of Top Forty radio, and pictured the dusty dashboard of Iris’s ancient Honda Civic, purple travel mug in the cup holder. “Can you talk?” “No.” Bev was in the living room. The news was starting—sweeps for illegal immigrants—and Bev talked out loud to the television: “About time.” “Bev’s there?” “Yup.” “Sorry I couldn’t talk earlier.” The tick of the oven timer sounded hoarse as it slipped into its last minutes. Rose held the phone between her ear and her shoulder, and rummaged through the giveaways. At the bottom of a box there was a melamine plate with her own face on it, age eight. She was wearing a Care Bears sweatshirt and had fluffy bangs. She remembered her mom having the plates made, and her grandmother talking about how tacky it was that she’d worn a branded shirt for her school picture. “You should make those animals pay you,” she had said, “if you’re going to wear ’em across your chest.” “You’re sure there’s nothing you want?” Rose asked. “There’s nothing I should be saving for you? Grandma had a lot of stuff.” “For the millionth time, no. Let Bev take whatever she wants, take whatever you want, and get rid of everything else.” “She doesn’t want anything.” “What?” “She—never mind. I’ll call you later.” Bev came back into the kitchen and poured them two glasses of water, straight from the tap. The water tasted so foul that the city distributed brochures with tips for drinking it. Add lemon slices, they recommended. Rose pulled a water bottle from one of the grocery bags and carried it with the plates into the living room. She ate off her own portrait, uncovering it bit by bit. There was Brave Heart Lion, from the Forest of Feelings. There was her toothy smile. She arranged the last of the potatoes into a white hat on her head and waited for Bev to apologize for just dumping this plate in a consignment box without even offering it to her. But Bev seemed determined to ignore her completely. They ate in silence until the news had dwindled to the dangers of leaving pets in hot cars and the weather—it would cool off later that week, the weatherman said, down to 109°. Bev ate with Cline in her lap, passing him shreds of broccoli. Finally, she put down her fork with a clank of finality and waited for Rose to look at her. When she did, Rose didn’t understand why Bev looked so angry. “Your grandmother knew, you know. She knew what you were,” Bev said. “Excuse me?” “She didn’t mind. I wanted you to know that. She forgave you.” Bev handed the last of the broccoli to Cline and then fingered her necklace, rubbing the little cross, the gold disappearing between her fingers. “What I am?” “She didn’t hate you, or anything.” “For being a bartender?” Rose tried to joke. “Oh, she hated that you were a bartender. Said you were wasting your life. Those stupid reviews your mother sent. But that’s not what I mean. You know what I mean.” Rose ate the last few bites of potatoes, thinking something would come to her. Nothing did. She climbed over the guinea-pig gate and threw her plate into the sink so hard it shattered. “Gee, I thought you’d be happy to be the presumptive front-runner.”Buy the print » She grabbed her bag and her two-dollar flip-flops and headed out the front door, Bev calling after her. It was dark and the air was cooler, but the heat still radiated from the sidewalk, birthing itself off the pavement. She sat in the rental car and opened the warm bottle of vodka. She thought about where she might go, what she might do, and decided that what she really wanted to do was drink so much that she shouldn’t drive anywhere. So she got out and started walking. She wandered the development’s endless curves, its wide streets and low, sunbaked houses. People went to bed early here, and the homes were dark and quiet. The cheap flip-flops rubbed her feet, and when she came to the golf course she cut across the seventh hole. She tried to take her shoes off, but the grass was deceptive—dyed green, it was nearly dead underfoot, brittle and so sharp it hurt to walk on. Rose sat in a sand trap and buried her feet to soothe them. The vodka was an obscure brand she’d decided to try, but it turned out there was a reason she’d never had it before. It tasted like a mouthful of dirty glass, and she wished for tonic—or vermouth, olive brine, and a shaker. She wanted to be back behind the bar, where the problems were always everybody else’s and all she had to do was listen. Or, better yet, she wanted someone to listen to her, a Rolodex of old customers who could be made to return the favor. She wished she weren’t between girlfriends, just to have someone to call. She’d always let go of people so easily; it had made her feel strong, but now it made her feel like Bev—careless, callous, inscrutable. Her phone rang, and in trying to answer she got sand all over it. “Should I come down there?” her mother asked, her voice sounding choked. “Just tell me. You’d tell me if I should, right?” “Do you want to? You should come if you want to.” “Don’t give me a choice, because I’ll say no.” “I can’t tell you you need to come.” “It matters. Of course it matters. I don’t want to pretend like it doesn’t.” “Mom.” “I didn’t realize. . . I didn’t realize until . . . I should be there.” “You don’t need to be. It’s fine.” “I hated her. I hated her for a long time, and I can’t take that back.” “I know.” “I was picturing you doing to me what I’m doing to her. When I imagine you not caring, it’s the worst feeling in the world.” “Mom. That won’t happen.” “Your father’s the one. ‘If the two of you make each other that miserable, why keep doing this?’ he said. And that made so much sense.” “Then don’t apologize for what made you happy.” “But she’s family, Rose. Sometimes you aren’t supposed to be happy.” “Maybe that’s not healthy.” “I just— When you asked if there was anything I wanted? There is something. There was this necklace she used to wear. Real delicate, just a little gold cross with a diamond in it. She had it since I was little, when Daddy was still alive. I remember that. Have you seen it?” Rose pressed her palm into the sand as if she could leave some kind of mark: her fingerprints on a golf course, her face on a plate. The phone was sweaty in her hand. “If you see it, can you take it for me? I don’t think she would have gotten rid of it. It’ll be in the house somewhere.” “I’m sure it is,” Rose said. She pressed her feet deeper, and the sand stuck to the raw places. She could see the dark lines in the moonlight, sandal straps of blood and grit. As Rose opened the door, she steeled herself for Bev’s awful sad song, but there was only silence. The swamp-cooler air hissed through the sealed house, racing out the open door. Rose shut it behind her and stood still, breathing deeply, sobering up slightly in the cold. There was a strange scrabbling noise somewhere, as if Cline had grown to enormous size. Rose kicked off the flip-flops, wincing at the fresh blood between her toes, and went padding through the house. She found Bev in Vera’s room, lying on the bed. The hem of her peony housedress was hitched above her knees, her body curled tightly above her pale, dimpled legs. She was crying. Cline wandered over the coverlet down by Bev’s feet, with no interest in comforting his mistress, or no idea how. The Hamburglar cup was on the nightstand, full of soda. Whiskey and Coke, Rose recognized, lifting it and smelling. Bev looked up at her, and Rose felt suddenly powerful. Bev took one of the pillows from under her head and held it across her face. “She was a good friend to me,” Bev said. “I know she could be sharp, but she was a good friend.” Rose pulled the pillow off and dropped it on the floor, but Bev grabbed the other one and pressed it more tightly over her head. “I never did,” she said. “I never slept here before. In this bed.” Rose set the vodka bottle down on the nightstand and sat beside her; the mattress creaked. She reached out and touched the necklace with a single finger, the pendant so slight that she couldn’t help but touch Bev, too, her warm skin beneath. Bev flinched, and lifted the pillow long enough to take the Hamburglar cup. She tried to drink flat on her back and coughed, liquid spilling into the gullies of her neck and running down the gold chain. She pushed the cup back into Rose’s hand and replaced the pillow. “You should ask me,” she said, her voice muffled. “Just ask me what you want to know.” “Was she happy?” The question came to Rose as a kindness, a way of easing Bev into greater confessions, but as she asked it felt like something she needed very much to know. “I don’t know. I wish I did.” Bev curled on her side, then lifted the pillow enough to reach for the cup again. “Ask me if I’m happy.” “Are you happy?” “No.” Rose took the drink from Bev’s hand. “You’re cut off. Robble robble.” She set it on the nightstand, drunk enough herself that the liquid sloshed in the cup. “I should have said something. I wish we’d— But she could be so hard. You know how hard, your grandma.” Her fingers reached for the cup and closed around air. “Give it back.” “Where did it come from?” “My bedroom. Vera didn’t drink. Said she used to like it a little too much.” Rose could feel Bev’s warmth against her back. “That’s what my mom always said. I don’t know. I didn’t see that part of her. She’d stopped before I came along.” “You never really know. The things a person doesn’t want to show you.” “Even the things they do,” Rose said, and she was drunk enough that it felt very wise, but it still sounded helpless. Tucked in a corner of the mirror was a snapshot of Bev and Vera at the zoo. She wondered if Bev had noticed it, if it made her feel better or worse. She wished it were framed. She wished there were a heart drawn around it in lipstick, something irrefutable, something Bev could see and know that she’d been seen after all. The brown box sat mutely beneath it. Bev braced her arm on Rose’s thigh and worked herself upright, leaning back against the headboard. “I took—” She gripped the necklace. Then she noticed Rose’s feet. “That has to hurt. You should wash them.” “I will. Later.” But the moment was gone. Bev took the Hamburglar cup again, and Rose didn’t stop her. “I didn’t want to tempt her,” Bev said. “But I’m not a woman that likes to do without.” “I like that about you,” Rose said, honestly. Bev took the bottle of vodka from the nightstand and poured some into the cup. “That’s going to taste disgusting,” Rose said. “I don’t care.” “I care. Shut up,” she said, as Bev opened her mouth to protest. “Let me make you something.” She got up and walked unsteadily across the hall to Bev’s room, through the open door. There were more pictures of grandchildren on the dresser, a music stand, and an accordion. The bed was unmade, the sheets pink with a nubbly chenille coverlet. A cardboard box filled with bottles had been dragged halfway out of the closet. Rose hefted the whole thing up, and then heard the CD player hissing on top of the dresser. It was cued up, paused at the beginning of a track, the disk whirling, waiting. She pressed Play. Blood calls to blood, calls to the wound, the singer howled. Bones long to be broken. In the kitchen, Bev had cleaned up the supper dishes and the giveaways. Rose set the box on the counter with a satisfying clank. She pulled out every bottle, seeing what she had to work with. Some were nearly crusted shut, but she wrenched them open, one by one. She pulled every bottle of juice, every soda, every can of frozen concentrate from the fridge. She pulled every glass, every mug left in the cupboards and placed them all on the counter. She began to pour. The sliding door opened and shut behind her. She looked out the sink window and saw Bev with Cline under one arm, Vera’s box under the other. Rose worried that they were all going in, but Bev set the box down gently on the patio table, and Cline on the concrete rim. She turned on the pool lights and then leaped into the water with a splash that hit Cline like a tsunami. He stayed loyally put. Bev threw herself across the water, over and over. At the far side of the pool, she paused, her housedress ballooning around her. She looked like a magnificent pink squid. The cross glittered at her neck. Rose opened the sliding door. The heat rushed in like wind. Bev had opened her bedroom window, and the sad song was circling the back yard. “You can have it,” Rose said. “What?” Bev gasped, out of breath. “You can have it.” Bev shook her head, confused, droplets flying from her hair. She pointed at her ears. “Water,” she said, and stuck her index finger in like popping a balloon. “What are you making?” she called. Rose held up her finger, meaning “wait,” although in a loud bar it would just mean “one,” and you never told customers to wait. She chose two glasses and carried them out, jewel-bright, showy, with floating, separated layers. If you looked closely, you could see the layers already collapsing together. The heat wrapped around her, a living, tireless thing, laughing at the dark. Sweat sprang from her face, her neck, under her arms. She stood at the pool’s edge, and Bev surged toward her. “Get your feet in here,” she said, and Rose put the drinks on the concrete, rolled up her jeans, and sat, legs dangling. She offered Bev a glass. As Bev reached for it with her right hand, her left slipped off the pool edge and grabbed at Rose’s leg, her grip urgent. Rose took Bev’s weight, buoyed by the water, and Bev rested for a moment, hooking her fingers in the damp rolled cuff of Rose’s jeans. They looked at her feet, the blood and sand lifting off into the blue and drifting away. Then Bev pushed off, the water churning as she threw herself toward the wall a few feet away. She turned and looked back at Rose, her drink held safe and high above the water. It looked as if Bev were proposing a toast, and Rose raised her glass. “Medicine,” she offered, and they drank, as if it might be some kind of cure.
Oubliette Her mother used to call her “a chip off the old Chilcott,” but then wasn’t it perfectly obvious that she was Peter Chilcott’s daughter? Her eyes were his eyes, stone gray, protruding. Her stringy torso was his, his long-legged amble. By ninth grade she was already five-ten, en route to six-one. She had his expressive fingers, his lips. His temperament. “You’re like me,” he told her once, when it was clear that she’d follow in his professional footsteps. “You think you’re invisible—you watch people and forget that they see you back.” (Her father made documentary films that had earned him festival prizes, an Emmy, an Oscar nomination. His film “Warwick” and Frederick Wiseman’s “Titicut Follies” had both come out in 1967, when Nathalie was seven, and the two were often spoken of in the same breath.) But it was just as obvious that she’d never possess her mother’s blatant prettiness, her thirst for glamour, for self-decoration. (Charcoal eyeliner, the same stalwart studs in her ears every day, and three noisy wrist bangles—that was the extent of it for Nathalie.) She also lacked her mother’s darker talents—for recalling slights or suspecting other women of harboring “agendas” or “ulterior motives.” If loving her semi-illustrious father was as automatic as the heartbeat in her chest, loving her mother was . . . well, she pretended. Sometimes her mother pretended back, sometimes not. It wasn’t always like this, was it? When she was little? Hadn’t her mother scooped her up, summer mornings, driven her to the beach at Nantasket, slathered on the Coppertone, and waded out into the glittery waves with her? Hadn’t they stopped on the way home and dawdled in Friendly’s air-conditioning with frappes, like any regular mother and daughter? Hadn’t they held down the fort together when Peter was out of town, Nathalie sharing the big bed with her mother, who’d say, winter nights, “You’re my hot-water bottle, Nattie!,” or teach her silly songs like the one about not eating animal crackers in bed? Other times, both of them lying back in the semi-dark, her mother had told tales about the foster homes where she’d been raised. What Nathalie realized only in retrospect was that her mother had never rubbed her nose in the differences between their two fates back then, had never said, “You’ve got no idea how good you have it,” or, “I didn’t get things handed to me on any silver platter.” No, that tone of voice came later. At twenty-three, six years after bolting from the last of the foster homes, up in Lowell, her mother had happened to get a job waitressing at a chowder house that Peter Chilcott frequented. “Your mother put her whammy on me,” Nathalie’s father said by way of explanation, if he was in a teasing mood. Sometimes he called it “her wiles.” Nathalie didn’t know these words at first, but even so they made her shiver; later, when she did, she hated the idea of her brilliant father being “entrapped” or “snared”; later still, she understood that it was all just code for goings on between her parents that she’d just as soon not know about. But what had her mother thought she was getting in Peter? He was boyishly intense, talented, but she may have taken him for her ticket into blue-blood New England, too. The Chilcotts did qualify, in theory. Aaron Chilcott and his wife, Lydia, had stepped off the Mary & John onto Dorchester Neck in 1630, and Nathalie and her father had once passed a spring morning perusing the King’s Chapel Burying Ground, off Beacon Hill, eventually locating the Chilcott slate with its winged skull. The gravestone stood slantwise, most of Aaron’s side broken off and lying face down in leaf mulch. Nathalie couldn’t keep from picturing what was below it. The remains. The Puritan clothes—not textbook illustrations but the very fabric, moldering just under her feet. That her whole existence depended on a brief transaction between the group of bones on the left and the group of bones on the right struck her as strange beyond words. By the time Nathalie was born, the Chilcotts had scattered to the winds. She had grown up spectacularly devoid of extended family: no sisters, no brothers, no philandering uncles or frazzled gin-swilling aunts, no boy cousins or girl cousins, no doting Grams and Gramps. Old girlfriends of her mother’s sometimes blew through South Weymouth between entanglements, bedding down in the spare room for a week or more, smoking lavishly, leaving behind grown-woman debris, including blurts of story in which her mother was unrecognizable, and on which, if Nathalie inquired, she’d shed no light whatsoever. But, as a couple, her parents appeared virtually friendless. More and more, it seemed, her mother would fly at her father without warning—accusing, threatening, begrudging him his work, his public life. “You’ve gotten so piggish with your time, Peter.” She said things like that; she said that it made her sick the way he always wanted to be elsewhere, the way he treated her like some chippie he could take or leave. Yet, the next instant, she’d gripe that he wasn’t more famous, that his films hadn’t made her stinking rich. By this time, he expected her to be unreasonable or unfair, but, increasingly, she seemed unhinged. Often, now, he didn’t fight back, only turned his head away, wiping his hand slowly down his long face as if wanting to erase his own identity, Nathalie thought, then realized that this was how you closed the eyes of a dead man. When her father wasn’t around, her mother might administer sharp little cheek slaps, or get this cut-eyed look and call her Miss Smarty. But one fall afternoon—it was 1974, her freshman year of high school, Nathalie guilty of “lip” or “guff”—her mother summoned her up to the attic, then clapped the door shut, and not only threw the bolt but kicked a wooden wedge into the crack and pounded it home with a mallet she must have fetched from the garage in advance. Minutes later, Nathalie heard the car door’s whump, then the keening of the engine as her mother sped off down McCandlish, refusing to shift until she was good and ready. “Unfuckingbelievable,” Nathalie said aloud. The Crime, to the Best of Tiger’s RecollectionBuy the print » Then said it again, liking the sound. The thing was, she did believe it. By the one-hour mark, the heat had gone out of her revenge-plotting and righteous self-pity. She worked at the Phillips-head screws around the housing of the attic fan until the tip of her penknife blade snapped off. Then, Plan B, she strained onto tiptoes and pitched her voice out the louvres at the gable peak. But it was a windy late-October day. No one came. She made a pallet of old coats and garment bags, and lay, arms behind her head, listening to air sieving in at the eaves, the wood-on-wood sound of the roof trusses. Before long she was picturing this episode as a short film, “Girl in Attic”—except, of course, she wasn’t the pathetic teen-ager sucker-punched by her own mother; she was the camera-wielder, preserving events for the record. Still, make no mistake, she was freaked. There was no denying that this stunt of her mother’s had led them into uncharted waters. It was after dark when her father got home—mercifully, he was in town that week, not on location. So, she knew, he’d be down in the kitchen, mini-TV going, stirring a Dewar’s with his index finger. She waited another half hour for him to come upstairs, within earshot. Then light flooded the attic’s short stairwell, and his headful of curls rose into view. “Nat?” he said, squinting. “What on earth?” “No tears,” she instructed herself. He escorted her to his Wagoneer. They drove to Conrad’s, slid into their favorite booth, ordered the jumbo fried clams, a Narragansett, a cherry Coke. Waiting, he apologized for her mother—it was hardly the first time. But instead of saying, “This too shall pass,” or, “You just can’t take her bait, Nat. Don’t you see?,” he simply gazed at her, chin propped on fist, blinking, seemingly at a loss—which was arguably the scariest part of all. On the way home, he asked if she’d ever heard the word “oubliette.” “I bet it’s French,” Nathalie answered. He said it was indeed, but wouldn’t say what it meant, knowing that she’d look it up the instant they got home. Flash forward eighteen months: her parents had split up, her father had become “the custodial parent,” life was proceeding. Or would have, except that suddenly everything needed to be rethought. As it turned out, it was her mother who’d tumbled into the oubliette. She wasn’t simply “capricious” or “difficult” or “emotionally unsteady.” She was sick with Huntington’s disease. Typically, people noticed the tremors and weakness first, they were told, but the dementia could set in before the shaking began. Within the privacy of her own skull, Nathalie’s mother had been blowing circuits for months, years possibly. And, they learned, Huntington’s offered no swift mercy—Woody Guthrie had famously survived two decades of it, in and out of psych hospitals, incrementally losing control of his hands and legs, his voice. What was her father supposed to do, annul the divorce? No, but he couldn’t desert her, either. He put the South Weymouth house on the market, used the last of his Guggenheim money to lease a ground-floor apartment in Watertown for her, saw to the labyrinthine medical paperwork. When the house sold, he and Nathalie moved to a loft in a newly redeveloped neighborhood along Fort Point Channel. She had a year of high school left; every morning, she reverse-commuted in a two-hundred-dollar used Falcon wagon peppered with surfing decals. They visited her mother at least once a week, one or both of them, depending. That her parents could now talk back and forth like civilized people seemed a black joke, but her mother clearly had no resources left for resentment or score-settling now. It was the solo trips that Nathalie dreaded. “Don’t be phony,” her father counselled her beforehand. “Let the old stuff be. Just give whatever you can give, Nat.” So that’s what she tried to do, stick to the here and now. Whom she’d heard from, which part of her car had burned out, rusted through, sprung a leak, and so on. Sounding upbeat, but not so upbeat that it set off her mother’s crap detector. A few times, despite her mother’s old disdain for hearing her father “go on and on” about his work, Nathalie risked telling her tremoring, strange-eyed mother about hypothetical films of her own. She heard herself babbling at times, but silences were awful—she could feel the air congealing around them like clear gelatin. Even now, she half expected her mother to get that look and say, “It’s always the two of you, you and him, cutting me out.” The visits went better when Nathalie kept moving. She worked around the galley kitchen, fixing one-serving casseroles or baking molasses cookies or lemon bars or blond brownies, her mother ensconced in the recliner by the sunny window, dozing off, reviving, or not. Some days, the meds sank her into a sleep viscous enough to quell the shakes, and then Nathalie would take a putty knife and some goo remover to the worst of the built-up crud on the countertops, the stove burners, the floor tiles—which were as gummy as flypaper—before writing a note and slipping out. Nathalie’s last year at B.U., her mother had to surrender the apartment. Even with nurse visits and meals delivered, she could no longer be trusted there alone. She lied about falling, yet had bruises, down the side of her face or around her hipbone, eggplant-colored. Next it was cracked ribs, a broken wrist. They relocated her to a long-term-care facility in Framingham. Another year passed. She weighed a hundred pounds, then ninety-two—her flailing limbs burned more calories than she managed to consume, despite all the chocolate malts in their no-spill cups. When she talked now, Nathalie couldn’t always figure out what she was saying. Even when her words were intelligible, they sometimes made no sense. Increasingly, her mother ignored her questions. Eventually, even the cajoling, sunny-faced speech therapist could get nothing out of her. It was too hard, too exhausting—and what did she have left to say? She stared back at them with the eyes of the long-imprisoned. Then, in the dregs of one November night, as she slept, her heart simply quit. She was D.N.R. Nathalie was out of school by then, apprenticing at the studio, living at her father’s loft again for the time being. He was up on Penobscot Bay for the week, doing legwork for the new project, so she was the one who woke and took the call and sat listening, nodding at the dark room. When she hung up the phone, she squinted over at the time. Two-fifty-one. Nothing needed doing until morning, she guessed. Why wake her father? She went out into the main room, eased up the blinds, and stood at the dark window in her nightshirt. A dry listless snow was falling, barely anything. Across the water, the last planes angled into Logan, the gaps between them lengthening until there was only the sweep of the tower light. Relieved of an awful weight was how she felt, then wondered why she didn’t feel guiltier about reacting this way. If her father had been there, he might’ve said, “Nat, you can’t help what you feel. The rest of it just isn’t in focus yet. You’ll see.” Instead, she was on her own. She was freezing, she realized, forearms and bare legs all goose-bumped. But she didn’t move. Outside the glass, the streets were vacant, the sky was vacant: it was that strange hour belonging to no one. Eventually, a truck would come rattling down Wheelock’s gantlet of potholes, a car door would chuff, and the world would go on—not where it had left off but on the other side of this nothing time. And when it did, though she couldn’t quite see it yet, Nathalie would begin the never-ending task of not forgetting her mother.
The House on Sand Creek When Monika and I were first married, we rented a house on Sand Creek, sight unseen, because Monika wanted to live in the country and nothing else was available within reach of my office in town. Everything we had been told about the house was true: it was a furnished ranch house with two bedrooms and two baths, near a quiet grove of aspens. It had been repossessed from a cowboy and his wife, who had gone on to Nevada or Oregon—somewhere in the Great Basin. The man at the bank said that the cowboy was an old-time rambling buckaroo, who’d stopped making his mortgage payments because “he was looking for a quit.” Monika turned to me for an explanation, but I just wanted to get the deal done and move in. “It might not be exactly to your taste,” the banker said, “but nothing says you can’t tweak it.” It was an absolute horror. Skinned coyote carcasses were piled on the front step, and a dead horse hung from its halter where it had been tied to the porch. Inside was a shambles, and there was one detail we couldn’t understand without the help of the neighbors: shotgun blasts through the bathroom door. Apparently, Mrs. Old-Time Buckaroo used to chase Mr. Old-Time Buckaroo around the house until he ran into the bathroom, locked the door, and hid in the bath. The sides of the tub were pocked with lead. Monika, who had seen the dead horse, said it was a shame that the wife had missed and that the two of them were now in the Great Basin, living out their lives. This is a bit of an understatement—at the time, Monika broke into sobs and begged to be taken away. “Is this how you treat your wife?” She turned on me. “Stop calling me your princess, you bastard.” I never quite got used to these flareups or to Monika’s sometimes misleading passion for fresh starts. Monika was not only not a Westerner; she was not even an American. She had been stranded in architecture school by the uproar in the former Yugoslavia, and by the time it was safe for her to go home we had met and planned to marry. Which we did. And now we were in that house. Monika was commuting to school, and I was running an underemployed law office that five years earlier had done thirty real-estate closings a month and now did at most two and often none. Booms in real estate came and went, like the weather, except that there always seemed to be plenty of weather. I am aware that my ability to wittily point out things like this, and to describe the house the way I am describing it, has a lot to do with the fact that Monika left soon after we’d moved in. She abandoned what she contemptuously described as “the Western life style” to return to her parents in Bosnia-Herzegovina. There she found herself a nice man and a nice house with no dead horses or coyotes—a twofer in the fresh-start business. Ours had been a poor excuse for a marriage, borne on an ill wind from the start. I was still in the house, which we had painted in such a hurry that we’d rolled right over the outlets and floor moldings in uneven lines, giving one the feeling that the interior had somehow been draped in paint. For a long time, the sight of the walls kept Monika in my mind, even when womenfolk came for a visit, always short. Something—either me or the house—seemed to give them the willies. I first met Bob when he came to congratulate me on “getting rid of that Croat.” Like many other men in the area, Bob wore cowboy boots and a big hat and described himself as a former cowboy. This phenomenon interested me, and I began to put the stories together a bit. For example, Bob, a retired electrician, had not been a cowboy for at least forty-five of his sixty-two years. Further investigation suggested that his cowboy years had occurred somewhere between the sixth and seventh grade and may have lasted just under a month. I had always imagined cowboys, former and otherwise, to be laconic men, who, if they overcame their reluctance to speak at all, did so without much expression. Not Bob. Bob never shut up, and his facial movements had more in common with those of Soupy Sales than those of John Wayne. A surprising number of his anecdotes culminated in his telling people off, especially members of his own family. “My mother’s in her eighties and she keeps talking about when I was in her belly. Ever hear anything more disgusting? I finally had to tell her to shut her trap.” Or, “I got fed up with my son. I told him to go fuck himself. He said he’d give it his best shot. Never at a loss for words, that boy.” Or, “They’re all driving me crazy—my wife, my mother, my son, all his noisy friends. The guys I worked with. Too much time on their hands. They need to get a life and quit cluttering up mine.” Mail addressed to Bob was once mistakenly delivered to my box, so I took it up to his place. It was clear that he was living alone. In time, I learned that he had been living alone for years and that all his stories of telling people off were just wishful thinking. Bob’s relatives had put plenty of distance between themselves and him long before. The only car that was ever in his driveway was his, an obsolete six-cylinder Bel Air with plenty of gravel cracks in the windshield. But at least Bob had integrity: he was mad at the world, if not yet at me. If I didn’t wind-sprint to my car or work on weekends, I was in for long visits. Still, something about him touched me. Bob and I had really started to settle in—with Bob tracking my movements to make sure that I was home from work for at least ten minutes before he showed up—when Monika called me from Belgrade. She had written occasionally since leaving, but this was the first time I had spoken to her in a couple of years. I found it painful in the extreme, and didn’t quite keep track of the conversation, uncertain why I should care that she had some money from the sale of her house or that her little son, Karel, already slept through the night and was such a happy boy. Monika must have detected my confusion, because she suddenly asked, “Are you following this?” and I had to admit that I was a bit lost. She filled me in: she wanted to come back. What had happened to her new man, I asked her. “Out the window!” she said. Monika spoke nearly perfect English, but she always managed to alter our idioms slightly. My favorite was her description of a problem as “a real kink in the ointment.” I tried to correct this to “fly in the ointment,” but with a blank look on her beautiful face she asked me what a fly would be doing in ointment. I let it go. I had been raised to think that loving your spouse was a requirement. “Love is a job,” my mother had snarled at our wedding as she gazed at Monika, who was wearing a sort of shocking Eastern European headdress. Thus, I had loved Monika even after she left me and until the day she announced her return, a baby under her arm fathered by someone I had never met. On the first day of the Bozeman Sweet Pea Festival, Monika got off the plane and handed me little Karel. “For you. Have I aged? I don’t seem to turn heads the way I used to.” She wore some kind of gown that fit her like a giant lampshade, a grand cone that went from her neck to the ground. “Is that a dirndl?” I asked. “No, it’s a dashiki. Oh, God, you haven’t changed.” I was in shock. As for little Karel, now in my arms, he was clearly black. I had an unworthy thought: Wait till Bob gets a load of this. Turned out I was wrong to worry about it, because when Bob met Karel he thought the baby had a skin condition of some kind and expressed his sympathy. In the parking lot, Monika said, “What are you doing with this tiny car?” “I’ve been single, Monika. It was all I needed.” “Well, I’m back.” She worked her way into the passenger seat while I held Karel, who was gazing into my eyes confidently. “And this put-put will prove inadequate.” The feeling came back to me, from the days of our marriage, that I was doomed in life to take a lot of shit and make weak jokes in response. We made love as soon as we got to the house. Monika bounced me around and remarked that I seemed out of it. Across her lower back was a mysterious architectural tattoo, which turned out to be Le Corbusier’s plan for the High Court of Chandigarh, in India. As I drifted off into postcoital tristesse, Monika raided the icebox. She was perfectly candid about her enthusiasm for food, explaining that her ex was a glutton. “Often when people come from lands of scarce resources their response to abundance is gluttony.” “A big fellow, is he?” I asked weakly. “In every way,” she said with a laugh. “You know what a Mandingo is?” “Is it something to eat?” “No, idiot! A Mandingo is an African warrior. You’re thinking of a mango.” “Oh. Is he an African warrior?” “Hardly. He’s a Nigerian neurosurgeon. But Olatunde has the sort of Mandingo traits that I hope Karel inherits. He’s actually Yoruban.” I looked over at Karel. He didn’t seem to possess any Mandingo traits. He was just a little baby waving his arms around. When Monika collapsed with jet lag, I took him out to the sofa and let him play on my chest until he fell asleep. And then I fell asleep. The last thing I saw was a bird trying to get in the window. Monika’s luggage was still sitting in the living room, unopened. Bob must have figured out that Karel did not have a skin condition, because there was certainly a theme to the gifts he brought over. “He already had a baby shower, in Belgrade,” Monika said, but that didn’t stop Bob. A children’s biography of Martin Luther King, Jr.; James Brown’s “Greatest Hits”; and a pretend leg of fried chicken made out of some rubberlike material. “He can actually teethe on it!” Bob said. Buy the print » When he was gone, Monika said, “My dream was of a new life here, but this may be impossible.” “I think Bob means well,” I said. “Ah, make no mistake: That was not Bob speaking and bringing his symbolic gifts. That was America speaking through Bob.” Meanwhile, Karel teethed contentedly on his rubber drumstick, his little chin glistening as he gurgled. As part of her first assignment on her return to architecture school, Monika began to design some alterations for our house—a wing here, a wing there. I was terrified that she would actually want me to have these things built. “Why do we need a loggia?” “Why do I even talk to you?” Bob continued to visit for coffee some mornings. If he arrived before Monika left for school, she fled to her car. “Always in a hurry, that gal,” Bob said. “Someday she’ll be designing skyscrapers and we’ll brag that we knew her when.” Whenever Bob’s presence drove Monika from the house, it fell to me to care for Karel until the babysitter arrived in her white tennis shoes and loose shorts that made the vanishing of her thighs into them a matter of urgent mystery. I loved to start the day by playing with Karel in bed. He’d sit on my stomach, and we’d play hand games that always ended with this merry little boy tipping over onto the pillows only to arise and crawl on top of me again to resume the battle with a shout. If Bob was there, we did this on the living-room rug, scurrying around until I had rug burns on my knees. When Bob wasn’t launching into some complaint about his overindulgent mother, he was wonderful with Karel. I could leave the two of them together while I dressed for work, and whatever Bob did always had Karel squealing with delight. The arrival of the babysitter, nubile Lydia, would put an end to all this: I went to work; Bob went home. I have lived in this town for a long time, but I was raised in Bakersfield, California, a town I was longing to flee by the age of ten. I coughed up out-of-state tuition, went to law school, then settled here, at first alone and then with Monika. I mention all this because my colleague Jay Matthews, who has lived here all his life, told me that Bob’s mother could hardly be driving him crazy: she’d died when he was a boy. “Got to be fifty years ago.” “I must have misheard him.” “Yeah, Bob was an only child, and his mom was single. Ole Bob was a bubble and a half off plumb, even back then. That’s why he’s always fit right in to this godforsaken town.” Life went on. Karel’s father, Olatunde, called every week, sometimes talking to me and sometimes to Monika. His attempts to talk to Karel came to nothing, as Karel just drooled and stared at the receiver. Olatunde spoke in measured tones in a deep voice, which, combined with his cultivated, slightly fusty British accent, seemed to come from a tomb. Nonetheless, his melancholy over the absence of his little boy was discernible. He wished me luck with Monika and said that I was going to need it. His, he said, had run out. Bob and Karel became so close—Karel singing and crying out in delight when he arrived—that Monika and I consulted about dispensing with the babysitter and using Bob instead. I wasn’t sure about this. Lydia was getting ready to start college and needed the money, and, besides, I was sweet on her and thought she was starting to come around, recklessly bending over to pick up Karel’s toys in my presence. Monika noticed this once and started braying with sardonic and distinctly Slavic laughter. The time had clearly come for me to take the bull by the horns. I followed Lydia to her car one evening and told her that any fool could see how beautiful she was and I was no fool. She started but failed to reply. “You—you—you—” She got into her car and roared off. I thought it best to maintain a sphinxlike expression on my way back into the house. Monika smiled at me as I entered. “Turn you down?” “Seems to be running O.K. I can’t think why she thought the ignition was going out.” Gales of laughter. “Oh, good one. Stick to your weapons.” The moment blew over, with the usual residue, but in the end I was furious with Lydia for having wiggled around the house on the assumption that I wouldn’t notice. Entrapment, pure and simple. Another few steps down that trail and Lydia could have owned my law firm. These youngsters look right through you, unless their gaze falls on something that they may need. I should have held my wallet aloft with one hand while pointing at my crotch with the other, but I simply lacked the nerve. So (a) babysitter leaves, and (b) here comes Bob. The convenience and economy of this arrangement appealed even to Monika, who allowed that he was “not a bad chicken egg after all.” Obviously, we made several forays into marriage counselling, during which we turned all our counsellors into helpless referees. I always felt that these sessions were nothing more than attempts by each side to win over the counsellor, with charm, cajoling, whatever it took. In the end, Monika decided that everything that had led to the idea of counselling—Freud, Jung, Judeo-Christianity—was spiritually bankrupt. Therefore she was going to look back thousands of years and seek the help of a shaman, now resident in Missoula. This shaman, she explained, had the benefit of ten thousand years of spiritual experience, as opposed to the Johnny-come-latelies of psychoanalysis, and she intended to partake of that knowledge. I listened thoughtfully, and replied that it sounded promising as long as she didn’t fuck the shaman. Thus began our decidedly parallel lives: Monika and her shaman and her architecture, me and my law practice, Bob and Karel. Monika came back in the evening with her sketches and blueprints in long rolls under her arm, and I came back with my briefcase, containing few briefs in these straitened times, to the happy home of Bob and Karel. When Bob left for the night, I held Karel’s rigid little body as he wailed and reached frantically in the direction of Bob’s departure. “Give him something to eat,” Monika would suggest on her way into the bedroom. One afternoon, Monika and I had a rather sharp exchange in the presence of Bob and Karel. I asked innocently if it was absolutely necessary for her to keep using her Belgrade boarding pass as a bookmark. Monika said, “None of your business.” “I suppose it helps to remind you of that shit hole where you grew up.” “It reminds me that they still have airplanes that go back there.” “Everyone wants to go to Yugoslavia,” I said, “where shooting your neighbor is the national sport.” “Oh, you’re awful. You’re just so awful. My God, how truly awful you are.” Karel started to cry, and Bob took him outside. Soon I could see the chains of the swing flashing back and forth and hear Karel’s joyful shrieks. Monika had recently undergone an abrupt sartorial change, from dark Euro-style clothing to Rocky Mountain chic: hiking boots, painter pants, bright-yellow down jacket, and a wool cap with strings hanging down the sides. Now screwing a mountaineer, I thought ungenerously. It should come as no surprise to anybody that the day came when Monika and I returned from work to find Bob and Karel missing. Having read “Huckleberry Finn,” she remarked that Bob had “lit out for the territory” with Karel. I don’t want to overstate the ghastly nature of our response, as we were both crying—though whether at the loss of Karel or at the feeling that we deserved to lose him and Bob deserved to have him I couldn’t say. When I attempted to cheer Monika up by saying that when life gives you lemons you must make lemonade, she slapped my face. I almost fought back, and you can only imagine how that would have seemed under the circumstances. Instead, I called the police in town. Monika called Olatunde in Yugoslavia and put me on the phone. “You tell him.” “Good evening, doctor. It’s morning there already? Well, I have news. Well, not news exactly. One of our neighbors here has . . . kidnapped Karel.” Dr. Olatunde was understandably slow in absorbing this announcement but not in any other way, and it fell to me to pick him up at the airport a day and a half later. These were terrible hours. We both stayed home waiting for word from the police, Monika’s drawings laid out on the kitchen table. She showered me with reproaches, the recurrent one being that Karel would never have “slipped through her hand” if I hadn’t chased the babysitter away with my ogling. Pointing at the drawings, I said, “I see the loggia stays.” “Yes, and a pergola.” “I hadn’t noticed.” “There are none so blind as those who will not see.” I met Dr. Olatunde at the baggage claim, though he had only a carry-on. He was the sole African among all the skiers, and he drew a bit of attention to himself for that and for the suit he wore, a nice English cut, rumpled from the long trip. He was not at all the big Mandingo glutton I had pictured but a small, precise man with a slightly receding hairline and a friendly but crisp manner. He said, “You were kind to come for me.” “You must be tired.” “Not so bad, really.” “Well, I have marvellous news for you. Karel has been found.” “Is that so?” “I hope you don’t feel the trip was wasted.” “Nothing could compare to this. Is he well?” Bob and Karel had not gone far, at least not far enough to give plausibility to a charge of kidnapping. They were in the first motel on the way into town. Their loud music had given them away. Bob was belligerent to the police about what he described as the hostile atmosphere of our home, and we felt that by pressing charges we would only bring his version into the public eye. Karel responded to his father, whom he could hardly have been expected to remember, much as he responded to Bob: he was always drawn to someone who looked straight at him as though making a delightful discovery. I spell this out because it was against all odds that we allowed Bob to come back again and let ourselves be compensated by Karel’s squeals of pleasure. More and more, he stays over at Bob’s anyway, which Monika and I hope will give us some room to work things out.
Dog Run Moon Sid was a nude sleeper. Had been ever since he was a little kid. To him, wearing clothes to bed seemed strangely redundant, like wearing underwear inside your underwear or something. And that was why he was now running barefoot and bare-assed across the sharp sandstone rimrock far above the lights of town. It was after two in the morning, a clear, cool, early-June night, with the wobbly gibbous moon up high and bright, so that he could see the train yard below—the crisscrossing rails, a huge haphazard pile of old ties, the incinerator stack. He was sweating, but he knew that once he could run no more the cold would start to find its way in. After that, he didn’t know what would happen. The dog was padding along tirelessly, sometimes at Sid’s side, sometimes ranging out and quartering back sharply, its nose up to the wind trying to cut bird scent. Not for the first time in his life, Sid found himself envying a dog. Its fur. Its thick foot pads. A simple, untroubled existence of sleeping, eating, running, fucking occasionally if you still had the parts, not worrying about it if you didn’t. Even in his current predicament, Sid couldn’t help admiring the dog. A magnificent bird dog for broken country such as this, no two ways about it. Sid kept going, hobbling, feeling the rimrock make raw hamburger out of the soles of his feet. When he turned he could see smears of his blood on the flat rock glistening black under the moon. And then the shafts of headlights stabbing the jutting sandstone outcroppings. He could hear the shouts of Montana Bob and Charlie Chaplin as they piloted their A.T.V. over the rough ground. Sid hadn’t stolen the dog. He’d liberated it. He firmly believed this, and this belief was the fundamental basis of his disagreement with Montana Bob. Montana Bob thought that simple possession meant ownership. Sid thought otherwise. He’d been in town for two months, and his path to and from work took him twice daily through the alley behind the house with the dog. The dog would follow his passing through the chain link and Sid would whistle, and the dog would raise its ears without getting up. Sid worked at a sawmill that processed logs brought down from the mountains. The logs came in massive and rough, smelling like moss and the dark places where snow lingers into July. They entered one end of a screeching hot pole building, met the saw, and came out the other side, flat and white and bleeding pitch into the red-dirt lumberyard. The men who worked the logs and the saw were Mexicans mostly, wide, sweating men who wore dirty white tank tops, their inner arms scabbed and raw from wrestling rough barked logs. They spoke their language to each other, and Sid did not know them. He kept to himself and did his work. He was a scrap man. All day he took cast-off pieces of aspen and pine and cut and stapled them into pallets that were eventually piled with boards to be shipped out. His hands were pitch-stained and splintered. All day his mind ran laps, and after work he walked home through the alley, whistled at the dog on his way, and drank three glasses of water in quick succession, standing at the kitchen sink in the trailer that he rented by the month and hadn’t bothered to furnish. Even with the windows open, the trailer smelled like a hot closet full of unwashed clothing, and Sid couldn’t stand being there unless he was asleep. In the evenings, he drove. Sometimes over to the next town, sometimes all the way back to where he’d come from, but he never drove by his old house. She still lived there and he couldn’t bear the thought of her looking out the kitchen window to see his truck moving slowly down the street. He could imagine how his face would appear to her. Sun-dark. Gaunt. Too sharp down the middle, as if it were creased. Sometimes he got a milkshake at the diner and nursed it for the drive. No matter where he drove he took the same way back, a route that ran past the front of the house with the dog. The east-facing windows were covered with tinfoil and Sid never saw anyone outside. At the mill one afternoon, a full pallet of eight-inch-by-twelve-foot boards broke free of the loader and crushed the legs of one of the Mexicans who had been standing by the truck, waiting to tighten the straps. Sid, eating his lunch, saw the whole thing, heard the man’s hoarse screams above the shriek of the saw until the saw was silenced and then it was just the man, pinned to the ground and writhing, his eyes bulging, with sawdust coating the sweat on his bare arms. That evening, Sid drove the two hours to his old house, still in his work clothes. When he got there, her car was in the driveway and there was a pickup truck parked behind it. Sid pulled in sharply and got out, not bothering to shut the door behind him. He was striding fast, halfway up to her porch, before he noticed the dried smears of blood on his pant legs and boots. At the mill, he and everyone else had rushed to the man, frantically teaming up to move the heavy boards from his legs. There had been blood everywhere, making the sawdust dark, making the boards slick and red and hard to hold. Now, standing on her front lawn, he tried to clean out the rust-colored crescents under his fingernails, tried to scrub the pine pitch mixed with dried blood from the creases in his palms. He was rubbing his hands on his stained jeans when he saw movement at the curtains over the kitchen window. And then he ran, sliding into the open door of the truck, spinning gravel up onto the vehicles in front of him as he backed out at full speed. On his way home he passed the house with the dog. As usual, there was no sign of life outside. Sid passed slowly and, after thinking about it for a minute, pulled over and let the truck idle. Then he got out and went around back to where the dog was lying on a pile of dirty straw, chained to a sagging picnic table. The dog didn’t bark, didn’t even get up, just watched Sid with its muzzle resting on its front paws. Sid unhooked the chain from the dog’s collar and when he walked away the dog followed him, jumped in his truck, and sat on the bench seat, leaning forward with its nose smudging the windshield. Sid drove up to the flat, windswept bench above town and let the dog run. In the hour before it got dark, they put up three coveys of Huns and two sharptails, the dog moving through clumps of sagebrush and cheatgrass, working against the wind like some beautifully engineered piece of machinery perfectly performing the one, the only, task to which it was suited. Sid was afraid of Montana Bob. As he ran, he could feel the fear lodged somewhere up under his sternum, a sharp little stab of something like pain with each inhaled breath. It was a healthy thing, his fear of Montana Bob. You should be afraid, Sid, he thought. You should be afraid of Montana Bob, the way you should be afraid of a grizzly bear, a loose dog foaming at the mouth, anything nearsighted and sick and unpredictable. Sid stopped behind the wind-twisted limbs of a piñon pine and listened. He could hear the low growl of the A.T.V. somewhere behind him, and then the different, softer sound of the engine idling, stopped, no doubt, so that Montana Bob and Charlie Chaplin could branch out on foot to look for his sign. Sid was above them and he could see the shapes of their shadows, tall and angular, moving across the headlights, cloaked in swirling motes of red dust. “I know who you are, Sid. I know it’s you out there. We’re still out here, too.” Montana Bob’s voice came up to him, reverberating off the rock. “You got the dog, and I think that is a damn stupid reason to go through all this trouble. I got Charlie Chaplin here with me. He agrees that this is a lot of stupidness just for a damn dog. Also, he has a big goddam pistol. I bet your feet hurt something fierce. You’re bleeding like a stuck hog all over this lizard rock, and me and Charlie Chaplin are going to drive right up on you before long. We will. Also, you were a big damn fool to run out the back door like that. Charlie saw your naked ass. We were just coming for the dog. You can’t argue my right to it. You have that what belongs to me. You catch up that dog and bring it down to me and, hell, you know what? We’ll even give you a ride back down into town. We will.” Sid started out again, moving up and away from the voices and lights. He found a long piece of slickrock that stretched out farther than he could see into the darkness, and he ran. He could hear the rough whisper of the dog’s pads on the rock, the click of its nails. The dog’s coat shone. What was black in sunlight became purple-blue in the moonlight; what was normally white now glowed like mother-of-pearl. Would Montana Bob do as he said? Let Sid go if he came down with the dog? Sid was unsure, but he thought not. The oblong little organ of fear under his sternum pulsed each time his feet slapped the rock. He kept going. The moon overhead was a lopsided and misshapen orb that at any moment could lose its tenuous position and break upon the rocks. That might be a good thing. A landscape of blackness into which he could melt. The dog had been his for a week when Montana Bob found him out. Sid was in the Mint having a happy-hour beer before heading home and he’d left the dog in the truck. He’d taken to bringing the dog to work with him so he could let it out to run at lunch. Sid had his back to the door, but as soon as the two men came in he had a bad feeling. They sat right next to him, one on each side. Plenty of stools all up and down the bar, but they came and crowded in on him. The big one wore a sweat-stained summer Stetson with a ragged rooster-pheasant tail feather sticking out of the hatband. His hair was shaggy and flared out from the hat brim. He wore a leather vest with nothing underneath save a mangy pelt of thick black hair. His companion was considerably smaller and extremely fair-skinned, nearly bald except for a few blond strands grown long on one side and then combed over. He wore a button-up oxford shirt and corduroy pants. Sperry Top-Siders. On his belt was a large knife in a sheath, its handle made of a pale-yellow plastic that was supposed to look like bone. They ordered beers, and when the beers arrived the big man in the hat drank deeply and then leaned toward Sid, a pale scum of suds covering his upper lip. “I don’t believe in beating the bush.” Sid picked at a loose corner on the label of his bottle of beer. He thought about bolting, just getting up like he was going to make his way to the bathroom and then sliding out the back. “I don’t beat the bush, so I’m going to get right down to the tacks. I believe I recognize a familiar dog in that blue Chevy out front, and also, since you’re about the only one in here, I figure that’s your vehicle, so I figure that I’ll need to ask you where you happened to come across that dog.” The man pushed his hat back on his head and swivelled on his stool to face Sid. He smiled. “Also, I’m Montana Bob.” He extended his hand—which Sid shook, not knowing what else to do—and nodded toward his companion, seated on Sid’s other side. “And that’s Charlie Chaplin. Shake his hand.” Sid turned and shook Charlie Chaplin’s pale proffered hand. “I’m a local businessman, and Charlie Chaplin is my accountant. Also, he provides counsel to me in matters of legal concern.” Sid considered Charlie Chaplin, and when their eyes met he felt something skittering and cold move down his spine. Montana Bob was the bigger man, menacing even, with large bare arms and small pieces of pointed silver at the tips of his boots, but it was this one, small and waxen and pale, who made Sid shift uncomfortably. Sid found himself speaking too quickly, his voice high. “I picked up that dog at the shelter. Bought and paid for. Got him his shots—rabies, distemper, all that. I got the paperwork in the truck. They said at the shelter that he was a canine of misfortunate past. Meaning his old owner used to stomp him. Kind of a mutt, but he seems loyal. Likes to fetch the tennis ball. My kids are crazy about him.” Montana Bob nodded as Sid spoke. Charlie Chaplin nodded, too. Montana Bob motioned the bartender down to them and ordered another beer for himself and Charlie Chaplin. “Two more. Also, a large pitcher of ice water. No ice.” The bartender went away, and Montana Bob spoke to Sid’s reflection in the mirrored bar back. “Likes to fetch the tennis ball, does he? Well, I’ll be. Did you know that that dog was given to me by a Frenchman? The dog is a French Brittany spaniel and he comes from France. Born in France of royal French Brittany stock. Also, that dog was a gift from a French count. Guy St. Vrain made me a present of that dog when it was just a pup, in payment for services rendered by yours truly. You don’t know Guy St. Vrain, but that doesn’t matter. That’s how he likes it. He’s in the movie business. Also, he’s in the dog business.” The bartender came with the pitcher of water, and Montana Bob took off his hat and set it on the bar top. He poured half the pitcher into the hat and then replaced it on his head, the water streaming down his face and neck, matting the thick glossy hair on his chest. “You stole my fucking dog.” He was still looking at Sid through his reflection in the bar mirror. “Also, I had a hot and dusty day out on the trail, and I come here for a drink only to find my possessions in someone else’s egg basket.” In the mirror, Sid saw his own hands go up, saw his shoulders shrug. “Got it at the shelter. I don’t know anything about any of this.” He slid from the stool and caught the bartender’s eye. “I’ll take one more. Be right back. Gotta take a leak.” In the bathroom, he ran the water and splashed some on his face. He had his keys in his hand when he hit the door, and then he was out in the last evening rays of sun, firing the truck, the dog standing anxiously with its front paws on the dash. Sid drove without looking back. He drove all the way down the river road and let the dog out. He walked a path through the thickets of tamarisk and Russian olive, and when he stopped the dog perched delicately at the water’s edge, standing on a rock, lapping up the muddy red water. Before Sid had burst through the bar doors to start his truck, he’d glimpsed the barroom. Montana Bob sitting astride his stool like a swayback steed. Charlie Chaplin standing in front of the jukebox, flipping the disks as if looking for a particular track, a song whose name he couldn’t remember or whose tune existed solely in his head. Sid had no clear idea where he was running. It was a strange mode of navigation, more like divination, taking the smoothest path through a shattered Martian nightscape of jumbled rock. If he turned, he could still see the shafts of light from his pursuers’ A.T.V., and he thought about circling back toward town. The problem was the dog. Sid would have to cut a wide path around to keep the dog from straying close to the lights, and, if the dog was captured, then what was the point? Another thought: might the dog return to its former owner willingly? Sid was unsure. He kept running. The dog spooked a small herd of mule deer out of a ragged stand of juniper and they bounded past him, covering great lengths of ground with each leap, their forms backlit against the sky now lightening in the east. Sid had never seen desert deer this close before. At the apex of each jump they seemed to hang, suspended, vaguely avian, a group of prehistoric near-birds not quite suited to life on land, not quite comfortable with their wings’ ability to keep them aloft. Just then, he had the thought that if he could keep going until the sun came up he might be O.K. After the incident at the bar, he had broken down and called her. She hadn’t answered, and he’d left a message, hating the sound of his voice. Tinny with the fear he’d wanted her to feel. I’m not calling to try and get you to come back and be mine again. I’m just calling to tell you that if no one ever sees me around anymore it’s because I ran afoul of some bad people in a matter concerning a dog. And I never meant for you to grow against me like you did. That’s it. He hung up in self-loathing. He folded an old blanket on the floor at the end of his bed for the dog, and when the knock on the door came—at two in the morning, three days after Montana Bob had called him out in the Mint—Sid couldn’t exactly say that he hadn’t been expecting it. For a brief moment he knew the relief of the fugitive who finally feels the handcuffs encircle his wrists. Montana Bob spoke to him from the other side of the door, his words just barely whiskey-softened. “You, sir, are in possession of my royal French canine. Charlie Chaplin and myself come to you as missionaries. Also, as pilgrims and crusaders.” By the time Montana Bob kicked in the flimsy trailer door, Sid had already slammed out the back, catching Charlie Chaplin off guard. The accountant was standing on the trailer’s rickety back porch, and the door handle hit him in the midsection, doubling him over. Sid ran down the sloping trailer-court drive and through his neighbors’ weed-choked yards, down the alley, across the dead main street, and through the train yard, his bare toes curling around the cold iron track as he gathered himself to hurdle over the crushed-granite rail bed. It wasn’t until he reached the barren lots at the base of the rimrock’s upslope that he realized the dog was running beside him, occasionally stopping to lift its leg on a rock or a clump of sagebrush. Back toward the road, Sid could see the lights of an A.T.V. coming fast. He waited until he could make out the shape of Montana Bob’s hat and the pale, bare arms of Charlie Chaplin wrapped around his midsection—and then he started scrabbling his way up the slope, the dog flowing effortlessly through the rock above him. She was a small woman, so pale that the desert hurt her in ways that Sid would never fully understand. Like Sid, she was a nude sleeper. When he found this out it became one of those happy little intersections of shared personality, the slow accumulation of which is love. With her, it was years of nights spent bare back to bare chest. Sometimes, when it was hot, they woke up and had to peel themselves apart, their tangled limbs stuck together like the fleshy segments of some strange misshapen fruit. They were alike in other ways as well, and at one time these things had seemed natural and unaffected, important even. They both liked the river. Sid got inner tubes from the tire store, and when the heat got unbearable they would float, keeping their beer cool in a mesh bag trailing in the river behind them. And, if she never fully came to love the desert, Sid was pretty sure she came to understand why he did. Once, he took her up to see the hoodoos in Goblin Valley. It was midnight during a full moon, and they were half-drunk and a little high. They played tag and hide-and-seek around the hulking sandstone formations, laughing, hooting, and shrieking, the sounds careening, giving voice to the rocks themselves. Things were good this way for a long time, and then one night he woke to the sound of her crying in the bathroom. The next night she came to bed in one of his T-shirts and a pair of boxer shorts. And the next night Sid slept alone. As he ran Sid could see her, laid out on their bed, a night-blooming moonflower, her white limbs like petals unfolding, finally, in the absence of light. He remembered their house, how the door latch was broken and the wind would blow the door open if they didn’t remember to throw the bolt. They’d be sitting in the little dining room, eating dinner, the table crowded with mismatched cups and plates and silverware, and all of a sudden the door would swing open. She’d flinch, as if someone were breaking in on them, uninvited. Sid used to tease her about it, but now he found himself wondering who exactly it was she thought was coming unannounced into their home. Who was the man with his hand on the doorknob, ready to push his way into their lives? Sid ran and the rocks cut him; the piñon pines clutched and tore at him. Dried sweat crusted his bare torso and thighs, and any moment of rest brought cramps, the muscles of his legs twitching and popping of their own accord. He found himself moving his cracked lips, making strange utterances with each painful footfall, the desert a silent observer, an expressionless juror to whom he tried to make his plea. I ran afoul of some bad people in a matter concerning a dog. Irana foul. Iranafoul. I ran, a foul? It sounded melodramatic and desperate, a wild call for attention. Better to leave the dog out of it. Get right to the point. Since we dissolved I’ve been a spectre running blind and naked in the desert. Is that melodramatic? Well, that’s what is happening to me now. He imagined driving to their old house and stepping onto the porch. She’d be alone and would come out to meet him in one of the sundresses she always wore in the hot months, the fabric like gauze, like a soft bandage laid over healing flesh. She’d offer him a cool drink and they’d sit in the shade, and the words, all the right ones, would flow from him, an upwelling, an eruption of cleansing language. Remember when we went way up north that winter and rented the cabin and there was a hot spring not too far away? We’d go out at night and shiver down the path to the water and slip into the warmth, like pulling a hot sheet around us. My feet in the sulfur-smelling mud of the pool, your legs twined around mine like white, earth-seeking roots. Remember that? The way the deer would come down when it got really cold just to stand in the steam rising up from the water? And then the day we left for home? How cold it was? We went outside and our eyes started to freeze at the corners and you had never seen anything like it and took a picture of me standing next to a thermometer that was bottomed out at forty below. In that picture I’m standing on the cabin porch, and behind me the river is frozen solid, or so it seems. Here Sid imagined moving in a little closer, putting his work-roughened hand on her smooth one. I’ve been thinking about that picture and that river on the coldest day of the year. Underneath that ice, the river was still moving. Forty below, but even then the water closest to the riverbed was moving. It’s like a river exists in defiance, or has a secret life. Everything above is frozen and stiff, but down below it moves along, liquid over the rocks, as though nothing happening on the surface mattered. On a day like this, you could walk across the river as if you were crossing the street. But, just below that shell, the current would be flowing. That is my love for you. And that would be it. She’d come with him, push up next to him on the bench seat of his pickup, and he’d drive with the windows down, her hair blowing into his face and mouth and eyes. Dust and the scent of her shampoo in his nose. They’d pick up right where they’d left off. He was moving up a dry creek bed, shuffling through the soft red sand deposited by spring floods in years past, when he got the feeling that the creek wasn’t dry after all, that he was splashing through an ankle-deep current of muddy red water. He was thirsty. Christ, was he thirsty. But when he scooped a great double handful of water up to his cracked lips it turned back to sand and fell through his fingers. This seemed a particularly cruel joke, and he had thoughts of finding a dark place to curl up inside, a rock for a pillow and a soft blanket of sand. But there was the matter of the dog, the matter of Charlie Chaplin’s vacuous eyes and his pistol, which, in Sid’s mind, had achieved magnificent proportions. Charlie Chaplin was riding it like an evil old mare with cracked hooves and a faded brand. It was the gun itself in pursuit, half horse, half instrument of percussion and death. A spavined nag whose blued flanks were singed and smoking. At first, running on the sand was deliriously comfortable, the soft ground like an answered prayer for the raw soles of Sid’s feet. But then the farther he went the harder it became, the sand shifting and giving way under his feet, so that each stride required more effort from his already screaming calves. When the twisting and turning of the creek bed became unbearable, Sid clambered out onto the exposed rock. From this vantage point, he watched the now greatly diminished moon drift down toward the far black horizon like a pale phosphorus match head broken off in the striking. If Montana Bob and Charlie Chaplin were still in pursuit, he had no evidence of it. In fact, some small dislodged part of him was unsure that they had ever existed. Sid couldn’t see the dog most of the time. Sometimes he forgot about it altogether. It ran ahead, silent and unperturbed as the earth itself. It was a loud dawn. Sid had never seen or heard anything quite like it, the sun breaking the horizon line with a sound like a dull knife ripping a sheet. He was walking stiffly now, moving his arms in great circles, slapping his thighs and torso to fend off the cold. He looked down and for the first time could see himself clearly, the angry red whip welts on his calves from branches, the purple cracked toenails and raised blue lines of engorged veins and capillaries, over everything a grimy patina of sweat crust and desert dust and leaking blood. He crested a small hill where, on the back side of the slope, there was a rusted stock tank fed by a leaning windmill that rose out of a clump of acacia. He didn’t believe in the stock tank. It was like that river of muddy water, a thing that would dry up and slip through his fingers. He sat on a rock and looked. The windmill was missing some slats, and he knew that there was no water in the tank. This was a definite truth, and Sid felt it like gravity. After a while the dog emerged from a tangle of sagebrush and, with no fanfare, proceeded to lap from the tank, its tail fanning slightly in a breeze that did not reach Sid. Down the slope in jerks, his muscles and ligaments tightened like catgut tennis-racquet cord. Sid submerged his entire head, eyes wide open, into the water, metallic-tasting, gelid with the flavor of the past night. The bottom of the tank was lined with a slick layer of electric-green algae over which a single orange carp hovered, blimplike. Sid wanted to get in, to live with this carp alone in this desert within a desert. But the water was cold, and he knew that the carp did not want him. He drank for so long that points of black began to form at the edges of his vision, small black-legged forms like water striders skating the clear pool of his periphery. He broke for air and collapsed with his back against the tank, the rivets pressing into his flesh. From this position he could see into the twisted inner workings of the windmill, the busted-spring parts, the pieces held together by coils of baling wire. The dog was moving around the base of the acacia trees, its snout plowing last year’s dead grass, the fur ends around its paws just slightly reddened by the touch of the desert rock. Above the dog, in the twisting acacia branches, Sid could make out two sparrows, dead and skewered on thorns. When Sid woke he found Charlie Chaplin squatting next to him, his oxford shirt stained desert red, his corduroys dusty. His pale cheeks were streaked with twin rivulets of what looked like tears, and his eyes were leaking and red. He had his knife out and was poking Sid’s bare thigh, raising bright little beads of blood, a ragged collection of blood drops like pissants gathering on his skin. From the number of them it looked as if he’d been at it awhile. Seeing that Sid was awake, Charlie Chaplin swiped at his cheeks with his sleeve. He gave Sid one more poke and then sheathed his knife and went to stand beside Montana Bob, who held a length of chain that he’d hooked to the dog’s collar. The dog lay at Montana Bob’s boots with its muzzle resting on its paws. “What the hell. Why?” Montana Bob tilted his hat brim down against the sun. Sid considered this for a moment and then put up his hands and shrugged his shoulders. “I’ve always liked running.” Realizing, as he said it, that it was true. “You look like something from another planet. More dead than alive. Also, Charlie Chaplin isn’t happy with you. He wears contact lenses and, seeing how you kept us out here all night in the dust, his eyes are in poor shape. He wants you to know that that’s why he’s tearing up. He’s not actually crying. He suffers from the dust. Also, he lost his pistol. Fell out of his waistband on the ride. I know he feels badly about that.” Sid found himself nodding in agreement with Montana Bob. It was a nearly involuntary movement and he had to force himself to stop. “You dumb bastard. I don’t even know what to do to you. But I guess you done it plenty to yourself. What do you think, Charlie Chaplin?” Sid looked up into the pale, dirt- and tear-streaked face of the accountant. He tried to read what was there but came up blank. Charlie Chaplin knelt creakily and untied his Top-Siders. He kicked them off his feet toward Sid and then turned to climb on the A.T.V., his socks startlingly white from the ankle down. Silently, Montana Bob took his seat in front of Charlie Chaplin and drove away, his accountant clinging to his waist from behind, his dog padding along at the end of the chain. It was a long time before Sid could get to his feet and walk, slowly retracing his bloody tracks. It was even longer before the pain made him slip the Top-Siders over his ruined soles, feeling, when he did, something at once like balm and betrayal. With the shoes, he was somehow more naked than before, and he faced the reality of shuffling back to town, no longer unfettered, just exposed. He thought then about going for it, turning east and just continuing on until he either evaporated or arrived, collapsing in a heap, on her porch. Begging her to wash his feet.
Starlight I said, “Oh, Ollie, we’re always glad to see you, but I don’t think we need any pictures now.” Dick refutes me. “Oh, come on, Ollie. Take a few shots.” Dolly gets up and suggests that we link arms. We form a line, and Ollie takes his place in front of us. I know that if I looked over my shoulder I’d see Dick smiling, seeming amused and in control, and, really, I couldn’t take that. Julie’s at her wit’s end; Dolly feels as if she’d been drawn into a whirling tornado that may eventually put her down in safe territory, but right now she can’t escape it. Julie’s been in tears. I have, too. But what happens if you’re a Rockette and you have a cold? You go out there onstage and take your position, that’s what. A bit of medicine to bolster you would make sense. But, medicine or not, out you go. Out we go, indeed! When have we not rushed ahead, despite any protests made to Dick? You smile the family smile, and you try to get through the minutes, the seconds, until the helicopter takes off, and if people want to photograph that, which they no doubt will, they’ll see nothing but a machine, rising, flying, becoming smaller, disappearing. They’ll read a lot into that. Right now, though, our hearts are breaking. They’ve already broken. If it has to be done, it has to be done. Ollie’s been here for all of it, so of course he’s here for the final photograph of the Nixons in the White House. Then we must speak to the staff. They did their best to serve proficiently and politely, but forget manners, forget politely, they really cared—they have to know that it didn’t go unnoticed. We’re not the only ones under examination here, yet we’re the ones whose picture is being taken for posterity. Dick’s secretary, Rose Mary, hasn’t been asked to sit at her desk for a final picture. Haldeman and Ehrlichman are long gone—otherwise, they’d be standing with us. Maybe the last picture shouldn’t be posed, a perfect reminder of what we looked like in positions we never took, as if we were a chorus line or paper dolls. David could be consoling Julie. Eddie could be doing the same for Dolly, drawing her head into his chest, as if he were a barrier and nothing was actually happening on the other side of it. The plane will transport us. California is there waiting for us, earlier in time, still young. And Dick: what is he thinking? That we have to be a united family until the last, united for posterity, acting like the cross in front of the vampire, warding off evil and repelling anyone who wants to transgress against us. Because we are the Nixons, like a lineup of suspects: that’s the man who said that the war had to continue; he’s the one who tried to tell the nation what was best. And his wife, why isn’t she looking at the camera? Why isn’t she trying harder? She went mute long ago. Her younger daughter became the family spokesperson, while the older one retreated. The husbands . . . they are the husbands. Yet I find myself yearning toward them, toward the possibility they represent. Maybe David or Eddie can change the way the photograph looks. Is there a chance that Eddie will leap out of the picture, mess up the choreography, elicit a real expression from Dick? Who would have thought he’d bring in Ollie for this moment, as if it were just another day, as if Ollie were going to be here tomorrow for breakfast, and Dick could have him photograph Julie eating her muffin and David drinking his coffee? Dolly having her orange juice, Eddie downing his boiled egg? That would certainly surprise the nation: the Nixons still in the White House, enjoying a last breakfast. From left to right—no political joke intended—Edward Cox (egg, toast); Mrs. Cox (orange juice only, thank you); David Eisenhower (English muffin, scrambled eggs, milk, coffee, tomato juice); Mrs. Eisenhower (coffee, as a prop); and me. I’d have to be photographed with something, since a slender First Lady arouses suspicion, but who in my position would be able to eat? Talk about my weight all you want, but answer me this: would you want to eat? And Dick: the full breakfast, starting with an English muffin, ending with a slice of melon and a lime wedge? Would he dare to pick up the lime and let people see his hand tremble? But tomorrow morning is a lifetime away, and what follows is farther away still. La Casa Pacifica, California, the clock turned back—truly turned back; there are three more hours in which to accomplish things, three more hours in which to avoid errors that might damn you forever. What to do with all that luxurious time? Dick gave me a clock once and I loved it, but I didn’t know that every time it ticked the future would become inevitable. We’re all lingering on the edge of time, doing what’s expected of us, trying to make the best of things. Just a minute before the photograph, Dick’s valet, Manolo, came in with the dogs, who wanted what they always want: fun, food, attention. The dogs have been brought in so many times to be the recipients of our love, but there are moments when dogs are extraneous, when they might as well be arrows, or whatever signifies our end, including the pop of a flashbulb like an assassin’s bullet. Picture taken, what happens? We escape the frame and do what, exactly? Wait inside the helicopter? How much longer before we get to the West Coast? How much longer before we can attempt to resurrect our lives? After the last photograph, how much can anything done for future generations matter? We can only hope that Dolly and Julie will have normal lives and not have to pose anymore. Their husbands—let’s be honest—are no help at all. You occupy your own distinct space in a photograph. If you don’t, the photographer explains the necessity of standing this way or that, politely tucks a wisp of hair behind your ear, asks you to turn a bit to the side. Then, just when everyone is self-conscious and anxious, he calls for another picture. A sincere smile is requested, one last time. Everyone in the lineup matters, ostensibly. Dick and I know otherwise. MRS. NIXON REACTS TO “RN: THE MEMOIRS OF RICHARD NIXON” Dick writes amusingly, with a sense of what makes a good story: “During our trips to China and summits in the Soviet Union, Pat showed her mastery of the art of personal diplomacy. She shook hands with dancing bears at the circus, drew children to her in schools and hospitals, visited communes, factories, department stores, and danced a step with the Bolshoi Ballet school.” I can’t say the same about him: his awkwardness was always part of any encounter, and his smile was too intense. People thought his smile was insincere because it was such a smile. He was more than a little inept. It made him nervous to smile, so, once he started, he either kept that smile plastered on his face or erased it immediately. He mistrusted his body. He was self-conscious about leaning in too far, about looking at the camera or not looking. With his brothers dead, was it ever appropriate for him to smile? He was caught between doing the natural thing, smiling at a bluebird singing in a tree, or a plate of freshly baked cookies, or a circus bear, it was all the same—he was caught between smiling spontaneously and being inappropriate, because they were dead and he was alive, and his mother’s eyes judged him like a camera lens, long after she was dead herself. BROWNIE What exactly do you do if your husband brings home a dog? Checkers was a gift, as we all know, but in the case of Brownie Mr. Nixon found the dog wandering around the property of his New Jersey home one night, when he went out to take a walk, and then there it was, trotting in the front door. “Oh, Dick, it must belong to somebody.” “Well, we don’t know. It might belong to some people down the road, but we don’t have their number. You know what I mean: we don’t have their telephone number. Not the sort of number I keep on the Rolodex, it goes without saying. Fine to exchange a greeting, but what do you do with phone numbers except let them mount up—business cards, little pieces of paper? Before you know it, you’ve got the numbers for a lot of people who could be anybody, and why would you call them? We could let the dog wander. We could do that, but we don’t know that it wouldn’t get into the road and find itself in trouble. Is it wrong to have the dog in the house for this one night? Well, maybe it is, but it isn’t right to let a dog go on its way when it might be killed. You look for a tag, or something. But nobody took the time to put a tag on this dog, and my point is, that tells you something. It could have been dumped here by some kids from the city, who got tired of it and drove it all the way out to the suburbs, just to get rid of it. They see these big houses, and they think, Oh, they’re a bunch of bleeding-heart liberals who’ll take in a dog on a cold night. Some people do that—invite street people in—and some of them end up killed. Cold out there. I’m going to fix a cup of tea. Would you like some?” “Let me do it.” “You remember that trip we took, all your shopping with Mrs. Gorbachev, and the way the press didn’t want to talk about anything else? Damn fools. Why, you got the groceries all your life! Mrs. Gorbachev was told to go buy groceries that day, you can bet on that. If they’d told her to put on her bathing suit and take a swan dive from the highest spire on the Kremlin, she would have done that, too. Groceries! They didn’t want her taking you shopping for expensive clothes and so forth, because there were none to be had. I suppose they could have airlifted some in from Paris. Had a fashion show for you ladies at the hotel. The Arabs do that to keep the women happy.” “Dick, I don’t think this is the right time for us to have a dog.” “Is there a right time? I suppose it’s always better when you’re young. What isn’t? Though maturity does have its advantages. Things get clearer. You take action, because what else are you going to do? Sit around and wait for the grandchildren to pay a visit? They do, and it’s good of them, but you know what I mean.” “Dick, if we feed the dog it’s going to want to stay.” “Dog’s in the other room. Doesn’t seem so interested in food, but we might give him a bowl of water.” “I’ll use this bowl.” “We had some great times with the dogs, didn’t we? Oh, not everybody understood. A dog’s an expense, that’s for sure. But you see the delight in your children’s eyes—what can you do? Some parents would say No! Walk away. But we didn’t do that.” “Dolly called this afternoon. She’s going to come for a visit.” “They never saw it coming.”Buy the print » “Julie will come, too. Won’t she?” “I’ve only heard from Dolly. She’s bringing Christopher.” “Boy likes to run around. A boy and his dog. Well, this can be our dog. Would be a good photo opportunity. Christmas card, and all that. Get the neighbors to come on over, crowd around and smile, give them a photograph of them with the President and his family, informal, something they can keep for posterity. I got a letter last week saying I was the most misunderstood President of the past fifty years. Where the fellow got our address I don’t know, but it was nice of him. Got to make a note to have Monica write him back. Send him one of those bookmarks with the Presidential seal.” “Dick, what do you think the dog is doing?” “I guess I could ask him. It’s a he, I saw. He was peeing against our tree.” “Here’s the bowl for—” “Don’t you bend over, I can do that. Is the heat on high under that teakettle? I don’t notice it whistling.” “The whistling kettle rusted. We have to replace it. Julie said she had an extra one she’d bring us.” “I wonder if David will come with her. Kids will, but David might be working. I don’t know what he really thought some of the time, when things were bad and so forth, but he shows up a lot more than Eddie does. Eddie said some things he shouldn’t have, but that’s water over the dam. Been a fine husband and father. You hope they will be, but you don’t know when they marry so young. Here’s the bowl. Looks like a pretty good one. Of course, we wouldn’t have bad ones. What would be the point? Some might say, ‘Well, we never clear out our old bowls, chipped or dented or whatnot,’ but here in the Nixon household Mrs. Nixon keeps watch over the bowls and replaces them when there’s reason to. Of course, Mrs. Nixon is thrifty, which is a virtue not valued enough these days. Glad to know Julie has an extra kettle. All the neatniks and recyclers and those sort would be happy, too. Keeping the landfill down. All those issues they think about. Drinking water. Well, if you boil water it’s safe, but try telling that to some people. They have big families; they don’t have time to boil water. We boil water and we’re doing our part as citizens, which we’ve always done, though at times we’ve been misunderstood.” “Here’s your tea, Dick.” “Some say the President has people who write all his speeches, tell him his own thoughts, but that wouldn’t be right. I used so much pencil lead I could have drawn a line down the Great Wall. Automatic-signature thing was helpful, but there are those who wouldn’t even notice, just want some indication that they were heard. I can understand that. You express your thoughts, you want a response. You’re not writing to Stalin—you’re writing to the President of the United States. In the old days, Rose Mary would send off an immediate response if I flagged something. She’d jump to it, just as if ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ were being played and she were in the bleachers. She had special seating, of course, because she was part of the President’s team. Took some criticism for it, too, but she understood politics. That’s one of the things I respect. Loyalty. Remind me to speak to Monica about answering some of the mail. Piles up, otherwise. Not enough time to do everything. Other Presidents understand. You know, the Johnsons never did have us to the White House, but we weren’t petty that way. You know as well as anyone that we weren’t; we talked about those lists, and you stood in the receiving line how many times? Bet you didn’t keep count, did you? You should have, because you deserve credit for standing there, shaking hands, no matter what. Lady Bird was always nice to you, but he was a different character. Spoke to me from his bed that time I visited the White House, and never did get up. Then again, I’ve heard he talked to some people while sitting on the toilet. Showed the nation his scar, where he had his gallbladder removed. Very involved in himself. Lady Bird wouldn’t disagree. Her name was what? What did you call Lady Bird?” “Lady Bird. Her name is Claudia Alta Taylor.” “Lady Bird’s just as good.” Mr. Nixon took his tea into the living room, where the dog lay by the fire. The dog looked up. “You’re not having tea?” Mr. Nixon said. “No. I think it’s about time to turn in.” “You might watch some television? Not that I care, but if you do, let me know whether Clinton got himself in any trouble today.” “Dick, why don’t you take the dog out and see if anyone is looking for it?” “Brownie, here? Well, they might go looking, but unless they’re invited to come in and sit by the fire and have a brandy—I’m only kidding. Well, they could come in, and if there’s hot water they could have a cup of tea, too, and we could be like those people in England, having a cuppa. Harmless. Or is it?” Mrs. Nixon held the railing, walking upstairs. He wanted her to watch the news, but she was tired. The next day, she’d make some inquiries about who might have lost the dog. At least it had cheered him up a little. She used Elizabeth Arden cosmetics, but washed her face with Ivory soap. It didn’t lather too much—just the right amount. With some of the new soaps, she felt like one of the witches in “Macbeth,” urging the fire to burn and the cauldron to bubble. She realized that that was a strange thing to leap to mind, when she was only going to wash her face. She did sometimes think of “Macbeth” and meant to reread it. She used no moisturizer. She brushed her teeth before going to bed, and again upon awakening. Her hair was always limp in cold weather—it didn’t have any bounce. She didn’t know what to do about that, except put on a scarf. The loneliness was like sea glass. It was attractive, sometimes. But it could also retain sharp edges. She had sometimes looked for sea glass on the beach in San Clemente, and her housekeeper Fina had cautioned her about picking it up, because the edges could cut you even when the rest had been worn smooth. Who knew then that the glass-gathering would be good exercise later—lifting little things out of the sand so that her bad hand became accustomed to opening and closing normally? Bird feathers held no interest, shells rarely caught her attention. . . . Sometimes she still drew something in the sand with her toe; sometimes she used a stick and made a quick sketch that the water would wash away. That was back in California, of course. Their Elba. After they’d settled in, Fina and Manolo had gone away. The loneliness was very much like sea glass, if sea glass could be a state of mind. Loneliness was always smooth. Like sea glass, it had a sheen. She could almost feel it, close her fingers around it, but she was exhausted, and there was no beach outside, so she only rested her hands on top of the covers. It weighed on you and exhausted you. The strokes had contributed, but really the problem was loneliness. Maybe they should keep the dog. MRS. NIXON’S THOUGHTS, LATE-NIGHT WALK, SAN CLEMENTE The Pacific is a grand ocean. It’s oh so pretty to look at. He thinks so, too. We’ve taken many a walk here, but his leg’s so bad he still can’t walk. He’s been asleep since just after dinner. Oh, it will work out. It will be all right. The doctors have operated, and if only he follows their instructions, which I know he will, now that he has time to take care of himself, it will get better fast. Even in this darkness, I can see the little whitecaps. Before we were married, he used to take walks and think of me. He called me Miss Pat and sent me a note: “Miss Pat, I took the walk tonight and it was swell, because you were there all the time. Why? Because a star fell right in front of me, the wind blowing thru the tops of the palms.” Then all these years passed, and I got my code name, Starlight. We all got fictional names. I wonder if the bestowal made us just a little bit different. Characters in a story that was being made up as it went along. Starlight reminds me of “Star light, star bright, first star I see tonight. . . .” And there’s one up there tonight: one little star shining bright. People everywhere must be making a wish. Maybe Dolly sees it outside her window in New York. Scarf double-knotted to keep the breeze from blowing my hair. Would it be so bad if the wind blew it every which way? Out here on the beach with no one to see me, except my little friend the star. Off it comes, and I don’t believe I hear any gasp from the universe. I’ll put it in my pocket and fold it later when I’m inside, with nothing to do. If he’d come with me, would he have remembered the days when my hair was strawberry blond? Silly Dick told me it was “Titian-colored.” He always did see things in his special way. When I worked at the department store, I’d try to show the clothes to their best advantage, daintily turning up a cuff, twirling a wide skirt. I’d put on a necklace so that a blouse would get more attention. When a gentleman was buying a lady a blouse, he’d ask if it should match her eyes and be so surprised when I said that it should match her skin. Did he get down on his knees with Henry to pray? Can what that book says be true? If I asked Henry, would he—even once in his life—be capable of just answering yes or no? Quiet out here, quiet, quiet, quiet. That’s what Aunt Neva said when I told her I was marrying Dick. “What are you marrying him for? He’s too quiet.” I got my first orchid corsage the day of our wedding. And Dick and I got orchids again, for the wives of the returning P.O.W.s. People decorate with them now, like they’re roses. They don’t seem mysterious the way they did, coming from faraway places. I’ve heard there’s a grower in Malibu. In the Peking Hotel, the chef sculpted a praying mantis from a green pepper. Now, there was something unexpected. You wonder how a creative idea like that comes to someone. Such a lovely feeling, the scarf deep in my pocket. When men carry them, tucked in a breast pocket with just the corner showing, they don’t feel them, but this scarf of mine is my sweet little security blanket. I could lie on the beach and pretend the sand was my bed, and the scarf a blanket, and the breeze an invisible ceiling fan. “Star light, star bright, first star I see tonight, I wish I may, I wish I might, have the wish I wish tonight.” They say no one knows who wrote that. It was written by “Anonymous.” Lucky Anonymous, who never had to field any questions. What to wish for . . . You won’t stop winking till you hear what I want most, will you?
An Anonymous Island “Tsk-tsk.” It’s the end of a long evening, and my husband clicks his tongue at the TV as if he were watching something despicable. On the screen there’s a group of men and women hunched in the corner of a police-station waiting room. The camera catches them from various angles, hiding their faces with their hands or with some article of clothing. I think they might have been arrested for gambling, but it seems they were dragged out in broad daylight from some dimly lit secret basement club where they were dancing. The announcer doesn’t say they were dancing—he uses a more suggestive phrase: “They were rubbing their bodies together.” “What the hell is the matter with our generation?” my husband complains. “How did it get so easy to be anonymous?” I’ve heard the same thing from him many times, and I can guess where he’s headed before he has even finished: Get off the bus one stop past your neighborhood in the city and you hardly recognize anyone. It’s so easy to hide these days—there must be huge numbers of people living anonymously. It’s the moral failing of our generation, a major factor in the corruption of women’s sexuality. He pushes on like that and eventually gets around to how much he misses his childhood home, a rural village with only one clan. “We all knew each other,” he’ll say nostalgically. “It was like looking down into the water at your own reflection. . . . Most of the people were blood relations, so it was practically unthinkable for a woman to be unfaithful. Once in a while someone went off to a nearby village for that sort of thing, but sooner or later it was found out.” Whenever my husband goes on like this, it makes a repugnant memory resurface in my mind and I feel sorry for him. Maybe I should feel some shame for myself, too, but it’s something that happened ten long years ago. That spring, I graduated with a degree in education and took my first job at an elementary school in a rural village, which I will leave nameless. It was sixty li from the county seat, up past two high, rugged mountains in a valley where it seemed no one would want to live. I got off the bus and stood on the slope at the bus stop for a while, feeling desolate and alone. The mountains encircled me like the giant walls of a prison that would confine me for the rest of my life, and the village of about a hundred houses that I saw in the distance looked abandoned—like a ghost town. The school I was looking for must have been hidden behind a ridge. I couldn’t see it anywhere. The few people who had got off the bus with me had already disappeared, so I went to the store nearby to ask for directions. I had gone only a few steps when I felt something like a sharp beam of light pierce my skin. I stopped to look for the source and saw a young man sitting on the back porch of the store, silently watching me. His pants were so stained and dirty that I couldn’t tell what material they were made of, and the sleeves of his dyed Army jacket hung in tatters. His face was dark and weathered, with a prominent nose and high cheekbones. I stared at him without realizing it. Just then the light seemed to prick at my skin again. It was hidden behind a veil of madness, but the source was unmistakable—it was coming from the man’s eyes. It’s as if I were on a forest path. I see a snake through the thick foliage and the fear stays with me until I leave. No simple fear but a kind of primal thrill that dissolves into a hollow regret when I’m safely through and the danger has passed. That’s how it made me feel, the light from his eyes, until the shopkeeper opened the door and came out, breaking the illusion. “Ggaecheol, you idiot! What are you doing still sitting out there?” Although the man must have been five or six years older than him, the shopkeeper talked down to him, as if he were a child. The man was apparently not some vagrant just passing through—he belonged to the village. He didn’t even pretend to hear the shopkeeper, but just kept looking at me with those vague hooded eyes. His expression wasn’t lewd or disgusting, but for some reason it frightened me. “You deaf?” the shopkeeper said. “Get up!” He went over and gave Ggaecheol a loud thump on the back, and as I cautiously approached he called out, “Welcome! Are you looking for something?” It was only then that I was able to shake Ggaecheol’s clinging gaze from my body. I asked coolly, “Where is the elementary school?” “Ho! So you’re the new lady teacher they said was coming.” The shopkeeper’s face suddenly overflowed with kindness. He turned just as a boy, who looked about six, came out from the back of the store. “Hey, come over here,” he called. “What is it, Mr. Togok?” the boy said. “Looks like this is the new teacher. Show her to the school before you go.” He looked toward me with a hint of pity, and muttered, “The school’s the size of a booger, and it’s way out in those hills.” Obediently, I stepped forward to follow the boy. Ggaecheol’s eyes were on me again, but I had recovered my composure. I shot him a fierce look as I left. Walking to the school with the boy, I realized how quickly I was being introduced to the peculiar dynamics of the village. The boy nodded in greeting to each man we met, calling him “uncle” or “grandfather.” I had grown up in the city, and my only exposure to relatives was when I visited an uncle’s house once or twice a year; the closeness of this place felt strange to me. In the classroom, half the students had the same surname and even those with different surnames seemed to be first cousins. Later, I learned that this was because the village was surrounded on all four sides by layer upon layer of high mountains, with a single road threading through from north to south. The village produced nothing special, so there was virtually no influx of people from other family lines. After my first encounter with Ggaecheol, I forgot about him for a while. Of course, he was constantly lurking about the village doing nothing, and I would see his shabby form and feel that hooded gaze several times a day, but this was my first job and the first time I had been far away from home by myself. I was busy cultivating my new life and I paid him no attention. But, as I more or less adjusted to my new life and had some time to think, I gradually became curious about my surroundings, and the first thing that came to mind was Ggaecheol. What initially struck me was the question of his origins. He wasn’t born in the village and he wasn’t related to anyone there either by blood or by marriage. He had drifted in by chance, however many years ago, and had been living there since. He was over forty, and yet he was known by the childish nickname Ggaecheol, to adults and children alike. The next unusual thing was how he earned his living. At first I assumed he did physical labor or odd jobs, but then I saw that he spent his days doing absolutely nothing. Even so, he was able to get three meals a day and had a place to sleep every night. This is what he did when he wanted to eat: he would burst into any house as the family was gathered around the table, and announce, “Give me some food.” Just as no one ever spoke politely to him, he never used the polite form of address, either. It was strange how the men of the house reacted. Not only were they not annoyed by his intrusions; they actually seemed to welcome him. They would say, “Even an idiot like you has to eat to live. Mix up a bowl for him, dear.” The wife would fill a large ceramic or brass bowl with rice, soup, kimchi, and whatever, stir it all together, and push it to Ggaecheol, who would take the bowl and slurp it all down, sitting on the corner of a straw mat or the edge of the raised wooden floor. As he left, he would announce, “It was good. I’m going now.” “Don’t you say thank you?” “What for?” he’d say. “I ate my food and now I’m going.” He’d wander out and there would be neither hide nor hair of him in that house again for a few months. According to my calculations, the number of days he stayed away was approximately equal to the number of households in the village. Buy the print » It was similar with his sleeping arrangements. Usually, he slept outdoors in a pavilion or in a common room, but when it grew cold—or if it was a day when no wood had been prepared for the heating fire—he was sure to go around the village saying, “Let me sleep in your house.” “You can sleep here if you take a bath first.” “You won’t need your blanket,” he’d say. “You’re just gonna go lie down next to your wife, right?” That was the usual procedure, and it all seemed a bit too comfortable to me. When I thought about it, there was clearly something strange about Ggaecheol’s relationship with the villagers. The men all treated him like a half-wit or a madman, but it seemed as if they were trying hard to mask their anxiety that perhaps he wasn’t really like that. The women, too, seemed to consider Ggaecheol dim-witted or mad, but beneath their strict maternal façade they hid a protective impulse that went beyond mere sympathy. What I couldn’t understand, no matter how much I thought about it, was why the villagers supported him in this way, like a member of their own community. He did no work, he had no special skills, and he never earned their good will with his wit or humor. But then something happened that hinted at an answer to my question. One day, after I had been there for six or seven months, I was walking home from work when I witnessed a disturbance in the vacant lot in front of my boarding house. A young man was literally pounding Ggaecheol into the dirt, but it was odd—neither the attacker nor the victim indicated any reason for the fight. The young man, with a staff in one hand and a piece of firewood in the other, was wordlessly thrashing Ggaecheol wherever he could find an opening. Ggaecheol was curled up like a porcupine, periodically spitting out a groan. As I watched, not knowing what to do, villagers gathered from here and there, and they ended up explaining the brutal violence. “What the hell are you doing, Hwacheon? We look out for each other in this village! How can you behave like this?” “Tell us, Hwacheon, what could this idiot possibly do?” “That’s right, Hwacheon! You’re losing face and bringing shame on your family. Our ancestors have been here for three hundred years, and not once did a woman get thrown out for adultery.” All the men were trying to make him stop, but to me it sounded as if they weren’t so much trying to convince Hwacheon as reassuring themselves. “Look, Hwacheon, you’ve got to think about your wife’s dignity. Are there no other men in the world that a woman would do it with an idiot like him?” “That’s right! She’s got her own perfectly good snake with Hwacheon here, so why would an idiot . . . Don’t go killing him now!” “You’ve got to behave like a man of your standing. He’s over forty and impotent! Can’t even dream of getting a wife.” Even the older women helped calm the young man down, and their tone, too, suggested that Ggaecheol’s being an idiot was his saving grace—a sort of magical charm. Strangely, not one of the younger women came forward to help, and their angry looks were directed not at Ggaecheol but at the young man wielding the staff. The disturbance didn’t last long, but it was through that unexpected event that I was able to get a sense of why the villagers permitted Ggaecheol to live among them. The fact that everyone in the village was related by blood or marriage also meant that they looked out for one another, especially where issues of morality were concerned. I was now certain that Ggaecheol played some peculiar role in the sex life of this closed village. My suspicions were confirmed one day when I accidentally overheard some village wives whispering by the bank of a stream. It was a hot and humid summer night, and I had gone there so that I could at least cool my feet. The water must have reflected the sound of their voices, as I was able to hear them from quite a distance. “Don’t you think Yeoung’gok’s baby looks like Ggaecheol?” “Be quiet! Do you want poor Ggaecheol to get killed this time?” “What did I say? I was just talking.” “Even so. Ggaecheol’s just an idiot with no place to go.” “Right, he’s an idiot. Ggaecheol’s just an idiot.” They seemed to end their conversation by tacit agreement, and I thought I heard an intimate tone of conspiracy in their voices. I was finally able to guess why I sensed that strange protective quality for Ggaecheol among the women even when they spoke of him contemptuously. Ggaecheol never worked, but he got three meals a day and a place to sleep every night—and the women were half the reason. But the other half? I couldn’t figure out why the men put up with his presence in the village. I worked in what was nominally a school, but there were only six grades, and sometimes the classes were only half full. Inspections were rare in such a rural mountain village—they were practically never done. So, distracted from the monotony of my daily life by my curiosity, I had plenty of time to keep a close watch over Ggaecheol and the villagers. But when the second semester began I no longer had that leisure. During summer break at home that year, I went to the seaside with some friends and met my future husband, who was a college senior. What at first seemed a passing fancy between us slowly heated up. Being in the same city helped, but our interests and temperaments were similar, and we grew close more quickly than I would have thought possible. When I returned to the village for my second semester, my nights were spent just trying to read and answer his flood of letters. My head was filled with thoughts of him, my imagination swirling around the city where he lived. Unless it related to him, nothing at all in the world could get my attention. The remainder of that year passed, and the spring of the next year came around. Neither of our families objected, so we became engaged when he graduated. But then he immediately had to enlist for his mandatory military service. By that time, I had become a woman with intimate knowledge of a man; we had gone on a three-day trip over winter break, but after we were engaged, during the end-of-year break before he was due to enlist in the Army, we were practically inseparable. After he enlisted, the torrent of letters began again, and I responded to them even more fervently than before. There were times, once in a while, when Ggaecheol would suddenly pop up and look me over with that gaze, but though he sometimes startled me he was not of interest. Five or six months after my husband enlisted, his unit was mobilized for the war in Vietnam. I’d thought that all I had to do was wait quietly for his three-year tour of duty to end, so I was stunned when I heard the news. In those days Vietnam was considered a death sentence, and I was gripped by a terrible despair. And beneath my fear was a longing for my husband that burned not only in my mind but also in my body. I wrote to him without embarrassment. Just once, if only for a moment, I wanted to be in his arms again. I wanted to feel the warmth of his body and the heat of his breath. Whatever he had to do, he had to be with me first. His answer came quickly. Before shipping out to Vietnam he would have a weeklong leave, and he promised to set aside a few days to come and see me. At five o’clock on the last day that my husband could have come, when the last bus went by without stopping, I was so disappointed that I wanted to collapse right there. I regretted, until my bones ached, that I hadn’t missed work to run to him, but by then it was no longer possible. What I couldn’t understand was why my body didn’t know to cool off when I was so terribly disappointed. I had spent the last week imagining myself in my husband’s arms, and now, when I knew for certain that he wasn’t coming, my body burned even hotter. I staggered away from the bus stop in a delirious fog until a sudden noise brought me back to my senses. I was standing in the middle of the road. Though it was already early fall, what I’d heard was a cloudburst, and the rain poured down like a monsoon. I noticed a storage shed by the side of the road and ran over to it. At first my plan was to stand under the eaves and wait it out, but then the rain fell harder and the wind picked up, forcing me back against the corrugated-metal door. “Oh, no—I left all the windows open.”Buy the print » I waited a long time, but the rain only came harder, so I opened the door and stepped inside. Normally the shed was stacked full of fertilizer, but today it was completely empty and quiet. I remember thinking that someone might be in there, yet it didn’t occur to me to look around. I just stared out at the rain through the half-open door. It wasn’t that my mind had gone blank; it was that I couldn’t rouse myself from the exquisite heat that tingled like tiny insects swarming over my body. It was a mistake not to look around the storage shed. As soon as I was completely inside, someone rushed from a dark corner, shut the door, and quickly drew the bolt. “Who’s there? Open the door! I’ll scream!” Filled with a sudden, instinctual fear, I let out a sharp scream. “It’s no use,” a slightly hoarse voice said. “You see anyone out there walking in the rain?” A hand clamped onto my wrist. It was Ggaecheol—I had suspected it the moment I saw the blur of his shadow, and, strangely, now that I knew who it was the fear that had gripped me was gone. “Ggaecheol,” I said. “Let go of my arm!” I tried to intimidate him the way the other villagers did, but he just pushed me down onto the straw-covered floor and roughly grabbed a handful of my skirt. “If you don’t want to go back all messy, undress nicely,” he said. I used all my strength, struggling to get away from him. He lay on top of me, and I felt his hot breath in my ear. “This Ggaecheol may not know much, but I know exactly when you women need me,” he whispered. “Right now your body’s hot and ready.” When I heard those words my body suddenly relaxed and the strange tingling fever, which I had momentarily forgotten, came back. Again, he whispered expertly in my ear, caressing my body, “I was watching you the whole afternoon. All the time you were waiting so nervous, at the bus stop.” He had already become an abstraction of a man to me, an image with no relation to his shabby clothes and ugly face. I did not resist as I fell into a dreamlike state—I just let go of everything. I’m embarrassed even to remember it, but I didn’t feel victimized. I’m not so sure that I didn’t enjoy it, as if he and I were having an illicit love affair. If I could offer up a single defense as another man’s woman at that time, it would be that at the moment of climax it was my husband’s face that I saw. For a long time afterward, I was worried. I was afraid that Ggaecheol would come bursting into my room, or that the whole village would find out and do irrevocable harm to my life. The fact that I don’t recall feeling a sense of moral shame or of having sinned against my husband makes me feel strange now, though not remorseful. Contrary to my fears, Ggaecheol did not once come near me—it was remarkable. I had experienced a major catastrophe, but not a single rumor had spread through the village, and in the end I remained unsullied. It was only after a few months of restraint and closed lips on Ggaecheol’s part that I realized his silence was his own protective shield. If he pushed me into the situation I feared, I would deny that anything had happened, and it was obvious that he would end up the loser. It was the same for his relationships with all the other women of the village. After the incident, I understood the village women more completely. To put it bluntly, he was the lover or potential lover of every one of them. But I did not yet understand why the village men accepted his behavior. One cold afternoon before winter break that year, I was sitting by the stove, in the teachers’ lounge, across from one of the male teachers who had grown up in the village. Only the two of us were still there in the empty schoolhouse, so I got him to talk about Ggaecheol—something I should have done earlier. “He’s an imbecile. And he’s impotent.” The phrasing was a little different, but his assertion was the same as that of every other man in the village. Seeing him react so defensively annoyed me, and I methodically laid out what I had observed about the village. Of course, I omitted my own story. He listened quietly until I was done. “You have remarkable observational skills,” he said finally, with a helpless look. “I was born and raised in this village, but I only recently guessed at this. I didn’t realize you were watching the villagers so carefully, Ms. Han.” I used that opening to ask another question. “But how can the men of the village allow Ggaecheol to behave like that?” “There are probably lots of reasons, but I think there are two worth mentioning. One is vulnerable pride, and the other is utter pragmatism.” “Pride and pragmatism?” “Pride means a man doesn’t want to see himself as the victim. If a man wants to feel superior to Ggaecheol, he can’t consciously know that he lost his wife to someone like that. What’s more, he’s got to believe that the other man is an idiot even if there’s nothing wrong with him. It’s a convenient rationalization. Pragmatism? That’s what makes the men forgive Ggaecheol, because some other husband has suffered the same thing. As you know, this village is made up of just one family clan. Everyone’s related by blood or by marriage. Instead of suffering the shame of incest or having in-laws be discovered belly to belly, isn’t it better to save face by letting Ggaecheol do what he does?” That kind of logical explanation wasn’t what I wanted. I wanted the pleasure of hearing about the villagers’ fear of some kind of demonic violation; I wanted the vicarious joy of identifying with Ggaecheol, who was so free, shaking off the yoke of their tradition and their morality. But that seemed too much to ask, so instead I asked, “What about the man who beat Ggaecheol up in the middle of the village?” “This is just my observation, but I think even Ggaecheol has certain rules. For example, avoiding young girls, or not going after the same woman twice. The young husbands tend to throw punches a bit too hastily, and even the older men wouldn’t put up with it if their wives did that sort of thing too often. When Ggaecheol got beaten up that time, it was probably because he didn’t stick to the rules.” It must have occurred to him that I wasn’t a member of the clan, and that I wasn’t married yet, because he suddenly blushed and started to stutter, bringing our conversation to an end. “W-well, it’s all guesswork on my part. I just made some haphazard comments after your detailed observations, Ms. Han. W-what we just talked about, please be careful not to repeat it to the villagers. It would create problems.” His words, and even the expression on his face, were like those of the other middle-aged men in the village. When I finally got around to asking about Ggaecheol’s past, he had already lost interest in the topic. I left the village a little over three years after I began teaching there. When I got a letter from my husband saying that he had been discharged from the Army and that he had found a job, which he still has today, I submitted my resignation to the school so that I could prepare for our wedding. But there were only a limited number of teachers there, and if I had left immediately my classes would have been discontinued until my replacement arrived. So I had to stay on for three more days. My replacement happened to be an alumna of my college, and on the day I left the village she walked me to the bus stop to see me off. Who knows when he showed up, but there was Ggaecheol, crouching on the back porch of the store, watching the new teacher with the same look he had given me on my first day. Seeing that, I was going to tell her about Ggaecheol, but in the end I decided against it. In a village full of people who were so closely related, all tied to the same lineage, he was the sole drifting island of anonymity. Perhaps if she was like most of the village women—or like me two years ago, feeling unbearably trapped and sexually frustrated—she might have need of that anonymous island. Instead of warning her about Ggaecheol, whose eyes clung to her almost hatefully, I shot him a cool look. He met my gaze with the same coolness. I might have been mistaken, but at that moment I thought I saw a faint laughter in his eyes. Just a glimmer. Then he turned his head toward the village and the paddy fields stretching out on the slopes below. There was not a piece of land or a fistful of dirt that he could call his own—or a house or a room where he could lay his head without the owner’s consent—yet he gazed out over that land like a great man, the possessor of everything, an emperor.
Town of Cats At Koenji Station, Tengo boarded the Chuo Line inbound rapid-service train. The car was empty. He had nothing planned that day. Wherever he went and whatever he did (or didn’t do) was entirely up to him. It was ten o’clock on a windless summer morning, and the sun was beating down. The train passed Shinjuku, Yotsuya, Ochanomizu, and arrived at Tokyo Central Station, the end of the line. Everyone got off, and Tengo followed suit. Then he sat on a bench and gave some thought to where he should go. “I can go anywhere I decide to,” he told himself. “It looks as if it’s going to be a hot day. I could go to the seashore.” He raised his head and studied the platform guide. At that point, he realized what he had been doing all along. He tried shaking his head a few times, but the idea that had struck him would not go away. He had probably made up his mind unconsciously the moment he boarded the Chuo Line train in Koenji. He heaved a sigh, stood up from the bench, and asked a station employee for the fastest connection to Chikura. The man flipped through the pages of a thick volume of train schedules. He should take the 11:30 special express train to Tateyama, the man said, and transfer there to a local; he would arrive at Chikura shortly after two o’clock. Tengo bought a Tokyo-Chikura round-trip ticket. Then he went to a restaurant in the station and ordered rice and curry and a salad. Going to see his father was a depressing prospect. He had never much liked the man, and his father had no special love for him, either. He had retired four years earlier and, soon afterward, entered a sanatorium in Chikura that specialized in patients with cognitive disorders. Tengo had visited him there no more than twice—the first time just after he had entered the facility, when a procedural problem required Tengo, as the only relative, to be there. The second visit had also involved an administrative matter. Two times: that was it. The sanatorium stood on a large plot of land by the coast. It was an odd combination of elegant old wooden buildings and new three-story reinforced-concrete buildings. The air was fresh, however, and, aside from the roar of the surf, it was always quiet. An imposing pine grove formed a windbreak along the edge of the garden. And the medical facilities were excellent. With his health insurance, retirement bonus, savings, and pension, Tengo’s father could probably spend the rest of his life there quite comfortably. He might not leave behind any sizable inheritance, but at least he would be taken care of, for which Tengo was tremendously grateful. Tengo had no intention of taking anything from him or giving anything to him. They were two separate human beings who had come from—and were heading toward—entirely different places. By chance, they had spent some years of life together—that was all. It was a shame that it had come to that, but there was absolutely nothing that Tengo could do about it. Tengo paid his check and went to the platform to wait for the Tateyama train. His only fellow-passengers were happy-looking families heading out for a few days at the beach. Most people think of Sunday as a day of rest. Throughout his childhood, however, Tengo had never once viewed Sunday as a day to enjoy. For him, Sunday was like a misshapen moon that showed only its dark side. When the weekend came, his whole body began to feel sluggish and achy, and his appetite would disappear. He had even prayed for Sunday not to come, though his prayers were never answered. When Tengo was a boy, his father was a collector of subscription fees for NHK—Japan’s quasi-governmental radio and television network—and, every Sunday, he would take Tengo with him as he went door to door soliciting payment. Tengo had started going on these rounds before he entered kindergarten and continued through fifth grade without a single weekend off. He had no idea whether other NHK fee collectors worked on Sundays, but, for as long as he could remember, his father always had. If anything, his father worked with even more enthusiasm than usual, because on Sundays he could catch the people who were usually out during the week. Tengo’s father had several reasons for taking him along on his rounds. One reason was that he could not leave the boy at home alone. On weekdays and Saturdays, Tengo could go to school or to day care, but these institutions were closed on Sundays. Another reason, Tengo’s father said, was that it was important for a father to show his son what kind of work he did. A child should learn early on what activity was supporting him, and he should appreciate the importance of labor. Tengo’s father had been sent out to work in the fields on his father’s farm, on Sunday like any other day, from the time he was old enough to understand anything. He had even been kept out of school during the busiest seasons. To him, such a life was a given. Tengo’s father’s third and final reason was a more calculating one, which was why it had left the deepest scars on his son’s heart. Tengo’s father was well aware that having a small child with him made his job easier. Even people who were determined not to pay often ended up forking over the money when a little boy was staring up at them, which was why Tengo’s father saved his most difficult routes for Sunday. Tengo sensed from the beginning that this was the role he was expected to play, and he absolutely hated it. But he also felt that he had to perform it as cleverly as he could in order to please his father. If he pleased his father, he would be treated kindly that day. He might as well have been a trained monkey. Tengo’s one consolation was that his father’s beat was fairly far from home. They lived in a suburban residential district outside the city of Ichikawa, and his father’s rounds were in the center of the city. At least he was able to avoid doing collections at the homes of his classmates. Occasionally, though, while walking in the downtown shopping area, he would spot a classmate on the street. When this happened, he ducked behind his father to keep from being noticed. On Monday mornings, his school friends would talk excitedly about where they had gone and what they had done the day before. They went to amusement parks and zoos and baseball games. In the summer, they went swimming, in the winter skiing. But Tengo had nothing to talk about. From morning to evening on Sundays, he and his father rang the doorbells of strangers’ houses, bowed their heads, and took money from whoever came to the door. If people didn’t want to pay, his father would threaten or cajole them. If they tried to talk their way out of paying, his father would raise his voice. Sometimes he would curse at them like stray dogs. Such experiences were not the sort of thing that Tengo could share with friends. He could not help feeling like a kind of alien in the society of middle-class children of white-collar workers. He lived a different kind of life in a different world. Luckily, his grades were outstanding, as was his athletic ability. So even though he was an alien he was never an outcast. In most circumstances, he was treated with respect. But whenever the other boys invited him to go somewhere or to visit their homes on a Sunday he had to turn them down. Soon, they stopped asking. Born the third son of a farming family in the hardscrabble Tohoku region, Tengo’s father had left home as soon as he could, joining a homesteaders’ group and crossing over to Manchuria in the nineteen-thirties. He had not believed the government’s claims that Manchuria was a paradise where the land was vast and rich. He knew enough to realize that “paradise” was not to be found anywhere. He was simply poor and hungry. The best he could hope for if he stayed at home was a life on the brink of starvation. In Manchuria, he and the other homesteaders were given some farming implements and small arms, and together they started cultivating the land. The soil was poor and rocky, and in winter everything froze. Sometimes stray dogs were all they had to eat. Even so, with government support for the first few years they managed to get by. Their lives were finally becoming more stable when, in August, 1945, the Soviet Union launched a full-scale invasion of Manchuria. Tengo’s father had been expecting this to happen, having been secretly informed of the impending situation by a certain official, a man he had become friendly with. The minute he heard the news that the Soviets had violated the border, he mounted his horse, galloped to the local train station, and boarded the second-to-last train for Da-lien. He was the only one among his farming companions to make it back to Japan before the end of the year. After the war, Tengo’s father went to Tokyo and tried to make a living as a black marketeer and as a carpenter’s apprentice, but he could barely keep himself alive. He was working as a liquor-store deliveryman in Asakusa when he bumped into his old friend the official he had known in Manchuria. When the man learned that Tengo’s father was having a hard time finding a decent job, he offered to recommend him to a friend in the subscription department of NHK, and Tengo’s father gladly accepted. He knew almost nothing about NHK, but he was willing to try anything that promised a steady income. At NHK, Tengo’s father carried out his duties with great gusto. His foremost strength was his perseverance in the face of adversity. To someone who had barely eaten a filling meal since birth, collecting NHK fees was not excruciating work. The most hostile curses hurled at him were nothing. Moreover, he felt satisfaction at belonging to an important organization, even as one of its lowest-ranking members. His performance and attitude were so outstanding that, after a year as a commissioned collector, he was taken directly into the ranks of the full-fledged employees, an almost unheard-of achievement at NHK. Soon, he was able to move into a corporation-owned apartment and join the company’s health-care plan. It was the greatest stroke of good fortune he had ever had in his life. Young Tengo’s father never sang him lullabies, never read books to him at bedtime. Instead, he told the boy stories of his actual experiences. He was a good storyteller. His accounts of his childhood and youth were not exactly pregnant with meaning, but the details were lively. There were funny stories, moving stories, and violent stories. If a life can be measured by the color and variety of its episodes, Tengo’s father’s life had been rich in its own way, perhaps. But when his stories touched on the period after he became an NHK employee they suddenly lost all vitality. He had met a woman, married her, and had a child—Tengo. A few months after Tengo was born, his mother had fallen ill and died. His father had raised him alone after that, while working hard for NHK. The End. How he happened to meet Tengo’s mother and marry her, what kind of woman she was, what had caused her death, whether her death had been an easy one or she had suffered greatly—Tengo’s father told him almost nothing about such matters. If he tried asking, his father just evaded the questions. Most of the time, such questions put him in a foul mood. Not a single photograph of Tengo’s mother had survived. Tengo fundamentally disbelieved his father’s story. He knew that his mother hadn’t died a few months after he was born. In his only memory of her, he was a year and a half old and she was standing by his crib in the arms of a man other than his father. His mother took off her blouse, dropped the straps of her slip, and let the man who was not his father suck on her breasts. Tengo slept beside them, his breathing audible. But, at the same time, he was not asleep. He was watching his mother. This was Tengo’s photograph of his mother. The ten-second scene was burned into his brain with perfect clarity. It was the only concrete information he had about her, the one tenuous connection his mind could make with her. He and she were linked by this hypothetical umbilical cord. His father, however, had no idea that this vivid scene existed in Tengo’s memory, or that, like a cow in a meadow, Tengo was endlessly regurgitating fragments of it to chew on, a cud from which he obtained essential nutrients. Father and son: each was locked in a deep, dark embrace with his own secrets. As an adult, Tengo often wondered if the young man sucking on his mother’s breasts in his vision was his biological father. This was because Tengo in no way resembled his father, the stellar NHK collections agent. Tengo was a tall, strapping man with a broad forehead, a narrow nose, and tightly balled ears. His father was short and squat and utterly unimpressive. He had a small forehead, a flat nose, and pointed ears like a horse’s. Where Tengo had a relaxed and generous look, his father appeared nervous and tightfisted. Comparing the two of them, people often openly remarked on their dissimilarity. Still, it was not their physical features that made it difficult for Tengo to identify with his father but their psychological makeup. His father showed no sign at all of what might be called intellectual curiosity. True, having been born in poverty he had not had a decent education. Tengo felt a degree of pity for his father’s circumstances. But a basic desire to obtain knowledge—which Tengo assumed to be a more or less natural urge in people—was lacking in the man. He had a certain practical wisdom that enabled him to survive, but Tengo could discern no hint of a willingness in his father to deepen himself, to view a wider, larger world. Tengo’s father never seemed to suffer discomfort from the stagnant air of his cramped little life. Tengo never once saw him pick up a book. He had no interest in music or movies, and he never took a trip. The only thing that seemed to interest him was his collection route. He would make a map of the area, mark it with colored pens, and examine it whenever he had a spare moment, the way a biologist might study chromosomes. Tengo, by contrast, was curious about everything. He absorbed knowledge from a broad range of fields with the efficiency of a power shovel scooping earth. He had been regarded as a math prodigy from early childhood, and he could solve high-school math problems by the time he was in third grade. Math was, for young Tengo, an effective means of retreat from his life with his father. In the mathematical world, he would walk down a long corridor, opening one numbered door after another. Each time a new spectacle unfolded before him, the ugly traces of the real world would simply disappear. As long as he was actively exploring that realm of infinite consistency, he was free. While math was like a magnificent imaginary building for Tengo, literature was a vast magical forest. Math stretched infinitely upward toward the heavens, but stories spread out before him, their sturdy roots stretching deep into the earth. In this forest there were no maps, no doorways. As Tengo got older, the forest of story began to exert an even stronger pull on his heart than the world of math. Of course, reading novels was just another form of escape—as soon as he closed the book, he had to come back to the real world. But at some point he noticed that returning to reality from the world of a novel was not as devastating a blow as returning from the world of math. Why was that? After much thought, he reached a conclusion. No matter how clear things might become in the forest of story, there was never a clear-cut solution, as there was in math. The role of a story was, in the broadest terms, to transpose a problem into another form. Depending on the nature and the direction of the problem, a solution might be suggested in the narrative. Tengo would return to the real world with that suggestion in hand. It was like a piece of paper bearing the indecipherable text of a magic spell. It served no immediate practical purpose, but it contained a possibility. The one possible solution that Tengo was able to decipher from his readings was this one: My real father must be somewhere else. Like an unfortunate child in a Dickens novel, Tengo had perhaps been led by strange circumstances to be raised by this impostor. Such a possibility was both a nightmare and a great hope. After reading “Oliver Twist,” Tengo plowed through every Dickens volume in the library. As he travelled through Dickens’s stories, he steeped himself in reimagined versions of his own life. These fantasies grew ever longer and more complex. They followed a single pattern, but with infinite variations. In all of them, Tengo would tell himself that his father’s home was not where he belonged. He had been mistakenly locked in this cage, and someday his real parents would find him and rescue him. Then he would have the most beautiful, peaceful, and free Sundays imaginable. Tengo’s father prided himself on his son’s excellent grades, and boasted of them to people in the neighborhood. At the same time, however, he showed a certain displeasure with Tengo’s brightness and talent. Often when Tengo was at his desk, studying, his father would interrupt him, ordering the boy to do chores or nagging him about his supposedly offensive behavior. The content of his father’s nagging was always the same: here he was, running himself ragged every day, covering huge distances and enduring people’s curses, while Tengo did nothing but take it easy all the time, living in comfort. “They had me working my tail off when I was your age, and my father and older brothers would beat me black and blue for anything at all. They never gave me enough food. They treated me like an animal. I don’t want you thinking you’re so special just because you got a few good grades.” This man is envious of me, Tengo began to think at a certain point. He’s jealous, either of me as a person or of the life I’m leading. But would a father really feel jealousy toward his son? Tengo did not judge his father, but he could not help sensing a pathetic kind of meanness emanating from his words and deeds. It was not that Tengo’s father hated him as a person but, rather, that he hated something inside Tengo, something that he could not forgive. When the train left Tokyo Station, Tengo took out the paperback that he had brought along. It was an anthology of short stories on the theme of travel and it included a tale called “Town of Cats,” a fantastical piece by a German writer with whom Tengo was not familiar. According to the book’s foreword, the story had been written in the period between the two World Wars. In the story, a young man is travelling alone with no particular destination in mind. He rides the train and gets off at any stop that arouses his interest. He takes a room, sees the sights, and stays for as long as he likes. When he has had enough, he boards another train. He spends every vacation this way. One day, he sees a lovely river from the train window. Gentle green hills line the meandering stream, and below them lies a pretty little town with an old stone bridge. The train stops at the town’s station, and the young man steps down with his bag. No one else gets off, and, as soon as he alights, the train departs. No workers man the station, which must see very little activity. The young man crosses the bridge and walks into the town. All the shops are shuttered, the town hall deserted. No one occupies the desk at the town’s only hotel. The place seems totally uninhabited. Perhaps all the people are off napping somewhere. But it is only ten-thirty in the morning, far too early for that. Perhaps something has caused all the people to abandon the town. In any case, the next train will not come until the following morning, so he has no choice but to spend the night here. He wanders around the town to kill time. In fact, this is a town of cats. When the sun starts to go down, many cats come trooping across the bridge—cats of all different kinds and colors. They are much larger than ordinary cats, but they are still cats. The young man is shocked by this sight. He rushes into the bell tower in the center of town and climbs to the top to hide. The cats go about their business, raising the shop shutters or seating themselves at their desks to start their day’s work. Soon, more cats come, crossing the bridge into town like the others. They enter the shops to buy things or go to the town hall to handle administrative matters or eat a meal at the hotel restaurant or drink beer at the tavern and sing lively cat songs. Because cats can see in the dark, they need almost no lights, but that particular night the glow of the full moon floods the town, enabling the young man to see every detail from his perch in the bell tower. When dawn approaches, the cats finish their work, close up the shops, and swarm back across the bridge. By the time the sun comes up, the cats are gone, and the town is deserted again. The young man climbs down, picks one of the hotel beds for himself, and goes to sleep. When he gets hungry, he eats some bread and fish that have been left in the hotel kitchen. When darkness approaches, he hides in the bell tower again and observes the cats’ activities until dawn. Trains stop at the station before noon and in the late afternoon. No passengers alight, and no one boards, either. Still, the trains stop at the station for exactly one minute, then pull out again. He could take one of these trains and leave the creepy cat town behind. But he doesn’t. Being young, he has a lively curiosity and is ready for adventure. He wants to see more of this strange spectacle. If possible, he wants to find out when and how this place became a town of cats. On his third night, a hubbub breaks out in the square below the bell tower. “Hey, do you smell something human?” one of the cats says. “Now that you mention it, I thought there was a funny smell the past few days,” another chimes in, twitching his nose. “Me, too,” yet another cat says. “That’s weird. There shouldn’t be any humans here,” someone adds. “No, of course not. There’s no way a human could get into this town of cats.” “But that smell is definitely here.” The cats form groups and begin to search the town like bands of vigilantes. It takes them very little time to discover that the bell tower is the source of the smell. The young man hears their soft paws padding up the stairs. That’s it, they’ve got me! he thinks. His smell seems to have roused the cats to anger. Humans are not supposed to set foot in this town. The cats have big, sharp claws and white fangs. He has no idea what terrible fate awaits him if he is discovered, but he is sure that they will not let him leave the town alive. Three cats climb to the top of the bell tower and sniff the air. “Strange,” one cat says, twitching his whiskers, “I smell a human, but there’s no one here.” “It is strange,” a second cat says. “But there really isn’t anyone here. Let’s go and look somewhere else.” The cats cock their heads, puzzled, then retreat down the stairs. The young man hears their footsteps fading into the dark of night. He breathes a sigh of relief, but he doesn’t understand what just happened. There was no way they could have missed him. But for some reason they didn’t see him. In any case, he decides that when morning comes he will go to the station and take the train out of this town. His luck can’t last forever. The next morning, however, the train does not stop at the station. He watches it pass by without slowing down. The afternoon train does the same. He can see the engineer seated at the controls. But the train shows no sign of stopping. It is as though no one can see the young man waiting for a train—or even see the station itself. Once the afternoon train disappears down the track, the place grows quieter than ever. The sun begins to sink. It is time for the cats to come. The young man knows that he is irretrievably lost. This is no town of cats, he finally realizes. It is the place where he is meant to be lost. It is another world, which has been prepared especially for him. And never again, for all eternity, will the train stop at this station to take him back to the world he came from. Tengo read the story twice. The phrase “the place where he is meant to be lost” attracted his attention. He closed the book and let his eyes wander across the drab industrial scene passing by the train window. Soon afterward, he drifted off to sleep—not a long nap but a deep one. He woke covered in sweat. The train was moving along the southern coastline of the Boso Peninsula in midsummer. One morning when he was in fifth grade, after much careful thinking, Tengo declared that he was going to stop making the rounds with his father on Sundays. He told his father that he wanted to use the time for studying and reading books and playing with other kids. He wanted to live a normal life like everybody else. Tengo said what he needed to say, concisely and coherently. His father, of course, blew up. He didn’t give a damn what other families did, he said. “We have our own way of doing things. And don’t you dare talk to me about a ‘normal life,’ Mr. Know-It-All. What do you know about a ‘normal life’?” Tengo did not try to argue with him. He merely stared back in silence, knowing that nothing he said would get through to his father. Finally, his father told him that if he wouldn’t listen then he couldn’t go on feeding him. Tengo should get the hell out. Tengo did as he was told. He had made up his mind. He was not going to be afraid. Now that he had been given permission to leave his cage, he was more relieved than anything else. But there was no way that a ten-year-old boy could live on his own. When his class was dismissed at the end of the day, he confessed his predicament to his teacher. The teacher was a single woman in her mid-thirties, a fair-minded, warmhearted person. She heard Tengo out with sympathy, and that evening she took him back to his father’s place for a long talk. Tengo was told to leave the room, so he was not sure what they said to each other, but finally his father had to sheathe his sword. However extreme his anger might be, he could not leave a ten-year-old boy to wander the streets alone. The duty of a parent to support his child was a matter of law. As a result of the teacher’s talk with his father, Tengo was free to spend Sundays as he pleased. This was the first tangible right that he had ever won from his father. He had taken his first step toward freedom and independence. At the reception desk of the sanatorium, Tengo gave his name and his father’s name. The nurse asked, “Have you by any chance notified us of your intention to visit today?” There was a hard edge to her voice. A small woman, she wore metal-framed glasses, and her short hair had a touch of gray. “No, it just occurred to me to come this morning and I hopped on a train,” Tengo answered honestly. The nurse gave him a look of mild disgust. Then she said, “Visitors are supposed to notify us before they arrive to see a patient. We have our schedules to meet, and the wishes of the patient must also be taken into account.” “I’m sorry. I didn’t know.” “When was your last visit?” “Two years ago.” “Two years ago,” she said as she checked the list of visitors with a ballpoint pen in hand. “You mean to say that you have not made a single visit in two years?” “That’s right,” Tengo said. “According to our records, you are Mr. Kawana’s only relative.” “That is correct.” She glanced at Tengo, but she said nothing. Her eyes were not blaming him, just checking the facts. Apparently, Tengo’s case was not exceptional. “At the moment, your father is in group rehabilitation. That will end in half an hour. You can see him then.” “How is he doing?” “Physically, he’s healthy. It’s in the other area that he has his ups and downs,” she said, tapping her temple with an index finger. Tengo thanked her and went to wait in the lounge by the entrance, reading more of his book. A breeze passed through now and then, carrying the scent of the sea and the cooling sound of the pine windbreak outside. Cicadas clung to the branches of the trees, screeching their hearts out. Summer was at its height, but the cicadas seemed to know that it would not last long. Eventually, the bespectacled nurse came to tell Tengo that he could see his father now. “I’ll show you to his room,” she said. Tengo got up from the sofa and, passing by a large mirror on the wall, realized for the first time what a sloppy outfit he was wearing: a Jeff Beck Japan Tour T-shirt under a faded dungaree shirt with mismatched buttons, chinos with specks of pizza sauce near one knee, a baseball cap—no way for a thirty-year-old son to dress on his first hospital visit to his father in two years. Nor did he have anything with him that might serve as a gift on such an occasion. No wonder the nurse had given him that look of disgust. Tengo’s father was in his room, sitting in a chair by the open window, his hands on his knees. A nearby table held a potted plant with several delicate yellow flowers. The floor was made of some soft material to prevent injury in case of a fall. Tengo did not realize at first that the old man seated by the window was his father. He had shrunk—“shrivelled up” might be more accurate. His hair was shorter and as white as a frost-covered lawn. His cheeks were sunken, which may have been why the hollows of his eyes looked much bigger than they had before. Three deep creases marked his forehead. His eyebrows were extremely long and thick, and his pointed ears were larger than ever; they looked like bat wings. From a distance, he seemed less like a human being than like some kind of creature, a rat or a squirrel—a creature with some cunning. He was, however, Tengo’s father—or, rather, the wreckage of Tengo’s father. The father that Tengo remembered was a tough, hardworking man. Introspection and imagination might have been foreign to him, but he had his own moral code and a strong sense of purpose. The man Tengo saw before him was nothing but an empty shell. “Mr. Kawana!” the nurse said to Tengo’s father in the crisp, clear tone she must have been trained to use when addressing patients. “Mr. Kawana! Look who’s here! It’s your son, here from Tokyo!” Tengo’s father turned in his direction. His expressionless eyes made Tengo think of two empty swallow’s nests hanging from the eaves. “Hello,” Tengo said. His father said nothing. Instead, he looked straight at Tengo as if he were reading a bulletin written in a foreign language. “Dinner starts at six-thirty,” the nurse said to Tengo. “Please feel free to stay until then.” Tengo hesitated for a moment after the nurse left, and then approached his father, sitting down in the chair opposite his—a faded, cloth-covered chair, its wooden parts scarred from long use. His father’s eyes followed his movements. “How are you?” Tengo asked. “Fine, thank you,” his father said formally. Tengo did not know what to say after that. Toying with the third button of his dungaree shirt, he turned his gaze toward the pine trees outside and then back again to his father. “You have come from Tokyo, is it?” his father asked. “Yes, from Tokyo.” “You must have come by express train.” “That’s right,” Tengo said. “As far as Tateyama. Then I transferred to a local for the trip here to Chikura.” “You’ve come to swim?” his father asked. “I’m Tengo. Tengo Kawana. Your son.” The wrinkles in his father’s forehead deepened. “A lot of people tell lies because they don’t want to pay their NHK subscription fee.” “Father!” Tengo called out to him. He had not spoken the word in a very long time. “I’m Tengo. Your son.” “I don’t have a son,” his father declared. “You don’t have a son,” Tengo repeated mechanically. His father nodded. “So what am I?” Tengo asked. “You’re nothing,” his father said with two short shakes of the head. Tengo caught his breath. He could find no words. Nor did his father have any more to say. Each sat in silence, searching through his own tangled thoughts. Only the cicadas sang without confusion, at top volume. He may be speaking the truth, Tengo thought. His memory may have been destroyed, but his words are probably true. “What do you mean?” Tengo asked. “You are nothing,” his father repeated, his voice devoid of emotion. “You were nothing, you are nothing, and you will be nothing.” Tengo wanted to get up from his chair, walk to the station, and go back to Tokyo then and there. But he could not stand up. He was like the young man who travelled to the town of cats. He had curiosity. He wanted a clearer answer. There was danger lurking, of course. But if he let this opportunity escape he would have no chance to learn the secret about himself. Tengo arranged and rearranged words in his head until at last he was ready to speak them. This was the question he had wanted to ask since childhood but could never quite manage to get out: “What you’re saying, then, is that you are not my biological father, correct? You are telling me that there is no blood connection between us, is that it?” “Stealing radio waves is an unlawful act,” his father said, looking into Tengo’s eyes. “It is no different from stealing money or valuables, don’t you think?” “You’re probably right.” Tengo decided to agree for now. “Radio waves don’t come falling out of the sky for free like rain or snow,” his father said. Tengo stared at his father’s hands. They were lined up neatly on his knees. Small, dark hands, they looked tanned to the bone by long years of outdoor work. “My mother didn’t really die of an illness when I was little, did she?” Tengo asked slowly. His father did not answer. His expression did not change, and his hands did not move. His eyes focussed on Tengo as if they were observing something unfamiliar. “My mother left you. She left you and me behind. She went off with another man. Am I wrong?” His father nodded. “It is not good to steal radio waves. You can’t get away with it, just doing whatever you want.” This man understands my questions perfectly well. He just doesn’t want to answer them directly, Tengo thought. “Father,” Tengo addressed him. “You may not actually be my father, but I’ll call you that for now because I don’t know what else to call you. To tell you the truth, I’ve never liked you. Maybe I’ve even hated you most of the time. You know that, don’t you? But, even supposing that there is no blood connection between us, I no longer have any reason to hate you. I don’t know if I can go so far as to be fond of you, but I think that at least I should be able to understand you better than I do now. I have always wanted to know the truth about who I am and where I came from. That’s all. If you will tell me the truth here and now, I won’t hate you anymore. In fact, I would welcome the opportunity not to have to hate you any longer.” Tengo’s father went on staring at him with expressionless eyes, but Tengo felt that he might be seeing the tiniest gleam of light somewhere deep within those empty swallow’s nests. “I am nothing,” Tengo said. “You are right. I’m like someone who’s been thrown into the ocean at night, floating all alone. I reach out, but no one is there. I have no connection to anything. The closest thing I have to a family is you, but you hold on to the secret. Meanwhile, your memory deteriorates day by day. Along with your memory, the truth about me is being lost. Without the aid of truth, I am nothing, and I can never be anything. You are right about that, too.” “Knowledge is a precious social asset,” his father said in a monotone, though his voice was somewhat quieter than before, as if someone had reached over and turned down the volume. “It is an asset that must be amassed in abundant stockpiles and utilized with the utmost care. It must be handed down to the next generation in fruitful forms. For that reason, too, NHK needs to have all your subscription fees and—” He cut his father short. “What kind of person was my mother? Where did she go? What happened to her?” His father brought his incantation to a halt, his lips shut tight. His voice softer now, Tengo went on, “A vision often comes to me—the same one, over and over. I suspect it’s not so much a vision as a memory of something that actually happened. I’m one and a half years old, and my mother is next to me. She and a young man are holding each other. The man is not you. Who he is I have no idea, but he is definitely not you.” His father said nothing, but his eyes were clearly seeing something else—something not there. “I wonder if I might ask you to read me something,” Tengo’s father said in formal tones after a long pause. “My eyesight has deteriorated to the point where I can’t read books anymore. That bookcase has some books. Choose any one you like.” Tengo got up to scan the spines of the volumes in the bookcase. Most of them were historical novels set in ancient times when samurai roamed the land. Tengo couldn’t bring himself to read his father some musty old book full of archaic language. “If you don’t mind, I’d rather read a story about a town of cats,” Tengo said. “It’s in a book that I brought to read myself.” “A story about a town of cats,” his father said, savoring the words. “Please read that to me, if it is not too much trouble.” Tengo looked at his watch. “It’s no trouble at all. I have plenty of time before my train leaves. It’s an odd story. I don’t know if you’ll like it.” Tengo pulled out his paperback and started reading slowly, in a clear, audible voice, taking two or three breaks along the way to catch his breath. He glanced at his father whenever he stopped reading but saw no discernible reaction on his face. Was he enjoying the story? He could not tell. “Does that town of cats have television?” his father asked when Tengo had finished. “The story was written in Germany in the nineteen-thirties. They didn’t have television yet back then. They did have radio, though.” “Did the cats build the town? Or did people build it before the cats came to live there?” his father asked, speaking as if to himself. “I don’t know,” Tengo said. “But it does seem to have been built by human beings. Maybe the people left for some reason—say, they all died in an epidemic of some sort—and the cats came to live there.” His father nodded. “When a vacuum forms, something has to come along to fill it. That’s what everybody does.” “That’s what everybody does?” “Exactly.” “What kind of vacuum are you filling?” His father scowled. Then he said with a touch of sarcasm in his voice, “Don’t you know?” “I don’t know,” Tengo said. His father’s nostrils flared. One eyebrow rose slightly. “If you can’t understand it without an explanation, you can’t understand it with an explanation.” Tengo narrowed his eyes, trying to read the man’s expression. Never once had his father employed such odd, suggestive language. He always spoke in concrete, practical terms. “I see. So you are filling some kind of vacuum,” Tengo said. “All right, then, who is going to fill the vacuum that you have left behind?” “You,” his father declared, raising an index finger and thrusting it straight at Tengo. “Isn’t it obvious? I have been filling the vacuum that somebody else made, so you will fill the vacuum that I have made.” “The way the cats filled the town after the people were gone.” “Right,” his father said. Then he stared vacantly at his own outstretched index finger as if at some mysterious, misplaced object. Tengo sighed. “So, then, who is my father?” “Just a vacuum. Your mother joined her body with a vacuum and gave birth to you. I filled that vacuum.” Having said that much, his father closed his eyes and closed his mouth. “And you raised me after she left. Is that what you’re saying?” After a ceremonious clearing of his throat, his father said, as if trying to explain a simple truth to a slow-witted child, “That is why I said, ‘If you can’t understand it without an explanation, you can’t understand it with an explanation.’ ” Tengo folded his hands in his lap and looked straight into his father’s face. This man is no empty shell, he thought. He is a flesh-and-blood human being with a narrow, stubborn soul, surviving in fits and starts on this patch of land by the sea. He has no choice but to coexist with the vacuum that is slowly spreading inside him. Eventually, that vacuum will swallow up whatever memories are left. It is only a matter of time. Tengo said goodbye to his father just before 6 P.M. While he waited for the taxi to come, they sat across from each other by the window, saying nothing. Tengo had many more questions he wanted to ask, but he knew that he would get no answers. The sight of his father’s tightly clenched lips told him that. If you couldn’t understand something without an explanation, you couldn’t understand it with an explanation. As his father had said. When the time for him to leave drew near, Tengo said, “You told me a lot today. It was indirect and often hard to grasp, but it was probably as honest and open as you could make it. I should be grateful for that.” Still his father said nothing, his eyes fixed on the view like a soldier on guard duty, determined not to miss the signal flare sent up by a savage tribe on a distant hill. Tengo tried looking out along his father’s line of vision, but all that was out there was the pine grove, tinted by the coming sunset. “I’m sorry to say it, but there is virtually nothing I can do for you—other than to hope that the process forming a vacuum inside you is a painless one. I’m sure you have suffered a lot. You loved my mother as deeply as you knew how. I do get that sense. But she left, and that must have been hard on you—like living in an empty town. Still, you raised me in that empty town.” A pack of crows cut across the sky, cawing. Tengo stood up, went over to his father, and put his hand on his shoulder. “Goodbye, Father. I’ll come again soon.” With his hand on the doorknob, Tengo turned around one last time and was shocked to see a single tear escaping his father’s eye. It shone a dull silver color under the ceiling’s fluorescent light. The tear crept slowly down his cheek and fell onto his lap. Tengo opened the door and left the room. He took a cab to the station and reboarded the train that had brought him here.
El Morro You see, some goddess or something lived in this lake, back when it was freshwater, and then she got tired of the place and fled north and took most of the water with her, and now these natives make yearly barefoot pilgrimages down to this muddy hole and dip leaves into the brine and lick them the way you’d lick a lollipop, or something like that, he said, and he continued talking while the desert slid past, slowly, it seemed, because the horizon was so far off and only things that were close zipped by, and she tried hard to avoid looking at the edge of the road, keeping her eye as far out in the desert as possible, letting him go on with whatever subject was at hand. There were four main strands that formed the litany of his thinking. First and foremost was drugs of all forms and types, their histories and medicinal uses, and their abused uses, on which he was even more of an expert—in particular acid, marijuana, and crystal, his favorite topic and his favorite drug. He talked about drugs as they left his cabin, east of Santa Cruz, all the way down the Pacific Coast Highway, through Los Angeles and out to Palm Springs. On the way through Joshua Tree, where there was nothing but bare land and a few trees, as far as she could see, he shifted course, and began talking about native culture and native history, his words bent and twisted through his claim (false) that he had native blood, just a generation removed, and that he was related to one of the AIM leaders, a total sellout who could be seen on occasion in bit movie roles, one of those silent Indian types, you know, with the furrowed brow and the hawk eyes, who scrutinize the horizon with the slightly bemused expression you get when you’ve been betrayed so many times you’re no longer betrayed. Eventually, he fixed on the Zuni Pueblo tribe (My true passion. I mean that), and went on for hours, his voice light and airy as he altered history to please his ear, until the Zuni were not only worshippers of deep pits, navels (Yes, fucking navels!), in which their souls and histories were prefabricated, but also stargazers who could see the future with ninety-nine-point-nine-per-cent accuracy. He talked about a holy seer named Don Juan. Not the fake one, who had supposedly helped Carlos Castaneda along the road to a cosmic experience back in the sixties (Not! Not! Not! he said, slamming the wheel), but, rather, a true visionary named Juan, a Yaqui elder who really knew his shit. (He wasn’t a Zuni, but, God damn it, he should have been one!) As he continued talking, his voice trapped in the car, she searched the landscape for the proverbial trees and tried to tune out his voice, to reduce his words to background noise, like the slipstreamed air coming through the open window. He talked about birds, his key obsession being hawks, falcons, and falconry, a subject he seemed able to expound on for long stretches, despite his limited knowledge, theorizing about the homing instinct and the pleasure that birds found in their ability to ride the thermals that bloomed from the desert in the afternoon. He stared out at the road and waxed poetic about the way birds flew, the prowess they exuded, saying, Man, those fuckers home in and find a victim from ten miles up, catching the slightest movement, and then dive sightless, eyes closed against the dust and wind, using pure motion and nothing but motion until they’re right on top of the kill. You’d be hard-pressed to know which side of the story to look at, because it all meets up right there when the bird hits the prey and the prey, which wasn’t anything, man, becomes something, for a second, at least, and then suddenly it’s nothing but a half-dead carcass being lifted into the sky. Let me put it another way. One second some rodent is poking around obliviously in the weeds, and the next he’s being dragged into the sky amid a storm of wings, he said. Then he fell into an unusually long silence—while the desert rolled past, the rubble and sage rough in the setting sun—and she figured he was thinking about his brother, Stanley, who had, according to a story he’d told her back at his cabin in Santa Cruz, during their first night together, met his Maker in the early days of the Iraq war in the form of a wayward Air Force missile, a targeting error. My brother died over there, he’d said. He looked up into the sky and saw it coming. At least for a split second, he knew what was going to hit him, man. You always know what’s gonna hit you. Maybe for only a sliver of a second. But you still know. Every second, there’s a missile ready to strike you in the head. His fourth topic was more obtuse—at least, she thought so. It was vague, difficult to pin down. When he got started on the fourth topic, as they headed to Tucson (Got a deal to close down there. Business draws me south), she tried to find new, creative ways to avoid listening, putting her fingers in her ears, humming softly to herself, because his fourth topic was her story, and, since he didn’t have much to go on in the way of details, he made up most of it from the few facts she had given him back in California: I’m an Illinois girl, she had explained to him on their first night together. My father was a farmer outside Springfield. He tossed me out of the house. They were in bed, smoking a joint, listening to the wind sigh through the second-growth redwoods. Don’t say another word, he’d said. Don’t say anything else. That’s all I need to hear. I’ll take the story from there. I really mean it. Not another word. I’d rather fill in the blanks. (Right then she had felt herself adjusting to his way of thinking, drawing on her months on the street, finding a place for him among the characters she’d met: junkies who took in a question and sucked on it for a few minutes before giving a response that seemed far off the mark, as if they were responding to whatever you’d uttered by combining it with some other, more weighty problem; meth freaks who’d answered a question before you even finished asking it and then, overjoyed at their precision and their mystic abilities, fell into blank funks of rage when you shook your head or corrected them; lonely drifter girls who spun monologues of torment and grief that were beautiful in their vivid details, evoking high-tension wires singing in the wind, fathers with hard fists and groping fingers, sexual organs against the thigh, confusion in dimly lit parking garages. For example, one afternoon, in the hills above Hollywood, not far from the horse stables at Griffith Park—an occasional snort or harness jangle could be heard—her friend Kimberly had told her a story that included a blurry-eyed trek through the suburbs of Chicago; an Oak Park businessman named Smith who had taken her under his wing for a few weeks; a gang of bikers in South Dakota who’d plied her with drugs and then put her through a gauntlet of hairy legs. I was somewhere out in Utah, Kimberly had said. I was alone. Someone dropped me off out there. The wind was blowing dust up into the sky. Then this thing appeared—I guess you’d call it a dervish. The thing began talking. It told me a story that went like this: A guy was out walking in the desert one day when he came upon a horse and a dog. The horse gave a whinny. Then another whinny. Then the dog barked at the horse, and the horse gave yet another whinny. As the man got closer to the animals, he found himself able to understand the particulars of this exchange. All this talk of running free, of eating wild grass, of drinking from freshwater lakes means nothing to me, the dog said. I’m waiting for you to talk about hunting a rabbit, about tearing meat from a bone, about blood and gore. And the horse said, I’m sick of hearing about blood and gore. I’m tired of your stories about sniffing out wild muskrats. I’m waiting to hear you talk of wild clover, of fresh juniper leaves. Then the man felt compelled to interject. Meat and grass. What’s the difference? The function of each is to give you life. Without that function, you’re just bones. Then both animals turned on the man. The dog tore at his legs, and the horse drove his hooves into his face. When the man was dead, they went back to their argument. Kimberly told one dervish story after another that afternoon in Griffith Park, reciting them until they both drifted asleep, only to awaken, later, to bright sun and blue sky and the hard clomp of hooves. Above them, on a string of horses led by a guide, was a group of Japanese tourists taking snapshots of a vista that included Hollywood buried in a bowl of haze, the desert landscape, and two homeless girls, pale and gaunt, huddled on a sheet of cardboard.) As they drove north from Tucson through the eggplant predawn light the next morning, after he’d closed the deal (Stay in the room. Don’t go anywhere. Don’t think. Don’t talk to yourself. Don’t answer the phone. Don’t pray. Don’t answer the door), his voice turned dreamy and light while he riffed on her story, saying, You spent a summer sleeping on the sidewalk or in cut-rate hotels with other kids who’d embraced a mute acquiescence in a common dream of freedom, a possible salvation in the form of a good time, hanging on an edge of chance that might at any moment give way to complete, abject reality, and it did, man, it did. It gave way to freeways and faceless drivers behind the glare of windshields backed up anxiously near the Hollywood Bowl, watching as you walked by, one more piece of roadside trash sauntering by in the hot sun, making her way down Highland Avenue, wending her way to the Santa Monica pier. That was all that was left when I found you. Everything else was gone, pushed away, because you’d come to realize, no, scratch that, you’d learned through trial and error that your only recourse was to forget your past. You had to forget everything. You had to forget the house back in Springfield. You had to forget your father’s meaty hands. You had to forget the taste of corn. You had to forget the smell of the barn. You had to forget your mother’s wince. You had to forget the fumbling fingers. That was all you had when I found you. Everything else was gone, pushed into the pinhole of the moment. Said moment including the guy who yelled an obscenity at you from his car near the Hollywood Bowl. Said moment including a guy named Lenny, me, who introduced himself to you with a few pointed but polite questions and then offered you a ride, saying he’d get you out of the city and give you a chance to see a few birds, some redwoods . . . “‘Moby-Dick’? Again?”Buy the print » She found a space wide enough between his words, slipped into it, and fell asleep, only to wake to find him drifting off topic for the first time in days, saying, Look over there, to your left is the biggest copper mine in North America. Those trucks you see crawling up those haulage roads—if you can call them roads—are as big as a house, and down there amid that dust those dragline scoopers are ten stories high, with bucket loaders big enough to hold a school bus. There’s all kinds of terror involved in running an operation like that. Each guy carries his own unique fear when he creeps up one of those roads. He puts on the earmuffs, leans into the wheel, and prays to God he won’t be able to hear, because if someone hits a sensitive vein, or digs too eagerly, the ground gives way and the road crumbles. There’s a mine down in South America that comes close in raw output, but it has nothing on this one when it comes to history—because this pit started out as a one-man, pick-and-shovel operation. Whereas the mine down south was located through satellite surveillance and mapped by geophysicists who foresaw everything before a single blade cut the earth, I guess you could say this one started out as a pipe dream, a tiny whisper of hope clawing at the ground for more than fifty years until it found itself the way you see it now, which is to say a canyon so deep that hawks and other birds see it and think, That’s a good spot to drift over for a while, where I can fly level with the land while still securely high. The South American mine is on holy land guaranteed to give payback in the form of some catastrophic event, most likely in a hundred-year-rainfall-slash-flood-slash-mudslide, he said, slowing the car and craning his neck to catch another look at the mine before the road swung to the left, cut along the back side of a town—just a few ramshackle establishments—and then, gaining elevation, entered a deep cut in the stone where they came upon a woman in the middle of the road, dressed in a bright fluorescent vest, wielding an enormous stop sign in one hand and a walkie-talkie in the other. A fountain of bleached-blond hair cascaded from her watch cap down the shoulders of her canvas coat. She brandished her sign, spoke into the radio, and then came to the car, leaned over, and presented a face: wind-burned and thin, with a scar along one cheek. (That’s a knife scar, she’d explain later. I pad foundation on it in the mornings, but it’s too deep to cover. I got this one on my honeymoon in Tijuana, when my husband showed me his true nature for the first time. Lucky for me, the blade hit my jawbone and gave me a chance to get away. I’ve got a baby back there who can’t be left for long but might do well just having a few days with her grandmother, she’d say in the car, before instructing Lenny on how to handle the road, telling him, Turn hard here, or Turn easy and ease up, Leadfoot, as they gained elevation and bands of snow stretched from the sheer rock to their left all the way to the edge on the right, cutting clean into a vista that was fantastic and grand, stretching, ochre and sunlit, all the way back to Arizona.) But when the lady leaned into the car for the first time, all she offered was a dull, officious face as she told them they’d have to wait another half hour, at least, for the cleanup crew to finish sweeping off the mountain road ahead, and then she returned to her spot and stood holding the sign. I like that lady, he said, pouring a cup of coffee from his thermos, raising it in a toast to the windshield. That lady out there, that beautiful creature, has endured hour upon hour alone up here at the entrance to the pass because she probably has Zuni blood of some sort—something Indian, I’d say—and a stoic ability to put her woes aside and center in on the moment at hand, to withstand the elements for the sake of some larger vision. I’d guess she has a little brother with cancer, a kid named Kenny, or Johnny, or Frankie, and she’s working traffic control in the hope of bumping up to a better job, driving a sweeper, a cozy warm cab with snow falling outside and a wiper blade clearing a clean swath across the glass. Most likely, she has another brother, an older one, who works back at the copper mine. He didn’t know he was going to spend his life doing that kind of work. But one day he got a call from the mine office and a guy said, We’re ready to hire you, come on down. We’ve processed your papers. And he said, What papers? And the guy said, The ones you put in. And the brother, Bobby or Ronny or Sammy, said he’d accept the job, but he was confused because he hadn’t put in an application. Then his father and his oldest brother, named something like Mike and Mike, Jr., came home from work, washed the dust off their faces, and said, You get any news? He said, Yeah, I got some fucking news. I just got a call from the mine office and I’m being hired, but I didn’t put in papers for a job. I was planning to go down to Tucson for work. And the father and the older brother said, We put the papers in for you. That’s the way it works in this family. And this guy—let’s settle on the name Bobby—couldn’t say no. Bobby felt himself caught in the long history of his family. Past generations had opened up an obligation. So he said, What the hell, and he started at the mine—this was five years ago—and is still there today, knowing that he’ll spend the rest of his life driving a dump, or, if he’s bumped up, operating a shovel, not so much because he’s resigned himself to fate, though that’s part of it, but mainly because when he’s finished each day, his arms aching and his brain rattled from the fear he gets every time he drives one of those ramp roads, he’s too tired to think about reinventing his life. Lenny toasted the windshield again with his coffee while the woman with the stop sign gazed at them, then she carefully laid down her sign, walked over to his window, and said, Mind if I have a sip of that coffee? He offered her the cup, waited for her to take a sip, then held his palm and the pill out the window, and said, How about a little pick-me-up to go with the sip? And she said, Don’t mind if I do, and closed her fingers gently over the pill. By the time they came down out of the mountain pass, crossed the New Mexico line, and hit the lower elevations, things had switched around. She was in the back seat, doing her best to avoid hearing Lenny, while the lady with the stop sign was in the front seat listening attentively as he talked with delusional precision, saying, I guarantee you’re going to meet my hawk, Jag, because he’s the best motherfucking bird in the world, and the lady laughed and said, I’d love to meet Jag, and he said, That bird’s got intense focus. I mean, he can fly out of my sight, but he always keeps me in his sight, and when he’s ready he’ll dive out of the sky and land on my arm as gently as a feather, and the lady laughed again while outside the car the pines gave way to scrub and brush and the road straightened itself out and sliced the desert into two equally desolate parts. He’s actually above us right now. He’s following along but keeping a discreet distance, he said, and then the lady, trying to get a word in edgewise, said, My husband swore he’d come back to get me. He said he’d come at me with a gun. And he did. He came back one night and stood out on the lawn shouting. He told me to get out there. He told me to be a man, and I told him I’m a woman, and he said that didn’t matter, he was going to treat me like a man. Then he shot out the picture window, and the police came and hauled him away. Now he’s down in the state prison in Winslow. He and a million just like him. By the time they came out of the mountains and entered the Zuni reservation, Lenny and the lady in the front seat were like two souls united by a mutual need formed back during the two hours they’d spent navigating the treacherous hairpin turns and windblown snow, arguing about how to manage the wheel in a skid. The lady had said, The myth is that you turn into the skid, but up here in these mountains you’ve got no choice but to turn against the skid as hard as you can and hope the wheels help the brakes. Believe me, I know what I’m talking about. I’ve driven this pass a hundred times and I’ve seen what happens to trucks that turn into a skid. They head over the edge. Even the big trucks, and I’m talking about the ones my brother drives, turn into a wad of tin foil when they hit the bottom. . . . By the time they were down the straightaway and in the heart of the reservation, he and the lady seemed like lovers of a sort, easy in their manner, stopping the car for a roadside picnic (You stay in the car. Get some rest. Leave us be. We need some time alone, he whispered), sharing a sandwich, passing it back and forth, sipping coffee, talking softly while she watched them from the car. Finally, the best she could do was close her eyes and listen to the sound of their voices, coming through the air as if across a great distance. The best she could do was block their voices by remembering the way the road had felt, suddenly smooth and serene, straightening itself like a magic carpet beneath the wheels after the hours of twisty mountains. When the sound of their voices stopped, she opened her eyes and looked out to see them kissing, while behind them the vast expanse of desert threw itself almost as far as the eye could see, but not quite, because on the horizon, just about lost in the haze, a plateau hunched submissively beneath a huge, vacant sky. As they passed through a reservation town, the lady in the front seat grew silent, and he took over the conversation once again, saying, They walk a hundred miles to pay their respects to Old Lady Salt, who ran away from Black Rock Lake. She took most of the potable water with her and left behind a useless briny soup. Now they go there once a year and plant their prayer sticks in what’s left of the lake and draw up granules of salt and bag them and take them back home to rim the glasses of margaritas—or whatever the fuck they do with it, man, because it isn’t just salt but something else, even better than salt, he said, and then the lady broke in, saying, My brother loves margaritas. He’s gorgeous, he’s incredible-looking. He’s out in Hollywood. He’s going to be a star. Let me tell you. He really is. He has the gumption. He’s a dreamer. He has stars in his eyes. My big brother gave him shit about it, told him he was delusional, and then he signed him up for a job at the mine. So my little brother went and worked there for a few weeks, until one of the terraces gave out. He was driving a dump and the road just folded away in front of him. He came home that night and told my father he wasn’t fit for that kind of work. He said he had a vision and was going to follow it no matter what, and then he packed up and left. He sends me cards, and I have this picture of him, she said, taking a photo out of her pocket, unfolding it carefully, holding it up into his line of vision so that he could see and drive at the same time. A long, lean face with cool dark eyes and hair slicked back tight against his skull. The boy in the photo was frowning slightly, with his jaw locked tight as if he had bitten something sour. There was remorse, or something that looked like remorse, in his eyes. But there was hope, too. Lenny snatched the photograph from her and said, Yeah, he’s good-looking. He has a bit of Gregory Peck and a hint of Clark Gable and, what the hell, a bit of James Dean, but let me tell you what’s going to happen to him. Let me give you the truth. He’s going to fall onto the streets along with the rest of them and end up holding a spoon over a flame. He’s going to slip into the cracks and you won’t hear of him again until word arrives that his body was found in some empty lot up in the hills, if you’re lucky, or in front of La Brea Tar Pits if you’re not, because no one wants to die in front of a tourist from Wisconsin. No one wants to shatter the congenial blandness they bring, that greenhorn belief in hopes and dreams that settles like the smog and makes it exhilaratingly hard to breathe. And let me tell you, there is nothing better in this world than struggling to breathe. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing, he said, and then the lady began an argument, and the first lively round of bickering began, a tight but somehow still loving exchange that, with the window wide open and her head against the back seat, faded off into nothing more than a pattern of clicks, wooden in nature, continuing until the engine died, and they left her asleep in the car. “I’m just here for the dental.”Buy the print » She woke to find the neat formality of a clean park, all paved paths and carefully placed signs indicating the names of the trees and the bushes around the huge stone mesa, with a waterfall, gone dry for the winter, just a tongue of mineral deposits starting wide near the top, where a few trees clung, and thinning as it neared the bottom. She got out of the car and started walking. To her left was some kind of visitors’ center, with floor-to-ceiling windows. She could hear his voice floating along a trail and she paused for a moment to look far up the rock face to where trees had sprouted from windblown seeds that had landed in the wrong place at the wrong time, a crack, a crag in the stone, and then, left with no other choice, had grown, bending, angling for the sunlight, finding odd positions, and holding on for dear life. Men came here astonished at the immensity of the stone formation, he was saying when she got within earshot. She stopped on the path and listened. They stumbled here in wonderment. How could something like this rise out of so much flatness? It’s the work of the Devil, some said. The work of God, others said. Obviously they all—and I mean every damned gimp-legged wanderer—felt compelled to make a mark on this thing, he said, pointing to the petroglyphs. To scratch their names, to leave some indication that they had existed. They chiselled, as you can see, carefully—the early ones—and then went off to die of thirst, or to reconsider their failings, or to enslave Mexico, or to be enslaved. Depending on the luck of the draw. Now there are laws against leaving your mark, he said. You can’t even spit on the face of this rock or some guard will emerge from the visitors’ center back there with a club in his hand. I know, because I tried it last time I was here. I marked my name with a pen and ended up incarcerated. He arched his head and held his hand to his brow in a salute against the sun and then turned back to examine the stone, reaching out across the fence as if to touch it, wiggling his fingers in the air. The wind was rising. The sun buried itself in the rubble. He cleared his throat and took a few steps backward, then opened his arms as if to embrace the scene before preparing to speak again. He braced his shoulders and set his feet while the stop-sign lady, to his left, did the same. No one else was around. The cold had emptied the tourists out. In a firm, hard voice, he spoke directly to the monument of his country’s urgent need for redemption; he spoke of birds who fly in the depths of night skies, trying to find some distant pull of gravity in the darkness, flying wing to wing in V formations; he spoke of forlorn tribes licking salt from their wounds, tenderfooting secretly from one sacred site to the next, searching for some lost part of their history; he spoke of cookhouses in Washington state, tucked deep in the wilds, cranking out pure sacramental salts. Then, while she stood a few yards down the path, listening to his words bounce off the rock, flat and solid, forced into what seemed to be a tight, unavoidable vortex, he turned, pointed, and began to tell her story again, saying, You never dreamed you’d end up in a place like this. You never saw it ending this way. It just didn’t occur to you. How could you dream this up? On the streets of L.A. there just isn’t room for this kind of monument to the past. When you were wandering Sunset, locked in that haze, your capacity to imagine this kind of place just didn’t exist. It took a man like me to get you out of there and to carry you here, he said. And now it’s going to take a man like me to make you really see it in all of its splendor. I’m not trying to grandstand. I’m just stating the facts as I see them. Back on those streets, you dreamed of dogs and cats, of a nice little house. But never anything like this, he said, and his voice grew soft and he whispered something to the stop-sign lady. Then he turned back and said, This is a fitting place to end this thing we’ve had. Behind the desk in the visitors’ center the ranger—his name was Russell—watched the visitors on the video monitors, scrutinizing the way they moved. A woman with a shock of blond hair hunched her shoulders and rocked on her heels. Next to her, a tall man with stovepipe legs threw fists of gravel into the weeds and stepped with the eager jitteriness he’d seen in punks who came out to vandalize the park, white boys who had lost, or never had, respect for their place in the world. (No, not their place in the world but the reality of the world to begin with.) He liked the view he got on the screens—black-and-white, low quality—how it made folks look all the more ghostly and unsuspecting. An element of desecration was caught by these four cameras: one mounted with a view from the visitors’ center, another on a post in the parking lot. (Campers. People trading drugs, rubbing against each other as they made the exchange. Families stiff from the road, stretching their limbs, rotating their heads and bending over to touch toes. Once or twice a year, a few nuns in habits. Once, two monks, from Vietnam, draped in orange robes. Fellow-Zuni, always recognizable somehow—something in the bend of their legs, the lope of their gait, a slight hunch in the back of the older ones, a confusion of reverence and weariness.) Another camera was on a tree up the path and showed people pausing to examine the monument before it closed in on them. The last camera was on the rock itself—a small unit, wedged in a crag, with a fish-eye lens that spread the image. Years of observing the screens (when he wasn’t out on foot patrol) had given him a pretty good ability to draw speculative conclusions, as he watched people wander across the parking lot, disappear out of view, and then show up, a moment later, on the path. He could spot a vandal in the particular way he put out a cigarette, dropping it to the sidewalk and grinding it. (Vandals smoked. All of them.) He had watched these two saunter up the path. The punk had spread his arms, opening them wide and holding them out before letting them flop back down to his sides. That gesture had clued him in to the nature of the situation, he later reflected. There was a carelessness in the way the punk had let his arms drop down after opening them to embrace the scene. Whites did that. They seemed incapable of allowing a sustained calm into the way they moved. Meanwhile, on the parking-lot screen, a third figure, a girl, got out of the car alone and looked warily around, trying to get her bearings. Right off, he knew her type: pale, spiritless, with bony hips. A third wheel with unkempt, wind-tangled hair. There was a deliberation—or was it simply exhaustion?—in the way she reached out to touch the plaques as she walked down the path, fingered the branches of the trees, and stopped for a minute to stare up at the stone. Later, Russell would look back and rehash and reëxamine the way things had transpired, testing his intuitive abilities, remembering how the three of them had stood there—the guy talking, wagging his hands in the air, going on and on, while the woman, the one with blond hair, leaned forward and listened attentively. The girl—the third wheel—stood back, waiting to approach while the guy continued to talk for five minutes, maybe more, moving up to the fence and pointing to one of the markings. (A vandal testing his impulses. The urge to deface seemed evident in his gestures.) Finally the guy turned and addressed the third-wheel girl, talking to her while she shook her head slightly, reaching up to dab a tear or to wipe something from her eye, and then he and the woman simply walked away together, back down the path to the parking lot, where he could see them getting into the car, starting it up, and tearing away, leaving behind a cloud of dust and smoke. When he got to the girl, she was leaning over the fence, resting her belly on the wood rail, using the leverage of her body to drive a piece of flagstone into the rock, carving out a single line as hard as she could, grunting slightly as her feet lifted up with each clean stroke. One more soul trying to leave a mark in the stone. At least fifteen a year came through with spray cans and indelible markers and attempted, as best they could, to match the elegant demarcations of the past. He’d seen it all. But, stepping around the corner and finding her there, he saw in the delicacy of her action and in the lift of her toes a balletic movement, and he knew something about her that he wasn’t sure how to articulate, so he made his command a bit softer than usual and held his billy club down at his side as he approached. When she turned, he saw the face of a girl who had lost almost everything, including her ability to speak. She kept the mute silence of a soothsayer. He saw that right away. It wasn’t the willed silence of the guilty. Her lips were loose against her teeth, not pressed tight. Her eyes weren’t holding back words. Her eyebrows refused movement. Most in the white world didn’t understand medicine people, he thought, seeing her. (This wasn’t one of the usual irrelevant thoughts that came to his mind when he saw tourists wandering around, gawking, showing disrespect not only for the place they were in but for themselves, too, in the way they walked, wobble-footed, talking too loud and looking too quickly.) In truth, a medicine man never picked his vocation. It was a fate that was bestowed, forcing one to forsake certain pleasures in the world—he thought—in order to become someone who knew a little too much about reality. She was about as white as you could get, he told his wife. I mean as white as a ghost, junkie-white, with hardly any blood, and that made it hard for me to blame her, to pin the crime on her, so to speak. And, anyway, her sidekicks took off on her. She didn’t look drunk or high and just seemed to need help. He was telling the story in bed, late at night. He knew he was getting to his wife’s heart by telling a good-deed story. She liked it when he told stories that put him in a kind light. He had driven the girl up to Grants and hooked her up with the social worker there and she had promised to get her whatever help was available and a bed in the wayward house for vagrant types—or whatever the hell they call that place, he explained, sighing softly. He lay back and let his wife kiss him and conjured up a clear view of what he saw each day at work, because it had been such a persistent part of his world, for so long, that he saw it—really saw it—only when he was at home, in bed, drowsy with sleep. Then it arose, full-blown, in a vision of grandeur and hope, with the waterfall—in spring—spilling madly down the face of the rock, filling the pool, holding itself against the dryness and the dust. Just before drifting off, he had one last thought. Maybe he’d keep the mark she had made on the stone a secret and leave it there until the archeologists from Santa Fe, who came in once or twice a year, took notice. Then he’d try to persuade them that it had been there for years and wasn’t worth the trouble of fixing, because the patch material—the limestone-colored compound they used in these cases—would be more noticeable, an eyesore, one more modern distraction for those who came to look. It’s just a scratch, he’d say. A few years of wind and rain will blow it away with all the others. It would go against his good judgment and the strictures of his job and the park itself to lie for her sake, he thought. And with that he fell asleep, carrying with him the monument, his tribal land, and the rest of the world.
Gilgul “You know,” she said almost shyly, “that I have the ability, if you wish, to look into your eyes and tell you when you will die?” “No, I didn’t realize you could do that.” He hesitated for a moment. “And I don’t want to know.” That was how Ravitch’s first encounter with Gerda had ended, four years earlier. It was Mira, his friend Yoram’s wife, who had taken him to her. She’d told him that there was an amazing sorceress in Jaffa, a “good witch,” with unusual psychic powers, who had been born in a D.P. camp in Germany after the war and brought to Israel as a child. “You must meet her before you return to New York,” Mira had said, and since he was very fond of Mira, and because she was always capable of surprising him, Ravitch had gone along. The apartment occupied the top floor of a decaying Arab house in Jaffa. They climbed three flights of stairs and Mira knocked four times, then simply pushed the door open. They entered the living room, where there were multicolored lights in brass lanterns, blue glass bottles from Hebron, Bedouin weavings on the walls, cushions on the floor—the kind of baroque pseudo-Orientalism that Ravitch disdained. But the location was superb. Through one of the two windows placed irregularly in the far wall, he caught sight of an exquisitely bloated red sun sinking into the darkening sea. Gerda now entered the room and they were introduced. He guessed that she was at least in her late forties, but it was difficult to judge her exact age. Gaunt, pale, straight dull-brown hair, a cheap cotton print dress with a low neckline, her collarbones straining against freckled skin. Yet there was something girlish about her. After some initial pleasantries, she offered them sweet black coffee in Turkish cups, and when they had finished drinking she read the grounds for them. Then she laid out the Tarot. Ravitch noticed that the deck was a fine one, obviously old, beautifully illustrated, hand-colored. But all she offered in her readings was banalities. Mira would become pregnant sometime soon. Mira must avoid walking on the left side of the street. As for Ravitch, when he got home he would finish his book (Mira must have told her about the book) and it would be a success. No witch she, Ravitch mused, only a skinny Jewess playing Gypsy. He smiled to himself. Just at that moment, she said to him in a curiously insistent tone, “Please, come with me to the other room.” He followed her into a tiny bedroom. Unlike the living room, it was totally austere, its white plastered walls bare except for a small Klee lithograph. They sat down facing each other, on straight-backed chairs, near an iron cot. Well, what game will we play now? Ravitch wondered. Closer to her than before, he studied her face and realized that she might once have been beautiful. When she spoke, the timbre of her voice had changed, taking on a richer, more full-throated texture that momentarily startled him. An unfamiliar tremor flickered through his body. It was then that she made her offer and he refused. “Well, what did you think of her?” Mira asked as they drove away. “You certainly know some weird people,” he replied with a shrug. Four years ago, all that. He had gone back to New York and, yes, he had finished his book, though, of course, this had had nothing to do with the witch’s prediction, since he’d already had a rough draft when he met her. The book, a study of the Jewish tales of Sacher-Masoch, received enough friendly reviews from the critics and deliberately misleading publicity from his publisher (“Jews . . . Masochism!”) to bring him some much needed money. But Ravitch was not gratified. The moment the book was published, it was already alien to him, as though someone else had written it. He wished someone else had written it. Now he was on vacation. He had gone first to Greece, but after two days in Athens, on an impulse, he flew to Israel. He was staying in Tel Aviv, a city he was not fond of. Why had he chosen Tel Aviv? Why had he even come to Israel? No answer. His habitual lucidity seemed to have deserted him. The past four years had not been good ones. His divorce. Inevitable, he thought in retrospect. And, in the course of separating, both he and Evelyn had behaved reasonably, even charitably. Yet he couldn’t reconcile himself to sleeping alone, still lay awake entire nights. It wasn’t that Ravitch had difficulty finding women. There had been several since the divorce, attractive, intelligent, eager to please, to console. But even now he awoke in the middle of the night, groping in confusion for the familiar, soft yet stubborn body. Then, there had been his father’s death, at eighty-four, which had been surprising only in the intensity of the depression that followed. He’d felt nothing comparable when his mother had died, years before. The shock of it. He, Ravitch, who had always thought his mind inviolable, had naïvely conceived of depression as merely a state of being very sad. The trembling of his hands and the motor roaring loudly in the back of his skull had enlightened him. Clinical depression, a succession of doctors had explained gravely, patiently, defining his suffering. Not uncommon under the circumstances. Not severe enough for hospitalization. A cocktail of various pills, taken over three months, had rid him of the worst symptoms. Time and new habits would undoubtedly assuage his nocturnal agitation. What was left was simply the feeling of being scooped out, hollow. No other words for it. But what did it portend? For the first few days in Tel Aviv, Ravitch contacted no one. None of his friends knew he was there. He had taken a room in one of the luxury hotels lining the beach, on a high floor with a huge picture window facing the sea. He remained in his room, took all his meals there, going down to the lobby for a drink only to enable the maids to tidy up and make his bed. Though he had brought some books, he did not read. He lay on the bed, inert, unable to focus on a thought, occasionally dozing lightly. Or else he sat for hours at the window, looking out toward the sea. On the fourth day, in the late afternoon, he finally emerged and began to walk along the beach, the hotels to his left, the sea on his right. He walked slowly on the moist margin between sand and water, oblivious of the cries of children and gulls. Staring straight ahead, his eyes scanned the coast as it began to curve outward some two miles away. Toward the end of the rim was the other town. Even through the slight haze, you could see that it was no longer Tel Aviv. The architecture was visibly softer, older. Dun-colored houses, the silhouette of a small mosque. Dome and minaret. Jaffa. Ravitch returned to the hotel. He called Mira, deflected her torrent of questions, apologized for not having sent a gift when the baby was born, congratulated her and Yoram. Yes, he was fine, no need to worry about him. By the way, was she still in touch with that woman—what was her name—yes, Gerda? Could he have her phone number? More questions. Even marvellous Mira could be exasperating. No, no particular reason. Just the number, please. Finally, she gave it to him. He called immediately. “This is Ravitch. Do you remember me? We met four years ago. I was with Mira.” Gerda remembered. “I want to see you again,” he continued rapidly. “Actually, I must see you. This time alone.” A pause. “You can come tomorrow night at ten o’clock,” she said slowly, “not before. How will you be coming?” She gave him the address and instructions for the cabdriver. The following night, he went down to Jaffa. Gerda opened the door and stood on the threshold without moving, scrutinizing him. She was wearing a long sleeveless black dress, simply cut, rather becoming. Her hair had been brushed back over one ear, revealing a single amber earring. “You are depleted,” she said. “You need lots of sun, lots of love.” “I need more than that,” he replied, wondering if it had been a mistake to come. “I need to talk to you, and not about my death. About my life.” “Of course,” she murmured. “Please come in.” The living room was exactly as he remembered it. Not a single object had been shifted, nothing removed, nothing added. They sat in silence for a few minutes. Then he told her all that had happened since he last saw her and almost all that he felt now, for that was harder to articulate. Curiously, it did not take him long. While he spoke, he noticed that she was not looking at him. She had closed her eyes, as though to listen all the more intently. As soon as he finished, she looked at him again. He met her gaze without flinching. Once more, they were both silent. He felt his heart beating, but she seemed utterly tranquil, exuding a stillness that enveloped the entire room. At moments, he was aware only of the sea sounds drifting in through the windows and then fading away. When she finally spoke, it was almost in a whisper. “What I am about to tell you,” she began tentatively, “what I shall tell you, you are, of course, free to believe or disbelieve. It will make no difference to me.” “But I came deliberately to hear what you have to say,” Ravitch protested. “After all, it was I who sought you out, who chose to come.” “Perhaps,” she said with a passing smile. “But that last remark of yours was unnecessary, even a bit unkind. I had hoped that your allowing me to come here meant that you might also care a bit about what is happening to me.” “I didn’t say that I don’t care about you. I said that whether or not you believe what I tell you will not affect me, which is something different. I said it because it is true and also because it might free you to listen properly—that is, without worrying whether by not believing me you might hurt my feelings in some way.” “I understand,” Ravitch said, somewhat subdued. “And now I ask you only to listen closely. Try not to judge until you have heard me out, although, knowing something about you, I realize that will be difficult, perhaps impossible. In any case, whatever your judgments may be, keep them to yourself. Agreed?” “Agreed.” Ravitch settled himself more comfortably on his floor pillow and leaned his back against the wall. “I am aware,” Gerda said, “that people call me a witch. It is not meant meanly and it doesn’t bother me. Who knows—perhaps I am a witch. It is a venerable vocation, and its history is not without honor. Be that as it may, if I am a witch who still reads coffee grounds and the Tarot—I could feel your disapproval four years ago—I am also a very modern one. It may surprise you that I am known to a number of psychiatrists around the world, a small number, to be sure. But there have been occasions when they have tried all their own brands of sorcery on a patient, without success. Then, when they have given up, they have sent him to me.” Ravitch said nothing. “Before I tell you my tale,” she continued, “I shall ask you only one question. Do you know what gilgul is?” “Given that I have been speaking fluent Hebrew to you since we first met, I find it odd that you should ask. Of course I know. Gilgul is the transmigration of souls. Reincarnation. Metempsychosis. Related etymologically to galgal—‘wheel’—and galgel—‘to roll’—neither of them inappropriate, as a matter of fact. If you mean do I know anything about it, well, yes. The soul, after death, can be reborn in the body of another human, an animal, or some other creature—once, repeatedly, or infinitely, according to the quality of the life one has lived. It’s a give-me-another-chance doctrine, so to speak, ancient, ubiquitous, simultaneously comforting and frustrating. Pythagoreans, Hindus, Buddhists, and Kabbalists all believed in it and spun their own complex variations on the basic theme. I have read some of the Kabbalistic material. Do you want more details?” For the first time, Gerda actually laughed. “Stop, Ravitch, before you overwhelm me with your legendary erudition! No more, I beg you. You have answered my question, at least on a certain level. I shall proceed to my tale and promise you no more questions.” She stretched, arching her back like a cat, folded her hands in her lap, and leaned slightly forward. “I said that certain psychiatrists refer their failures to me. One of them is British, a psychoanalyst, actually, who practices in Manchester. It happened about eight years ago. He had a patient, a middle-aged Jew born in Bucharest, with a singularly interesting problem. “The man was—how shall I put it—restless. Not like your restlessness, Ravitch, or that of other people. He was not an insomniac, like you, or unable to sit still in a room. He was pathologically rest-less, without respite. Nothing ordinary here. Let us call it an uncanny geographical restlessness.” Ravitch had not mentioned his insomnia. How does she know? he thought. Does it show? But he held his tongue. “Yes, a geographical restlessness, rare, perhaps unique. This was a man who could not bear to live in one place for more than a short time. Sometimes after only a few months, some strange compulsion would drive him to leave for another place. You must understand that we are not speaking of wanderlust; he had no desire to travel and see the world. On the contrary, he hated this constant moving about, wanted nothing more than to fix his abode somewhere, anywhere, to have a permanent home, perhaps a family, to find repose. Instead, he had crisscrossed the whole of Europe, had been several times to America, and even once to Bolivia and Peru. He was an engineer of some sort, an eminently portable profession, but he never committed himself to large projects, knowing in advance that he would not stay long. How he suffered! In great cities and small, he would rent a flat, begin to rearrange the furniture and to make it his own. Sometimes he even met a woman he liked sufficiently to begin an affair. But as soon as a particular job was done, sometimes even before it was completed, before he had hung a picture on a wall, before the affair had had a chance to blossom, he was off again, without knowing why, knowing only that he had to leave, that he had to uproot himself once more. Desperate, he finally sought help for his affliction. The Manchester analyst was the last of many to whom he had poured out his troubles. And then he came to me. I listened to his account, which was far more detailed than what I am telling you now, and even as he spoke I knew the real root of his troubles.” She “knew,” Ravitch thought, vaguely irritated. With what assurance she said that, the arrogance of it. Yet what she had told him so far was obviously only a prelude. Despite his misgivings, he was eager to hear more. As she resumed her tale, he noticed that Gerda’s voice now swiftly modulated into that vibrant resonance which had so unnerved him at their first meeting. This time, he allowed himself merely to savor it, waiting. “Here is what I told that driven man, almost in these words: “Go right in, detectives, and remember—all of his answers will be in the form of a question.”Buy the print » “ ‘Your body,’ I said, ‘was born in Bucharest, but your soul was born elsewhere. You carry within you the soul of a Jew born long ago, in Spain. He was a physician. His name was Isaac Benveniste. His family had lived for centuries in Ávila. Along with the rest of Spanish Jewry, he was swept up in the great expulsion of 1492. I have reason to think that, when the edict of Ferdinand and Isabella was made public, he decided to make his way to the Holy Land. As you must realize, this was no easy task. The Jews had only three months, a period of turmoil and panic, in which to liquidate their assets and leave. There was no way for him to travel directly to the Land of Israel. Benveniste managed to get from Ávila to Valencia, where he was lucky enough to find passage on a ship sailing to Genoa. The voyage was unusually long, the seas turbulent. When he arrived, the authorities would not allow him to remain. Since Genoa was not his goal, he accepted this rebuff with equanimity. He did not realize that his wanderings in exile had only begun, that in a sense they would never end, that he would never reach his real destination.’ ” Ravitch found himself under the spell of the tale. As Gerda spoke, his breathing began to rise and fall softly to the cadence of her sentences. There was something magnificent about her now, as though she had come into her true kingdom. She had the radiance of a born storyteller, luring him, lulling him. No longer Gerda at all. Scheherazade. “From Genoa, Isaac Benveniste made his way to Venice, and from there across the Adriatic to Ragusa. I did not give my patient all the stations along the way, only the major ones, but, Ravitch, try to trace the map in your imagination. Years of travel from one place to another, practicing medicine in small towns just to stay alive and save enough to journey farther. Wars, plagues often forced him to take circuitous routes. But always he pressed onward. Down the Dalmatian Coast, across the frontiers of the Ottoman Empire, eastward overland all the way to Adrianople, then westward again to Salonika and once more by ship through the Aegean to Smyrna. From Smyrna, he sailed finally to the island of Rhodes. Why didn’t he undertake one more voyage? A few hundred miles by sea and he would have reached the Land of Israel. Who knows? He had been wandering for almost twenty years; he was old, exhausted. Whatever the reason, the will to continue had seeped out of him. He remained in Rhodes. Less than two years later, he died and was buried there.” Silence. Gerda’s face now looked strained, as though she were wearied by the effort of retelling the tale. “But that is not all you told your man from Bucharest,” Ravitch said quietly. “Please, go on.” “I said to him, ‘This story is, in a real sense, your own. When Dr. Benveniste died, his soul found no rest. Since that time, it has wandered, as you are wandering, born and reborn in every generation. Now it is you who carry it within you. Its restlessness is the source of your own. You will never find peace until you help it find peace.’ “ ‘How can I do this?’ the man from Bucharest demanded. “ ‘You should first go to the university in Jerusalem. The rational part of you must be convinced that this person at least existed. In the library, read whatever you can on the history of the Jews of Rhodes. On Jews in medicine as well—I hear they have a large and splendid collection on the subject. Since you barely read Hebrew, speak to the librarians and archivists; some may be willing to assist you. See if you can find anything about a Spanish Jewish physician named Isaac Benveniste who died in Rhodes in 1515 or thereabouts. If you succeed, and if what you find has any relation to what I have told you, then you must take the next step and follow my instructions carefully.’ “Our man was fortunate, Ravitch. He called me a few weeks later from Jerusalem and told me that, with the help of the library staff, he had found not only some scattered information about Benveniste in various books but even a manuscript, a Spanish medical work that Benveniste had translated into Hebrew, with a colophon signed and dated in his own hand. The man from Bucharest knew that I had never looked at these materials, because the library kept a record of those who had. There was now no longer any question as to what he should do next. “ ‘You must,’ I said, ‘go to Rhodes yourself and find the old Jewish cemetery. There are only a handful of Jews left on the island since the war, but one of them will surely guide you. With him you must walk carefully among the tombstones, reading the inscriptions, until you discover Benveniste’s grave. Once you find it, you will ask to be left alone. Then you must immediately recite Kaddish, as though you were a mourner. After that, you must prostrate yourself on the ground and pray. You needn’t even mention God. But you must pray, in your own words, that Benveniste’s soul should cease its wanderings, that this should be its final gilgul, and that you, too, should at last find peace.’ ” “And did he go to Rhodes?” Ravitch asked. “Yes. And he found the grave. And he did all that he had been told.” “And did he find peace?” “He remained in Rhodes for a month. Then he came to Israel. He has been here ever since, living in the same town. He no longer travels at all.” “And where, precisely, does he live?” “This I shall not—cannot—tell you. It would do neither of you any good to meet.” Another silence. Ravitch waited for Gerda to say something, anything, about him, but she was completely still. Suddenly, with a single abrupt motion, she rose from her pillow and stood before him. “My God!” she exclaimed. “I didn’t realize the time! Already past midnight! I promised a friend that I would pick up her dog. It is ill. I must run!” It all happened so quickly. Gerda was already gathering her shawl and a large handbag. “Wait!” Ravitch cried, leaping up. “Please wait! You can’t leave yet! There is so much more I need to hear from you. This entire story you told, was it a parable for me? Do I also carry someone else’s soul—is that what you mean?” Gerda turned to him. “No,” she said. “The story was meant for you, but it is not about you. And now I must really go.” “Can I call a cab and drop you off?” “No, the place I’m going to is right here in Jaffa. I will walk. Don’t accompany me. You can remain here for a while if you like. But don’t wait for me. I will not be back tonight. Leave whenever you wish. It is no problem. I never lock the door.” “Does that mean I can come again?” “I don’t think so. It will serve no purpose.” And with that she walked out. Ravitch remained standing in the middle of the room, stunned, hurt, angry. It had indeed been a mistake to come here. A sick dog! The woman was crazy—he’d already known it four years ago. In his fragile state, this was the last thing he should have done. Scheherazade, indeed. Circe! He could not forgive himself for having been such a fool, he, Ravitch. Coffee grounds, Tarot, gilgul—they were all of a piece, a cheap occultism, sham powers of darkness. Dire Biblical verses welled up from the past and pounded through his head. Turn ye not unto the ghosts, nor unto familiar spirits; seek them not out, to be defiled by them. They knew, even then, long ago, the ancestors knew! There shall not be found among you any one that . . . useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch. . . . For all that do these things, are an abomination unto the Lord. True, so true. For what had happened this evening, for this abomination, he was as responsible as Gerda. Guilty, the two of them, perhaps he above all. They shall stone them with stones: their blood shall be upon them! By the time Ravitch got back to his hotel, he was calmer. He had some vodka and hors d’oeuvres sent to his room. Hungry, he quickly devoured whatever it was they had put on the tray. Then, drink in hand, he settled into a big armchair. He now began to review the events of the evening from beginning to end, gradually, as though projecting a reel of film in slow motion, freezing frames here and there so that he could examine them more carefully. He remembered every word of Gerda’s, every gesture; nothing had escaped him. Yet he could make no sense out of what he so vividly recalled. Who was Gerda? Different voices in Ravitch’s head whispered different answers. She was a charlatan. She had read about Benveniste in some book; how else could she have known such details? Or perhaps she had invented him altogether. Perhaps the whole story of her restless client was an invention, concocted to impress him. On the other hand, there was something compellingly sincere about her. Ravitch had felt it. If a charlatan, she was certainly not a deliberate one. She obviously believed in what she did. But that did not mean that what she did or said was true. Far from it. Gerda lived in a world of fantasy. Still, her fantasies could be useful, even therapeutic, for those who accepted such things. The tale of Dr. Benveniste might have been an illusion, a hallucination, but its impact on the Jew from Bucharest was real enough. A placebo effect. Just so. Yet even as these thoughts came to him Ravitch was not satisfied. This was just the kind of crude and sterile reduction that he detested in others, the glib psychological demolition he encountered so often at New York gatherings, everything neatly explained, nothing understood. If this was what he thought of Gerda, why such fury when she walked out on him? Why his deep and aching sense of loss? What had he sought from her to begin with that he should feel so deprived? The fact was, as he now allowed himself to recognize, that even at their first meeting he had sensed something remarkable about her, as though she really had access to some uncommon order of knowledge and power. Of course, he had tried his best to deny his own intuition, but it had lingered within him. When he had suddenly decided to come back to Israel, it had been because of her. That much was now clear. If he had asked to see her, it had been because he needed her help, hers alone. So why had the evening ended in disaster? He unwound the reel again, looking, listening. The effort was strenuous and sterile. Ravitch took a sip of his drink and felt the warmth permeate his body. His thoughts turned to his father. Vodka always reminded Ravitch—who was never a heavy drinker—of him. His father’s favorite snack, fastidiously prepared by Ravitch’s mother, never varied: Slices of herring and a boiled potato neatly arranged on a plate. A small decanter of vodka on the side. Afterward, some scalding hot tea, always in a glass, sucked through a lump of hard sugar. All gone now, mother, father, the samovar that his grandmother had brought from Russia to New York, long lost. His grandmother, another storyteller. And what stories! Along with the samovar, she had brought a trunkful of superstitions, dark and marvellous, which he, as a child, had accepted without question. When once she caught his mother in the midst of altering his jacket with needle and thread while he was wearing it, she rushed to pop a piece of bread into his mouth and told him to chew vigorously in order to show the Angel of Death that he was alive, for only a shroud is sewn directly on the body. When she cut his nails, she was careful to keep the parings together and burn them. If she failed to do this, she warned, at the time of the Resurrection of the Dead his body would have to roll underground to all the places where he had scattered his parings and gather them together again. Ravitch had adored and trusted her. She’d died when he was eight. For several years after that, he had still burned his parings, but then he gave it up, and by the time he went off to university he had given up much else as well. He had left behind his childhood; his grandmother’s quaint fancies; the Resurrection of the Dead, along with the parings; the Messiah, along with the Resurrection; God, along with the Messiah. For want of a nail, he now punned to himself, the kingdom was lost. Only the classical Hebrew texts remained important in his life, his father’s legacy, transmitted so lovingly that they still spoke to him. But they could no longer guide, let alone command, him. He recalled that once—how old could he have been?—his father had told him, “It is written that if all the Jews were to observe one Sabbath completely the Messiah would arrive.” For weeks, this idea obsessed him. Why, he kept thinking, could all the Jews in the world not pick one Sabbath and make a pact to do just that? The nonbelievers had nothing to lose if it turned out to be false, while if it was true there was everything to be gained. A Jewish version of Pascal’s wager, though he had not yet heard of Pascal. Ravitch realized that his mind was wandering and that his eyes were moist. He was overcome with a sudden nostalgia for the child who had believed so passionately in the Redemption. But he checked himself, drained his glass, got up, and paced the room. After a while, he went back to his chair and resumed his vigil. Why had Gerda left him stranded? Had she felt his innate skepticism rising, even though he had not expressed it? But, no, she had told her tale from beginning to end, had engulfed him in it. Why? It seemed to him now that in all she had said there was one crucial remark. The story was meant for you, but it is not about you. Here was the key, but it unlocked nothing. The man from Bucharest was not Ravitch. He was, if he existed at all, unique. Ravitch’s problems were not his. Yet the story was meant for him. Ravitch turned and twisted the sentence in his mind, repeated it aloud, pondered and dissected it over and over until his head ached. Finally, he gave up. No question of sleep. He merely continued to sit, immobile, glazed. At 5 A.M., he stirred, aware, through the window, that the darkness outside was yielding to a very pale light, the first hint of dawn. He pulled on a sweater and his canvas shoes. Then he took the elevator down, passed through the back door of the hotel to the terrace, and descended the curving ramp to the empty beach. He walked a short distance and sat down facing the sea. Nearby he saw the ruins of an elaborate sandcastle that must have been built the day before. He noticed a few pieces of charred wood and a small pile of tiny scalloped shells that someone had collected and then abandoned. The light was slowly expanding over the sky. The sea was quiet, small waves breaking gently at the shore, leaving patches of white foam as they retreated. Ravitch sat very still, staring raptly at sky and water, the rush and ebb of waves pulsing softly in his ears. He must have sat this way for some time. The sky was luminous now, the ripples in the sea glistening. Ravitch saw a young woman strolling with a little girl, the first visitors of the day. After they had passed him, they paused. The girl took a pink plastic pail she was carrying and ran to the edge of the water. She filled the pail, ran back to the woman, and poured the water on her feet. “Yam! ”—“Sea!”—she shouted triumphantly. The woman smiled. Then they went on their way. Ravitch continued to watch them as they receded in the distance. Then he stared down at the sand. He observed a few tiny flealike insects hopping around. How do they live? he mused. What do they eat? It was warming up a little. He stood, took off his sweater and slung it over his shoulder, brushed the sand from his trousers. Then slowly, deliberately, he walked toward the water. The waves were cresting higher now, churning and crashing as they rolled in. Isaac Benveniste had never reached this, his destined shore. He, Ravitch, had arrived here. Soon he would leave. A waste. Ravitch looked one last time to the left, around the coast, toward Jaffa. Then he turned back to the sea, scanning it to the horizon. What will become of me? he asked quietly. What must I do? The sea heard him but did not reply. It continued to shimmer, to heave and swell, to roll its waves, ancient, majestic, inscrutable, indifferent.
What Have You Done? When Paul’s flight landed in Cleveland, they were waiting for him. They’d probably arrived early, set up camp right where passengers float off the escalator scanning for family. They must have huddled there watching the arrivals board, hoping in the backs of their minds, and the mushy front parts of their minds, too, yearning with their entire minds, that Paul would do what he usually did—or didn’t—and just not come home. But this time he’d come, and he’d hoped to arrive alone, to be totally alone until the very last second. The plan was to wash up, to be one of those fat guys at the wall of sinks in the airport bathroom, soaping their underarms, changing shirts. Then he’d get a Starbucks, grab his bag, take a taxi out to the house. That way he could delay the face time with these people. Delay the body time, the time itself, the time, while he built up his nerve, or whatever strategy it was that you employed when bracing yourself for Cleveland. For the people of Cleveland. His people. They had texted him, though, and now here they were in a lump, pressed so tightly together you could almost have buckshot the three of them down with a single pull. Not that he was a hunter. Dad, Alicia, and Rick. The whole sad gang, minus one. Paul considered walking up to them and holding out his wrists, as if they were going to cuff him and lead him away. You have been sentenced to a week with your family! But they wouldn’t get it, and then, forever more, he’d be the one who had started it, after so many years away, the one who had triggered all the difficulty yet again with his bullshit and games, and why did he need to queer the thing before the thing had even begun, unless, gasp, he wanted to set fire to his whole life. So he strode up as cheerfully as he could, but he must have overdone it, because his father looked stricken, as if Paul might be moving in for a hug. He could have gone ahead and hugged the man, to see if there was anything left between them, except that he was going to behave himself, or so he’d pledged, and his father seemed thin and old and scared. Scared of Paul, or scared of the airport and the crowds, where disturbingly beautiful people and flat-out genetically certified monsters swarmed together as if they belonged to the same species. Maybe that was just what happened to a man’s face after seventy: it grew helplessly honest, and today’s honest feeling was shit-stoked fear, because someone’s son had come home and his track record was, well, not the greatest. Paul understood, he understood, he understood, and he nodded and tried to smile, because they couldn’t really nail him for that, and they followed him to the baggage claim. In the car they didn’t ask him about his trip and he didn’t volunteer. His sister and Rick whispered and cuddled and seemed to try to inseminate each other facially in the back seat while his father steered the car onto the expressway. Alicia and Rick had their whole married lives to exchange fluids and language, but for some reason they’d needed to wait until Paul was there to demonstrate how clandestine and porno they were. They had big secrets—as securely employed adults very well might. Plus they wanted Paul to know that they were vibrantly glistening sexual human beings, even in their late thirties, when most people’s genitals turn dark and small, like shrunken heads, and airport trip be damned, because they couldn’t just turn off their desire at will. Alone they probably hated each other, Paul thought. Masturbating in separate rooms, then reading in bed together on his-and-her Kindles. Ignoring the middle-aged fumes steaming under the duvet. Just another marriage burning through its eleventh year. What’s the anniversary stone for eleven years of marriage? A pebble? Paul sat and watched the outskirts of Cleveland bloom in his window, as if endlessly delayed construction projects held professional interest for him, a village of concrete foundations filled with sand, rebar poking through like the breathing tubes of men buried alive. His father took the exit onto Monroe and the woozy hairpin up Cutler Road, which Paul had always loved, because of the way the light suddenly dumped down on you as you pulled above the tree line. The city stretched below them, the whole skyline changed since he’d last visited, ten years ago. The old stone banks—Sovereign, Shelby, Citizens—squatted in the shadow of new, bladelike towers that weren’t half bad. They were tall and thin and black, hooked at their tops, and were either sheathed entirely in charcoal-tinted glass or simply windowless. Someone had actually hired real architects. Someone had decided not to rape the Cleveland skyline, and there must have been hell to pay. It was still a good fifteen minutes to the house. The time for basic small talk had passed, so maybe it was O.K. to try big talk. Someone had to break the silence before they all died of it, and Paul figured he might as well address the elephant in the room. Or the elephant in the car, or whatever. “Mom couldn’t come?” he asked. “Oh, Paul, she wanted to,” his father said, eyes dead on the road. “She wanted to and you prevented her?” Paul said, laughing. “You held her down?” “No, that’s not it.” His father frowned. “Mom’s resting, Paul,” his sister said from the back seat. “She’s excited to see you,” Rick added, in a voice too loud for the car. Big Rick the Righteous. The peacemaker. Telling folks what they want to hear. Making folks feel better since 1971. “Thank you, Rick,” Paul said, without turning around. “Now I know who to ask when I need to find out what my mother really feels.” Rick was right. Paul’s mother was waiting in her robe when he came in the door, and she rushed up, hugged him, kissed him, smothering him with love while Paul stood there holding his bags. “Oh, Paul!” “Hi, Mom.” “Paul!” she cried again, grabbing his face, tilting back to see the whole huge mess of him. She looked so small inside her robe. “You shaved! You shaved it off!” “I did,” Paul said, stroking his chin, smirking. He suddenly felt proud. This was his mother’s great gift—to make him feel good about absurdly common things, like grooming. “Oh, my goodness, you are so handsome.” His mother was crying a little. She couldn’t hug him enough. “Pauly!” This was nice. This was really nice. “Morton, do you see how handsome your son is? Do you see?” She studied Paul again, and he found that he could meet his mother’s eyes and it did not feel terrible. He smiled at her and meant it. He wanted to pick her up and run out in the street. His mother would never, thank God, see him or his abused, overfed body for what it was. Even Andrea, at home, had to admit that Paul was not exactly handsome, per se, though when she was being affectionate she told him that he looked serious. He had a fair-minded face, she would say. “Morton?” Paul’s mother called again. Concern flashed across her face as she realized that she’d been left alone with Paul. The panic of someone trapped in a cage with an animal. Zookeeper, let me out of here! Paul felt bad for her, his poor mom, stranded with him, when who knows what he might do? Paul’s father must have gone to the kitchen. Rick and Alicia had run upstairs to fuck, or whisper some more. Or whisper and fuck and hide while poor Mom dealt with Paul, as always. They’d done their time with Paul in the car, and now it was Mom’s shift. This was how it would be for the whole visit, the three of them playing hot potato with fat Paul. She fussed at Paul’s coat zipper, then adjusted her robe, but there was nothing to fix and no one to groom and they’d already hugged. She was panicked. She wheeled and hurried into the kitchen, calling, “Come, come, you must be starving,” then fled from sight. Paul waited with his bags. “Where do you want me?” he yelled. He needed a bathroom and to change his clothes. “Where am I, Mom? What room?” His mother didn’t answer; his father was gone—resting, probably. Everyone in his family was constantly needing to rest, but never from physical exertion. Always from the other kind of exertion. Resting from him, Paul the difficult, who latched on to your energy center with his little red mouth and sucked it dry. You’d think that, given how long he’d steered clear of Cleveland, they’d be rested by now. Alicia appeared at the top of the staircase, wearing just a long T-shirt. She was dishevelled and flushed. That hadn’t taken long. “You’re up here, Paul,” she said, and he followed her, climbing the soft, carpeted stairs to his old bedroom. His parents had only dial-up in the house, which figured, because old people hated the Internet. But they probably hated the Internet because they had only dial-up, and had to crawl through the USA Today Web site, which never fully loaded, with videos that never played, and click on e-mail attachments that took hours to download, so why even bother? The upshot was that Paul couldn’t really get onto any of his sites. He had a few JPEGs buried deep on his hard drive in a folder called “old budgets.” He brought the pictures up on the screen of his laptop. To be safe, he locked the door of his room, and then he settled in to try, sitting on the chair that his dad had painted red for him decades ago. He’d been back in his childhood house, what, all of ten minutes before his pants were at his ankles and his little organ was out, lonely from the long flight, looking for friction. But the pictures onscreen reminded Paul, for no good reason, of people he knew. Civilians, instead of anonymous, Photoshopped nubiles. Civilians who had suddenly become naked, who were visibly uncomfortable in their poses, who seemed to want desperately to get dressed and head home to make pasta for someone. Paul’s sad man was cold and small in his hand, and nothing was working. He had tricks for situations like this, a way to will himself into something passing for readiness, at least enough to travel to the other side, because stopping halfway through was tough to live down. He could have used a splint, just Popsicle-sticked the little fucker until it stood, but that was when Alicia knocked and he jumped up and pulled on his pants, figuring there was about a thirty-two-per-cent chance she’d know what he’d been doing. “So,” she said, when he opened up, crossing her arms in the doorway. He guessed that this was the only cue he was going to get that they should have their little talk—brother and sister, adults now, believe it or not. Alicia used to be forbidden to enter his room. In high school Paul had made a chart of those who couldn’t come in: Mom, Dad, and Alicia, their names in large block letters, plus, in smaller letters, Nana and that whole crowd. Fucking Nana and her skeletal friends, geriatric narcs who kept wandering upstairs to spy. Posted on his door as if he hadn’t also delivered the information verbally, numerous times, when admonitions were his preferred mode of rhetoric. What a man he’d once been, ordering everyone around. And they had all obeyed! Never in his life would he command so much power again. All signs of Paul were gone from the room now. Blush-colored paint reddened the walls, the punched-in holes spackled up and painted over. New floors—linoleum intended to look like wood—new furniture, sanitized air pumped in to cleanse the place of the errant son. It looked like a showroom for a home office dedicated to lace crafts and scrapbooking. It was hard not to realize what kind of kid his parents wished they’d had, and when he thought about that kind of kid it was tempting for Paul to want to track, hunt, and eat the little thing. “How are you?” Alicia asked, and it seemed like she was really trying, for which bless her, because they had days to kill and might as well be friends. They closed the door, sat on the bed. God, she looked old. Her face was slack and tired, and her eyes were muddy, as if she’d rubbed them all day and then poured red wine in them. But who was Paul to talk? He upsized his clothing almost every year and had moved on to the big-and-tall shop, which still carried some good brands. If his face remained smooth and babyish at forty, without the friendship-defeating beard he used to wear, with his shirt off he was shocking to behold, and he knew it. “Shocking” was maybe too strong a word. Actually, no, “shocking” was accurate. He had small, thin shoulders and from there his body spread hard and wide, into a belly that spilled around to his lower back. A second belly in the rear, which might be why he ate so much. Two mouths to feed. Paul said that he was fine, and Alicia looked at him intently, asked if that was really true. Paul insisted that it was, it really was, but how was she, and how were things with Rick, and did they like Atlanta? “We live in Charlotte,” Alicia said, stiffening. “We moved three years ago.” Of course he knew that, had been told that, but it wasn’t like Alicia’s e-mail address had changed or anything, and you didn’t send things to people by mail anymore. Paul assessed his sister and couldn’t really tell, because she wasn’t exactly a slender woman. Maybe she was technically showing. Some women hide it well. So he asked. He knew they wanted one, and what harm was there in asking? “No,” she said, a bit too cheerfully, which was weird, given the thoroughly public way she and Rick had always demonstrated their urge for children of their own. “It’s getting late, though, right?” This he knew. This was information he was quite familiar with. The sun starts to set at forty. “We’re O.K. with it,” Alicia said. “We really are.” Which was what you said when you weren’t O.K., so he would drop it. But to himself he couldn’t quite drop it. Who was broken, his sister or Rick? Who was flawed or rotten on the inside? Or was it both of them, which was maybe what had attracted them to each other in the first place? Maybe there was a dating service for the barren. Sexually on fire, but fucking barren. Of course he knew how they’d met. He’d been there. In this very house. And Rick had been his friend. In high school they’d once almost gone camping together. If Alicia’s childlessness troubled her, he knew she wasn’t going to show him. He was last on her list for candid disclosures, displays of vulnerability. Human feeling. Not for Paul. He was going to get a censored Alicia, and that was probably all he deserved. “Can I ask,” she said, “if you have someone?” She seemed genuinely hopeful, so earnest that Paul overlooked the strangeness of the phrase “have someone.” He admitted that there was someone, there was, and her name was Andrea, and we’ll see, won’t we? Isn’t that all you can ever say, even thirty years into a marriage, not that he would know? We’ll see how it goes? “O.K., you can be in charge of the remote if I can be in charge of the thermostat.”Buy the print » “Oh, Paul!” Alicia cried. “Oh, that’s wonderful!” It was pretty wonderful, he admitted, really wonderful. It was hard not to smile and sit there feeling crazily lucky. Maybe this would be easier than he had thought. But when Alicia pressed him for details, including the precise occasion on which he had met this mysterious woman, the fucking G.P.S. coördinates for this highly improbable event, not to mention a photo, a photo of the two of them together, it was clear that she didn’t believe him, not even remotely. Paul veered the conversation to their parents. The common, if chewed-up, ground they shared. How were they, and etcetera. “You know, Dad is Dad,” Alicia said, shrugging. “He had me washing dishes the second we got to the house yesterday. I’m his little slave.” “You could say no, you know.” Alicia looked at him coldly. “No, Paul, you can say no.” “Yeah, I guess. But they don’t even ask me. I don’t get to say no.” “Ha-ha.” “And Mom?” “She’s doing so great. She’s really amazing. She’s such a fighter.” Paul squinted. What did this mean? Whom had she fought? Paul had never even seen his mom get mad. He tried to put the question in his face, because he felt odd asking—after all, how could he not know if something had happened to his mother?—but Alicia moved on to the party, the stupid family reunion, which crouched like a nasty-faced animal on Paul’s horizon. The reunion was tomorrow night. Cousins and uncles and grandparents and all the people they had bribed to love them. The whole family tree shaking its ass on the dance floor. A Berger family freak-out. Getting together to bury their faces in buffet pans and lie about their achievements. “What are you going to wear?” she asked. Paul said that he might not go. “What do you mean you might not go? Isn’t that why you’re here? You can’t not go—everyone’s going to be there. What are you going to do, stay home and beat off?” So she knew. “I don’t know. We’ll see.” “We’ll see? Jesus, Paul, you are such an asshole.” There was a time when she’d have been afraid to say even this, the obvious truth. Paul might have responded with heirloom breakage, a dervish whirl through his sister’s valuables. The truth was he was too tired to break anything. You needed to be in shape. So chalk that up to some improvement between them. By the time they were eighty, there was no telling how evolved they’d be. “I know,” he admitted. “I’ll probably go. I’ll try to go.” “God damn. Don’t do us any favors.” At dinner that night, the questions came, and Paul tried to suck it up. “How’s business, Paul?” Rick boomed. Everyone else at the table shrank, as if someone were throwing up and they didn’t want to get splashed. Probably Rick hadn’t been at the family meeting where they’d decided to go easy on Paul, lay off the hard stuff. Like, uh, questions. “Let’s not set him off,” his father had probably advised. “Let’s nobody get him going. It’s just not worth it.” His mom and Alicia must have nodded in agreement, and now Rick had thrown them all off the plan, going for the jugular, the crotch, the fat lower back. A full-body tackle. “I don’t know, Rick,” Paul answered. “Business is fine. You mean world business? The stock market? Big question. I could talk all night, or we could gather around my calculator and do this thing numerically. Huddle up and just go binary.” He wished for a moment that he belonged to the population of men who asked and answered questions like this, who securely knew that these questions were just a gateway for nonsexual statistical intercourse between underachieving men. Rick was confused, so Alicia jumped in. “You know what he means, Paul. What do you do for work? What’s your job?” “I cash Dad’s checks and spend the money on child sex laborers down at the shipyard.” His mother put her hand to her mouth and stared away. Perhaps there was something about sitting at this table that had made him take the low road so hard and fast. The table, his room, that red chair, the house, the whole city of Cleveland. The blame could be shared. “Paul,” Alicia warned. “Yeah, I know. Fine. I haven’t taken Dad’s money in years, Alicia, if you must know.” He stopped to eat and everyone else was quiet, looking at him. He’d promised himself that he’d try harder, and already he wasn’t trying harder at all. He took a breath and looked at Rick, and Rick just blinked, waiting. “I work at a cabinet shop, Rick. We make custom kitchen cabinets. I operate the tenoning jig.” That wasn’t so bad. Rick, all by himself, burst out laughing, because cabinetmaking was one of the funniest things in the world, maybe, or because he was one retort behind and he wanted to be sure he got the joke this time. He looked around for company, but no one else was laughing. “You do what?” he said. Suddenly, Paul’s father leaned in, intensely curious. Mr. Tuned Out had just got his little button pushed. He stared at Paul, and Paul couldn’t tell if he was excited or angry. “You’re a carpenter?” he asked, in absolute wonder. “Woodworker, actually, Dad, is what it’s called. Fine joinery and that sort of thing. Huge difference. Carpenters, well, you know. I don’t have to tell you.” Paul stopped himself. What a thing to say to a man who used to build houses, a carpenter before he became a big contractor. But fuck it. His dad had been retired forever. Didn’t even work in his own shop anymore, probably. And there was a big difference between a woodworker and a carpenter. That wasn’t his fault. “Shit, though, Paul,” Rick said. “Pretty good money in that, I bet, with so many people redoing their kitchens. Is it union?” Paul admitted that it was, and Rick inhaled with a show—slightly false, Paul felt—of admiration. “Nice. Nice. Right? You could support a family with that, am I right? If you wanted to?” Rick winked for everyone to see, and what a person to wink, with his failed seed. Why would he be turning the screws on Paul when he had nothing to show for himself? “I do, actually, Rick,” Paul whispered, looking down at his food. He couldn’t believe he was telling them. “I do support a family.” He smiled and wanted to say more, to fill in the blanks, but they looked at him as if he were the strangest creature they’d ever seen. And maybe he was, but did that mean he couldn’t have a family? It was his mother, though, who did it. Such concern in her face, such pity, as if to say, Poor, poor Paul, who still needs to lie to us, and what did we ever do to create this man? He’d hardly begun to tell them, and yet she seemed so sorrowful looking at him like that. So he asked about dessert, and she brightened, jumped up, crowing from the kitchen about the best blackberry pie in the world. You had to try it. And who wanted ice cream, and, Alicia, could you help clear? Paul’s cell phone rang while they were watching television. He took the call outside, as if the reception were better in the yard. They were probably relieved that he’d left the house. “Hey,” Andrea said. “Oh, my God, hey.” It was so good to hear her voice. “So how is it?” she asked. “It’s O.K. It’s O.K.” He took some deep breaths. He just needed to talk to her and get grounded. “You’re lying.” She laughed. “No, no,” Paul insisted. “It’s fine, everyone’s fine. I mean, it’s weird to be here. The city is different.” “Yeah? Different how?” She was so good. She really wanted to know. She wanted him to tell her everything, and he wanted to, and if he had more time he would, but who cared what was different about Cleveland? It didn’t matter. He just missed her and he told her that and she sounded happy. “How’s Jack?” he asked. “I just put him down. He’s such a sweetie. He actually asked to go to bed. He stood and waited by his crib for me to lift him in.” “Oh, my God,” Paul said. “The little dude.” “I know.” “Give him a huge hug for me.” “Yeah, I will,” Andrea said. “At five-thirty in the morning when he wakes up I’ll hug him and tell him that Daddy misses him. Then I’ll make coffee and wait for the sun to come up and wonder how the hell I’m going to get through the day.” “I’m so sorry. I’ll make it up to you. I’ll do the morning shift all next week.” “Oh, it doesn’t matter, Paul.” They talked, but not about Cleveland, or the Berger psychosis, as he referred to it when he was home with her. They talked about little stuff that didn’t matter, but soon Andrea’s voice drifted off in a way that meant something was wrong, and of course he knew what it was, because it had been wrong for a while now, and it was his fault. “And,” he said, which is what he called her. When they were good, he called her “And How,” which wasn’t very funny, but as far as he could tell she liked it. Or at least she didn’t seem to hate it. “And, honey, I wish you were here with me.” She breathed into the phone, and Paul stood on his childhood lawn in Moreland Hills waiting for his wife to speak. Even when she wasn’t speaking, even over the phone, he loved her desperately. In cold tones she finally said, “I wish I were there, too, Paul. Me and Jack, to meet your family. Did you tell them?” “I did,” Paul said. “I mean I told my sister about you and then just now at dinner I did. I tried to.” “You tried to.” “I just got here. I really only just landed. It’s been intense. I’ll tell them more. I want to. How could I not tell them about something so great?” “Because maybe you don’t think it’s great? Because you’re ashamed of us. Because you didn’t tell them when you met me, and you didn’t tell them when Jack was born, and now you still haven’t told them.” “And.” “I’m sorry.” She sighed. “I don’t mean it. You know I don’t.” They made up, saying all the reparative things, but it went only so far. Andrea assured him that everything was forgiven, except when he hung up and went inside it didn’t feel as if everything, or even anything, had been forgiven. Inside, from the hallway, he watched his family watching TV, until his mother looked up and saw him. “Pauly, come,” she called. “Come sit.” She held her arms open wide. The Berger family reunion was being thrown in the conference room of the Holiday Inn downtown. Paul put on a nice shirt but left it untucked because his belly showed too much. There was a lot of grooming in the house, hectic and nervous, as if they were all going on dates. When he couldn’t stand it anymore, Paul went to wait in the car. They parked downtown. The long black towers were lit up, so they did have windows after all. What amazed Paul was that the windows were round, like portholes on a ship. From a high floor in one of the towers, looking out your window, he imagined, would be like looking out from a cruise liner and seeing only air. Air and tiny buildings, tiny people below. When they walked into the reunion, Billy Idol was on the stereo. The song “White Wedding.” “Seriously?” Paul said to Alicia, looking around at the few other Bergers who had also arrived on time. The very old Bergers, wearing woollen suits and standing in a circle, whom he wouldn’t be talking to tonight. They held fishbowl-size cocktails and soon it would be their bedtime. “Seriously what, Paul?” “Can we do something about the playlist?” He tapped his foot, scanned the room. Would his cousin Carla be here? Not just a kissing cousin but a third-base cousin. Third base on more than a few occasions. “Do whatever you want. There’s the d.j. Just remember that people have been planning this party for months while you’ve been, what was it, down at the docks having sex with children. Right?” It was stupid to fight about it, and as the song thumped and shook the room with its black acoustics, hysterical and threatening, Paul had to admit that he’d really always liked it. More than liked it. Kind of totally loved the song, even though he had never admitted this to anyone. It was possibly a great song. It’s a nice day for a . . . white wedding-uh. The Berger cousins came, and with them came their spit-polished children, ready to destroy the world and have someone clean up after them. Soon there were tribes of kids running in packs, sweating and flushed in their fancy clothes, following some ancient order of clan logic that baffled Paul. Occasionally one of them would be yanked from the pack and forced to run a gantlet of ogling older Bergers, who poked and kissed and hugged him until he broke free and returned to his friends, half raped and traumatized. The kids made the whole thing O.K., Paul thought, because you could stand alone and watch them without being seen as a pathetic wallflower, unable to navigate a party and make conversation with your own miserable flesh and blood. Paul set up shop at the drinks table, sucking down glass after glass of seltzer. He was chewing on ice when he heard his name. “No fucking way,” some enormous man was saying. “You are fucking kidding me! Paul, you bastard.” Through the fat and flesh and alcohol-swollen skin Paul saw Carl, his father’s brother’s son. Carla’s brother, actually, which begged questions about naming strategy. Or, really, about basic mental competence. “Dude!” Carl yelled. “I thought you’d written everyone off. What’s up?” And he threw open his arms for a hug. Paul leaned in to Carl’s heat and musk. He would hold his breath and do it, because maybe Carl had hugged Carla today and Paul could get a contact high. A scrum of kids crashed into them, then tore off laughing. An intentional attack on the overweight forty-year-olds at the drinks table? Paul and Carl watched them go, hug deferred. “You got some of those?” Paul asked. “Oh, yeah,” Carl said. “Afraid so.” They caught up, if that’s what you called crunching twenty years into a reunion sound bite, and Paul found it easy to tell Carl about Andrea and little Jack. It wasn’t hard at all. Carl blinked and maybe he was listening to Paul or maybe he didn’t care. Soon Carl was scanning the room, looking behind Paul as he spoke, raising his chin now and then at someone going by. Little smirks of hello from Cousin Carl, working the room while standing still. “It was hard going for a while there,” Paul said, and Carl smiled and fist-pumped to someone across the room, doing a little bit of air guitar, then grabbed Paul by his shoulders. “You call it grad school; I call it raising the debt ceiling.”Buy the print » “Dude, it was amazing to see you. I’ve got to go and feed Louis or I’m going to catch serious hell.” And then Carl was gone and Paul went to the back of the drinks line, which was now very long, to get himself another glass of seltzer. Paul danced. He danced with his mother, who was beautiful in an emerald-green dress. When his mother tired, which was halfway through the first song, he walked her to their table and grabbed Alicia, who looked O.K., too, and they danced to Marvin Gaye and Def Leppard and Poison and then, with Rick joining them, to Blondie’s “Heart of Glass.” It wasn’t bad to dance. Dancing was better than not dancing. He was tired and sweaty and he felt good. Finally he collapsed at the family table, where his parents were already eating, along with some relatives he must have met before. They stared at Paul as if he were bleeding from the face. “What do you say, Dad?” Paul shouted. “Are you going to dance?” His father just studied him. They all did. “Paul here is doing quite well,” his father said to everyone at the table. “He’s become a professional woodworker, doing joinery at a high-end cabinet shop.” “It’s not really a big deal,” Paul mumbled. “It is, though,” his father said. “It takes years of training and a whole hell of a lot of skill to be a real woodworker.” “It’s kind of automated now,” Paul said quietly. “They have jigs.” “It’s great that they hired you,” some old man said, getting in his dig. Meaning he’d have never hired Paul. “Used to be you had to cut twenty sets of dovetails to even get asked on a crew,” his father said. “Wow,” Paul said. “Twenty sets. By hand. Using a Jap saw.” “I could never do that,” Paul admitted. “No?” his father asked. Was he leering at Paul? His own father? “You’re a mortise-and-tenon man. My word. Those are even harder, though, right? Makes dovetails look easy. Or do I have my information wrong?” “I do those, but, like I said, there’s a jig.” “So not by hand?” “God, no, Dad. No way.” “I’d like to see one of these jugs sometime. You’ll have to show me. Show me how the whole thing works now that everything’s changed.” Paul looked at his father, and at his mother, who was chewing her dinner with the care of a professional taster, and he looked at the other relatives around the table, who carried with them a narrative of Paul that he could never, no matter what, revise. A narrative that favored the outcome, a father with unexplained bruises, rather than the really elaborate subtext and context and supporting architecture that fucking deeply informs single events—accidents—that somehow get out of control. These people would have to die for Paul to be free. Which was bullshit, he knew. It was Paul who would have to die. “I’d love to do that, Dad,” Paul said. His father regarded him across the dinner table with a face that no longer showed any fear. Who are you? Who are you, really? his father’s face seemed to ask. Paul excused himself to get another drink. He asked if he could get anything for anyone while he was up, drinks or food, but they were all fine, they said, and waved him off. From across the room, he saw his cousin Carla. She was circling a table of kids like a waitress, and she was still utterly lovely. What a girl she had been, and now she looked just the same. Exactly the same. He watched her, amazed, wondering which kids were hers, or if, fuck, all of them were, but he couldn’t stand not saying hello right away, so he ran up to her. Carla beamed. Paul beamed. They said holy shit and hugged tight. She was small in his arms, so little and warm against his body, whereas Andrea was big, and taller than him, and incredible, of course, in her own way. This wasn’t knocking Andrea. He loved her. But Carla was tiny! Oh, my God. It felt good to hold her. Paul wanted to get her alone, but that was ridiculous. They held hands down at their waists. Carla talked fast, smiling, radiant. She said that things were great and she lived in the Twin Cities. Just one of them! She assistant-nursed part time at the children’s hospital and she had three kids and she’d finally gotten her master’s in something that Paul didn’t make out. It was hard to hear. It was loud and horrible and dark in there, and it was so hot that everyone stank. Plus he wanted her all to himself. “Let’s go have a cigarette,” Paul suggested. “We can sit on the steps out front.” He didn’t smoke, didn’t even have cigarettes, but Carla followed. Together they sat in front of the Holiday Inn, watching the valet wait for cars to pull up. Carla laughed out of nowhere. “What?” Paul said quietly. A voice inside him, very far away, was telling him, unpersuasively, not to seem so engrossed. It was unbecoming to fawn. Carla covered her mouth, shook her head. A gesture of amused disbelief. “I’ll just never forget something you said to me, Paul. I still remember it.” “What did I say?” He was proud in advance of this terribly clever thing he’d said as a kid. So clever that Carla had never forgotten it! “You said, ‘What is a cousin for if you can’t put your finger in her vagina?’ ” Paul closed his eyes. “I did not. Please tell me I didn’t say that.” “Oh, you did.” Carla laughed. “Several times.” He shook his head. “I am so sorry. What an asshole.” “You were bad!” she yelled, and she slapped his leg, laughing. He nodded. “I was bad. I think I still am.” “Oh?” Carla took this as flirtation rather than self-pity. Whatever Paul had once been—the rogue, troubled high-schooler, doing stupid shit and justifying it with arcane philosophical arguments—he wasn’t those things anymore. No way. “You still coming to blows with Daddy Morton?” “No.” Paul chuckled and shrugged it off. A real conversation was out of the question, and that was probably for the best. “So,” she said. “Wife, kids? Wait, no, let me guess. You’re gay. You’re gay! Is that what you mean by being bad? Oh, my God, you’re not gay, are you? Jesus, Paul.” The old Paul, the Cleveland Paul, would have said, Should I finger you to disprove it? But tonight’s Paul, new or old, disgusted with himself or just tired, tried to smile. He didn’t have to uphold any principles in front of a shitty hotel with a woman he’d never see again. Though hand sex with a cousin occupied an unassailable place in the erotic universe—he’d stand and testify to that if he had to, and he felt sorry for anyone who hadn’t tried it. Paul looked up at the black tower with the shining portholes, the bright, glowing orbs rising into the sky like spotlights. He said how cool the tower was, how unusual. It was unlike any other building he’d seen. Carla made a face and said, “Blech.” “What?” “That’s our hotel,” she said. “It’s a hotel?” “Yeah. We didn’t want to stay there, but there were no rooms anywhere else. I guess they can’t get any guests, so it’s empty. I kind of hate it, to be honest. It’s weird. But it’s cheap, and that’s good, because this trip cost us a fucking fortune. Holy smoke.” “Oh,” Paul said. They both looked at it again. If Andrea were here, she’d get it. Or maybe she wouldn’t. How could he know? “Well, I guess I should be heading inside,” Carla said, and that was that, a big flameout. “Yeah, back to the Bergers,” Paul said. The Bergers. His mother and father. Alicia. Rick, who wasn’t a Berger in name but loved the Bergers more than the Bergers did. Paul’s son, Jack, was a Berger, too, of course, one of the youngest, and so was Andrea, even though she hadn’t changed her name. He could have been strolling through the reunion right now holding Jack and showing off Andrea to everyone. But the idea had been to test the waters. Even Andrea had agreed that Paul should visit Cleveland alone first. And when she’d said this he had been so relieved that he’d had to hide it from her. It wasn’t that he didn’t want his family to meet Andrea; it was that he didn’t want her to see him here. Him with his family. That was the concern. The Paul of Cleveland, with his mean tone and low aims. She’d hate him forever. Just then an ambulance pulled up and some paramedics tumbled out. They sprang the stretcher and pushed it right up to where Carla and Paul were sitting, stopping to hoist it over their heads and carry it up the steps, into the Holiday Inn. Paul and Carla watched it go. “You think that’s for a Berger?” Paul cracked. “It’d better not be,” Carla said. “If Beaner choked I’m going to rip my husband’s heart out.” She disappeared inside and Paul remained on the steps, thinking maybe he’d call home. Or maybe he’d cross the street to the black hotel and ride the elevator to the top so he could look through one of those portholes. Except what was so special about that building, anyway? He’d forgotten. That night, before getting into bed, he set his alarm, packed his bags, scheduled a car service. It had been easy enough to change his flight, but all they’d had was one leaving at 4 A.M. It didn’t really matter. He figured he’d sleep for two hours, then wait outside for the car, so that no one else would have to wake up. Plus, this way he’d skip all the weird goodbyes. With luck he’d be home by late morning. He could dismiss the sitter, take Jack to the park. He couldn’t decide what would be better, leaving Andrea a voice mail or surprising her when she came home from work. Rick walked into the bathroom while Paul was brushing his teeth, then backed out, apologizing. Through a foam of toothpaste Paul told him it was O.K., waved him in. This would be their peaceful encounter, Rick sitting on the toilet lid waiting for Paul to spit and rinse. “That was fun tonight,” Paul said. “It was so great.” Rick shook his head. “And the toasts, oh my gosh. Amazing.” The toasts. Paul must have been outside. “What your mom said. I mean, I choked up. That was just . . .” Paul could only agree. What his mom said. Never in his life had he seen his mother make a toast. “I love family,” Rick said. “All of that family, together.” “Oh, hey, did someone get hurt tonight?” Paul asked. Rick looked confused, as if this were one of Paul’s trick questions. “I saw a stretcher go into the hotel,” Paul explained. “I thought maybe something happened.” “Hmm, no,” Rick said. “I mean, not that I know of. But I was dancing it out pretty hard.” “O.K., that’s good,” Paul said. “Tell my sister good night.” “Will do, buddy. Good night yourself.” The two hours of sleep didn’t happen. Paul lay awake and looked at the clock until eventually it was time to wait outside for the car. He crept downstairs with his bags, dropped them at the door. He’d get a drink of water in the kitchen, maybe grab some fruit for the trip. At the kitchen table, shuffling an amber colony of pill bottles, sat his mother. She didn’t hear him come in, and he startled her. She clutched her robe, looked past him into the dark hallway. Why was it that he still frightened her? “Pauly, what are you doing?” He mumbled, wishing he hadn’t come in. His car would be here in a few minutes, and now he’d have to say goodbye. His mother noticed his coat, figured it out, and he couldn’t tell if she was disappointed or relieved. Why not both? “I have to get back,” he said. “I’m sorry.” “Paul, for what? Stay with us. Why do you have to go?” This was it. His sweet mother was sitting here asking. He would tell her. “I’m a father, Mom. I’m married. We have a little boy. Jack. We call him Jackie. He’s two, Mom. He’s already two!” His mother cried. “Pauly, it’s O.K., honey. I don’t know how else to tell you, but it’s O.K. and we love you and we will always love you, and I just wish you believed us. You are our little Paul, always.” She reached out to him across the table and he took her hands. “But, Mom, it’s true.” Had he really lied that much? Was his credibility gone forever? “Sweetheart, I know it is. Of course it’s true. I would love to meet him, I mean, to see him. What was his name, your boy?” Oh, God, did he yell. He yelled the most awful things. He hit the table, stood up too fast. Something fell over, and now his mother truly wept, and she threw her arms up as if he were about to strike her. But why would he hit his own mother? For years he would attempt to dismantle this moment. It was among the most useless activities a mind could pursue, the revision of shit that had really fucking happened, yet somehow it became the activity his mind fell into the most. He heard his name, barked by his father. His dad was here now. Why not Alicia? Why not Rick? Get everyone together. “Paul, you will not do this. Not to your mother.” His father trembled, ready for battle. “I’m not, Dad. I’m not doing anything.” Paul backed away, giving his poor father courage. “You go now, Paul. Just go.” “O.K., I will. I’m sorry. I was telling Mom something. About my son.” “We believe you, Paul. We really do believe you. The woodworking, the family. We do.” Together they nodded up at him. Just tell him what he wants to hear and maybe he’ll leave! Were they even his family? Was this even his home? Or maybe they did believe him, and this was simply what it felt like to be believed. It felt wrong—it felt like nothing. Paul determined that if anyone asked him, in the years to come, he’d say that if you’ve ever scared someone, even accidentally or as a joke, that person will flinch when he sees you. Even if you did it because you yourself were scared, because you were small-minded, or small-hearted, or because you had small aims and should never have been let out of your cage when your little life began. You might not notice it, but the people you have scared will flinch, on the inside. You will have to cross the street and give those people a wide berth. It is the most considerate thing to do. Just let them pass. He left the house and rode the car service through the dark streets of Cleveland to the airport. He’d fly home, take the shuttle to his apartment. When he’d settled in, maybe he’d write his parents a letter. Put together a photo album, Xerox the marriage and the birth certificates. Would that suffice? He’d tie up a bundle and mail it to them. In their own time, they could examine the evidence of their son’s new life. They could do it without him standing there. Paul would send all the proof he had and then he would wait. He’d be many miles away, where he could do no harm. At their leisure, they could examine the parts of their son that would not hurt them.
Matinée Weary of the tedium of her days, her lonely life going nowhere, she skips work and steps inside a half-empty old movie house showing a scratched and grainy romantic film from her youth; she takes her favorite seat in the middle of the seventh row, hoping to experience once again the consoling power of sudden uncomplicated love, even if not one’s own, love that has no trajectory attached to it but is a pure and immediate enrichment of the soul and delight of the body. In the film, two strangers separately board a train back in a time when trains had compartments with sliding doors and windows that could be pulled down for lingering, handkerchief-waving farewells. The woman waves goodbye to her husband, if that’s who he is, the man to a woman who may be his fiancée, or perhaps his sister. There are shouts from the stationmaster, whistles, the slamming of heavy doors, slow wheezy movement, wisps of steam curling past as though to erase one reality in anticipation of another. He raises the window, then they turn and nod politely to each other, settling in for the journey. “Going far?” he asks. She looks up with a smile. The smile fades. Something seems to happen between them. The train is chugging along just as trains used to do, and for a magical moment they seem to be all alone, rocking through space, their hearts beating to the rhythm of the train, though in fact the compartment is full and they are being closely watched over newspapers and knitting. They lean toward each other to speak earnestly about the weather and the vexations of travel, their hearts visibly melting, and receive from a severe old lady sitting near the compartment door a particularly withering glance, but there is a telltale tear in her eye, as if she might once long ago have been similarly struck—just as there is a tear in her own eye, as she sits there in the musty old movie house. All of these people in the film are, of course, dead, which reminds her, as if she needed reminding, of the irreversible passing of time, adding therewith to her sadness, for, sooner or later, she, like they, will also be dead, but without ever having had a man gaze into her eyes that way, a moment so human, so iconic, so unspeakably beautiful—essential, really, to a well-lived life—but one never granted her or to be granted. As the dead actor and the dead actress fall into an immortal clinch, the film breaks and rattles in the projector and the lights come up while repairs are made. She knows how it all turns out, and knows that it will only deepen her melancholy, so she rises to leave, pulling her coat on, just as a man four rows in front of her rises and gathers up his own coat and hat, glancing at her fleetingly. As she steps out into the aisle and he steps out into the aisle, they will accidentally bump into each other, or maybe it won’t be an accident but something, well, something ordained. Alone at home, he watches this old film, imagining that it is he who rises from the third row as the movie-house lights come up and, as he lifts his hat and coat from the adjoining seat, catches a glimpse of the sorrowful woman four rows back, who seems to be tearfully staring at him. A sourceless music rises, throbbing, as though from out of their shared gaze. As the man in the film pulls his coat on and starts up the aisle toward where he and the woman will jostle each other, intentionally or accidentally or as if both compelled to so collide, it’s purposefully ambiguous, he also dons his coat—he knows how the movie turns out—and heads off for a drink at the neighborhood bar, called there by what he feels to be his vocation to rescue sad maidens. Of whom, no shortage, he has only to choose or wait to be chosen. Meanwhile, drink in hand, he watches the old movie that is playing silently on the TV above the bar, one he remembers well. It once had the power to excite him inordinately, and it excites him now: A man, out hiking, meets a young woman on the trail. She looks up, pauses, her smile fading, holds his gaze for a timeless moment, and then, as if deflected by the stunning power of it, veers off the trail and into the wilderness. The man continues on his path, but he, too, is somewhat stunned, and after a few steps he changes his mind and leaves the trail to follow her. The wilderness is thick, confusing, no sign of her, easy to get lost, he decides to go no farther—but then he sees her, standing knee-deep, nude, her back to him, in a softly lit pond. Film nudity was rare in those days, never more than a teasing glimpse, but in this restored version using recovered footage the camera remains fixed on the woman, approaching her from behind as the hero of the movie, spellbound (as he, too, perched at the bar, is spellbound, before an ancient mystery being spectacularly revealed), approaches her. After pausing to gaze tenderly a moment upon this vision (she knows he is watching her, he knows she knows), the man strips down and steps out in front of the camera and into the pond, their paired bodies bathed in a strange unearthly light. “Their backsides are beautiful,” a woman sitting on the next barstool says. Absorbed in the film, he hadn’t noticed her climb up beside him, and he’s not sure he’s pleased by the interruption. This is the best part. “But what always gets me,” she says, “is that first moment when they look into each other’s eyes.” He nods in agreement, unable to take his own eyes off the film until both actors have entered the water up to their shoulders and turned toward each other. “That’s when it all happens,” he says, turning at last, as the actors have turned, to gaze deeply into her gazing eyes. “The rest is just mechanics.” “Like a spark to fire,” she replies throatily. “Which, sadly, always goes out,” he adds with a wistful smile. “But before it does . . .” “You’re thinking of Zeus—he throws the lightning bolts.”Buy the print » She doesn’t object to leaving the bar; she went there hoping for something like this, this spark-to-fire lady. Nor does she regret missing the rest of the movie—she knows how it turns out: the two strangers will make love in the water, but will never see each other again, she walking away into the wilderness, he, momentarily sated, smiling as he watches her go, but later overtaken by a terrible longing that sends him all over the world in a futile search for her. A fairy tale of sorts. Not so the present encounter. They have somehow got to the sadness of such affairs without experiencing the ecstasy that is supposed to come first. To break the awkward silence that has fallen, they pull their underwear back on and turn on the TV to see what movies are showing. “Ah, I like this one,” he says. She knows it. It’s about a blind flower girl from whom, every afternoon at the same hour, a gentleman buys a fresh bouquet. For his fiancée or his wife, the flower girl assumes, and she always wishes the recipient well, though it is clear that she is falling helplessly in love with the man’s kind, mellifluous voice, and she waits every day, listening for him with transparent longing. It reminds her, curled up there on the sofa in her underpants, her shirt draped over her shoulders, of another film she likes much more, also ultimately about a blind person, in which a winsome governess falls in love with the master of the house and he, after only a moment’s hesitation (either it happens like that or it doesn’t), with her. The mistress of the house, his wife, is a cruel, vindictive woman, and the movie takes a tragic turn—it’s the master who ends up blind—but before that there are about ten magical minutes as beautiful as anything in the history of the movies. Now, on the TV, the soothing voice is saying in a soft whisper perhaps not meant to be overheard that the flower girl is very beautiful, and she turns her face toward the whisper with abject adoration burning in her blind eyes. We see him now. He is a hideously disfigured war veteran, but the flower girl, of course, doesn’t see this—she sees only the noble soul within, as a disembodied voice seems to say. In the other movie, the one she prefers, the master is not yet blind when his wife coldly dismisses the governess, mainly because of the ten good minutes that have gone before, and at the door, before the poor governess steps out and disappears into a winter storm, there is a final shared glance between her and the master that tears at the heart. The expressions on their faces, as best she remembers them, are much like those of the scarred veteran and the flower girl now, the old soldier stunned by the worshipful way the girl looks at him, even if unseeing—he could not have believed that something like this would ever happen to him again. Unfortunately, he is also guiltily aware that he has been misleading the poor child, for the flowers he buys are indeed for his wife, who is lying in the hospital in a coma brought on by the shock of his return, a coma from which she is not expected to emerge. Consequently, though it wrenches his heart, he forgoes any further contact with the flower girl, who waits and waits in gathering dismay, listening in vain for that voice she loves. In the other movie, the one she remembers, the master suffers a similar agony. His sight gone, his wife institutionalized, he spends his fortune sending emissaries around the world in search of the governess. Most of these emissaries are merely taking advantage of his anguish, accepting his money without even trying to find her. One invents a rumor that she is dead or dying, others that she is believed to have married a desert sheikh or entered a nunnery under an assumed name. In utter despair, his fortune exhausted, his false friends departed, the master leaves his house and, following the sound of the breaking waves, feels his way with his white cane to the edge of the cliff. He is about to take his final fatal step when he hears a beloved voice calling his name. He turns, staggers backward toward the edge, dropping his cane, but the governess rushes forward and pulls him to safety and they fall into a tearfully ecstatic embrace. Not so lucky the flower girl. The disfigured veteran waits until the first anniversary of his wife’s burial before returning to the flower stall, only to see the blind girl, having abandoned all hope, step out, unseeing eyes to the heavens, into the onrushing traffic. Brakes squeal, people scream, there is the sound of crunching metal. He rushes to her side. She lies crushed on the pavement, a confusion of wrecked vehicles all around her, blood leaking from her lips. “My love!” he gasps. Her eyes flutter open and seem to see him and, with a faint ethereal smile, she dies. The rescuer of sad maidens and the spark-to-fire lady are both weeping. They take their underwear off again. If only the wife had died sooner, there could have been a happy ending. That’s what a young woman in a love hotel room rented by the hour believes—“She just ruined the story hanging on like that!”—and the fellow she’s with laughs and says, “There are no happy endings, kid. Just these moments.” “But she never really had her moment.” “Sure she did. Right there in the street.” “But all that blood! It was coming out her ears!” “Yeah. Glorious.” This is her first time in such a place. When she understood what it was, she was too shy to say no. She’s so susceptible to that little flutter of the heart—one long, deep kiss will carry her right away—and he seemed like such a nice boy. If he’s really a boy. He looks older now, with his clothes off. As soon as they got to the room, he turned on an adult channel and insisted that they had to do everything that happened on the screen, no matter how gross. “Here are your real brief encounters,” he said with a crooked grin, making fun of her romantic ways. Encounters, yes, though more like collisions, really, and certainly brief, but without the maddening joy, the dissolving of the self into something more than the self, the anguished longing afterward. He doesn’t understand a thing. So when he’d finally exhausted himself she switched to the nostalgia channel, where the end of the blind-flower-girl film was playing. Now, after the credits and ads (hawking the very lubricant the hotel provides), a new film starts up called “Matinée.” She remembers walking out of this one years ago, because she didn’t really understand it. It’s not exactly a romantic film, but it’s also not exactly not one. It’s about a bored suburban housewife who, on an afternoon shopping trip into the city, steps into a run-down old cinema to lose herself in the more adventurous lives of others. The film being shown there is about a young woman on a holiday in an exotic foreign city, who meets a handsome, pipe-smoking gentleman on a sightseeing riverboat and embarks on a sudden but ill-fated romance with him. The film fills the housewife with such longing that when the man sitting beside her in the darkened movie house takes her hand to lead her away to a nearby hotel she just can’t seem to resist. (“There we go, kid!” the guy she’s with says, laughing and giving her a slap on the bum as she leans forward on her hands and knees to turn up the volume.) Or maybe this is why the housewife in the film went to that old cinema in the first place, though she’d never done anything like that before. When the man gives her some money, she accepts it without saying anything, and this becomes the pattern of her afternoons, sneaking away from her domestic family life to pick up men in the old movie house—she sees the beginnings of lots of matinées—and otherwise carrying on exactly as before. Sometimes she uses the money the men give her to buy toys for her children or something nice for her husband; other times she just forgets about it. The movie also has another story line, about an unmarried lady of the streets, a sort of brief-encounters careerist, who dreams of becoming a happy suburban housewife. When her clients ask her questions about herself, she starts to invent such a life and, like a wish coming true, that life begins to happen, unless it’s just her imagination. These are completely separate stories, about completely different people, but the confusing thing is that the same actress plays both parts, and eventually everything gets mixed up, their lives weaving in and out of each other, until neither the housewife nor the prostitute knows for sure who she is or where she is. To make it even more complicated, the client for the housewife and/or prostitute is always the same person, though she never recognizes him, while the husband and the children are different people every time they’re seen, and neither the housewife nor the prostitute seems surprised by this. Both of them appear ready to fix breakfast for anybody and to put any child to bed at night. She’d like to ask the guy she’s with what he thinks is going on, but the brute, his fingers like talons on her thighs, has jerked her back to sit on his face, so he’s not even watching. But it is confusing. She’s a working girl, she doesn’t go to the movies, no time for that—she does her marketing on the street and provides her services in a room she rents—and yet here she is in an old movie house, watching a romantic musical about a happy suburban family, and some guy takes her hand and she thinks, I’ve never done this before! Or she is working the streets when a man stops his car and picks her up and he turns out to be her husband. The kids in the car give her a hug and call her Mommy. She reaches into her bag to see if she has any candy for them, but all she finds are lubricants and condoms. Her husband winks. Or, in her sad little rented room, she gets herself tricked out for the evening in a tight miniskirt, black net stockings, and stilettos, and opens the door to step out onto the street: it’s morning and she’s at home. “What are you dressed up like that for, dear?” her husband asks, looking up from the television, pipe in hand. Though she doesn’t recognize him, the family photos on the walls and on tabletops suggest that they’ve been married for decades. “I—I’m going shopping,” she says, which is not really an explanation. “I have to go in to the office later,” he says with a loving smile. “I’ll pick you up outside the department store at five.” So on this day, which already seems like several, she skips the matinée (not her sort of movie anyway, a serial-killer thing called “The Love Hotel Murders”) and waits for him outside the store at five. He pulls up, she gets in the car, and he takes her to a convenience hotel, so he’s probably not her husband. She arrives home late from this encounter (he wanted to do everything), worried about the children (she has children!), and finds a man who must be her long-suffering husband preparing breakfast for them. “Why are you carrying all that money?” he asks. Indeed, she is clutching a fistful of it. “It’s for you,” she says in her bewilderment, dropping it on the table, and she goes to her room to look at herself in the mirror. She knows she should recognize the person she sees there, but the best she can say is that she’s vaguely familiar, like someone she has passed on the street or in a grocery-store aisle. “They complain that it’s the hottest summer in a hundred years, but I say, No problem-o.”Buy the print » Or like that man on the department-store escalator today. She had picked up a new ruffled blouse and a silk kerchief and was taking the escalator up a floor to look for a winter scarf for her husband. A man taking the escalator down to street level was wearing a very handsome one and she wondered, as he passed, if it would suit her husband. But then their eyes met and both she and he turned in stunned amazement to watch the other descend/ascend, though she found herself wondering, even as her love-struck heart beat wildly, if perhaps he was her husband. She took the down escalator in the hope of seeing him again, but he had vanished. Perhaps he had taken the up escalator, looking for her. Perhaps he never was: what can the lonely heart not imagine? The intensity of her emotions frightened her. To calm herself, she decided to go to a matinée showing of a grainy old movie about two people on a busy train platform who say goodbye to the people they love—his wife, her fiancé—then turn and, as the platform empties out, see each other standing there by the tracks under the high domed roof in the dissipating steam, sad and alone. They introduce themselves and, to console each other, they go off to have tea together in a cozy little hotel nearby, end up in bed, and, while sharing a cigarette (this is an old movie, they don’t show the part in between), talk about the strangeness of the moment. Though they have discovered a sudden undying love for each other, they have not told each other their names, nor will they. “Sometimes I feel like my whole life is just a movie I’m in,” she says, somewhat tearfully, “and I don’t even have the best part.” “Or two movies,” he says, “or more. All happening”—“I adore you,” she whispers, kissing his speaking lips—“at the same time, like some kind of montage.” “Yes, fraught moments like these are like that,” she replies in her deepening melancholy, “but”—“I feel like I’ve always loved you,” he murmurs, nibbling her earlobe—“it’s an illusion. Real life is more like a train that never stops to let you off. The days come and go, you get older, and then you die.” “But sometimes something happens. You bump into somebody in the aisle while leaving a movie and your life changes.” “Or it doesn’t. If you’re married, you have to choose. Are you married to that woman on the train you were waving goodbye to?” “Yes. That’s how we met—leaving the cinema. It was a sad movie about a despairing blind man who was standing at the edge of a cliff when the woman he loved turned up and cried out his name, and he was so startled that he dropped his cane and staggered backward off the cliff. There was a smile on his face, though, from hearing the voice of his beloved, and he reached out his arms toward her as he fell, so you might say he died happy. Not that it’s easy, of course, to be happy when falling off a cliff.” “No.” “We were both bawling and we fell into a hug right there in the aisle, though we didn’t even know each other, and we left the movie house and got married.” “Are you sorry? That you got married, I mean?” “No, it’s all right. I miss the freedom I had before, but I don’t miss the anxiety or the loneliness. I’m more comfortable when I can, as you might say, move with the plot.” “I know that’s the right thing to say,” she says, beginning to weep, “but it means you’re uncomfortable now and it makes me feel evil and unwanted.” He is also weeping. “What can I say?” he says. “It’s all so very sad.” They are making love again. It’s even better than before. Both are wondering if they can bear to part. They can and do, though it wrenches their hearts. Years later, in the city, he is having lunch in a popular restaurant, his wife having joined him before her usual afternoon shopping trip, when he spies a woman sitting at a table by the window with a man in a business suit, and he wonders if it is the same woman he met on that steamy train platform so long ago. He remembers suddenly and vividly the room they shared in the little hotel, the yellow flowered wallpaper, the pink bedspread and matching curtains, the chipped amber ashtray sitting on a white crocheted doily stained at one edge with tea or coffee. Why does he recall all this? If asked, he could barely describe his bedroom at home. At the time, he felt as if he’d been in that room forever and would be there for all time (there was no such thing as time), but then it all vanished in an instant as he stepped out the door, only to return now like a haunting. His wife rises to get on with her shopping, or perhaps to take in a movie matinée, as is her wont of late; she leans over and kisses his forehead in farewell just as the man at the other table rises and, fedora in hand, leans over to peck the woman’s cheek, leaving them both alone at their tables, staring across the room at each other. She stands, holding his gaze, crosses the room, takes the chair vacated by his wife. “Didn’t we meet many years ago?” she asks breathily, as though in awe of the moment. “Yes, on a train platform.” “No, on a sightseeing boat in a large city.” He doesn’t remember this, but seeing her sitting there before him in the soft restaurant light, so familiar, so beautiful, he wonders if perhaps he is mistaken. He glances at her blouse, seeing in his mind still the stained doily and the chipped ashtray, things also now in doubt. “You had a mustache then and smoked a pipe.” He desires this to be true, so in a sense it is true. He strokes his upper lip thoughtfully and gazes, spellbound, into her adoring gaze. “You were wearing a white dress with puff sleeves and a red silk kerchief,” he says softly. “Was I?” They are leaning, somewhat desperately, toward each other. A kiss is imminent, yet impossible. “What will we do?” “I don’t know,” she says. “I am lost.” “Maybe we could go to a movie? Down the street they’re showing ‘The Rescuer of Sad Maidens.’ Have you seen it?” “Is that the one that takes place aboard a doomed cruise ship?” “No, it’s a stories-within-stories kind of thing.” “I don’t think I’d like it. I’m more straightforward than that.” “Well, all right. A hotel room, then?” She has been sitting in the old half-empty cinema with tears in her eyes, watching this poignant movie about the reunited lovers and thinking about life, how sad it is, when the man sitting next to her puts his hand over hers. When he leads her out (the movie is not over, but she knows what happens next), she somehow cannot resist, though he is not her husband. He takes her to a room in a small hotel. She seems to recognize it, though she has never been there, nor indeed has she ever done anything like this before. The windows, under the slanting ceiling, look out on rooftops and chimney pots. Next to one of the windows a porcelain washbasin sits on a table draped with a faded yellow cloth, a used bar of brown soap in a tin dish and a pitcher of water beside it. She knows without looking that there is a frayed green towel on the chrome bar screwed into the side of the table, a white one on the floor to stand on, and a blue drinking glass beside the basin, catching the late-afternoon light. She has never been here, so how does she know all this? Perhaps she has seen too many movies. The priest’s barren cell in that film she saw recently about the passionate but impossible romance between a priest and a nun, for example, had slanted ceilings and a washstand with a towel bar and a basin that looked much like this one, though everything was white. Earlier, in the garden, in the soft light of a tree’s shade, the priest and the nun, utterly love-struck, had drawn together, gazing deeply into each other’s eyes—much like the two married people in the restaurant in the movie she was just watching—then had parted in anguish, suffering the shame of their iniquitous desire. Alone afterward, in the cell with the washstand, the priest—though you couldn’t actually see this—was committing the sin of onanism when the nun reappeared before him in all her resplendent earthly beauty, dressed only in her wimple, with a golden crucifix dangling from a chain between her exquisite breasts. Was she real or only his crazed and hapless fantasy? It was unclear, but she was played by a living actress—living then, anyway—and so she seemed real, and what happened between them also seemed real. Did they use the washbasin afterward? Maybe they did, since she remembers it so vividly. Meanwhile, the man she is with now, while removing his tie, is telling her a strange story about his obsession with a woodland nymph, whom he met briefly one afternoon while out hiking and for whom, whether she actually exists or not, he has been ceaselessly searching ever since. “I thought for a moment you might be she,” he says sorrowfully, as she kicks off her pumps and peels down her stockings. “How do you know that I’m not?” “Because I cannot forget her, though I often wish that I could. I see her features even when I look at myself in the mirror.” He unbuttons his shirt, setting the cufflinks thoughtfully beside the blue glass. “It took me forever to find my way back to the trail, and you could say I’ve not found it yet.” He lowers his pants. “You are chasing phantoms,” she says, lifting her dress over her head. “Though the past may once have existed, it does not now exist. Something has taken its place.” She feels certain that she has said this before. Or heard it said. She wants to explain what the something is, but it’s too late—even as she steps out of her underwear the film is breaking and rattling in the projector.
Aphrodisiac Kishen’s university friends at Cambridge completely understood when he talked to them about the sort of novel that should be written about India—the sort of novel that he wanted to write. The thing was, he explained, to get the integers right, to be sure that these were sunk into the deepest layers of the Indian experience: caste-ridden villagers, urban slum dwellers, landless laborers, as well as the indecently rich of commerce and industry. His own integers were sunk in a prosperous gated colony in New Delhi. Here he returned from Cambridge to live with his mother and his elder brother, Shiv, in the villa that his late father had commissioned in the International Style, which was prevalent at the time. During Kishen’s absence, Shiv had got married—in a big, traditional wedding, which Kishen couldn’t attend because he was in the middle of his finals. So he didn’t meet his new sister-in-law until his return. He hadn’t meant to stay in India. He’d wanted to go back to Cambridge and maybe study for another degree until he felt himself ready to start on his life’s work. But then this happened, she happened: his sister-in-law, Naina. It hadn’t been an arranged marriage; Kishen’s mother was too modern to arrange marriages for her sons. A respected economist, she had always been at the forefront of educated Indian women. Sometimes she and her elder son even served on the same committees, for Shiv was a high-ranking bureaucrat. He had met his bride at a reception in honor of her uncle, a member of parliament, who had brought Naina from her father’s estate in their native province for her first visit to New Delhi. She was very young, shy, scarcely educated, though she had attended an élite girls’ boarding school in Jaipur. After her marriage, her mother-in-law tried to encourage her to study at some New Delhi college, but Naina claimed to be too stupid—yes, even for domestic science. Although Kishen couldn’t help agreeing that she was, to some extent, stupid, she was the only person in the house with whom he was eager to discuss his projected novel. She took no interest in it at all, yet somehow she casually disposed of one of his greatest problems: how to communicate the nuances of Indian life in English, which was the only language in which he could truly express himself. Naina simply jumbled up her languages, English and Hindi. When he tried to talk to her about his work (because he wanted to talk to her about everything), she didn’t even pretend to listen. Instead, she said, “I’m meeting the girls—coffee pina hai. Aoge? Chalo bhai we’ll have some fun—mazza ajaiga.” She had formed her own circle of girlfriends, and Kishen soon became a source of entertainment for them. Naina was proud of the way he amused them and humored all their concerns. They valued his opinion in matters of style, and also of culture, though he laughed at their taste, which hadn’t changed since they were schoolgirls. They held morning coffee parties in the smartest Connaught Place restaurants or watched pirated films together on the giant screens in their giant living rooms. When they cried at a heroine’s onscreen plight, Kishen would murmur some remark into Naina’s ear, converting her tears into giggles, which soon spread to all the weeping girls. They liked attending polo matches and pretending to be in love with the contestants, who were princelings from the President’s Bodyguard. These young women were all married, but mostly to rich, paunchy businessmen who in no way resembled the polo players. Only Shiv was tall and handsome (the opposite of Kishen), and Naina’s friends sincerely appreciated her good luck. So did she, though she was, or pretended to be, critical of Shiv: of his absorption in his work, which didn’t leave enough time for her; of his lack of interest in the romantic films and books she adored. She often laughed about him—she imitated his walk, the way his feet splayed outward, so busy, so important—and Kishen laughed with her. If his mother overheard them, she rebuked them but couldn’t help smiling with pride in her elder son, which she knew Naina, for all her mockery, shared. Only Kishen’s laughter was genuine. Mother and Shiv, both busy with their work, were glad that Kishen and Naina were such good company for each other. But sometimes Mother would ask, “And your work?” For she was waiting for Kishen to become as successful in his field as Shiv was in his. “Coming along,” Kishen answered, and he considered this to be true. He felt that, with Naina and her friends, he was immersing himself in his material. They were the integers with which he would build his world—the India that he knew, not what others thought he should know. The girls, too, were waiting for him to become published and famous. When they asked what he was writing about, he said, “You.” That made them laugh, and they clamored for a percentage of the fortune he was going to make with their lives. Meanwhile, he entertained them with stories, anecdotes from their New Delhi social world—hungry kites swooping over an open-air banquet, new, palatial apartment buildings without electricity or water, the Ayurvedic doctor poking his tented patients through their burkas, the dire results of a homeopath mixing up his aphrodisiacs with his laxatives. “You should write it down!” the girls exclaimed—and, at their urging, he began to do so. They snatched the pages from him and sent them to the editor of a leading English-language newspaper, who was a friend of all the girls and the lover of one. These writings—these tongue-in-cheek anecdotes—became the basis of his local fame. A magazine commissioned a weekly column; he was read everywhere. Mother returned from her meetings reporting the chuckles of her fellow committee members; Shiv quoted a cabinet minister who said that Kishen “had hit the nail right on the head.” Everyone was proud of him. That was during his first two years back in India. Then things began to change in the house. Actually, physically, they had begun to change soon after Naina’s arrival. Mother had originally furnished the house with the newfound enthusiasm of the intellectual classes for indigenous Indian handicrafts—vibrant textiles from Orissa, village women’s silver anklets turned into ashtrays. Now another layer was added, for whenever Naina went home to see her family—which she did often in those first years—she brought back precious objects of her own. These were not village handicrafts but something differently indigenous: the gaudy taste of the maharajas’ palaces, which had drifted down to her own family of feudal landowners. She installed multicolored chandeliers, oil paintings of hunting parties and court ceremonials. Mother’s bright hand-loomed rug was replaced by the pelt of a recently killed tiger. Naina was so proud of these acquisitions that Mother even allowed the head of a water buffalo to be nailed to the wall, though it had to be taken down when, having been improperly embalmed, it began to decay and disintegrate. Then came Naina’s first pregnancy, for which, in accordance with custom, she went home. When she reappeared, it was not only with a baby but with his nurse. This nurse, known as Bari-Mai, had been Naina’s mother’s and Naina’s and was now very old. She spoke in a dialect that only Naina could understand, and she made it clear that no one in the house was of any importance to her except Naina, whom she called Devi (goddess), and the baby, Munna. But with Kishen Bari-Mai did establish a peculiar relationship. From the first moment she saw him, she wheezed so much that she could only point at him in derision—but for what? Naina said, “It’s because she’s never seen anyone like you.” “You mean, anyone so ugly?” “Aré, gosh, darling, yeh kya baat hai? What are you saying?” She stroked his cheek, and, although he liked this affectionate gesture, it made him aware that he was short, squat, and balding: ugly, no doubt, to both her and Bari-Mai. “Dekho, Baba—Papa hai!” Naina called out when Shiv came home from the office, and she thrust the bundled baby into his arms. Shiv held him nervously. No one in the family felt comfortable holding the baby. There was something disconcerting to them in the many little amulets he wore around his neck and wrists, each guarding him against a disease or the Evil Eye. He was also greasy from the oil that Bari-Mai smeared on him for the health of his skin and hair. And he had a peculiar smell, which was not that of a baby but more—though no one said it—that of Bari-Mai. For not only did she clutch him all day but she slept with him at night, on the floor of the nursery that Mother had furnished for him with a new white cot, a playpen, and a mural of Mother Goose rhymes. Buy the print » After Munna’s birth, Naina abandoned the outings with her girlfriends, and Kishen stayed home with her. She was very free in his presence, suckling the baby at her great round brown nipples, while Kishen sat near her, scribbling a piece for his column. He was a chain-smoker, and sometimes she had enjoyed a cigarette with him. Now she returned to chewing betel, and one day she ordered Bari-Mai to prepare one for Kishen as well. “Open your mouth,” she told him, and he was about to obey her when he saw his mother’s cook making warning gestures at him from behind the door. “Aré—open—kholo, bhai,” Naina said impatiently. Ignoring the cook, Kishen allowed her to pop the leaf into his mouth. He disliked the taste and the feel of it. He asked, “What does she put in it?” Naina laughed. “Khas cheez hai—something very special to make you love Munna and me forever.” It was Kishen’s birthday, and Mother had a gift for him. She watched him unwrap it: a slim volume tastefully bound in hand-loomed cloth, containing reprints of his newspaper and magazine articles. Full of her own excitement and pleasure, she said, “It’s all there. All your beautiful work.” He thanked her, kissed her, but he thought, Is this all you expect from me? They were interrupted by the cook, who burst in on them, wailing, “With my own eyes!” He had seen with his own eyes how she—the witch, Bari-Mai—had stirred a powder, a poison, into Kishen’s birthday pilao. Naina came rushing in, shouting that Bari-Mai had wanted only to add her own touch with a pinch of saffron. “Zaffran,” the cook repeated angrily. “As if I don’t know zaffran.” Naina had already turned from him to Munna, riding on her hip. “Bolo—Happy birthday, Chacha-Uncle!” She thrust him forward to greet Kishen with sticky caresses. But later, when they were alone, she said, “It’s all lies. Don’t believe them.” “No,” Kishen said. “I don’t believe Bari-Mai is trying to poison us.” “They’re all crazy. Pagal hai sab. They think she’s a terrible witch.” “It’s you,” he said. “You’re the terrible witch.” Before she could say anything, he went on, helplessly waving his arms, “I’m twenty-seven years old today and I haven’t done a thing. No! No, I have not written a beautiful book. Only Mother thinks so.” “Munna thinks so,” Naina said, nibbling Munna’s ear. “When Munna grows older, he’ll laugh at me as I’d laugh at anyone who wrote this sort of rubbish. But what’s the use of talking to you? You don’t listen to anything I try to tell you.” “Oh, yes. I’m very stupid.” “You are—no ideas, no theories—thank God! If you had them, if you drove me crazy the way I drive myself crazy, thinking and theorizing and doing nothing all day but sitting here with you and all night thinking about you—it’s you, you who’s poisoning me. No, don’t go away!” To keep her from leaving, he put his arms around her waist. At first too surprised to resist him, she then did so with ease. Not only was he shorter than she; he was overweight and breathless with lack of exercise. She gave him a push that sent him staggering backward to the floor, then stared down at him with angry, kohl-rimmed eyes. He stared back, partly in fear of her, partly in fear of himself and the sensation that had filled him when he touched her hot, soft flesh. The next moment, she put out her hand to pull him up; she was laughing, and he tried to laugh, too. It was all just a game between them. When a second boy was born, Bari-Mai decided that only she could provide the nourishment her Devi needed to breast-feed two babies. She pushed aside the cook’s stainless-steel vessels for her own blackened cauldron, into which she stirred spices unwrapped from little twists of newspaper. Noxious cooking smells—asafetida, like a gas—pervaded the house. Naina moved around her urine-and-milk-soaked kingdom with one child on her hip and another sucking at her breast. Shiv’s study was moved out of earshot of the rest of the house, and as far as possible from what had been his marital bedroom and was now inhabited by both children and Bari-Mai, who stretched out on the floor, bundled in the single cloth she wore day and night. Shiv began to come home later every night; Naina was always waiting for him. They spoke in low voices, but not intimately. Naina’s initial passion for her husband had changed into some other kind of passion, charged with resentment. Kishen, in his bedroom, willed himself not to hear, and he guessed that his mother was doing the same. When he went into her room after a restless night, he found her sitting up very straight, with her hands folded in her lap. Mother said, “Of course he comes home late—he’s very busy with meetings and conferences with the cabinet, with the Prime Minister. He’s important to the whole country.” Her voice rose. “She should be proud!” “She is proud.” “She doesn’t understand. She understands nothing.” A modern woman, Mother had set herself against the stereotypical role of mother-in-law. She was determined not to complain about her daughter-in-law, or about the encroachments, the ruin of her ordered household. So she said nothing, not even to Kishen. Instead, she stayed out of the house at meetings of her own. Kishen suspected that she was no longer elected to the offices for which she had once been the unquestioned candidate. But still she forced herself to be present—trimly dressed, her short, stylishly cut gray hair brushed back, even a dab of lipstick and rouge applied to simulate an energy that was no longer required of her. Meanwhile, the boys were growing up. They were no longer attached like limpets to their mother’s body. And then they grew up more and were sent off to boarding school in the hills. Kishen had expected that Bari-Mai would be sent away, too, but that didn’t happen. She still spent her nights rolled up at the foot of Naina’s marital bed while Shiv slept on the couch in his study. He was at the height of his career now, and there were photographs of him in the newspapers, hovering beside the Prime Minister at the signing of an agreement that he had helped negotiate. However late he came home, Naina waited up for him. Her voice had become more strident and desperate; Kishen listened in spite of himself, and he knew that Mother, too, was awake and listening. During the day, he could no longer sit quietly writing his column by Naina’s side. She kept interrupting him with complaints about Shiv; and when Kishen tried to defend his brother by saying that he was working late, she brought out the newspapers with photographs of Shiv and the Prime Minister and pointed to some female under-secretary in the background. It might have been a different woman in each picture, but Naina sneered in outrage—“Is this his work? Fine work!” Once, she dragged Kishen to the room where Shiv now spent his nights; she picked up his pillow and thrust it into Kishen’s face. “It’s her smell. Her dirty smell he brings home with him after he does what he does with her.” She made a sound of disgust and Bari-Mai echoed it with a splutter of saliva. More and more it seemed to Kishen that Bari-Mai was not a person at all but an emanation of something in Naina herself: something that had been bred for generations in the stifling women’s quarters of their desert home. It was June, and the days were hot, cruelly hot. Kishen warned Mother not to go out, but one afternoon she said she had to—if she didn’t, goodness only knew what those new committee members would get up to. An hour later, the driver had to bring her back, and she was an old crushed woman. She lay on her bed and Kishen sat beside her; when he tried to get up, she clutched at his hand in a pleading gesture that she had never used with him before. She did it again, moments later, when they heard Naina’s voice outside, with Bari-Mai’s wild echo. “How do you stand it?” Mother whispered, and then he told her what he hadn’t quite told himself—that he was thinking of returning to England. At once, she rallied. She said that he should take another degree, or at least some sort of course. “What—now?” he said, for he was almost forty. “A course in writing,” she said vaguely, and he said, teasing her, “I thought you liked my writing the way it is.” But he knew that she wanted him to leave for other reasons—in fact, for the same reasons that he wanted to go. He looked into a writing school in Bristol, and Mother eagerly sent away for the application forms. She knew that it would take some time for these to arrive, but when six weeks had gone by she said that they would have to request them again. Although she and Kishen were alone in her bedroom, she lowered her voice: “I’ll write for them today, this time by express mail.” He nodded his consent, as though he, too, suspected that someone might be listening. The next day, Naina invited him to go out with her. She drove with abandon, so fast that he feared for the rickshaws and the wandering animals that she kept missing by inches. His timidity amused her, so he tried not to show it and sat there tense and silent, his hands clutched between his knees. Buy the print » She took him to an open-bazaar stall that was reputed to be the best for a kind of very spicy Delhi snack food. Kishen, with his delicate digestion, had never wanted to eat there, but Naina seemed perfectly at home. He watched her as she scooped up the little messes with her fingers in a trance of enjoyment; she soon sent him back for a second helping, which she finished just as quickly, and then—“I shouldn’t!”—for a third. At last she was sated, spread out on a rickety little bench as a tattered servant boy with a rag wiped the ground underneath it. She seemed oblivious of the looks of urgent desire directed at her by other customers and passersby, and by the proprietor himself, perched up on his platform stirring a vat of fly-spotted cream; or perhaps she was used to them, as she was used to the way that Kishen was looking at her across the table. She was almost middle-aged now, her body widened, fattened by pregnancy, by excessive eating, and by long hours of deep sleep in the hot afternoons. Yet he talked to her as he had done in her youthful years, though he knew she wasn’t listening—not in the way his mother listened when he spoke of his work, or of himself. And suddenly she interrupted him: “Why are you wanting to run back to England?” He tried to explain it to her. He told her that it was better sometimes not to be too close to one’s source of inspiration. And, as if he were talking about her as that source, she said, “But if I don’t want you to go? If I say mat jao? Please stay?” “Try to understand.” And he repeated it all—about being detached, about recollecting in tranquillity—everything that Mother and his friends in England understood and Naina didn’t. But as he talked he thought of a painting by an elderly English painter who was a friend of his mother’s; the painting depicted a giant hand caressing a mountain and was titled “I Have Touched the Breast of Mother India.” It had always made him laugh, and now Naina was laughing as though he had said something just as ludicrous. “When will you send off your application?” she interrupted. “As soon as it comes,” he said. “It hasn’t come yet? No? Sachmuch? Really?” She suppressed a smile as she opened her handbag and dug around in its messy contents. An envelope emerged; she held it out for him to see but not to take. He realized that not only did she listen at doors; she lay in wait for letters to purloin. Now she smiled at him openly, teasing him—and how could he help smiling back at her? “Shall I?” she said. “Tear it up?” She held it out, pulled it back, held it out again. It was a game now—one that he was determined to win. He leaned forward and snatched the envelope out of her hand, quite easily, because she let it go as if she knew what he would do with it: tear it in half, then in half again, all the time gazing at her for approval, which she gave. The next time Mother asked him about the application forms, he told her that he had filled them out and sent them off. She seemed satisfied, but a day or two later she fell ill. Instead of going to her meetings, she lay in her bedroom with the curtains shut and the air-conditioner on. Her face was drawn, and because her partial denture had been removed her mouth was sunken. The doctor came—he was a friend and contemporary who had worked with her on health-care reforms. He prescribed medicines, but when those didn’t work Kishen and Shiv called in other, younger doctors. Still the sickness failed to subside, and now Mother mostly lay on her bed with her eyes closed. Once, Bari-Mai, quick and agile as a monkey, clambered onto the bed and began to press down on Mother’s legs. Mother cried out in shock and Kishen, too, cried out, so that Naina removed Bari-Mai and both left indignantly, protesting good intentions. Alone with Kishen, Mother apologized; she said she was aware that it was unfair to see anything but a poor old woman in Bari-Mai, sunk in the rites and superstitions of a backward part of the country. But the cook saw more than that. He came into Mother’s room and, whispering just loud enough for her and Kishen to hear, told them how all day he was on duty in the kitchen, and even at night he stayed up to watch. But who knew—worn out by his vigilance, he sometimes dropped off to sleep for a few moments, during which Bari-Mai must have insinuated her powders and potions into his pots. How else was it that Mother had been laid low by a sickness that the greatest doctors in the world were unable to cure? “It’s unhygienic,” Shiv said, after discovering the cook asleep in the kitchen one night. When Kishen and Mother told him the reason, he said that it was psychologically unhygienic to allow such thoughts to enter their minds. Still, they continued to feel uneasy, though they were ashamed to admit it, even to each other. It was the summer vacation, and the two boys, Munna, now fifteen, and Chottu, fourteen, came home from their boarding school in the foothills of the Himalayas. It was the same school, modelled on Eton and Harrow, that Shiv and Kishen had attended in their time. Shiv had been very successful there, Kishen less so. Both Munna and Chottu followed in their father’s footsteps, played all sports, were popular; Munna already had Shiv’s confident voice and his pompous walk. Naina couldn’t stop petting her two boys, stroking their downy cheeks, though they frowned and pretended not to like it. They bullied her, told her she was getting too fat, and did she have to chew that disgusting betel? They made her play cricket with them in the back garden; she flew like a young girl between the wickets, flushed, her hair coming down, but they kept getting her out before she could make a single run. Bari-Mai was appointed fielder; she squatted, motionless as a stone, only her jaws moving in their perpetual mumble. Shiv tried to come home from work earlier and, instead of shutting himself in his study, he sat with the boys to discuss their future. Munna wanted to join the Administrative Service, like his father, and Chottu was thinking of the Navy. Shiv considered their choices, the three of them serious together. Naina hovered around them with unwelcome interruptions—“Did you finish your milk, Munna?”—until he shouted at her that his name was not Munna but Raj Kumar. “Oh, big man,” she said, her angry stare directed not at her son but at his father, who tried not to meet it. That night, for the first time since the boys’ arrival, he and Naina fought again. The older boy was especially affected by what he overheard, and the next day he sought out Kishen. Trying to answer Munna’s questions about his parents, Kishen had to admit that he knew nothing about marriage—how could he? All he knew was that there were bound to be clashes of personality, especially between two people as different as Shiv and Naina. The boy nodded. “So you think they shouldn’t be married?” he said. Kishen avoided a reply—not because he didn’t have one but because he suspected that Naina or Bari-Mai might be listening behind the door. The boy repeated his question, and when Kishen was still silent, he gave his considered opinion, as judicious and balanced as his father’s would have been: “Maybe they should get a divorce.” The next moment, Naina came flying through the door. “Divorce!” she cried. “You dare say that in this house!” She abused him in her native dialect and then she raised her hand and slapped him. The sound of the slap echoed through the house, and remained there, ineradicable even after the boys returned to school. Shiv invited Kishen to lunch at one of the new hotels, a grand palace with slippery marble floors and hothouse blooms in man-size vases. The prices here insured that only the richest Indians could gain admission. But the richest Indians were no longer the old style of businessmen, the ghee-fed descendants of milkmen and moneylenders: they were younger men, better travelled, almost cosmopolitan. Several of them came over to greet Shiv, with the respect that was due to him as a member of the administration that controlled permits and licenses. When they returned to their tables, Shiv informed his brother of their positions in the corporate world, the multi-crore companies over which they ruled. Kishen noticed his almost wistful glances at these men—and at the lively young women who accompanied them. He guessed that these were their secretaries, or perhaps their lovers, but Shiv said that they were their wives: yes, these slim, youthful women were wives, many of them mothers, too, and at the same time helpmeets, social assets to their important husbands. Here Shiv changed the subject. He said that he had now reached the highest rank of the bureaucracy; his next posting would be as an accredited ambassador, and his success in that role would depend to a large extent on his social skills, and those of his wife. “Naina wouldn’t be happy,” he said. “How do you know that?” Kishen said. “You don’t know. You know nothing about her.” Shiv, too, grew more heated. “And she knows nothing about me. And cares nothing, about my work, my career—what sort of marriage is that?” He changed the subject again. “What about you? And if you don’t mind my asking—you and the Great Indian Novel?” “I thought you liked my little pieces.” “Too soon?”Buy the print » “You shouldn’t be hanging around the house so much. You should be getting out, meeting people. The middle classes. The new generation of businessmen. The entrepreneurs.” “And their suitable wives,” Kishen said. Shiv’s voice became more intense, charged with suppressed anger. “She has this mad idea that I have some grand love affair going.” He laughed without laughing, cut up his meat, chewed violently. “And is it true, her mad idea?” “Of course not! And, if it were, who could blame me? Living in that house, in that atmosphere—no wonder Mother’s sick. We’re all sick. The stench of those beasts alone is enough to poison the lot of us.” He put down his knife and fork and stared at his brother, shocked at himself, though presumably he had been referring to the buffalo head, long since disintegrated, and the tiger pelt, which was going the same way. Alone with Kishen in her bedroom, Mother whispered, “Have you heard from Bristol about your application?” “They turned me down.” He lied without a qualm, and was amazed by her reaction. She covered her face and rocked to and fro. When he caught her in his arms, she clung to him and wouldn’t let him go. How thin she was, how worn away. When she released him, he tried to smile. “I didn’t realize you were so eager to get rid of me.” She stroked his head, regretting perhaps all the hair he had lost. Then she kissed him. “Go to England,” she said. “You’ll have peace of mind there.” “And if I’m far away and you get worse?” “When I know you’re writing your book, I’ll be well.” But the next day Naina told him, “Six months, that’s all. Three months, six, a year. At home we can always tell. My uncle had a mistress, Mrs. Lal, moti-taazi, plump and nice—oh, he liked her very much! But Bari-Mai knew, and others knew, too. In six months, it was all gone, like a balloon, psssst, no more moti-taazi. It was God punishing her.” “Mother has done nothing to be punished for.” “She wants my husband to leave me. She’s even set my sons against me! You think that such thoughts would come into my child’s head if she hadn’t put them there? I slapped him, God forgive me, but now God himself is slapping her—aré, sunno, where are you going?” He had got up to leave. She caught hold of his shirt, and it ripped in her hand. That made Naina laugh—her old playful, girlish laugh, like clear water running. Kishen began to take Mother to various specialists. She enjoyed driving with him from one clinic to another; he held her hand the way she had held his on the first day of school. Whatever the doctors said, she claimed to be perfectly well—a little pain here and there, but what was that at her age, compared with what others had to suffer? Still, she grew more and more gaunt, while Kishen looked on helplessly; and every morning Naina and Bari-Mai sat on the front veranda and watched them drive away. Finally, Shiv decided to send her to England, to consult with a Harley Street specialist. Kishen would have to take her. If at all possible, Shiv would join them, but meanwhile he made the arrangements for his mother and brother—the plane tickets, the hotel, the appointment with the doctor. Mother was glad to go and Kishen knew that it was for his sake. He wanted to leave, too, he thought, to be in a cool green place, to collect and recollect everything in its complexity, which was impossible here with it all pressing down on him. Yet, at the same time, he felt guilty—maybe he had no right to go, maybe his place was here, even if he hated it. “When are we leaving? Have our tickets come?” Mother asked Kishen so often that he began to believe there was some weakness in her mind. “Let them be sent by courier,” she said, and then, every day, “Has the courier come?” Kishen called the travel agent, who assured him that the tickets had been sent—yes, by courier. Kishen told him to cancel those and have duplicates sent to Shiv’s office. Shiv brought them home and Kishen at once hid them in the inner pocket of his waistcoat, where he could check several times a day and know they were safe. Naina had one of her great fights with Shiv. “Why are you sending them away? What use are your wonderful English doctors? It’s written! Written here!” Kishen, listening from Mother’s bedroom, imagined Naina drawing her finger across her forehead in the place where one’s fate is inscribed. “She won’t last the journey,” Naina warned Kishen. “And no one there will know the ceremonies. All they have is the electric crematorium; they’ll give you the ashes and you won’t even know whose ashes they are.” “Why are you saying all this?” “If you go, that’s what will happen. Did your tickets come?” The way she was looking at him, through him, it was as if she could penetrate right to his heart. But he knew that she couldn’t see even as far as the contents of his waistcoat pocket, and for once he felt he had the upper hand. Maybe she felt it, too, for she said in a different, cajoling voice, “When you’re gone, will you remember me? Will you remember me as I was?” He looked back at her: no, she was not as she had been. She was heavy, her complexion spotted by the spicy pickles she consumed, her mouth stained red by the betel. Even her tongue was red—like a demon’s, he sometimes thought when he was angry at her. But at this moment he was not angry; he said, “No. Now. I’ll remember you as you are now.” She threw back her head and laughed with a deep-throated pleasure that could swallow him whole. “Will you write about me?” She took a newly prepared betel from Bari-Mai, and asked, “What will you write?” “All the bad things you do.” “Yes, I’m a bad woman.” She translated this for Bari-Mai, who broke into excited chatter. “Bari-Mai says she’s making you a very special paan.” “Oh, yes? What’s she putting in it?” “You’ll see—very special.” Her eyes were dancing over his face, looking to see whose turn it was to make the next move and win. Bari-Mai handed her another betel, and Naina instructed him, “Open. Kholo.” Kishen drew back slightly, and she said, “There’s nothing in it that you haven’t eaten a hundred times.” He thought, Well, whatever it is—an aphrodisiac or whatever—it’s as superfluous now as it was all those other times. He opened his mouth and soon it was full of betel juices. “Good, isn’t it?” Naina said, and he affirmed, “Badiya.” Superb. She said, “Come on. Show. Dikhao.” He didn’t even pretend not to know what she was talking about. He took the tickets out of his waistcoat pocket. He handed them to her like a forfeit that he was called upon to pay. She held them. “Shall I?” She waved them at him. “Or will you?” “My turn,” he said. She pouted. “You did it last time.” But she let them dangle loosely in her hand so that he could take them from her and begin to tear them in half—first his mother’s, then his own.
Homage To Hemingway They sat informally around a stripped-pine kitchen table. Behind him was a matching dresser, opposite him a picture window, through which he could see a cluster of damp sheep, then some rising pastureland that disappeared into low cloud. It had rained every one of the five days they’d been here. He wasn’t sure this kind of communal living, which had sounded so jolly and democratic in the brochure, was for him. Of course, it was the students who were expected to cook, wash up, and keep the place tidy, but, since half of them were older than he was, it would have been stuffy not to muck in. So he stacked plates, made toast, and had even promised to cook them a big lamb stew on the final night. After supper, they would put on their waterproofs and slog a mile down the track to a pub. Each evening, he seemed to need a little more drink than before to keep himself stable. He liked his students, with their earnestness and optimism, and asked them to call him by his Christian name. All did so except for Bill, a rather truculent ex-serviceman, who preferred to address him as Chief. Some of them, it was true, enjoyed literature more than they understood it, and imagined that fiction was mere autobiography with a tweak. “I’m just saying, I don’t understand why she did it.” “Well, people often don’t understand why they do things.” “But we, as readers, should know, even if the character herself doesn’t.” “Not necessarily.” “I agree. I mean, we don’t believe anymore in the—what did you call it, Chief?” “Omniscient narrator, Bill.” “That’s the ticket.” “All I’m saying is, there’s a difference between not believing in an omniscient narrator and not understanding what’s going on in a character’s head.” “I said, people often don’t understand why they do things.” “But, look, Vicky, you’re writing about a woman with two small children and what sounds like a perfectly O.K. husband who suddenly ups and kills herself.” “So?” “So maybe—maybe—there’s a question of plausibility.” He could feel tempers rising but was disinclined to interrupt. He preferred to muse on the question of plausibility. Take his own case. Or, rather, his and Angie’s. They’d been together seven years, she’d shared every day of his struggle to become a writer, he’d produced his first novel, she’d seen it published and well reviewed—it had even won a prize—whereupon she had dumped him. He understood women leaving men because they were failures, but leaving him because he was a success? Where was the motivation in that? Where was the plausibility? Conclusion, one among many: Don’t try putting your own life into fiction. It won’t work. “Are you saying my story’s implausible?” “Not exactly, I was just . . .” “You don’t believe such women exist?” “Well . . .” “Because, let me tell you, they do. They do.” Vicky’s voice now had a tremble to it. “That woman, that woman you don’t think is plausible, that woman’s my mother, and I can tell you she was plausible enough to me in real life, when she was alive.” There was a long silence. Everyone was looking at him, expecting him to take charge. Which he would, of course, though not by sitting in judgment, rather by telling them a story. It was a stratagem he’d devised on the first morning—of throwing into each session an anecdote, a memory, a long joke, even a dream. He never explained why he was doing it, but each free-form intervention was designed to make them ask: Is this a story? If not, how might we turn it into one? What do we need to discard, what keep, what develop? And so he told them about going to Greece, perhaps a dozen years before, back in the late sixties. It was the first time he’d been in a country whose language he couldn’t understand at all. Friends had rented a house on Naxos for three weeks. It was high summer, and six hours on an open deck from Piraeus had left him with a sunburn that made him nauseous and kept him indoors for the first two days of the holiday. The few other foreigners on the island were as conspicuous as his little English group must have been. In particular, he remembered an American, a chunky fellow with white hair and a short-trimmed beard; he wore a loose white shirt over belted shorts and drove a white jeep or buggy, which seemed equally at home on the beach as on the coastal road. The man would roar past, one leg out on the running board and one arm around a woman—late thirties, perhaps—with olive skin and black hair dyed an unconvincing blond. She was evidently a local woman, and the prim young Englishman he’d been (but implicitly was no longer) had concluded that she was the island whore, rented by the week at perhaps the same rate as the jeep; or, indeed, with the jeep, in a package deal. Occasionally, he and his friends would see the couple in a bar or a restaurant, but mostly they were in motion, showing off. The fellow had clearly been modelling himself on Hemingway, and the prim Englishman, both impressed and disgusted by the macho swagger, had hated him on sight. Every time the jeep drove past him on the beach, even if it was far away, it seemed to be throwing sand in his face. He left it at that, hoping that his students would reflect on the assumptions we automatically make about people—even up to the possibility that the couple were happily married tourists, and the husband had always dressed and worn his beard like that. He also hoped that they would reflect on life’s influence on art, and then art’s influence back on life. And, if they had asked, he would have replied that, for him, Hemingway, as a novelist, was like an athlete bulked up on steroids. “O.K., all of you, now tell me what’s wrong with the following line: ‘Her voice was so lovely and it always reminded him of Pablo Casals playing the cello.’ ” He didn’t tell them that it was from “Across the River and Into the Trees,” a novel that epitomized for him the worst of Hemingway. At university, he and his friends had taken to mocking the line, inserting the names of other cellists, other instruments, other physical attributes. “Her breasts were so lovely and they always reminded him of Stéphane Grappelli playing the jazz violin,” and so on. It had been a game that ran and ran. “I think that’s rather nice. I wish someone would say that about me.” “It’s showing off, like he’s hitting us round the head with high culture.” “Did I say that it was written by a man?” “It’s obvious. Any woman can tell.” He nodded as if to allow a palpable hit. “Why does the writer say ‘Pablo’? Why not just ‘Casals’?” “Perhaps to distinguish him from Rosie Casals?” “Who’s Rosie Casals?” “A tennis player.” “Sorry, did she play the cello as well?” And so they got through the morning. They were a nice bunch, all eight of them: five women and three men. A poet friend of his had suggested that creative-writing courses were basically sex academies, where the tutor automatically enjoyed jus primae noctis. But perhaps aspirant poets were different from their prose equivalents. There was one woman in the group to whom he might happily have offered private lessons, but he gave up on the idea after spotting her arm in arm with Talentless Tim, who defended his consistent use of cliché by saying, “It’s not cliché, it’s vernacular.” They were settling in at the pub, pulling chairs together, when Bill slapped his palm on the table. “Hey, Chief, I’ve just had a thought. What if it was Hemingway, the man himself, on that island of yours?” “Not unless suicides come back from the dead.” Oh, shit, he thought, looking around to see if Vicky had heard. Luckily, she was up at the bar buying for them all. Trying to seem casual, he asked if any of them had read Hemingway. There were only two yeses, both from men. But everyone knew something about the writer’s life—bullfighting, big-game hunting, expatriate in Paris, war correspondent, many wives, drinking, suicide—and so everyone, from this knowledge, had an opinion about the work. The consensus was that Hemingway was a writer whose era had passed, and whose opinions were now out of date. Vicky began a long rant about cruelty to animals, and, yes, perfectly on cue, Bill asked her if her shoes were made of leather. “Yes, but it didn’t come out of the bullring.” And so he listened and smiled and drank some more. At the pub, he stopped being a tutor; they could say what they liked. On the last evening, he cooked a gigantic stew and provided so many bottles of wine that they didn’t need the pub. Responding to their praise, he told them his theory of writers and cooking. Novelists, who were in it for the long haul, were temperamentally equipped for stewing and braising, for the slow mixing together of many ingredients, whereas poets ought to be good at stir-fry. And short-story writers? someone asked. Steak and chips. Dramatists? Ah, dramatists—they, the lucky sods, were basically mere orchestrators of the talents of others, and would be satisfied to shake a leisurely cocktail while the kitchen staff rustled up the grub. This went down well, and they started fantasizing about the sort of food famous writers would serve. Jane Austen and Bath buns. The Brontës and Yorkshire pudding. There was even an argument when Virginia Woolf and cucumber sandwiches were put together. But without any discord they placed Hemingway in front of an enormous barbecue piled high with marlin steaks and cuts of buffalo, a beer in one hand and an outsized spatula in the other, while the party swirled around him. “No need to push, Mother—I’m going.”Buy the print » The next morning, they shared a minibus to the local station. The rain still hadn’t given up. At Swansea, there were handshakes and some shy cheek-kissing, and the woman he’d fancied gave him a look that seemed to be saying, No, didn’t you see, it wasn’t Tim I would have gone for—I only put my arm through his because I felt sorry for him. All you had to do was look at me properly, make some kind of sign. He wondered if this was a correct conclusion, based on his sympathetic imagination, or merely mad vanity. But, in any case, she was now on a different train, heading toward a different life, while he sat at the window on his own, looking out at wet Wales. He found himself thinking that, driver aside, a white beach buggy had an unquestionable glamour about it. If you drove one around London, people would probably think you a member of a rock band rather than a mere prose writer. The pity was, he couldn’t afford one. All he could afford was a secondhand Morris Minor. II. THE PROFESSOR IN THE ALPS He sat at the head of a long, dark table with six students at precise intervals down each side. Fifteen feet away, at the other end, was Guenther, his teaching assistant, whose broad shoulders and cheerful sweater obscured a view of forest, looping cables, and high mountains. It was mid-July: the ski shops and hire places were closed, as were half the restaurants. There were a few tourists, some groups of hikers, and this summer school, which had invited him to teach—in English, fortunately—for six days. He was offered business-class travel, a decent fee, a healthy per diem, and use of the school’s minivan whenever it was free. His only other obligation was to give a public reading on the final night. He was looking forward to this: his generation of writers had adapted well to the expectation that they become performers as well as private, solitary truth seekers and truth-tellers. He was at ease with interviews, usefully provocative on political issues—especially when he had a new book out—and a little whorish at the microphone. Ah, the lure of the prepared impromptu. This side of him had come as a surprise, pleasant to him, less so to Lynn, his wife, who had just left him. It had not been an agreeable time lately. “And don’t write a book about us like you did with Angie” had been one of her many parting lines. He had raised his hands, palms forward, as if to say that not only would he never do that but it had been a clear mistake in the first case. Even if the novel had made a couple of short lists. Even if fiction was, as he liked to say, omnivorous and essentially amoral. “But what does the Herr Professor think about this?” “I’d like to hear what the rest of you have to say first. Mario? Dieter? Jean-Pierre?” He needed more time to think. It was an afternoon session, which was intended to range more broadly. In the morning, they discussed texts that the students were to be examined on; in the afternoon he was expected to stretch their brains, make wider cultural connections, discuss social and political topics. It ought to have been a breeze, but there were times when their Continental minds, their natural ease with the abstract and the theoretical, made his English pragmatism seem like mental sloppiness. Still, they liked him, and he liked them, not least because they seemed to ascribe his lack of rigor to the vibrancy of his imagination. He, they never forgot, was the Herr Professor, the one who had written the books. And, if all else failed, he could always tell them an anecdote, a dream, a memory, a shaggy-dog story. They were very polite, and had heard about the famous English sense of humor, so anything he said that was at all odd or incoherent was greeted with respectful laughter. But Jean-Pierre and Mario and Dieter had all delivered their opinions, and now it was up to him. “Do any of you know the music of Sibelius?” Only two: good. “Well, you must forgive me if I can’t explain it in the correct musicological language. I’m only an amateur. Anyway, O.K., Sibelius: 1865, approximately, to 1957, approximately.” He knew these were exact dates—this was what he meant by “whorish.” “Seven symphonies, one violin concerto, orchestral tone poems, songs, a string quartet called ‘Voces Intimae’—‘Intimate Voices.’ Let’s take the symphonies.” Not least because he had nothing to say about the other works. “They start—the first two—with great melodic expansiveness. You hear a lot of Tchaikovsky, a bit of Bruckner, Dvorák, perhaps, anyway, the great nineteenth-century European symphonic tradition. Then the Third—shorter, just as melodic, and yet more restrained, held back, moving in a new direction. Then the great Fourth, austere, forbidding, granitic, the work where he most engages with modernism.” He’d stolen that phrase from an Austrian pianist who said in a radio interview, “No, Sibelius is not of much interest to me, except for the Fourth, where he engages with modernism.” “Then the Fifth, Sixth, and that epitome of compression the Seventh. To my doubtless fallible ears, one of the things Sibelius is asking, from the Third to the Seventh, is: What is melody? How far can we compress it, reduce it to a phrase, even, but make that phrase as charged and memorable as some Big Tune from the good old days? Music that seems to question itself and its underlying justification even as it beguiles you. I wish I could play you some.” “Herr Professor, there is a piano in the conference hall.” “Thank you, Guenther.” He frowned as if his train of thought had been interrupted. His teaching assistant was always looking for ways to assist, which was logical, and yet, at times, disconcerting. Still, Guenther was very good at shameless queue-barging to fetch the Herr Professor his coffee. “So what I suppose I am trying to say is: What is narrative? What is this thing—this ancient, wonderful thing—we call a story? This is a question modernism asked, and, you could say, we all still need to ask. So when I consider that simple, essential question—What is narrative?—I often find myself turning to the mighty Finn. Sibelius,” he added, in case they didn’t know the composer was Finnish. “Yes, Sibelius. Well, a break, perhaps, and, yes, thank you, Guenther, and no milk.” When they resumed, twenty minutes later, the teaching assistant arrived with a record player and several old LPs. “I have the First Symphony, the Fourth, and the Seventh, Herr Professor.” “Guenther, you’re a magician. How did you do it?” His assistant smiled shyly. “I found the name of a music professor in the village. He was delighted to lend you the records. He sends you his honored greetings. The player belongs to the school.” He was aware of the students looking at him expectantly. “Well, then. The first movement of the Fourth, if you don’t mind.” And so he sat and thought how wonderful it was to be paid to listen to Sibelius, even if it was for only ten minutes and fifty-three seconds. How wonderful the music was, how darkly orphic in this landscape of tall trees, clean air, and blue sky. His life was a mess, his last novel had been crapped on from a great height by all the shitbags in London, he doubted he would ever write anything of lasting value, and yet—with those strings climbing timorously and the brass clearing its throat as if to make some great statement that was never, finally, made—there were still transcendent moments to be had in this poor existence of ours. When the movement ended, he nodded at Guenther to lift the pickup. And just sat there, not saying a word, but trying to imply: I rest my case. Later, at supper, where everyone sat hugger-mugger, some of the students told him how much they had liked the music. In another mood, he might have taken this amiss, and presumed they were saying they didn’t like something else—his way of teaching, his clothes, his opinions, his books, his life—but the music had delivered, if not a peacefulness, at least a quiet pause into his being. And, more and more, he thought, that was the best you could hope for in life: a kind of pause. The next afternoon, he decided to tell them about Hemingway. He began with the man in the white jeep on Naxos, which over the years had become for him an emblematic warning of what happens when a writer’s life takes over from a writer’s art. Why would anybody want to go around pretending to be Hemingway? he asked. He didn’t imagine there had ever been fake Shakespeares in England, ersatz Goethes in Germany, faux Voltaires walking around France. They laughed at this, and, had he known the Italian for “fake,” he would have thrown in Dante to please Mario. Then he told them how for a long time he had disregarded Hemingway but in recent years come to admire him greatly. The stories, rather than the novels: in his view, the Hemingway method worked better over the short distance. Well, it was the same with James Joyce. “Dubliners” was a masterpiece, but “Ulysses,” for all its opening brilliance, was essentially a short story on steroids, grotesquely bulked up. He liked this opinion of his, and the way it always caused disquiet—here even more than usual, he noted. But he wanted to direct his students to a story called, appropriately, “Homage to Switzerland.” Not among Hemingway’s more famous stories, but one of his most formally inventive. It had a three-part structure. In each part, a man—an expatriate American—was waiting for a train at a different Swiss railway station. All three were waiting for the same train, and the men, though they had different names, were versions of one another, or, quite possibly—not literally, but metaphorically, fictionally—the same man. He is waiting in the station café, because the train is late. He drinks, he propositions the waitress, he teases the locals. Something, we are meant to conclude, has happened in the American’s life. Perhaps he is burned out. Perhaps his marriage is in ruins. The train’s destination is Paris: maybe he has been running away from something and is now returning to it. Or maybe his ultimate destination is America. So it was a story about flight and the return home—also, perhaps, a flight from the self and a possible, hoped-for return to it. And the way the three parts of the story overlap, just as the men overlap and the cafés overlap and the train overlaps, makes us think about the way our own lives overlap with one another. How we are all connected, all complicit. There was a silence when he finished speaking. It was odd, he thought, how much easier it was to talk about something when you hadn’t reread it for a while. You didn’t get so bogged down in particularities—the wider truths of fiction seemed to emerge naturally as you spoke. Eventually, Karin, a quiet but determined Austrian girl, broke the silence. “So, Herr Professor, you are telling us that Hemingway is just like Sibelius?” He smiled enigmatically and made the coffee sign to Guenther. III. THE MAESTRO IN THE MIDWEST The only view was of classrooms and other offices, though if you pressed close to the window you could see discouraged grass below and sky above. From the start, he had declined to take his expected position at the head of the three metal tables that had been loosely bolted together. He would place the student whose work was being discussed at the head, and the principal critic, or responder, at the foot. He himself would sit a third of the way along one side. His positioning was designed to say, I am not the arbiter of truth, because there is no final truth in literary judgment. Of course, I am your professor, and have published several novels, whereas you have only had stuff in campus magazines; but this doesn’t necessarily make me your best critic. It may well be that the most useful assessor of your work will be found among your classmates. Buy the print » This wasn’t false modesty. He liked his students, all of them, and believed the feeling reciprocated; he’d also been surprised how each, regardless of ability, wrote with an individual voice. But everyone’s critical sympathies ran only so far. Take Gunboy, as he thought of him, who turned in nothing but Gen-X stories set in a rough part of Chicago, and who, when he didn’t like someone else’s work, would shape his hand into a revolver and “shoot” the author, adding the gesture of the gun’s recoil for emphasis. No, he would never be Gunboy’s best reader. It had been a good idea to come to this Midwestern campus, to remind himself of the normality and ordinariness of American life. From a distance, the temptation was always to see it as a country that every so often went mad on power, and gave itself over to the violent outbursts of a steroid abuser. Here, away from the places and the politicians that gave it that bad name, life was much like life everywhere else. People worried about the usual small things, which to them were big things. As in his fiction. And here he was treated like a welcome guest—not a pariah, not a failure, but someone with his own life who had perhaps seen a few things they hadn’t. Occasionally, there was a certain gulf in understanding: yesterday, he’d been sitting up at a lunch counter when his neighbor asked genially, “So what language do they speak in Europe, then?” But such details would be useful for his American novel. If he ever wrote it. No, of course he would write it. The question was: Would anyone ever publish it? He had taken this job partly to escape the shame of having his last novel, “A Kind of Pause,” turned down by twelve publishers. And yet he knew it wasn’t a bad book. Everyone said it was as good as all his others—and therein lay the problem. His sales had been flatlining for years; he was white and middle-aged, with no other identity—smug TV panelist, for instance—to lift his profile. In his view, the novel—indeed, The Novel—delivered its rare truths through the artful mingling of intimate voices; yet nowadays people wanted something noisier. “Perhaps I should kill my wife and then write a book about it,” he would complain in self-pitying moments. But he didn’t have a wife, only an ex-wife, toward whom he bore sentimental rather than murderous feelings. No, his novels were good, just not good enough, that was the truth. One publisher had written to his agent that “A Kind of Pause” was “a classic, well-crafted mid-list book, the only trouble being that the mid-list doesn’t exist anymore.” His agent, with perhaps excessive candor, had passed the judgment on to him. “Maestro?” It was Kate, his cleverest student, even if she did have too many dogs in her stories. Once, he had written in the margin in red Biro “Kill the dog.” The next story she had presented to the class was called “The Immortal Dachshund.” He’d liked that. Teasing, at times, could be almost as good as love, sometimes better. “I think you’ve covered all my points,” he said. Though his main point, had he been harsh enough to make it, would have been: Why is this male take on existential angst so reminiscent of all the others you have submitted? But he didn’t say things like that; he felt his students’ vulnerability as if it were his own. Instead, since they were nearly halfway through the three-hour session, he simply called, “Cigarette break.” Often, he would join the class’s three smokers in a huddle around a waste bin. Today, he strode off as if he had business elsewhere. Well, he did. He walked to the nearest edge of the campus, which was built on a rise, and looked out into the flat, inexpressive, agricultural distance. He didn’t even need to light a cigarette. The view and its vast ordinariness were as good as nicotine. When he was young, he’d got satisfaction from imagining himself different from others, potentially special; now he was comforted by reminders of his own—our own—insignificance. They calmed him. Maestro. He grunted quietly to himself. When he first met his class, one of them had addressed him as Professor. He’d jibbed at this—after all, he wasn’t an academic, and preferred to think of himself as a writer among fellow-writers. On the other hand, he didn’t want them calling him by his Christian name. Some distance was necessary. And “Mr. ——” didn’t feel right, either. “Why don’t we just call you ‘Maestro’?” Kate had suggested. He’d laughed. “Only if you do so ironically.” Now he grunted again. At times, the label hurt. How proud he’d been to see his name on title page and book jacket year after year, but what did that signify? Jane Austen’s name had been set in print only twice in her lifetime—and that in subscription lists for other people’s books. Oh, enough, enough. Every so often, to change the class’s diet, he would hand out a short story he hoped would help them, or at least give them a sense of perspective. So, later that afternoon, he distributed Xeroxes of “Homage to Switzerland.” “Oh, Maestro,” Kate said, “I can tell I’m going to be off sick next week.” “You mean you have preconceptions?” “Let’s call them postconceptions.” He liked the way she held her own. “For instance?” She sighed. “Oh, the ultimate dead white male. Papa Hemingway. The celebration of machismo. Boys with toys.” She deliberately looked at Gunboy, who, just as deliberately, took aim and shot her. “Good. Now read the story.” And, in case she took offense, added, “Dog killer.” The following week, he started by telling them about the Hemingway clone on the Greek island; then about the Swiss Alps and being asked whether he was comparing Hemingway to Sibelius. But this got little response, either because they hadn’t heard of Sibelius or—more likely—because he hadn’t explained it properly. O.K., over to them. It depressed him how soon the class divided along sex lines. Steve, who was phobic about adverbs anyway, liked Hemingway’s stylistic economy; Mike, whose formal high jinks often concealed a paucity of subject matter, approved of the structure; Gunboy, perhaps deploring the lack of firearms, said that the story was O.K. but didn’t blow him away. Linda talked about the male gaze, and wondered why Hemingway hadn’t given the waitresses names; Julianne found it repetitive. Kate, on whom he had been counting, tried to find praise but even she ended, wearily, “I just don’t see what he’s got to say to us.” “Then try listening more carefully.” There was a shocked pause. He had turned on his favorite; worse, he had stepped out of character. There was a tall poet on campus with a reputation for humiliating his students, destroying their poems line by line. But everyone knew poets were crazy and unmannerly. Prose writers, especially foreign ones, were expected to be civil. “I’m sorry. I apologize.” But there was a tightness about Kate’s face that made him feel guilty. It’s not your problem, it’s mine, he wanted to say. He thought of trying to explain something he had recently noticed about himself: that if anyone insulted him, or one of his friends, he didn’t really mind—or not much, anyway. Whereas if anyone insulted a novel, a story, a poem that he loved, something visceral and volcanic occurred within him. He wasn’t sure what this might mean—except perhaps that he had got life and art mixed up, back to front, upside down. But he didn’t tell them this. Instead, he began again, as if for the first time. He talked about the myth of the writer, and how it was not just the reader who became trapped in the myth but sometimes the writer as well—in which case we should feel pity rather than blame. He talked about what hating a writer might mean. How far and for how long do we punish thought-crime? He quoted Auden on time pardoning Kipling for his views—“And will pardon Paul Claudel / Pardons him for writing well.” He confessed to his own early dislike for Hemingway, and how it had taken him a long time to read the words without seeing the man—indeed, this might be the most extreme example of the myth obscuring the prose. And how that prose was so different from the way it looked. It seemed to be simple, even simplistic, but at its best was as subtle and deep as anything by Henry James. He talked of Hemingway’s humor, which was much overlooked. And of how, alongside what might appear to be boastfulness, there could be surprising modesty and insecurity. Perhaps this was the key, the most important thing about the writer. People thought he was obsessed with male courage, with machismo and cojones. They didn’t see that often his real subject was failure and weakness. Not the hero of the corrida but the humble aspirant gored to death by a bull made out of kitchen knives strapped to a chair. The great writers, he told them, understand weakness. He left a pause, then turned back to “Homage to Switzerland.” Note how the three-in-one American expatriate, despite wit, sophistication, and money, is morally inferior to the simple Swiss waitresses and bar patrons, who are sturdily honest, who do not run from reality. Look at the moral balance sheet, he urged, look at the moral balance sheet. “So why doesn’t he give the women names?” Linda asked. Which was coming out on top, irritation or depression? Perhaps there were some writers who would always be read and misread for the wrong reasons, who were, in fact, unrescuable. Auden, revising his work in later life, had cut those famous lines about Kipling and Claudel. Perhaps he came to believe them untrue, and that in the end time didn’t pardon. “They’re waitresses. The story is seen through the eyes of the American outsider.” “Who just wants to pay them for sex—as if they were whores.” “Don’t you see, the women have the high ground?” “Then why not give one of them her own name?” For a moment, he thought of telling them the story of his life: how Angie had left him because he was a success, and then Lynn had left him because he was a failure. But he didn’t tell them that. Instead, he turned to Kate, in a final attempt at something—he wasn’t even sure what—and asked, “What if I wrote about this and gave my name and didn’t give yours, would that really be bad?” “Yes,” she replied, and it seemed to him that she now thought the less of him. “And if I left out my own name and gave yours, would that make it better?” “Yes,” she said. And so he did. He tried to write it all down, simply and honestly, with clean moral lines. But, still, nobody wanted to publish it.
Gravel At that time we were living beside a gravel pit. Not a large one, hollowed out by monster machinery, just a minor pit that a farmer must have made some money from years before. In fact, the pit was shallow enough to lead you to think that there might have been some other intention for it—foundations for a house, maybe, that never made it any further. My mother was the one who insisted on calling attention to it. “We live by the old gravel pit out the service-station road,” she’d tell people, and laugh, because she was so happy to have shed everything connected with the house, the street—the husband—with the life she’d had before. I barely remember that life. That is, I remember some parts of it clearly, but without the links you need to form a proper picture. All that I retain in my head of the house in town is the wallpaper with Teddy bears in my old room. In this new house, which was really a trailer, my sister, Caro, and I had narrow cots, stacked one above the other. When we first moved there, Caro talked to me a lot about our old house, trying to get me to remember this or that. It was when we were in bed that she talked like this, and generally the conversation ended with me failing to remember and her getting cross. Sometimes I thought I did remember, but out of contrariness or fear of getting things wrong I pretended not to. It was summer when we moved to the trailer. We had our dog with us. Blitzee. “Blitzee loves it here,” my mother said, and it was true. What dog wouldn’t love to exchange a town street, even one with spacious lawns and big houses, for the wide-open countryside? She took to barking at every car that went past, as if she owned the road, and now and then she brought home a squirrel or a groundhog she’d killed. At first Caro was quite upset by this, and Neal would have a talk with her, explaining about a dog’s nature and the chain of life in which some things had to eat other things. “She gets her dog food,” Caro argued, but Neal said, “Suppose she didn’t? Suppose someday we all disappeared and she had to fend for herself?” “I’m not going to,” Caro said. “I’m not going to disappear, and I’m always going to look after her.” “You think so?” Neal said, and our mother stepped in to deflect him. Neal was always ready to get on the subject of the Americans and the atomic bomb, and our mother didn’t think we were ready for that yet. She didn’t know that when he brought it up I thought he was talking about an atomic bun. I knew that there was something wrong with this interpretation, but I wasn’t about to ask questions and get laughed at. Neal was an actor. In town there was a professional summer theatre, a new thing at the time, which some people were enthusiastic about and others worried about, fearing that it would bring in riffraff. My mother and father had been among those in favor, my mother more actively so, because she had more time. My father was an insurance agent and travelled a lot. My mother had got busy with various fund-raising schemes for the theatre and donated her services as an usher. She was good-looking and young enough to be mistaken for an actress. She’d begun to dress like an actress, too, in shawls and long skirts and dangling necklaces. She’d left her hair wild and stopped wearing makeup. Of course, I had not understood or even particularly noticed these changes at the time. My mother was my mother. But no doubt Caro had. And my father. Though, from all that I know of his nature and his feelings for my mother, I think he may have been proud to see how good she looked in these liberating styles and how well she fit in with the theatre people. When he spoke about this time later on, he said that he had always approved of the arts. I can imagine now how embarrassed my mother would have been, cringing and laughing to cover up her cringing, if he’d made this declaration in front of her theatre friends. Well, then came a development that could have been foreseen and probably was, but not by my father. I don’t know if it happened to any of the other volunteers. I do know, though I don’t remember it, that my father wept and for a whole day followed my mother around the house, not letting her out of his sight and refusing to believe her. And, instead of telling him anything to make him feel better, she told him something that made him feel worse. She told him that the baby was Neal’s. Was she sure? Absolutely. She had been keeping track. What happened then? My father gave up weeping. He had to get back to work. My mother packed up our things and took us to live with Neal in the trailer he had found, out in the country. She said afterward that she had wept, too. But she said also that she had felt alive. Maybe for the first time in her life, truly alive. She felt as if she had been given a chance; she had started her life all over again. She’d walked out on her silver and her china and her decorating scheme and her flower garden and even on the books in her bookcase. She would live now, not read. She’d left her clothes hanging in the closet and her high-heeled shoes in their shoe trees. Her diamond ring and her wedding ring on the dresser. Her silk nightdresses in their drawer. She meant to go around naked at least some of the time in the country, as long as the weather stayed warm. That didn’t work out, because when she tried it Caro went and hid in her cot and even Neal said he wasn’t crazy about the idea. What did he think of all this? Neal. His philosophy, as he put it later, was to welcome whatever happened. Everything is a gift. We give and we take. I am suspicious of people who talk like this, but I can’t say that I have a right to be. He was not really an actor. He had got into acting, he said, as an experiment. To see what he could find out about himself. In college, before he dropped out, he had performed as part of the chorus in “Oedipus Rex.” He had liked that—the giving yourself over, blending with others. Then one day, on the street in Toronto, he ran into a friend who was on his way to try out for a summer job with a new small-town theatre company. He went along, having nothing better to do, and ended up getting the job, while the other fellow didn’t. He would play Banquo. Sometimes they make Banquo’s ghost visible, sometimes not. This time they wanted a visible version and Neal was the right size. An excellent size. A solid ghost. He had been thinking of wintering in our town anyway, before my mother sprang her surprise. He had already spotted the trailer. He had enough carpentry experience to pick up work renovating the theatre, which would see him through till spring. That was as far ahead as he liked to think. Caro didn’t even have to change schools. She was picked up by the school bus at the end of the short lane that ran alongside the gravel pit. She had to make friends with the country children, and perhaps explain some things to the town children who had been her friends the year before, but if she had any difficulty with that I never heard about it. Blitzee was always waiting by the road for her to come home. “That’s a very good question, which is why we’re going to move on to the next question.”Buy the print » I didn’t go to kindergarten, because my mother didn’t have a car. But I didn’t mind doing without other children. Caro, when she got home, was enough for me. And my mother was often in a playful mood. As soon as it snowed that winter she and I built a snowman and she asked, “Shall we call it Neal?” I said O.K., and we stuck various things on it to make it funny. Then we decided that I would run out of the house when his car came and say, “Here’s Neal, here’s Neal!” but be pointing up at the snowman. Which I did, but Neal got out of the car mad and yelled that he could have run me over. That was one of the few times that I saw him act like a father. Those short winter days must have seemed strange to me—in town, the lights came on at dusk. But children get used to changes. Sometimes I wondered about our other house. I didn’t exactly miss it or want to live there again—I just wondered where it had gone. My mother’s good times with Neal went on into the night. If I woke up and had to go to the bathroom, I’d call for her. She would come happily but not in any hurry, with some piece of cloth or a scarf wrapped around her—also a smell that I associated with candlelight and music. And love. Something did happen that was not so reassuring, but I didn’t try to make much sense of it at the time. Blitzee, our dog, was not very big, but she didn’t seem small enough to fit under Caro’s coat. I don’t know how Caro managed to do it. Not once but twice. She hid the dog under her coat on the school bus, and then, instead of going straight to school, she took Blitzee back to our old house in town, which was less than a block away. That was where my father found the dog, on the winter porch, which was not locked, when he came home for his solitary lunch. There was great surprise that she had got there, found her way home like a dog in a story. Caro made the biggest fuss, and claimed not to have seen the dog at all that morning. But then she made the mistake of trying it again, maybe a week later, and this time, though nobody on the bus or at school suspected her, our mother did. I can’t remember if our father brought Blitzee back to us. I can’t imagine him in the trailer or at the door of the trailer or even on the road to it. Maybe Neal went to the house in town and picked her up. Not that that’s any easier to imagine. If I’ve made it sound as though Caro was unhappy or scheming all the time, that isn’t the truth. As I’ve said, she did try to make me talk about things, at night in bed, but she wasn’t constantly airing grievances. It wasn’t her nature to be sulky. She was far too keen on making a good impression. She liked people to like her; she liked to stir up the air in a room with the promise of something you could even call merriment. She thought more about that than I did. She was the one who most took after our mother, I think now. There must have been some probing about what she’d done with the dog. I think I can remember some of it. “I did it for a trick.” “Do you want to go and live with your father?” I believe that was asked, and I believe she said no. I didn’t ask her anything. What she had done didn’t seem strange to me. That’s probably how it is with younger children—nothing that the strangely powerful older child does seems out of the ordinary. Our mail was deposited in a tin box on a post, down by the road. My mother and I would walk there every day, unless it was particularly stormy, to see what had been left for us. We did this after I got up from my nap. Sometimes it was the only time we went outside all day. In the morning, we watched children’s television shows—or she read while I watched. (She had not given up reading for very long.) We heated up some canned soup for lunch, then I went down for my nap while she read some more. She was quite big with the baby now and it stirred around in her stomach, so that I could feel it. Its name was going to be Brandy—already was Brandy—whether it was a boy or a girl. One day when we were going down the lane for the mail, and were in fact not far from the box, my mother stopped and stood quite still. “Quiet,” she said to me, though I hadn’t said a word or even played the shuffling game with my boots in the snow. “I was being quiet,” I said. “Shush. Turn around.” “But we didn’t get the mail.” “Never mind. Just walk.” Then I noticed that Blitzee, who was always with us, just behind or ahead of us, wasn’t there anymore. Another dog was, on the opposite side of the road, a few feet from the mailbox. My mother phoned the theatre as soon as we got home and let in Blitzee, who was waiting for us. Nobody answered. She phoned the school and asked someone to tell the bus driver to drive Caro up to the door. It turned out that the driver couldn’t do that, because it had snowed since Neal last plowed the lane, but he did watch until she got to the house. There was no wolf to be seen by that time. Neal was of the opinion that there never had been one. And if there had been, he said, it would have been no danger to us, weak as it was probably from hibernation. Caro said that wolves did not hibernate. “We learned about them in school.” Our mother wanted Neal to get a gun. “You think I’m going to get a gun and go and shoot a goddam poor mother wolf who has probably got a bunch of babies back in the bush and is just trying to protect them, the way you’re trying to protect yours?” he said quietly. Caro said, “Only two. They only have two at a time.” “O.K. O.K. I’m talking to your mother.” “You don’t know that,” my mother said. “You don’t know if it’s got hungry cubs or anything.” I had never thought she’d talk to him like that. He said, “Easy. Easy. Let’s just think a bit. Guns are a terrible thing. If I went and got a gun, then what would I be saying? That Vietnam was O.K.? That I might as well have gone to Vietnam?” “You’re not an American.” “You’re not going to rile me.” This is more or less what they said, and it ended up with Neal not having to get a gun. We never saw the wolf again, if it was a wolf. I think my mother stopped going to get the mail, but she may have become too big to be comfortable doing that anyway. The snow dwindled magically. The trees were still bare of leaves and my mother made Caro wear her coat in the mornings, but she came home after school dragging it behind her. My mother said that the baby had got to be twins, but the doctor said it wasn’t. “Great. Great,” Neal said, all in favor of the twins idea. “What do doctors know.” The gravel pit had filled to its brim with melted snow and rain, so that Caro had to edge around it on her way to catch the school bus. It was a little lake, still and dazzling under the clear sky. Caro asked with not much hope if we could play in it. Our mother said not to be crazy. “It must be twenty feet deep,” she said. Neal said, “Maybe ten.” Caro said, “Right around the edge it wouldn’t be.” Our mother said yes it was. “It just drops off,” she said. “It’s not like going in at the beach, for fuck’s sake. Just stay away from it.” She had started saying “fuck” quite a lot, perhaps more than Neal did, and in a more exasperated tone of voice. “Should we keep the dog away from it, too?” she asked him. Neal said that that wasn’t a problem. “Dogs can swim.” “C’mon, Luke—this is no time for prop comedy.”Buy the print » A Saturday. Caro watched “The Friendly Giant” with me and made comments that spoiled it. Neal was lying on the couch, which unfolded into his and my mother’s bed. He was smoking his kind of cigarettes, which could not be smoked at work so had to be made the most of on weekends. Caro sometimes bothered him, asking to try one. Once he had let her, but told her not to tell our mother. I was there, though, so I told. There was alarm, though not quite a row. “You know he’d have those kids out of here like a shot,” our mother said. “Never again.” “Never again,” Neal said agreeably. “So what if he feeds them poison Rice Krispies crap?” In the beginning, we hadn’t seen our father at all. Then, after Christmas, a plan had been worked out for Saturdays. Our mother always asked afterward if we had had a good time. I always said yes, and meant it, because I thought that if you went to a movie or to look at Lake Huron or ate in a restaurant, that meant that you had had a good time. Caro said yes, too, but in a tone of voice that suggested that it was none of our mother’s business. Then my father went on a winter holiday to Cuba (my mother remarked on this with some surprise and maybe approval) and came back with a lingering sort of flu that caused the visits to lapse. They were supposed to resume in the spring, but so far they hadn’t. After the television was turned off, Caro and I were sent outside to run around, as our mother said, and get some fresh air. We took the dog with us. When we got outside, the first thing we did was loosen and let trail the scarves our mother had wrapped around our necks. (The fact was, though we may not have put the two things together, the deeper she got into her pregnancy the more she slipped back into behaving like an ordinary mother, at least when it was a matter of scarves we didn’t need or regular meals. There was not so much championing of wild ways as there had been in the fall.) Caro asked me what I wanted to do, and I said I didn’t know. This was a formality on her part but the honest truth on mine. We let the dog lead us, anyway, and Blitzee’s idea was to go and look at the gravel pit. The wind was whipping the water up into little waves, and very soon we got cold, so we wound our scarves back around our necks. I don’t know how much time we spent just wandering around the water’s edge, knowing that we couldn’t be seen from the trailer. After a while, I realized that I was being given instructions. I was to go back to the trailer and tell Neal and our mother something. That the dog had fallen into the water. The dog had fallen into the water and Caro was afraid she’d be drowned. Blitzee. Drownded. Drowned. But Blitzee wasn’t in the water. She could be. And Caro could jump in to save her. I believe I still put up some argument, along the lines of she hasn’t, you haven’t, it could happen but it hasn’t. I also remembered that Neal had said dogs didn’t drown. Caro instructed me to do as I was told. Why? I may have said that, or I may have just stood there not obeying and trying to work up another argument. In my mind I can see her picking up Blitzee and tossing her, though Blitzee was trying to hang on to her coat. Then backing up, Caro backing up to take a run at the water. Running, jumping, all of a sudden hurling herself at the water. But I can’t recall the sound of the splashes as they, one after the other, hit the water. Not a little splash or a big one. Perhaps I had turned toward the trailer by then—I must have done so. When I dream of this, I am always running. And in my dreams I am running not toward the trailer but back toward the gravel pit. I can see Blitzee floundering around and Caro swimming toward her, swimming strongly, on the way to rescue her. I see her light-brown checked coat and her plaid scarf and her proud successful face and reddish hair darkened at the end of its curls by the water. All I have to do is watch and be happy—nothing required of me, after all. What I really did was make my way up the little incline toward the trailer. And when I got there I sat down. Just as if there had been a porch or a bench, though in fact the trailer had neither of these things. I sat down and waited for the next thing to happen. I know this because it’s a fact. I don’t know, however, what my plan was or what I was thinking. I was waiting, maybe, for the next act in Caro’s drama. Or in the dog’s. I don’t know if I sat there for five minutes. More? Less? It wasn’t too cold. I went to see a professional person about this once and she convinced me—for a time, she convinced me—that I must have tried the door of the trailer and found it locked. Locked because my mother and Neal were having sex and had locked it against interruptions. If I’d banged on the door they would have been angry. The counsellor was satisfied to bring me to this conclusion, and I was satisfied, too. For a while. But I no longer think that was true. I don’t think they would have locked the door, because I know that once they didn’t and Caro walked in and they laughed at the look on her face. Maybe I remembered that Neal had said that dogs did not drown, which meant that Caro’s rescue of Blitzee would not be necessary. Therefore she herself wouldn’t be able to carry out her game. So many games, with Caro. Did I think she could swim? At nine, many children can. And in fact it turned out that she’d had one lesson the summer before, but then we had moved to the trailer and she hadn’t taken any more. She may have thought she could manage well enough. And I may indeed have thought that she could do anything she wanted to. The counsellor did not suggest that I might have been sick of carrying out Caro’s orders, but the thought did occur to me. It doesn’t quite seem right, though. If I’d been older, maybe. At the time, I still expected her to fill my world. How long did I sit there? Likely not long. And it’s possible that I did knock. After a while. After a minute or two. In any case, my mother did, at some point, open the door, for no reason. A presentiment. Next thing, I am inside. My mother is yelling at Neal and trying to make him understand something. He is getting to his feet and standing there speaking to her, touching her, with such mildness and gentleness and consolation. But that is not what my mother wants at all and she tears herself away from him and runs out the door. He shakes his head and looks down at his bare feet. His big helpless-looking toes. I think he says something to me with a singsong sadness in his voice. Strange. Beyond that I have no details. My mother didn’t throw herself into the water. She didn’t go into labor from the shock. My brother, Brent, was not born until a week or ten days after the funeral, and he was a full-term infant. Where she was while she waited for the birth to happen I do not know. Perhaps she was kept in the hospital and sedated as much as possible under the circumstances. “Excuse me, sir—do you have a minute to listen to the dream I had last night?”Buy the print » I remember the day of the funeral quite well. A very pleasant and comfortable woman I didn’t know—her name was Josie—took me on an expedition. We visited some swings and a sort of doll’s house that was large enough for me to go inside, and we ate a lunch of my favorite treats, but not enough to make me sick. Josie was somebody I got to know very well later on. She was a friend my father had made in Cuba, and after the divorce she became my stepmother, his second wife. My mother recovered. She had to. There was Brent to look after and, most of the time, me. I believe I stayed with my father and Josie while she got settled in the house that she planned to live in for the rest of her life. I don’t remember being there with Brent until he was big enough to sit up in his high chair. My mother went back to her old duties at the theatre. At first she may have worked as she had before, as a volunteer usher, but by the time I was in school she had a real job, with pay, and year-round responsibilities. She was the business manager. The theatre survived, through various ups and downs, and is still going now. Neal didn’t believe in funerals, so he didn’t attend Caro’s. He never saw Brent. He wrote a letter—I found this out much later—saying that since he did not intend to act as a father it would be better for him to bow out at the start. I never mentioned him to Brent, because I thought it would upset my mother. Also because Brent showed so little sign of being like him—like Neal—and seemed, in fact, so much more like my father that I really wondered about what was going on around the time he was conceived. My father has never said anything about this and never would. He treats Brent just as he treats me, but he is the kind of man who would do that anyway. He and Josie have not had any children of their own, but I don’t think that bothers them. Josie is the only person who ever talks about Caro, and even she doesn’t do it often. She does say that my father doesn’t hold my mother responsible. He has also said that he must have been sort of a stick-in-the-mud when my mother wanted more excitement in her life. He needed a shaking-up, and he got one. There’s no use being sorry about it. Without the shaking-up, he would never have found Josie and the two of them would not have been so happy now. “Which two?” I might say, just to derail him, and he would staunchly say, “Josie. Josie, of course.” My mother cannot be made to recall any of those times, and I don’t bother her with them. I know that she has driven down the lane we lived on, and found it quite changed, with the sort of trendy houses you see now, put up on unproductive land. She mentioned this with the slight scorn that such houses evoke in her. I went down the lane myself but did not tell anyone. All the eviscerating that is done in families these days strikes me as a mistake. Even where the gravel pit was a house now stands, the ground beneath it levelled. I have a partner, Ruthann, who is younger than I am but, I think, somewhat wiser. Or at least more optimistic about what she calls routing out my demons. I would never have got in touch with Neal if it had not been for her urging. Of course, for a long time I had no way, just as I had no thought, of getting in touch. It was he who finally wrote to me. A brief note of congratulations, he said, after seeing my picture in the Alumni Gazette. What he was doing looking through the Alumni Gazette I have no idea. I had received one of those academic honors that mean something in a restricted circle and little anywhere else. He was living hardly fifty miles away from where I teach, which also happens to be where I went to college. I wondered if he had been there at that time. So close. Had he become a scholar? At first I had no intention of replying to the note, but I told Ruthann and she said that I should think about writing back. So the upshot was that I sent him an e-mail, and arrangements were made. I was to meet him in his town, in the unthreatening surroundings of a university cafeteria. I told myself that if he looked unbearable—I did not quite know what I meant by this—I could just walk on through. He was shorter than he used to be, as adults we remember from childhood usually are. His hair was thin, and trimmed close to his head. He got me a cup of tea. He was drinking tea himself. What did he do for a living? He said that he tutored students in preparation for exams. Also, he helped them write their essays. Sometimes, you might say, he wrote those essays. Of course, he charged. “It’s no way to get to be a millionaire, I can tell you.” He lived in a dump. Or a semi-respectable dump. He liked it. He looked for clothes at the Sally Ann. That was O.K., too. “Suits my principles.” I did not congratulate him on any of this, but, to tell the truth, I doubt that he expected me to. “Anyway, I don’t think my life style is so interesting. I think you might want to know how it happened.” I could not figure out how to speak. “I was stoned,” he said. “And, furthermore, I’m not a swimmer. Not many swimming pools around where I grew up. I’d have drowned, too. Is that what you wanted to know?” I said that he was not really the one that I was wondering about. Then he became the third person I’d asked, “What do you think Caro had in mind?” The counsellor had said that we couldn’t know. “Likely she herself didn’t know what she wanted. Attention? I don’t think she meant to drown herself. Attention to how bad she was feeling?” Ruthann had said, “To make your mother do what she wanted? Make her smarten up and see that she had to go back to your father?” Neal said, “It doesn’t matter. Maybe she thought she could paddle better than she could. Maybe she didn’t know how heavy winter clothes can get. Or that there wasn’t anybody in a position to help her.” He said to me, “Don’t waste your time. You’re not thinking what if you had hurried up and told, are you? Not trying to get in on the guilt?” I said that I had considered what he was saying, but no. “The thing is to be happy,” he said. “No matter what. Just try that. You can. It gets to be easier and easier. It’s nothing to do with circumstances. You wouldn’t believe how good it is. Accept everything and then tragedy disappears. Or tragedy lightens, anyway, and you’re just there, going along easy in the world.” Now, goodbye. I see what he meant. It really is the right thing to do. But, in my mind, Caro keeps running at the water and throwing herself, as if in triumph, and I’m still caught, waiting for her to explain to me, waiting for the splash.
Asleep in the Lord Mitchell had never so much as changed a baby’s diaper before. He’d never nursed a sick person, or seen anyone die, and now here he was, surrounded by a mass of dying people, and it was his job to help them die at peace, knowing they were loved. For the past three weeks, Mitchell had been in Calcutta, going to Mother Teresa’s Home for the Dying Destitutes Monday through Friday, from nine in the morning until a little after one, and doing whatever needed doing. This included giving the men medicine, feeding them, sitting on their beds and providing company, looking into their faces and holding their hands. These things weren’t something you had to learn how to do, and yet, in his twenty-two years on the planet, Mitchell had done few of them before and some of them not at all. He’d worried that he might run screaming from the place after ten minutes. But things had gone better than he expected. On his first day, he’d been taken around by a friendly, broad-shouldered guy who ran a honeybee farm in New Mexico. “You’ll see there’s not much organization here,” the beekeeper said, leading Mitchell down the aisle between the tiers of beds. “People come and go all the time, so you just have to jump in where you can.” The enterprise was a lot more modest than Mitchell had envisaged. The men’s ward contained fewer than a hundred beds, maybe closer to seventy-five. The women’s side was even smaller. The beekeeper led him past the soot-blackened kitchen and the equally primitive laundry. A nun stood before a vat of boiling water, poking the wash with a long stick, while another carried wet sheets up to the roof to hang out to dry. Mitchell took it easy that day, settling in. He spent most of his time providing small comforts, bringing the patients glasses of water or massaging their heads if they complained of headache. On the whole, the men were cleaner and healthier than he’d feared. Though there were a dozen or so superannuated patients, lying immobile in their beds, many were middle-aged, a few even young. It was often hard to tell what they were suffering from. No charts hung from their beds. What was plain was that the men had nowhere else to go. The nun in charge, Sister Louise, was a martinet with black Kissingerian glasses. All day long she stood at the front of the Home, barking orders. She treated volunteers like a nuisance. The rest of the nuns were uniformly gentle and kind. Mitchell wondered how they had the strength, small and delicate-boned as they were, to lift the destitute off the streets into the old ambulance, and how they carried out the bodies when people died. As for Mother Teresa, she had hospices and orphanages all over India, as well as in other countries, and spent most of her time overseeing the entire organization. Mitchell had heard that the best way to see her was to attend Mass at the Mother House, and so, one morning before sunrise, he walked through the dark, silent streets to the convent, on A. J. C. Bose Road. Entering the candlelit chapel, Mitchell tried not to show how excited he was––he felt like a fan with a backstage pass. He joined a small group of foreigners who had already assembled. On the floor in front of them the sisters were praying, not only kneeling but prostrating themselves before the altar. A flurry of head turnings on the part of the volunteers made him aware that Mother Teresa had entered the chapel. She looked impossibly tiny, no bigger than a twelve-year-old. Proceeding to the center of the room, she knelt and touched her forehead to the ground. All Mitchell could see was the soles of her bare feet. They were cracked and yellow––an old woman’s feet––but they seemed invested with the utmost significance. Most people didn’t come to India to volunteer for a Catholic order of nuns. Most people came to visit ashrams, smoke ganja, and live on next to nothing. Mitchell had learned this on arrival at the Salvation Army Guest House, on Sudder Street. The surrounding neighborhood constituted the city’s minimal tourist district. Across the street stood a palmy boarding house that catered to old India hands, mainly Brits. A few blocks away, up Jawaharlal Nehru Road, was the Oberoi Grand, with its turbaned doormen. The restaurant on the corner, ministering to backpacker tastes, served banana pancakes and hamburgers made from water buffalo. Mitchell’s roommate Mike, an ex-appliance salesman from Florida, claimed you could get bhang lassi on the next street over. At breakfast one morning, Mitchell walked into the dining room to find Mike sharing a table with a Californian in his sixties, dressed all in red. “Anybody sitting here?” Mitchell asked, pointing to an empty chair. The Californian, whose name was Herb, lifted his eyes to Mitchell’s. Herb clearly considered himself a spiritual person. The way he held your gaze let this be known. “Our table is your table,” he said. Mike was munching a piece of toast. After Mitchell sat down, Mike swallowed and said to Herb, “So go on.” Herb sipped his tea. He was balding, and had a shaggy gray beard. Around his neck hung a locket bearing a photograph of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh. “There’s an amazing energy in Poona,” Herb said. “It’s something you can feel when you’re there.” Originally, the Rajneeshees—who referred to themselves as “devotees”—had worn saffron clothing. But recently the Bhagwan had decided that there was too much saffron in circulation. So he’d put out the order for his disciples to start wearing red. “I’ve heard about the energy,” Mike said, winking at Mitchell. “What do you do out there? I hear you guys have orgies.” There was toleration in Herb’s mild smile. “Let me try to put it in terms you’ll understand,” he said. “It’s not acts in themselves that are good or evil. It’s the intention of the acts. For a lot of people, it’s best to keep things simple. Sex is bad. Sex is a no-no. But for other people, who have, let’s say, attained a higher level of enlightenment, the categories of good and evil pass away.” “So are you saying you have orgies out there?” Mike persisted. Herb looked at Mitchell. “Our friend here has a one-track mind.” “O.K.,” Mike said. “What about levitating? I hear people levitate.” Herb gathered his gray beard in both hands. Finally he allowed, “People levitate.” Throughout this discussion, Mitchell busied himself with buttering toast and dropping cubes of raw sugar into his teacup. It was important to scarf down as much toast as possible before the waiters stopped serving. “If I went to Poona, would they let me in?” Mike asked. “No,” Herb said. “If I wore all red would they?” “To stay at the ashram, you’d have to be a sincere devotee. The Bhagwan would see that you’re not sincere, no matter what you’re wearing.” “I’m interested, though,” Mike said. “I’m just kidding about the sex. The whole philosophy and everything, it’s interesting.” “You’re full of shit, Mike,” Herb said. “I know bullshit when I hear it.” “Do you?” Mitchell suddenly said. The challenge in this was clear, but Herb retained his equanimity, sipping tea. He glanced at Mitchell’s cross. “How’s your friend Mother Teresa?” he asked. “She’s fine.” “I read somewhere that she was just in Chile. Apparently, she’s good friends with Pinochet.” “She travels a lot to raise money,” Mitchell said. “Man,” Mike said, “I’m starting to feel sorry for myself. You’ve got the Bhagwan, Herbie. Mitchell’s got Mother Teresa. Who do I have? Nobody.” Like the dining room itself, the toast was trying to be British, and failing. The bread slices were the right shape. They looked like bread. But instead of being toasted they’d been grilled over a charcoal fire and tasted of ash. Even the unburned slices had a funny, unbreadlike flavor. “You know why I came here?” Mike was saying. “I came because I lost my job. The economy’s in the toilet, so I thought, What the hell, I’ll go to Southeast Asia. You can’t beat the exchange rate. I was in Chiang Mai with the hill tribes––you ever visit the hill tribes? They’re wild. We were staying in this hut and one of the guys from the tribe, the medicine man or whatever, he comes over with some opium. It was like five bucks! For a chunk this big. Man, did we ever get stoned.” He turned to Mitchell. “Have you ever had opium?” “Once,” Mitchell said. At this Herb’s eyes widened. “That surprises me,” he said. “That really does. I would have thought Christianity would frown on that kind of thing.” “It depends on the intention of the opium smoker,” Mitchell said. Herb narrowed his eyes. “Somebody’s feeling a little hostile this morning,” he said. “No,” Mitchell said. “Yes. Somebody is.” If Mitchell was ever going to become a good Christian, he would have to stop disliking people so intensely. But it was maybe asking too much to begin with Herb. Mitchell drank more tea and looked around the room, at its faded elegance, the tiled veranda full of potted plants, the white columns marred by electrical wires powering the wicker-bladed ceiling fans. Two Indian waiters in dirty white jackets scurried among the tables, serving travellers lounging in silk scarves and cotton drawstring pants. The long-haired, ginger-bearded guy at the next table was dressed all in white, like John Lennon on the cover of “Abbey Road.” “Sharks! Hundreds of ’em! Flying sharks! Everyone out of the water! They’re converging on the future!”Buy the print » Mitchell had always thought he’d been born too late to be a hippie. But he was wrong. Here it was 1983, and India was full of them. As far as Mitchell was concerned, the sixties were an Anglo-American phenomenon. It didn’t seem right that Continental Europeans, who had produced no decent rock music of their own, should be allowed to fall under its sway, to frug, to form communes, to sing Pink Floyd lyrics in heavily accented voices. That the Swedes and French people he met in India were still wearing love beads in the eighties only confirmed Mitchell’s prejudice that their participation in the sixties had been imitative at best. They liked the nudism, the ecology, the sunshine-and-health bits. They’d looked on from the sidelines and, after a while, tried to join in. The hippies weren’t the only long-haired figures in the dining room, however. Gazing out from the rear wall was none other than Jesus Christ himself. The mural depicted the Son of Man illuminated by a heavenly beam of light, his piercing blue eyes staring straight out at the diners. A caption proclaimed: Christ is the Head of the House. The Unseen Guest at Every Meal. The Silent Listener to Every Conversation. At a long table directly beneath the mural, a large group was gathered. The men in this group kept their hair short. The women favored long skirts, bib-collared blouses, and sandals with socks. They were sitting up straight, their napkins in their laps, conversing in low serious tones. These were the other volunteers for Mother Teresa. What if you had faith and performed good works, what if you died and went to Heaven, and what if all the people you met there were people you didn’t like? Mitchell had eaten breakfast at the volunteers’ table once before. The Belgians, Austrians, Swiss, and others had welcomed him warmly. They’d been quick to pass the marmalade. They had asked Mitchell polite questions about himself and had politely supplied information about themselves in return. But they told no jokes and seemed slightly pained by those he made. Mitchell had seen these people in action at the Home. He’d watched them perform difficult, messy tasks. He considered them impressive human beings, especially in comparison with someone like Herb. But he didn’t feel as if he fit in with them, no matter how much he tried. Before arriving in India, Mitchell had travelled for four months, visiting three continents and nine countries, but Calcutta felt like the first real place he’d been. Until now he’d been merely sightseeing. He had a newly minted degree in religious studies and, with the unemployment rate at 9.6, he’d planned to wait out the recession while travelling around the world (or as far as he could make it) and continuing the investigation into faith that he had embarked on when, during a freshman psychology course, he’d discovered the work of William James. Mitchell had expected “The Varieties of Religious Experience” to be clinical and cold, but it wasn’t at all. William James described “cases” of all kinds, women and men whom he’d met or corresponded with, people suffering from melancholia, from nervous maladies, from digestive complaints, people who had yearned for suicide, who’d heard voices and changed their lives overnight. He reported their testimonies without a shred of ridicule, as these individuals described in detail how they’d lost the will to live, how they’d been ill, bedridden, abandoned by friends and family, until suddenly a “New Thought” had occurred to them, the thought of their true place in the universe, at which point all their suffering had ended. As a student, Mitchell had kept coming back to a paragraph about the neurotic temperament he’d underlined that seemed to describe his own personality and, at the same time, to make him feel better about it. It went: Few of us are not in some way infirm, or even diseased; and our very infirmities help us unexpectedly. In [this] temperament we have the emotionality which is the sine qua non of moral perception; we have the intensity and the tendency to emphasis which are the essence of practical moral vigor; and we have love of metaphysics and mysticism which carry one’s interests beyond the surface of the sensible world. What, then, is more natural than that this temperament should introduce one to regions of religious truth, to corners of the universe, which your robust Philistine type of nervous system, forever offering its biceps to be felt, thumping its breast, and thanking Heaven that it hasn’t a single morbid fiber in its composition, would be sure to hide forever from its self-satisfied possessors? If there were such a thing as inspiration from a higher realm, it might well be that the neurotic temperament would furnish the chief condition of the requisite receptivity. Mitchell had embarked on his post-graduate travels in a state of exquisite receptivity. In Europe, he had found churches everywhere, spectacular cathedrals as well as quiet little chapels, all of them still functioning (though usually empty), each one open to a wandering pilgrim. He’d gone into these dark, superstitious spaces to stare at faded frescoes or crude, bloody paintings of Christ. He’d peered into dusty reliquary jars containing the bones of St. Whoever. In stiff-backed pews, smelling candle wax, he’d closed his eyes and sat as still as possible, opening himself up to whatever was there that might be interested in him. Maybe there was nothing. But how would you ever know if you didn’t send out a signal? That was what Mitchell was doing: he was sending out a signal to the home office. He had taken to reciting the Jesus prayer: Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. He did this not only because it was the prayer that Franny Glass repeated to herself in “Franny and Zooey” (though this was certainly a recommendation). Mitchell approved of Franny’s desperation, her withdrawal from life, and her disdain for “section men.” Still, it wasn’t until he’d come across the Jesus Prayer in a book called “The Orthodox Church” that he’d decided to give it a try. The Jesus Prayer, it turned out, belonged to the religious tradition into which Mitchell had been obscurely baptized twenty-two years earlier, and, although that was about the extent of his participation in the church, he felt entitled to say it. Mitchell liked the chantlike quality of the prayer. Franny said that you didn’t have to think about what you were saying; you just kept repeating the prayer until your heart took over and started repeating it for you. This was important, because, whenever Mitchell stopped to think about the words of the Jesus Prayer, he didn’t much like them. “Lord Jesus” was a difficult opener. It had a Bible Belt ring. Likewise, asking for “mercy” felt lowly and serflike. Having made it through “Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me,” however, Mitchell was confronted with the final stumbling block of “a sinner.” And this was hard indeed. The Gospels, which Mitchell didn’t take literally, said you had to die to be born again. The mystics, whom he took as literally as their metaphorical language allowed, said the self had to be subsumed in the Godhead. Mitchell liked the idea of being subsumed in the Godhead, but it was hard to kill your self off when you liked so many things about it. India, he thought, might be the place where he could make that happen. On his third day in Calcutta, before he started volunteering, Mitchell had indulged in the luxury of a barbershop shave. In the tumbledown shop, the barber applied hot towels to his face, lathered his cheeks and shaved them, and finished by running a battery-powered hand-massaging unit over his shoulders and neck. The barber wheeled Mitchell around to face the mirror and Mitchell looked at himself closely. He saw his pale face, his large eyes, his nose, lips, and chin, and something the matter with it all. He studied his reflection, searching for a clue. A few seconds later, responding to an urge that was almost violent, he told the barber to cut off his hair. The barber held up a pair of scissors. Mitchell shook his head. The barber held up the electric shaver, and Mitchell nodded. They had to negotiate the setting, agreeing, after a couple of swipes, on one-sixth of an inch. In ten minutes, it was done. Mitchell was sheared of his brown curls, which fell in heaps to the floor. A boy in ragged shorts swept them outside into the gutter. After leaving the barbershop, Mitchell kept checking out his dramatic reflection in the windows along the avenue. He looked like a ghost of himself. “You’ll probably think this is just some opening line, but . . . call me Ishmael.”Buy the print » One window Mitchell stopped to look at himself in was that of a jewelry store. He went in and found the case of religious medallions. There were crosses, Islamic crescents, Stars of David, yin-and-yang symbols, and other emblems he didn’t recognize. After deliberating among crosses of various styles and sizes, he chose one, along with a silver chain. The jeweller weighed the items, and elaborately wrapped them, putting them in a satin pouch, placing the pouch in a carved wooden box, and wrapping it with ornate paper before sealing the entire package with wax. As soon as Mitchell was back on the street, he ripped open the exquisite package and took the cross out. It was silver, with a blue inlay. It was not small. At first, he wore the cross inside his T-shirt, but a week later, after he became an official volunteer, he began wearing it outside, where everyone, including the sick and dying, could notice it. Whenever Mitchell had seen Mother Teresa on television, meeting Presidents or accepting humanitarian awards, looking, every time, like a crone in a fairy tale barging into a grand ball, whenever she stepped up to the microphone that was inevitably too high for her, so that she had to hieratically lift her face to speak into it––a face that was both girlish and grandmotherly and as indefinable as the oddly accented Eastern European voice that issued from the lipless mouth––whenever Mother Teresa spoke, it was to quote Matthew 25:40: “Whatsoever you do to the least of my brothers, that you do unto me.” This was the Scripture she’d founded her work on, at once an expression of mystical belief and a practical guide for performing charity work. The bodies at the Home for the Dying Destitutes, broken, diseased, were the bodies of Christ, divinity immanent in each one. What you were supposed to do here was to take this Scripture literally. To believe it strongly and earnestly enough so that, by some alchemy of the soul, it happened: you looked into a dying person’s eyes and saw Christ looking back. This hadn’t happened to Mitchell. He didn’t expect it to, but by the end of his second week he had become uncomfortably aware that he was performing only the simplest, least demanding tasks at the Home. He hadn’t given anyone a bath, for instance. Bathing the patients was the main service that the foreign volunteers provided. While Mitchell gave head massages, he watched people who looked in no way extraordinary perform the extraordinary task of cleaning and wiping the sick and dying men who populated the Home, bringing them back to their beds with their hair wet, their spindly bodies wrapped in fresh bedclothes. Day after day, Mitchell managed not to help with this. He was scared of what the patients’ naked bodies might look like, of the diseases or wounds that might lie under their robes, and he was afraid of their bodily effluvia, of his hands touching their urine and excrement. The neighborhood of Kalighat, in the southern part of Calcutta, derived its name from the Kali temple at its heart. The temple wasn’t much to look at, a kind of local branch building, with headquarters elsewhere, but the streets around it were hectic and colorful. Venders hawked worship paraphernalia––flower garlands, pots of ghee, lurid posters of the goddess Kali sticking her tongue out––to pilgrims swarming in and out of the temple doors. Directly behind the temple, sharing a wall with it, in fact, was the Home. Making his way through the throng outside at the end of his third week, Mitchell went through the inconspicuous door and down the steps into the semi-subterranean space. The tunnel-like room was dim, the only light issuing from street-level windows high in the exterior wall. Mitchell waited for his eyes to adjust. Slowly, as if being rolled in on their beds from the netherworld, the stricken bodies of the men appeared, in three shadowy tiers. Mitchell walked down the length of the ward to the supply room behind, where he found the Irish doctor, consulting a sheet of handwritten notes. “Ah, there you are,” she said. “I’ll have this ready in a moment.” She meant the medicine cart. She was standing in front of it, placing pills into numbered slots in the tray top. Behind her, boxed medical supplies rose to the ceiling. Even Mitchell, who knew nothing about pharmaceuticals, could tell that there was a redundancy problem: there was way too much of a few things (like gauze bandages and, for some reason, mouthwash) and scant wide-spectrum antibiotics like tetracycline. American organizations shipped medicines days before their expiration dates, claiming deductions on their tax returns. Many of the drugs treated conditions prevalent in affluent countries, such as hypertension and diabetes, while offering no help against common Indian maladies like tuberculosis, malaria, and trachoma. There was little in the way of painkillers––no morphine, no opiate derivatives. “Here’s something,” the doctor said, squinting at a green bottle. “Vitamin E. Good for the skin and libido. Just what these gents need.” She tossed the bottle in the trash, gesturing toward the cart. “It’s all yours,” she said. Mitchell maneuvered the cart out of the supply room and started down the line of beds. Dispensing medications was one of the jobs he liked. It was relatively easy work, intimate yet perfunctory. He didn’t know what the pills were for. He just had to make sure they went to the right people. Some men were well enough to sit up and take the pills themselves. With others, he had to support their heads and help them drink. Men who chewed paan had mouths like bloody, gaping wounds. The oldest often had no teeth at all. One after another, the men opened their mouths, letting Mitchell place pills on their tongues. There was no pill for the man in bed twenty-four. Mitchell quickly saw why. A discolored bandage covered half his face. The cotton gauze was deeply recessed into the flesh, as if adhering directly to the skull beneath. The man’s eyes were closed, but his lips were parted in a grimace. As Mitchell was taking all this in, a deep voice spoke up behind him. “Welcome to India.” It was the beekeeper, holding fresh gauze, tape, and a pair of scissors. “Staph infection,” he said, gesturing toward the bandaged man. “Guy probably cut himself shaving. Something simple like that. Then he goes to wash in the river, or perform puja, and it’s all over. The bacteria get in the cut and start eating away his face. We just changed his bandage three hours ago and now it needs changing again.” The beekeeper was full of information like this, all part of his interest in medicine. Taking advantage of the lack of trained medical staff, he operated in the ward almost as an intern, following orders from the doctors and performing actual procedures, cleaning wounds, or picking maggots from necrotic flesh with a pair of tweezers. Now he knelt down, squeezing his body into the narrow space between the beds. “It’s O.K., fella,” the beekeeper said. “I’m your friend. I’m here to help.” The beekeeper had brought his entire family to Calcutta, his wife and two children, for the Christmas vacation. They were volunteering at an orphanage in a different part of the city. He was a deeply sincere, deeply good person. If Mitchell was a sick soul, according to William James’s categories, then the beekeeper was definitely healthy-minded. (“I mean those who, when unhappiness is offered or proposed to them, positively refuse to feel it, as if it were something mean and wrong.”) It was inspiring to think about the beekeeper, tending his bees in the high desert, raising his children and staying passionately in love with his wife (he often spoke of this), producing honey in every direction you looked. And out of this perfect life had come the need to break out of it, to bring it into real difficulty, even hardship, in order to relieve the suffering of others. It was to be around people like the beekeeper that Mitchell had come to Calcutta, to see what they were like and to have their goodness rub off on him. The beekeeper turned his sunny face up to Mitchell’s. “How you holding up today?” he asked. “Fine. I’m just giving out the medicine.” “It’s good to see you here. How long you been coming now?” “This is my third week.” “Good man! Some people poop out after a couple days. Keep on keeping on. We need all the help we can get.” “I will,” Mitchell said, and he pushed the cart forward. The man in bed fifty-seven was propped up on one elbow, watching Mitchell in a lordly fashion. He had a fine-boned, patrician face, short hair, and a sallow complexion. As Mitchell offered him his pills, the man said, “What is the point of these medications?” Momentarily startled by his English, Mitchell said, “I’m not sure what they’re for, exactly. I could ask the doctor.” The man flared his nostrils. “They are palliatives at best.” He made no move to take them. “An American would never languish in an institution of this nature. Isn’t that correct?” “Probably not,” Mitchell admitted. “I should also not be here,” the man said. “Years ago, before my illness, it was my fortune to serve in the Department of Agriculture. Perhaps you remember the famines we had in India. George Harrison made his famous concert for Bangladesh. That is what everyone remembers. But the situation in India was equally calamitous. Today, as a result of the changes we made in those times, Mother India is again feeding her children. In the last fifteen years agricultural output per capita has risen five per cent. We are no longer importing grain. We are growing grain in sufficient quantities to feed a population of seven hundred million souls.” “That’s good to know,” Mitchell said. The man went on as though Mitchell hadn’t spoken. “I lost my position due to nepotism. There is great corruption in this country. Great corruption! Then, a few years later, I acquired an infection that devastated my kidneys. I have only twenty-per-cent kidney function left. As I am speaking to you, the impurities are building up in my blood. Building up to intolerable levels.” He stared at Mitchell with fierce bloodshot eyes. “My condition requires weekly dialysis. I have been trying to tell the sisters this, but they don’t understand. Stupid village girls!” The agronomist glared for a moment longer. Then, surprisingly, he opened his mouth like a child. Mitchell put the pills in the man’s mouth, waiting for him to swallow. “I like to sit facing the room to see if anyone seated after us gets served before us.”Buy the print » When Mitchell finished, he went to find the doctor, but she was busy in the female ward. It wasn’t until he was about to leave that he had a chance to talk with her. “There’s a man here who says he needs dialysis,” he told the doctor. “I’m sure he does,” she said, smiling sadly, and, nodding, walked off. The weekend arrived, and Mitchell was free to do what he liked. At breakfast he found Mike hunched over the table, staring at a photograph. “You ever been to Thailand?” he said as Mitchell sat down. “Not yet.” “Place is stupendous.” Mike handed the snapshot to Mitchell. “Check out this girl.” The photograph showed a slender Thai girl, not pretty but very young, standing on the porch of a bamboo hut. “Her name’s Meha,” Mike said. “She wanted to marry me.” He snorted. “I know, I know. She’s a bar girl. But when we met she’d only been working for like a week. We didn’t even do anything at first. Just talked. She said she wanted to learn English, for her job, so we sat at the bar and I taught her some words. She’s seventeen. We went to Phuket together for a week. She was like my girlfriend. It was really nice. Anyway, we get back to Bangkok, finally, and she tells me she wants to marry me. Can you believe it? She said she wanted to come back to the States with me. I actually thought about it for a minute, I’m not kidding you. You tell me I could get a girl like that back in the States? Who would cook and clean for me? And who’s a piece of ass? So, yeah, I thought about it. But then I’m taking a piss one day and I get this burning in my johnson. I thought she’d given me something! So I went to the bar and ragged her out. Turned out it was nothing. Just some spermicide or whatever getting up my shaft. I went back to apologize to Meha but she wouldn’t talk to me. Had some other guy sitting with her. Some fat Dutch guy.” Mitchell handed the photograph back. “What do you think?” Mike said. “She’s pretty, right?” “Probably a good thing that you didn’t marry her.” “I know. I’m an idiot. But I’m telling you, she was sexy, man. Jesus.” He shook his head, putting the snapshot back into his wallet. After breakfast, Mitchell wandered into the little lending library on the second floor of the Guest House, browsing the shelves of inspirational and religious titles. The only other person there was Rüdiger, his other roommate, a thirty-seven-year-old German who had been travelling for seventeen straight years, visiting, by his own claim, every country in the world except North Korea and South Yemen. He’d arrived in Calcutta by bicycle, riding the two thousand kilometres from Bombay on an Italian ten-speed and sleeping out in the open beside the road. As soon as he’d got to the city, he’d sold the bike, making enough money to live for the next three months. Rüdiger was sitting cross-legged on the floor, reading. He had a large head, wide-set gray eyes, and a slight Habsburg jaw, and he was dressed in clothes he’d made himself, tight-fitting maroon pants that ended at his calves and a sleeveless tunic the color of freshly ground turmeric. The snugness of his clothes, along with his lithe frame and his bare feet, gave him a resemblance to a circus acrobat. As Mitchell took a book down from one of the shelves, Francis Schaeffer’s “The God Who Is There,” Rüdiger suddenly spoke up. “I also cut my hair,” he said. He ran his hand over his bristly scalp. “I used to have so beautiful curls. But the vanity, it was so heavy.” “I’m not sure it was vanity in my case,” Mitchell said. “Then what was it?” “Sort of a cleansing process.” “But that is the same thing! I know the person you are,” Rüdiger said, examining Mitchell closely and nodding. “You think you are not a vain person. You are maybe not so much into your body. But you are probably more vain about how intelligent you are. Or how good you are. So maybe, in your case, cutting off your hair only made your vanity heavier!” “It’s possible,” Mitchell said. “I am reading a book what is fantastic,” Rüdiger said, veering onto another subject. “I am reading this book since yesterday and I am thinking every minute, Wow.” “What is it?” Mitchell asked. “ ‘The Answers of Jesus to Job.’ ” Rüdiger held up a frayed green hardback. “In the Old Testament, Job is always asking God questions. ‘Why do you do so terrible things to me? I am your faithful servant.’ He goes on asking and asking. But does God answer? No. God doesn’t say nothing. But Jesus is a different story. The man who is writing this book has a theory that the New Testament is a direct response to the Book of Job. I come into the library here and I find this book and it is a doozy, as you Americans say.” “We do not say ‘doozy,’ ” Mitchell said. Rüdiger raised his eyebrows skeptically. “When I was in America they always said ‘doozy.’ ” “When was that, 1940?” “1973!” Rüdiger objected. “Benton Harbor, Michigan. I work for a fine printer for three months. Lloyd G. Holloway. I have this idea to become a master printer. And Lloyd G. Holloway, who was my master, always said ‘doozy.’ ” “O.K.,” Mitchell allowed. “Maybe in Benton Harbor. I’m from Michigan, too.” “Please,” Rüdiger said dismissively. “Let’s not try to understand each other by autobiography.” And with that he went back to his book. Mitchell spent the rest of the day walking around the city. His concern that he wasn’t coming up to the mark at the Home coexisted, oddly, with a surge of real religious feeling on his part. Much of the time in Calcutta he was filled with an ecstatic tranquillity, like a low-grade fever. His meditation practice had deepened. He experienced plunging sensations, as if moving at great speed. For whole minutes, he forgot who he was. Outside, he tried, and often succeeded in, disappearing to himself in order to be, paradoxically, more present. There was no good way to describe any of this. Even Thomas Merton, whose journals Mitchell had been carrying around in his duffelbag, could only say things like “I have got into the habit of walking up and down under the trees or along the wall of the cemetery in the presence of God.” The thing was, Mitchell now knew what Merton meant, or thought he did. As he took in the marvellous sights, the dusty polo grounds, the holy cows with their painted horns, he had got into the habit of walking around Calcutta in the presence of God. Some cities have fallen into ruin and some are built upon ruins, but others contain their own ruins while still growing. Calcutta was a city like that. Mitchell walked along Chowringhee Road, gazing up at the buildings, repeating a phrase he remembered from William Gaddis, “the accumulation of time in walls,” and thinking to himself that the British had left behind a bureaucracy that the Indians had made only more complex, investing the financial and governmental systems with the myriad hierarchies of the Hindu pantheon, with the levels upon levels of the caste system, so that to cash a traveller’s check was like passing before a series of demigods, one man to check your passport, another to stamp your check, another to make a carbon of your transaction, while still another wrote out the amount, before you could receive money from the teller. Everything documented, checked over, scrupulously filed away, and then forgotten forever. Calcutta was a shell, the shell of empire, and from inside this shell nine million Indians spilled out. There were graveyards filled with the British dead, forests of eroded obelisks in which Mitchell could make out only a few words. Lt. James Barton, husband of. 1857-18—. Rosalind Blake, wife of Col. Michael Peters. Asleep in the Lord, 1887. Tropical vines infiltrated the cemetery, and palm trees grew near family mausoleums. Broken coconuts lay scattered over the gravel. Rebecca Winthrop, age eight months. Mary Holmes. Died in childbirth. The statuary was Victorian and extravagant. Angels kept vigil over graves, their faces worn away. Apollonian temples housed the remains of East India Company officials, the pillars fallen, the pediments askew. Of malaria. Of typhus. A groundskeeper came out to see what Mitchell was doing. There was no place in Calcutta to be alone. Even a deserted cemetery had its custodian. Asleep in the Lord. Asleep in. Asleep. On Sunday, Mitchell went into the streets even earlier. Rickshaw drivers called to him, offering rides, but he refused, horrified at the thought of employing a person as a beast of burden. Instead, he went around by foot, staying out all day, and returned to the Guest House only in time for afternoon tea. Rüdiger appeared on the veranda. “So tell me something,” Rüdiger said. “Why do you come to India?” “I wanted to go somewhere different from America,” Mitchell answered. “And I wanted to volunteer for Mother Teresa.” “So you come here to do good works.” “To try, at least.” “It’s interesting about good works. I am German, so of course I know all about Martin Luther. The problem is, no matter how much we try to be good, we cannot be good enough. So Luther says you must be justified by faith. But Nietzsche thought Martin Luther was just making it easy on everybody. Don’t worry if you can’t do good works, people. Just believe. Have faith. Faith will justify you! Right? Maybe, maybe not. Nietzsche wasn’t against Christianity, as everybody thinks. Nietzsche just thought there was only one Christian, and that was Christ. After him, it was finished.” “What do I do? I’m a film remaker.”Buy the print » He’d worked himself up into a reverie. He was staring up at the ceiling, smiling, his face shining. “It would be nice to be a Christian like that. The first Christian. Before the whole thing went kaput.” “Is that what you want to be?” “I am just a traveller. I travel, I carry everything I need with me, and I don’t have problems. I don’t have a job unless I need it. I don’t have a wife. I don’t have children.” “You don’t have shoes,” Mitchell pointed out. “I used to have shoes. But then I realize it is much better without them. I have gone all over without shoes. Even in New York.” “You went barefoot in New York?” “It is wonderful barefoot in New York. It is like walking on one big giant tomb!” On Monday, a volunteer Mitchell had never seen before already had the medicine cart out. The Irish doctor had returned to Dublin and in her place was a new doctor, who spoke only Italian. Deprived of his usual morning activity, Mitchell spent the first hour floating around the ward. In a bed on the top row was a boy of eight or nine, holding a jack-in-the-box. Mitchell had never seen a child at the Home before, and he climbed up to sit with him. The boy handed the jack-in-the-box to Mitchell. Mitchell saw at once that the toy was broken. The lid wouldn’t snap shut to keep the puppet inside. Holding it down with his finger, Mitchell motioned for the boy to turn the crank and, at the appropriate moment, he released the lid, letting Jack jump out. The boy loved this. He made Mitchell do it over and over again. By this time it was after ten o’clock. Too early to serve lunch. Too early to leave. Most of the other volunteers were bathing the patients, or stripping the dirty linens off their beds, or wiping down the rubber mats protecting the mattresses––doing, that is, the dirty, smelly jobs that Mitchell should have been doing also. For a moment, he resolved to start right now, right this minute. But then he saw the beekeeper coming his way, arms full of soiled linens, and with an involuntary reflex Mitchell backed through the arch and climbed the stairs straight to the roof. He told himself he was just going up to the roof for a minute or two, to get away from the disinfectant smell of the ward. On the roof, two female volunteers were hanging wet laundry on the line. One of them, who sounded American, was saying, “I told Mother I was thinking of taking a vacation. Maybe go to Thailand and lie on the beach for a week or two. I’ve been here almost six months.” “What did she say?” “She said the only important thing in life is charity.” “That’s why she’s a saint,” the other woman said. “Can’t I become a saint and go to the beach, too?” the American woman said, and they both laughed. With sudden resolve, Mitchell went back down the stairs and found the beekeeper. “I’m back,” he said. “Good man,” the beekeeper said. “Just in time. I need a hand.” He led Mitchell to a bed in the middle of the room. Lying on it was a man who, even among the other old men, was especially emaciated. Wrapped in his sheet, he looked as ancient and brown-skinned as an Egyptian mummy, a resemblance that his sunken cheeks and curving, bladelike nose emphasized. Unlike a mummy, however, the man had his eyes wide open. They were blue and terrified and seemed to be staring up at something only he could see. The incessant quaking of his limbs added to the impression of extreme terror on his face. “This gentleman needs a bath,” the beekeeper said in his deep voice. “Somebody’s got the stretcher, so we’ll have to carry him.” It was unclear how they were going to manage this. Mitchell went down to the foot of the bed, waiting while the beekeeper pulled off the old man’s sheet. Thus exposed, the man looked even more skeletal. The beekeeper grabbed him under his arms, Mitchell took hold of his ankles, and in this indelicate fashion they lifted him off the mattress and into the aisle. They soon realized they should have waited for the stretcher. The old man was heavier than they’d expected, and unwieldy. He sagged between them like an animal carcass. They tried to be as careful as possible, but once they were moving down the aisle there was nowhere to set the old man down. The best thing seemed to be to get him to the lavatory as soon as possible, and, in their haste, they began to treat the old man less like a person they were carrying and more like an object. That he didn’t seem aware of what was happening only encouraged this. A yellow stone room, with a slab at one end, on which they set the old man down, the bathroom was lit by misty light filtering through a single stone lattice window. Brass spigots protruded from the walls, and a big, abattoir-like drain was sunk in the middle of the floor. Neither Mitchell nor the beekeeper acknowledged what a lousy job they’d done carrying the old man. He was lying on his back now, his limbs still shaking violently. Slowly they pulled his hospital gown over his head. Underneath, a soggy bandage covered his groin. Mitchell wasn’t frightened anymore. He was ready for whatever he had to do. This was it. This was what he’d come for. With safety scissors the beekeeper snipped the adhesive tape. The pus-stained swaddling came apart in two pieces, revealing the source of the old man’s agony. A tumor the size of a grapefruit had invaded his scrotum. At first, the sheer size of the growth made it difficult to identify as a tumor; it looked more like a pink balloon. The tumor was so big that it had stretched the normally wrinkled skin of the scrotum as taut as a drum. At the top of the bulge, like the tied-off neck of the balloon, the man’s shrivelled penis hung to one side. As the bandage fell away, the old man moved his palsied hands to cover himself. It was the first sign that he knew they were there. The beekeeper turned on the spigot, testing the water’s temperature. He filled a bucket. Holding it aloft, he began pouring it slowly, ceremonially, over the old man. “This is the body of Christ,” the beekeeper said. He filled another bucket and repeated the process, intoning: “This is the body of Christ. “This is the body of Christ. “This is the body of Christ.” Mitchell filled a bucket himself and began pouring it over the old man. He wondered if the falling water increased the old man’s pain. There was no way to tell. They lathered the old man with antiseptic soap, using their bare hands. They washed his feet, his legs, his backside, his chest, his arms, his neck. Not for a moment did Mitchell believe that the cancerous body on the slab was the body of Christ. He bathed the man as gently as possible, scrubbing around the base of the tumor, which was venomously reddened and seeping blood. He was trying to make the man feel less ashamed, to let him know, in his last days, that he wasn’t alone, not entirely, and that the two strange figures bathing him, however clumsy and inexpert, were nevertheless trying to do their best for him. Once they’d rinsed the man and dried him off, the beekeeper fashioned a new bandage. They dressed him in clean bedclothes and carried him back to the men’s ward. When they deposited him in his bed, the old man was still staring up blindly, shuddering with pain, as though they’d never been there at all. “O.K., thanks a lot,” the beekeeper said. “Hey, take these towels to the laundry, will you?” Mitchell took the towels, worrying only a little about what was on them. All in all, he felt proud of what had just happened. As he bent over the laundry basket, his cross swung away from his chest, casting a shadow on the wall. He was on his way to check on the little boy when he saw the agronomist. The small, intense man was sitting up in bed, his complexion considerably more jaundiced, the yellow leaking even into the whites of his eyes. “Hello,” Mitchell said. The agronomist looked at him sharply but said nothing. Since he had no good news to impart about the prospects of dialysis, Mitchell sat on the bed and, without asking, began massaging the agronomist’s back. He rubbed his shoulders, his neck, and his head. After fifteen minutes, when he was finished, Mitchell asked, “Is there anything I can get for you?” The agronomist seemed to think this over. “I want to shit,” he said. Mitchell was taken aback. Before he could do or say anything, however, a smiling young Indian man appeared before them. It was the barber. He held up a shaving mug, a brush, and a straight razor. “Going to shave!” he announced in a jovial tone. Without further preliminaries he began lathering the agronomist’s cheeks. The agronomist didn’t have the energy to resist. “I have to shit,” he said again, a little more urgent. “Shave, shave,” the barber repeated, using his only English. Mitchell didn’t know where the bedpans were kept. He was afraid of what would happen if he didn’t find one soon, and he was afraid of what would happen if he did. He turned away, looking for help. All the other volunteers were busy. There were no nuns nearby. By the time Mitchell turned back, the agronomist had forgotten all about him. Both his cheeks were lathered now. He shut his eyes, grimacing, as he said in desperation, in anger, in relief, “I’m shitting!” The barber, oblivious, began to shave his cheeks. Buy the print » And Mitchell began to move. Already knowing that he would regret this moment for a long time, maybe for the rest of his life, and yet unable to resist the sweet impulse that ran through his every nerve, Mitchell headed toward the front of the Home, right past Matthew 25:40, and up the steps to the bright, fallen world above. The street was thick with pilgrims. From the Kali temple, he heard cymbals clashing. They built to crescendos and then went silent. Mitchell hurried to the bus stop, going against the flow of pedestrians. He looked behind him to see if he was being followed. But no one had seen him leave. The sooty bus that arrived was even more crowded than usual. Mitchell had to climb up on the back bumper with a squad of young men and hang on for dear life. A few minutes later, when the bus paused in traffic, he clambered up to the luggage rack. The passengers there, also young, smiled at him, amused to see a foreigner riding on the roof. As the bus rumbled toward the central district, Mitchell surveyed the city passing by below. Street urchins were begging on the sidewalks. Stray dogs, with ugly snouts, picked over garbage or slept on their sides in the midday sun. In the outlying districts, the storefronts and habitations were humble, but as the bus neared the center of town the buildings grew grander. Their plaster façades were flaking off, the iron grilles on the balconies broken or missing. Mitchell was high enough to see into apartment living rooms. A few were furnished with velvet drapes and ornately carved furniture. But most were bare, nothing in them but a mat on the floor where an entire family sat, eating their lunch. He got off near the Indian Railways office. In the underlit interior, presided over by a black-and-white portrait of Gandhi, Mitchell waited to buy his ticket. The line moved slowly, giving him plenty of time to scan the departures board and decide where he was going. South to Madras? Up to the Hill Country in Darjeeling? There was a train leaving for Benares at eight-twenty-four that evening from Howrah Station. It arrived at the holy city on the Ganges at noon. The speed with which he left the railways office after purchasing his ticket and went about buying provisions for his trip was like that of someone making a getaway. He bought bottled water, mandarins, a chocolate bar, a package of biscuits, and a hunk of strangely crumbly cheese. Back at the Guest House, packing up took a minute and a half. He threw his extra T-shirt and pants into his duffelbag, along with his toiletry case and his pocket New Testament. He was crossing the courtyard when he ran into Mike. “You checking out?” Mike said, noticing the duffelbag. “Decided to do some travelling,” Mitchell said. “But, hey, before I go, do you remember that lassi shop you told me about? Can you show me where it is?” Mike was happy to oblige. They crossed Sudder Street, past the chai stand on the other side and into the warren of narrower streets beyond. As they were walking, a beggar came up, holding his hand out and crying, “Baksheesh! Baksheesh!” Mike kept on going, but Mitchell stopped. Digging into the pocket of his pants, he pulled out twenty paise and placed it in the beggar’s dirty hand. Mike said, “I used to give to beggars when I first came here. But then I realized it’s hopeless. It never stops.” “Jesus said you should give to whoever asks you,” Mitchell said. “Yeah, well,” Mike said, “obviously Jesus was never in Calcutta.” The lassi shop turned out not to be a shop at all but a cart parked against a pockmarked wall. Three pitchers sat on its top, towels over the mouths to keep out flies. The vender explained what was in each, pointing. “Salt lassi. Sweet lassi. Bhang lassi.” “We’re here for the bhang lassi,” Mike said. This provoked merriment from two men loafing against the wall. “Bhang lassi!” they cried out. “Bhang!” The vender poured two tall glasses. The bhang lassi was a greenish brown. There were visible chunks in it. “This stuff will get you fucked up,” Mike said, lifting the glass to his mouth. Mitchell took a sip. It tasted like pond scum. “Speaking of fucked up,” he said. “Can I see that picture of that girl you met in Thailand?” Mike grinned lecherously, fishing out his wallet. He handed it to Mitchell. Without looking at it, Mitchell promptly tore the photo in half and threw it on the ground. “Hey!” “All gone,” Mitchell said. “You ripped my photo! Why did you do that?” “I’m helping you out. It’s pathetic.” “Screw you!” Mike said, his teeth bared, ratlike. “Fucking Jesus freak!” “Let’s see. What’s worse? Being a Jesus freak or buying underage prostitutes?” “Ooh, here comes a beggar,” Mike said derisively. “I think I’ll give him some money. I’m so holy! I’m going to save the world!” “Ooh, here comes a Thai bar girl. I think she likes me! I’m going to marry her! I’m going to take her home to cook and clean for me. I can’t get a woman in my own country because I’m a fat, unemployed slob. So I’ll get a Thai girl.” “You know what? Fuck you and Mother Teresa! So long, asshole. Have fun with your nuns. I hope they jerk you off because you need it.” By the time Mitchell left for the train station, evening had fallen. Crowds of people were walking down the center of the street, the yellow bulbs strung over their heads like lights at a carnival. Music venders were tooting their wooden flutes and plastic trombones, trying to entice customers, and the restaurants were open. Mitchell walked beneath the vast trees, his mind humming. The air felt soft against his face. In a sense, the bhang was superfluous. The quantity of sensations bombarding him as he reached the corner—the incessant honking of taxis, the chugging of truck engines, the shouts of the antlike men pushing carts piled with turnips or scrap metal—would have made him dizzy even if he were completely straight. It was like a contact buzz on top of a buzz. Suddenly, swooping in from his peripheral vision, a rickshaw stopped beside him. The rickshaw wallah, a gaunt dark man with a green towel wrapped around his head, beckoned to Mitchell, gesturing toward the empty seat. Mitchell looked back at the impenetrable wall of traffic. He looked at the seat. And the next thing he knew he was climbing up into it. The rickshaw wallah bent down to grab hold of the long wooden handles of the rickshaw. As quickly as a runner at the starting gun, he darted into traffic. For a long time they moved sideways through the jam. The rickshaw wallah snaked his way between the vehicles. Whenever he found a seam alongside a bus or a truck he plunged forward until he was forced to cut back again against the grain. The rickshaw stopped and started, swerved, sped up, and abruptly halted, like a bumper-car ride. The seat was thronelike, upholstered in bright-red vinyl and decorated with a portrait of Ganesh. The awning was down, so that Mitchell could see the big wooden wheels on either side. Every now and then they came abreast of another rickshaw, and he looked across at his fellow-exploiters. A Brahmin woman, her sari exposing the roll of fat on her stomach. Three schoolgirls doing their homework. The honking and shouting seemed to be happening in Mitchell’s mind. The driver’s dark-skinned back gleamed with perspiration, the sinews working beneath it as taut as piano strings. After fifteen minutes of zigzagging, they left the main thoroughfare and picked up speed, passing through a neighborhood largely without lights. The red vinyl seat squeaked like a diner booth. Elephant-headed Ganesh had the sooty eyelashes of a Bollywood idol. Suddenly, the sky brightened, and Mitchell gazed up to see the steel supports of a bridge. It rose into the air like a Ferris wheel, ringed with colored bulbs. Down below was the Hooghly River, pitch black, reflecting the red neon sign of the train station on the far bank. Mitchell leaned out of his seat to look down at the water. If he fell out of the rickshaw now, he would plunge straight down hundreds of feet. No one would ever know. But he didn’t fall. He remained upright in the rickshaw, carried along like a sahib. He felt ecstatic. He was being carried away, a vessel in a vessel. Mitchell understood the Jesus Prayer now. Understood mercy. Understood sinner, for sure. As he passed over the bridge, his lips weren’t moving. He wasn’t thinking a thing. It was as if, just as Franny had promised, the prayer had taken over and was saying itself in his heart: Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a sinner.
Above And Below She’d been kept awake all night by the palm berries clattering on the roof, and when she woke to the sun blazing through the window she’d had enough. Goodbye to all that! she sang, moving the little she owned to the station wagon: her ex-boyfriend’s guitar, the camping equipment they’d bought the first year of grad school (their single night on the Suwannee, they were petrified by the bellows of bull gators), a crate of books. Goodbye to the hundreds of others she was leaving stacked against the wall: Worthless, the man had told her when she tried to sell them. Goodbye to the glass mountain of debt she was slithering out from underneath. Goodbye to the hunter-orange eviction notice. Goodbye to longing. She would be empty now, having chosen to lose. The apartment was a shell, scoured to enamel. She breathed fully when she stepped out onto the porch. There was a brief swim of vertigo only when she shooed the cat out the door. Oh, you’ll be all right, she said, and reached for the silky fur between his ears, but, as quick as a blink, he struck at her. When she looked up from the four jagged lines slowly beading with blood on the back of her hand, he had leaped away. Then he, too, was gone. She drove past the brick university, where the first-years were already unloading their sedans, their parents hugging their own shoulders for comfort. Goodbye, she said aloud to the tune of the tires humming on the road. After a summer with the power shut off, a summer of reading by the open window in her sweat-soaked underwear, the car’s air-conditioner felt frigid. She opened the window and smelled the queer dank musk of deep-country Florida. Out here, people decorated their yards with big rocks and believed they could talk to God. Here, “Derrida” was only French for rear end. She thrust her fist out the window and relaxed it slowly. She could almost see her hopes peeling from her palm and skipping down the road in her wake: the books with her name on them; the sabbatical in Florence; the gleaming modern house at the edge of the woods. Gone. When she looked at her hand again, it was puffy and hot and oozing. She put it to her mouth. When she stopped at last at the edge of a little oceanside town and gazed over the dune grass at the sea, her tongue was coppery with the taste of blood. Someone had left a cooler on the beach, and it still held a bag of apples, a half-eaten sandwich, two Cokes. She sat, watching the dusk turn mustard and watermelon, and ate everything. Seabirds clustered on the wet sand, then winged apart into the air. When it grew too dark for her to see, she took the cooler back to the car and walked up to A1A to a pay phone. She was poised to hang up if her stepfather answered, but it was her mother, vague and slow, saying, Hello? Hello? She couldn’t speak. She imagined her mother in her nightgown in the kitchen, a sunset, the neighbor kids playing outside. Hello? her mother said again, and she managed, Hello, Mom. Honey, her mother said. What a treat to hear from you. Mom, she said. I just wanted to let you know that I moved. I don’t have a new number yet, though. She waited, feeling the sunburn begin to prickle in her cheeks, but her mother said only, Is that so?, absently. Ever since she’d been remarried, she’d had chronic idiopathic pain, treated, also chronically, with painkillers. She hadn’t remembered her daughter’s birthday for three years; she’d sent empty care packages more than once. One hot July day, when the girl had stared at her sickening bank balance at the A.T.M., she’d considered calling for help. But she’d known, somehow, that the envelope would also arrive empty. Over the line, there was the sound of an engine drawing close, and her mother said, Oh! Your dad’s home. They both listened to the slam of the door and the heavy boots on the steps and she thought but didn’t say, That man is not my dad. Instead she said, Mom, I just want you to not worry if you don’t hear from me for a while, O.K.? I’m all right, I promise. All right, honey, her mother said, her voice already softer, anticipating her husband’s arrival. Don’t do anything I wouldn’t do. As the girl walked back on the road, headlights spinning by in the dark, she said aloud, I’m doing exactly what you would do, and laughed, but it wasn’t very funny, after all. During the day, she lay in the sun for hours until she was so thirsty she had to fill her camping water bottle at the foot-washing hose again and again. In the rearview mirror, she watched her skin toast and her hair shift from honey to lemon. Her clothes flapped on her. She thought of the thousands of dollars she’d spent on highlights over the years: all that anguish, all those diets, when all she needed to be pretty was laziness and some mild starvation! She ate cans of tuna and sleeves of crackers and drank an occasional coffee from the beach café, for pep. Her money dwindled alarmingly. The scar on her hand turned a lovely silver in the sun and she sometimes stroked it absently, signifier in lieu of signified, the scratch for the lost life. At night, she lay in the back of the station wagon and read “Middlemarch” with a penlight until she fell asleep. When she smelled too strong for salt water to wash the stink away, she walked into the gym of a fancy beachside condo complex in her running clothes. She waited for someone to yell at her, but nobody was watching. The bathroom was empty and the vanities held baskets with lotions, tiny soaps, disposable razors. She stood in the shower and let her summer of loneliness wash away. Even before her boyfriend left her for a first-year master’s student, she’d withdrawn into herself. Her funding hadn’t been renewed and she’d had only her T.A. stipend, which was barely enough for her half of the rent, let alone groceries. There was no going out, even if she could have swallowed her shame to look her funded friends in the eye. The boyfriend had taken everything with him: their Sunday brunches, the etiquette book he had unsubtly given her one Christmas, the alarm clock that woke them ten minutes before six every day. He had been a stickler for the proper way to do things—hospital corners, weight lifting, taking notes—and he’d stolen her routine from her when he left. Worst of all, he’d taken his parents, who had welcomed her for four years of holidays in their generous stone house in Pennsylvania. For weeks, she had expected the mother, a soft-haired, hugging woman, to call her, but there was no call. The door opened and voices flooded the bathroom, some aerobics class letting out. She turned to wash her face in the spray, suddenly shy. When she opened her eyes, the showers were full of naked middle-aged women laughing and soaping themselves. They wore diamond bands and their teeth shone and their bellies and thighs were larded by their easy lives. She woke to a hard rapping next to her ear and struggled up through sleep into darkness. She turned on her penlight to see a groin in stretched black fabric, and a shining leather belt hung with a gun in a holster and an enormous flashlight. A cop, she thought. Penis of death, penis of light. Open up, the policeman said, and she said, Yes, sir, and slid over the back seat and rolled down the window. What are you smiling at? he said. Nothing, sir, she said, and turned off her penlight. You been here a week, he said. I been watching you. Yes, sir, she said. It’s illegal, he said. Now, I get a kid once in a while doesn’t want to pay for a motel, O.K. I get some old hippies in their vans. But you’re a young girl. Hate to see you get hurt. There are bad guys everywhere, you know? I know, she said. I keep my doors locked. He snorted. Yeah, well, he said. Then he paused. You run away from your man? That the story? There’s a safe house for ladies up in town. I can get you in. No, she said. There’s no story. I guess I’m on a vacation from my life. Well, he said, and the looseness in his voice was gone. Get on out of here. Don’t let me see you back, or I’ll take you in for vagrancy. She spent a few days on a different beach where people drove their trucks onto the sand and pumped out music until their batteries ran down. She dug again into the wagon’s seats to find change for a candy bar but failed, and walked the miles into town to consider what she should do, her legs shaking by the time she arrived. The buildings on the town square looked like old Florida—the tall porches with fans, the tin roofs—but everything was made of a dense plastic in shades of beige. There was a fountain in the center: a squat frog spitting up water, and change scattered on the blue tiles under the water. She sat on the edge of the fountain and watched the shoppers in the boutiques and the people eating ice-cream cones. At one corner of the square stood a small brick church, flanked by blooming crape myrtles. She didn’t notice the people gathering in front until they began to emerge with hands full of Styrofoam clamshells and juice packs. Some were stringy, greasy, the familiar life-beaten people who lived half-visibly at the edge of the university town she’d come from. But there were also construction workers in hardhats, mothers hurrying away with kids in their wakes. She wanted to stand. To be in the line, to get the food. Her body, though, wouldn’t move. In the twilight, a family passed and she thought how she had once been this blond toddler on her tricycle, singing to herself, while her parents walked behind her. How sudden the disturbance had been! Her father dead when she was ten, the struggle with money through high school, her mother marrying in exhaustion only to fold herself entirely away. The one safe place the girl had had left was school. But she’d been too careful in the end, unable to take the necessary scholarly risks, and they had withdrawn even that from her. She sat like a second frog on the edge of the fountain, hunched over her hunger, until the clock clicked to an impossibly late hour and she was alone. She rolled up her jeans and stepped into the water. She felt along the bottom with her feet until she came upon a coin, and dipped her arm up to her shoulder, but almost all the change was glued to the tile. By the time she had gone entirely around, she had gathered only a small handful. When she peered at them in the dim light from the street lamp, she found they were mostly pennies. Still, she went around again. She saw herself from a great distance, a woman stooping in knee-deep water for someone else’s wishes. Most days, she found food—bread and bruised fruit—heaped, clean, in a dumpster behind a specialty grocer. She hid the station wagon at the far end of a supermarket parking lot, next to a retainer pool and shielded by the low branches of a camphor tree. The smell entered her dreams at night and she’d wake to a slow green sway of branches, as if underwater. There was a Baudelaire poem this reminded her of, but it had been erased from her memory. She wondered what else was gone—the Goethe, the Shakespeare, the Montale. The sun was bleaching it all to dust; her hunger was eating it up. It was a cleansing, she decided. If pretty words couldn’t save her, then losing them, too, was all for the best. She was baking on the beach when a leaf slid up over her stomach. She caught idly at it, and found that it wasn’t a leaf at all but a five-dollar bill. That night, she went into the poolside showers of an apartment complex and washed herself carefully. When she caught sight of herself naked in the mirror, she could see the ribs of her upper chest and the pulse in the curve of her hip bone. But she blow-dried her hair and put it into a ponytail and applied makeup that she’d bought a few years ago. She no longer looked like herself: diligent, plump, prim. She looked like a surfer girl or a sorority sister, one of those quivering dewy creatures she had always silently disliked. She walked three miles to a beach bar, listening to the ocean break itself again and again. The place was full when she came up through the back door, the huge televisions blaring a football game. Once, she would have been invested in the game, if only because it was the lingua franca of the Southern town, the way to put a freshman-comp class at ease, to converse with a dean’s vapid wife. But now it seemed silly to her; young men grinding into one another, war games muted with padding. She ordered the dollar-special beer and gave the bartender another dollar for a tip. His fingers brushed hers when he handed her the change, and she was startled at the warmth of his flesh. She peeled the label off her beer and took deep breaths. Someone climbed onto the stool beside hers, and she looked at him when he ordered two gin-and-tonics. He was a sweet-looking sandy boy with large red ears, the kind of student who always got a B- in her classes, mostly on good-willed effort alone. He slid one of the drinks toward her shyly, and when he began to speak he didn’t stop. He was a junior up north but had had to take a semester off and was working in his mother’s real-estate office for now, which really pissed off the old agents there, because there were few enough commissions right now, real estate going to shit in this shitty, shitty time. And on and on. After three drinks, she was drunker than she’d ever let herself be. She wondered, as he spoke, what had happened to make him take a semester off. Drugs? A hazing scandal? Bad grades? When they stopped on the walk to his house and he pressed her shoulders against the cold metal of a street light and kissed her with touching earnestness, she felt the soft hair at the base of his neck and thought he’d probably had a nervous breakdown. He kissed like a boy prone to anxiety attacks. But she liked him, and his apartment was clean and pretty: she could sense the hand of an overbearing mother in its furnishings. Before he touched her he looked at her naked body for a long time, blinking. She saw herself, then, as he did: the clean white of her bikini pressed into her skin, the eroticism of the contrast. In gratitude, she came toward him. But, afterward, the softness of the bed was overwhelming. As the boy slept, she went to the kitchen and opened the refrigerator. It was so full, the abundance stilled her. She ate a slice of cold pizza standing in the glow, opened a jar of pickles and ate three, ripped a hunk of Cheddar from the block with her fingers and gobbled it down. She didn’t see the boy standing in the doorway until she reached for the orange juice. Then she noticed the pale gleam of his T-shirt and she closed her eyes, unable to look at him. She could hear him walking toward her and steeled herself for recrimination. But he touched the small of her back and said a soft, Oh, honey, and this was infinitely worse. “‘Abandon all hope’ only comes in the sweatshirt.”Buy the print » A hurricane developed over the Caribbean but only its edges lashed the shore. Still, during the scream and blow, the camphor rattled its branches against the top of the car and the wagon shook so hard she was afraid the metal would twist and the glass would break. The retention pond overflowed and water licked up to the hubcaps. She lay as quietly as she could and listened and watched: she was a thin shell of glass and steel from the raw nerve at the center of herself. She felt the storm come closer, charging near; she waited with a painful breathless patience. But before it arrived she fell asleep. She called her mother on Thanksgiving but her stepfather answered and said her mother was in bed again, under the weather. Not that she cared. They’d given up on her coming home, but couldn’t she call her damn mother once a month? She held the receiver up to the highway and let him speak himself out, and in a pause said to tell her mother that she loved her and would call again soon. She sat for a while on a dune, shivering in the cold wind. The ocean was blank and inexpressive, withholding sympathy. At last, she was numbed enough that she could walk to the town and stand in the long line outside the church. Today they were serving people in seatings, and the line moved very slowly. Most of the people at the table looked normal. Across from her was a family, the mother with a chic black haircut and tattoos across her collarbone, the father with an artful mullet, the two little girls with barrettes in their bangs. Next to her was an enormous black woman whose flesh pressed up to hers, firm and warm. Nobody spoke. There was a soup course—home-made minestrone with good bread—then the turkey course with canned everything: cranberries, mashed potatoes, stuffing, gravy, beans. And, last, there was homemade pecan and pumpkin pie with coffee. When the woman serving their table bent over to clear the pie plates, the black lady grasped her gloved hand. They all looked up to see the serving woman’s startled face under her shower cap. Thank you, the black lady said, that was goooood, and the little girls laughed. The girl expected awkwardness, a hurrying away, but the serving woman briefly laid her cheek atop the black lady’s head and gave her a squeeze, and both women closed their eyes as they leaned closer in. It had been a rare warm day, and she’d built wind walls out of sand and soaked the last of the season’s sunshine into her skin. Now she dropped her towel and book and water bottle and stared in wonder at the station wagon. All the doors were open, her things spilling out. Her car had been gutted; her things were entrails. The hood was open, the engine gone. The tires were gone, the hubcaps gone, the front seats gone. Inside, a strong stench of urine: someone had pissed in the glove box. The guitar was gone, the camping stove, the tent, her childhood stuffed turtle, her winter jacket. “Middlemarch,” of all fucking things, gone. Her backpack had a long slit in it. She gathered what she could—the sleeping bag, “Paradise Lost,” some clothes, a tarp. She found some dental floss and a needle and sewed up the backpack. Then she took the registration from the glove box and ripped it up—wet, it tore easily—and tossed the license plate into the retention pond, where it floated on the duckweed for a moment before it sank. How light she thought she had been before. How truly light she was now. She should be leaving anyway—it was too cold now, with the wind off the ocean. There were Santas in the store windows, in piles of fake snow. Out on A1A, the cars screamed by her and threw exhaust in her face. She stuck out her thumb, and a tan sedan rolled to a stop. The driver was pale and nervous, and somewhere inside her alarm bells began to ring, but she found she didn’t care to listen. He said he was going back to the university town, and she thought of her ex, her friends, her fall from safety. She found she didn’t care about those things, either. She could feel the ocean pulling at her back, but didn’t turn to say goodbye. It had failed to do what she had longed for it to do; it had been indifferent, after all. Over the inland waterway, with its tiny islands and corrugated bridge, into the palmetto scrub. Somewhere along a stretch of road bordered by pines in strict formation, the man put a hand on her knee and squinted, straining, toward the empty asphalt ahead. She gently removed his hand and he didn’t try again. He turned on the radio and they listened to sticky love ballads. In town, he dropped her at the downtown plaza and squealed away, to the loud derision of two old men at the bus stop. They grinned at her and, together, blew pink bubbles with their gum and one by one let them pop. Just before the public library closed for the night, she rode the elevator to the top floor and went into the grand, stained-glass conference room set like a crown at the top of the building. She’d discovered an unlocked closet behind a leaning blackboard, barely long enough to hold her body in its sleeping bag. In the dark of the closet, she ate what she found during the day and listened to the library empty out. It was orange season, and she plucked satsumas for breakfast and spat the pips into her hand. She neglected to call her mother for Christmas or New Year’s. When she tried to read during the day the words lost their meaning and floated loosely in her eyes. She didn’t make it to the library in time one evening, and spent the night shivering in her light jean jacket. She was walking by a club that had just closed when a cluster of undergraduates in strapless dresses tottered by, fingering their cell phones. She recognized one of them, a girl from her fall comp-lit class last year. She’d been a frightened, silent thing who’d earned her C-. No matter how hard she was drilled, “its” and “it’s” had eluded the girl. Tonight, if she and the girl came face to face, the girl would look through her former instructor, not seeing her in this worn, dirty woman; and she, whose words had once lashed, would have nothing to say. Its, it’s, she said aloud now. Who cares? A man stacking the chairs in the front patio area heard her and laughed. Twits, he agreed. She leaned against the railing and watched him work. He was a skinny, short brown man and exceptionally fast: he’d already rolled the rubber mats and was hosing down the bricks when she realized he was still talking to her. I’m telling you, he was saying, get sillier and sillier each damn day, filling up those heads with tweeters and scooters and facebooks and starbooks and shit. He looked up at her and grinned. His four front teeth were gone, and it gave him the mischievous air of a six-year-old. Name’s Euclid, but everyone calls me Euclid-Euclean. I clean, right? I got three of these clubs to set right before morning so’s I can’t stop to chat. O.K., she said, and took a step, but he meant he couldn’t stop; he could still chat. This land, he told her, is full of living twits and unsettled spirits, both. The spirits were loud and unhappy and filled the place with evil. All them dead Spanish missionaries and snakebit Seminoles and starved-to-death Crackers and shit. He, Euclid-Euclean, come down from Atlanta near on four years back and got infected with the spirits and they were inside him and he couldn’t find his way to leave. By now they were inside the booze-stinking club and Euclid had poured her a glass of cranberry juice. He began to mop the floor with a bleach solution so strong it made her eyes water. He looked up at her and stopped, struck by a thought. I like you, he said. You keep your words in tight. Thanks, Euclid, she said. I could use some help, he said. Three clubs is hard to clean alone by morningtime come. You could do bathrooms, stuff like that. You got you a job? No, she said. He looked at her shrewdly and said, Fifty bucks Thursday, Friday, Saturday nights, twenty bucks other nights. Monday off. She blinked at the empty bucket he thrust into her hands. Partner, he said. There was a sensation in cleaning that she used to get in her other lifetime, when the books she was reading were so compelling they carried her through hours. Words were space carved out of life, warm and safe. Polishing windows to perfect clarity, scrubbing porcelain, working caustic chemicals into the tiles until they gleamed like teeth; all this detached her mind from herself. She grew hard muscles in her skinny arms. In the mornings, she would walk into the cold and feel herself wrung out. Euclid-Euclean sometimes bought her breakfast and they’d sit, stinking of chemicals, in their booth, surrounded by the smells of warm grease and hot coffee. She wanted to laugh with him, to tell him of the horror of her mother’s house when she was little, the cockroaches and the dirt-crusted linoleum, how strange it was she was cleaning now, but Euclid spoke so much she had no need to say anything. He’d tell her about his talking dog when he was a kid, or he’d describe his moments of illumination, when the world slowed and the Devil spoke in his ear until he was chased away by the brightness that grew inside Euclid and bathed the world in light. She took a room by the week in a squat cement motel sticking out over the highway. It was called Affordable–Best Price–Comfortable, but she had to borrow some chemicals and rags from Euclid to make the bathroom usable. She liked the sound of the trucks rumbling past and the steady rhythms of her neighbors’ voices and the boys who hung out at the roasted-chicken place next door, with their swooping boasts and hoots of derision. One morning, she was walking home to the motel when she saw a familiar bicycle at the coffee shop where she used to grade papers. She looked in the window, hiding her face with her baseball cap. Two of her former friends sat at a table, both frowning into their laptops. How fat they looked, how pink. They were nursing their plain black coffees, and she remembered, with a surge of ugliness, how they all used to complain that they were too poor for lattes. How rich they had been. It was a kind of wealth you don’t know you have until you stand shivering outside in the morning, watching what you used to be. One of her friends, the man, sensing eyes upon him, slowly looked up. A knot pulled tight in her gut, but, when he looked past her to a sleek young woman gliding by on a bicycle, the knot frayed and broke apart. One Saturday in March, at their last club, she looked up to see Euclid-Euclean swaying on his feet. He was staring at the air ducts above with a taut look of ecstasy on his face. She couldn’t get to him before he fell over. His body was rigid, his jaw grinding. She heaved him onto a table and considered an ambulance, then dismissed it, because he had no money for medical care: he was saving for a bridge for his missing teeth. He always came out of it, he had told her. The Devil was fought off by the light in him. All she had to do was wait. She went back to cleaning. When she was finished, she polished all the glasses and wiped the fur of dust from the bottles on the top shelves. She squeegeed the windows. When people in work clothes began passing by outside, it was time. When she came near Euclid-Euclean, however, she smelled a terrible odor and found that he had voided his bowels. She heaved him into a chair and dragged him to the bathroom and cleaned him as well as she could. She threw his pants and underwear and socks and shoes into the dumpster out back and fashioned a kind of loincloth from her sweatshirt. His van was parked out back, and she wrestled him up into the back, and laid him out on a bundle of clean rags. She didn’t know where he lived, or if he had loved ones. She hadn’t asked anything about him, had only listened to what he’d chosen to tell. She left a note on his chest and locked the van, and when she returned in the afternoon to check on him the van was gone, and he was gone, and though she waited for him at the clubs every night for the next week, none of the hungry, idle people in the plaza or the night-club managers knew or would tell her where he was. A cold wind blew in one April night and killed the most fragile plants. Across town, there were skeletons of ferns and banana plants and camellias. In the morning, the small, frowning Thai woman who owned Affordable–Best Price–Comfortable knocked on the door and waited, silent and cross-armed, in the doorway, until she had packed up, put on her shoes and jacket, and left the room. At noon, she followed the slow-moving parade of the indigent to the plaza, and received a sandwich in plastic and a can of juice. At six, she followed them to the Methodist church and was served milk with a sour taste she remembered from kindergarten and a baked potato with chili. Afterward, she followed a group past the homeless shelter, which was always full by one minute past five, when it opened for the night. They passed the old town depot, went through a park scarred with chain-link fences and heaps of dirt. They came out onto the bike path where she and her ex, once upon a time, had taken long, leisurely rides to see the alligators glistening on the banks of the sinkhole ponds. It was dark in the woods, thick with Spanish moss and vines that looked from the corners of her eyes like snakes. She felt a new upwelling in her, a sharp fear, and tried to swallow it. The people ahead of her disappeared off the bike path and into the trees. She could smell it before she saw it: the tang of urine and shit and woodsmoke and spilled beer and something starchy boiling. She heard the voices and came out into a clearing. In the dark, tents hulked beyond where she could see them and there were fires here and there. A man shouted, You looking for me, sweetheart? and there were laughs and she could see a dark shape detaching from the closest fire and gliding toward her. From behind her, she heard a woman’s voice saying, warmly, There you are! and she felt herself being pushed past the man who approached, then past seven or eight campfires. They stopped. Hang on, the woman said, and bent down and lit a lighter to some newspaper, then the newspaper to a bit of kindling. The fire revealed a heavy woman with a bready face and hair in a pink shade of red. I got the water, kids, she said. You can come out. There was the sound of a zipper and four little bodies crept from a tent. They were indistinguishable from one another at first, four skinny things with long blondish hair. The woman looked up and said, Not smart, coming here alone. I had nowhere to go, she said, and her voice sounded ugly in her ears. No family? the woman said. Clean-looking girl like you? No, she said. Got food? the woman asked, and she nodded as she pulled from her pack the last of her supplies: a loaf of white bread, a jar of peanut butter, a pack of cheese, a few tins of sardines, three cheap dry packs of ramen. Peanut butter! one of the kids said, snatching it up, and the woman smiled at her for the first time. Share your food, you can share our tent, she said. Thank you, she said. When they sat to eat, one of the little girls crept close to her and put a hand on the sole of her foot. When she was little, she’d had the same hunger for touch. She could smell woodsmoke in the girl’s blond hair, something clovelike in her skin. The big woman was named Jane, and they nursed cups of weak cocoa after the children went to sleep. Jane told her about the husband who had run off, the house she and the kids lost, the jobs she’d been fired from because of her temper. She sighed. Same old story, she said. She could hear the campsite settling; could smell marijuana over the thick stink of the place; a man was shouting, then his voice suddenly cut off. The house was real nice, Jane said ruefully. Pool and all. My husband always said there’s no such thing as a Florida childhood without a pool. She snorted, and made a gesture toward the children. Now we’re camping. How long have you been here? the girl asked. “You need to get your cholesterol where your sperm count is.”Buy the print » But this was the wrong thing to say, and Jane frowned at her and said, It’s temporary, and stood to clean her cup. We’ll get back to where we were. Still, when she went to brush her teeth, she noticed Jane watching. Toothpaste, she said. Kids’ve been out for a while. You think tomorrow you can let us borrow some? And she said sure, and Jane smiled again, and by the time the two women went into the tent and curled on either side of the four sprawling children, they were friends again. In the bright light of the morning, the campsite was steaming with fog: it looked almost innocuous, dreamy. She started up the fire and found the drinking water and began to boil oatmeal for the kids. They came out, one by one. The oldest couldn’t have been more than five, none of them school age. In other tents, other women’s voices rose, other children responded. A small boy ran over, said a shy Hey to Jane’s children, and fled back to his mother. She understood now that this was the family part of the tent city, that the safety here was safety in numbers, of rules and unspoken militancy against the threat just feet beyond. Jane poked her head out, smiled, and emerged in a fast-food uniform. You watch the kids today? she said. The girl who usually watches them got housing a few days ago, and I better not drop them at the library again. I can read, the oldest girl said. I can, too, the second-oldest said. Sort of, the first said, but kindly. She looked at the children, a sinking in her stomach. Oh, she said. Jane’s face was cold again. Listen, she said. Either I work or we never get out of here. Either they stay with you or I drop them off at the library and risk Social Services catching wind and lose them. We got no choice. O.K., she said. Of course, I’ll watch them. And Jane said thanks, but looked at her sourly as she untangled the little girls’ hair with a wet comb. Nights, Jane came back stinking of perspiration, with bags of burgers and fries that had got too old to sell. She soaked her feet in warm water, groaning, and, when the kids were asleep, talked bitterly of her boss. Stupid young lech, she said. Felt up her boobies in the supply room. She nodded, listening, offering little. But Jane seemed to take solace in her quiet presence, treating her like a slow cousin, pitiful but useful. The kids and she were coming out of the library one afternoon when they saw Jane across the street on a bench. Uh-oh, the oldest girl said. The youngest buried her head in her brother’s back. Stay here, she said, and sat the children on a wall in front of the library. Fired, Jane said, without raising her head. I got a temper, I told you that. It’s all right, she said, though the ground seemed to buckle under her feet. You’ll get another job. Jane lifted her head and spat, No, it isn’t all right. It’s not all right. I put down all our money on a place the other day and was waiting for my pay on Friday to put down the rest. It’s so not fucking all right, she said. Go back to the tent, she said. I’ll be in when I’m in. For supper, she and the kids had tomato soup and cheese sandwiches. She told the children stories filched from the Arabian Nights, and they fell asleep, waiting for their mother. She sat by the fire until she ran out of wood, and the bodies drifting by in the darkness grew menacing. Then she zipped herself inside the tent, warmed by the breath of the children. In the morning, Jane’s side of the tent was still empty. She took the children to the graveyard halfway between the tent city and the town. It was their favorite place: calm, neat, and pretty, with great old oaks and rows of bright plastic flowers that they gathered in their arms and redistributed to the loneliest-looking stones. At the end of the day, she brought the children to the police department, and gave them each a cup of oversweetened tea and a powdered doughnut that she found on a table in the waiting area. When she asked about Jane, the policewoman barely looked up from her computer. She sucked her lip and typed in Jane’s name and said, Um-hum. Arrested yesterday at about seven. Prostitution. No, the girl said. The children were out of earshot. She said, That can’t be right. The policewoman flicked her eyes over her. She could see herself as she was to this woman—dirty, stringy, smelly, browned to leather, clearly homeless. The policewoman’s mouth settled into its wrinkles. Well, it is, she said, and went back to what she was doing. The girl summoned the ghost of the professor she’d been and said, enunciating sharply, Officer, please listen to me. I need to have you contact Family Services. These are Jane’s children, and I find that I cannot, unfortunately, care for them at this time. She sat with the children until a tired-looking woman in a black pants suit hurried in, stopping to talk with the officer at the desk. When the Family Services woman said a bright hello, the kids looked up from the magazine they had been studying and watched warily as the woman hoisted her trousers to crouch before them. The girl stood, weak in the legs, and backed toward the door. The day was too bright. Her head rang. She had eaten nothing since the morning. She went back to the tent and slept until dawn. Just before the tent city began to stir, she gathered her things and walked to town, leaving Jane’s tent still up, the children’s belongings tidied into piles and her own sleeping bag in the center in craven apology. She thought of her mother, what it must be like for her to have a vanished daughter. The police must have found the abandoned station wagon months ago and traced it; someone must have called. Her mother would think of murder or abduction, would wonder what she had done to make her daughter so ungrateful. Maybe, she thought with a pulse of spite, fear had finally awakened her mother. Maybe she was scouring the state for her, even now. She slept for two days under her tarp in her former neighbor’s bamboo thicket. The nights were warmer in May, but she still shivered. Once, she woke to find the bright-green eyes of a cat staring at her, and called out her old pet’s name, but the animal ran off. She walked all the way to the university, remembering it was graduation weekend, which meant that many of the students would be moving out. Perhaps she could get some food or another sleeping bag, she thought. In college, she had watched boys open a fifth-floor fraternity-house window and dump their perfectly good computers to the ground. She herself had emptied her mini-fridge of its still-fresh yogurts and apples and frozen pizzas and tossed them into the garbage. She felt ratlike on campus, scuttling from shadow to shadow. If anyone she knew saw her, if anyone smelled her. There was a tent in one quad, and she could just perceive in the dawn that a buffet was being set up. She waited until the caterers went behind their van for a break, and swiftly filled up a plate with hot eggs and potatoes and sausage. She looked up to see one of the caterers staring at her, a crate of glasses in his hands. She smiled at him and he, grimly, waved her off. Outside the senior dorms, she noticed a great metal truck beside a dumpster into which people were heaving mattresses, coffeemakers, chairs. She saw an office chair levitate above the lip of the dumpster, but the boy who was supposed to catch it had already seized a crate of electrical wires and turned away. The arms holding it began to shake. Without thinking, she stepped forward and grasped the chair above her head. The man who was passing it peeked out at her, smiling. He had black hair tied back in a ponytail and crows’ feet pressed into the skin beside his eyes. You helping? She was surprised into saying, Sure. He winked and passed over a rolled-up rug. She carried boxes of books, a headboard, a coffee table. The truck suddenly started up and someone muttered, Come on. She ran as the others began to run and leaped with them into the truck. A security car pulled up just as the doors clanged shut and the truck moved off. It was dark, the engine roaring, so crowded she felt as if she were suffocating. But someone touched her arm, lightly traced it to her hand, and put something paper-covered into her palm. It was a candy bar. At last, the truck stopped and the engine shut off. There was a clicking, and the doors opened to impossible brightness. They were at the edge of a long, rolling expanse of grass. She heaved her backpack down and jumped out onto the sandy ground. A girl with a smudged face and long braid turned to her and said, It’s breakfast time. She trailed the girl up the dirt drive to a sprawling ramshackle building. What is this? she said, and the girl laughed. It’s the Prairie House, she said. It’s a squat. Do you normally just follow people without knowing where you’re going? Recently, yes, she said. The girl looked carefully at her, and said, Whoa. You don’t look so good, sweetie, and led her to a bed that she sank into, even though the sheets smelled strongly of someone else and she couldn’t find the energy to take off her boots. She slept through the day, the night, the next day, and woke light-headed with hunger. She crept down to the kitchen, passing bodies sprawled on cots and mattresses. The refrigerator was nauseating, overstuffed and sending off a garlicky rotten odor, but she found a pot of stew that was still warm shoved in among wrinkled apples. The moon had risen over the prairie and shot the hummocks with shadow. A small creature was moving at the edge of the lawn, and in the house she could hear the others sleeping, their small movements and breath. She was alert, as she hadn’t been in years. She turned on the light over the stove and looked at it in horror: it was caked with old meals, stinking of grease. She would begin now, she thought, and found a caustic cleaner under the sink, a mismatched pair of rubber gloves, some steel wool. She began inch by inch, and worked as quietly as she could. She avoided the windows, sensing that if she looked out she would see Euclid’s hungry spirits massing up from the prairie, the starved Crackers, the malarial conquistadores on their ponies. Or Jane’s children, their faces pressed to the glass. By morning, the stove shone, the refrigerator was clean and the rotten food tossed, the dishes in the sink scoured and the sink again its natural stainless-steel color. She had reordered the cabinets, cleaning them of mouse droppings and dead cockroaches. Her body felt vague with fatigue, but the clarity in her head remained. When she turned around, the man from the dumpster was sitting at the table, watching her. Wowzers, he said. Can’t remember the last time somebody made this kitchen so shiny. I still have a lot to do, she said, and he said, Sit down a minute and talk. He told her the rules: no fighting, no drugs, sleep wherever you find a place. People were in and out all the time and nobody knew everyone, so if she had any valuables she’d need to keep them close. I don’t, she said, and he said, All the better. Everyone should pull their weight, doing things either around the house or in the barn, where they had a business reselling discarded items on the Internet, which paid for the water and electric bills and some of the food they didn’t just salvage. They tried to live without money that way, and did pretty well. He stopped and grinned at her. That’s it? she said. Even in the tent city there had been more implicit rules. Yup, he said. Heaven, isn’t it? She thought about it for a while. Or hell, she said. Maybe there’s no difference, he said as he poured her a coffee. The party had grown organically, as things did at the Prairie House. Now there were skinny-dippers, splashes of surprising white in the dark water of the sinkhole, and a keg circled by strung-up Christmas lights on an oak tree. She turned from the bonfire where she was standing, the silhouettes of dancing bodies still in her eyes. Beyond the party, the prairie unscrolled, calm and impassive, meeting the sky with an equal darkness. She found herself moving into it, each step a relief from the drunken voices, the flaming moths of paper spun from the fire, the sear of the flames. Past the first hummock of trees, the darkness took on a light of its own and she began to distinguish the texture of the ground. She moved calmly over the pits of sand, palmettos biting at her calves, strange sudden seeps of marsh. Small things rustled away from her footsteps, and she felt fondly toward them, for their smallness and their fear. After ten minutes, human noise had scaled to nothing, and insect noise took on urgency. Her body was slick with sweat. When she stopped she felt the first itch. She kept herself still, and was so quiet for so long that the prairie began again its furtive movements. The world that, from the comfort of the fire, had seemed a cool wiped slate was unexpectedly teeming. She could smell the rot of a drainage ditch some well-meaning fools had dug through the prairie during the Depression. The land had taken the imprint of their hands and made it its own. She thought of the snakes sleeping coiled in their burrows and the alligators surfacing to scent her in the darkness, their shimmy onto the land, their stealthy bellying; how she was only one lost living thing among so many others, not special for being human. Something crawled across her throat. She was frozen. The sweat cooled on her body and made her shiver. There was no relief in the sky vaguely filmed with stars, a web vaster than she could imagine. There was nobody who could save her, nobody who could deliver her gently back to the solace of people. The night on the prairie returned to her during the long and difficult birth of her daughter, years later, after her mother’s funeral on a hill gone white with sleet. A shot in the spine took her pain away, and she was content, floating above herself, safe within the gentle beeping of the machines. Then something went wrong very suddenly, and the nurses’ faces pressed in and the world outside her shifted into frenzy. She was wheeled down the hall to a cold room. It was almost Christmas and a poinsettia hunched in the corner of the room, making her think about the black dirt in the pot, what was in the dirt. Her body shook so hard it rattled the aluminum slab she was laid upon, and there was an unbearable pressure inside her as the surgeon pushed the knife in. Then the panic came back, the darkness, the sense of being lost, the fangs she’d imagined on her ankles, which were only palmetto cuts, the breath of some bad spirit hot on the back of her neck, before she had seen a glow in the darkness and stumbled back to the light of the bonfire. She was peeled open to her pulp, but she was glad of her daughter’s immanent newness, the perfect possibility of her. A fresh start: a form of lightness. One of the nurses wore a silver bell around her neck that chimed softly, and she listened to it, knowing that this small sound would be the first her daughter would hear of the world. How delicate the things that tie us to one another. The hands in her flesh, her own crossed on her chest, her daughter’s tiny fists drawn up into the air.
Home Like in the old days, I came out of the dry creek behind the house and did my little tap on the kitchen window. “Get in here, you,” Ma said. Inside were piles of newspapers on the stove and piles of magazines on the stairs and a big wad of hangers sticking out of the broken oven. All of that was as usual. New was: a water stain the shape of a cat head on the wall above the fridge and the old orange rug rolled up halfway. “Still ain’t no beeping cleaning lady,” Ma said. I looked at her funny. “Beeping?” I said. “Beep you,” she said. “They been on my case at work.” It was true Ma had a pretty good potty mouth. And was working at a church now, so. We stood there looking at each other. Then some guy came tromping down the stairs: older than Ma even, in just boxers and hiking boots and a winter cap, long ponytail hanging out the back. “Who’s this?” he said. “My son,” Ma said shyly. “Mikey, this is Harris.” “What’s your worst thing you ever did over there?” Harris said. “What happened to Alberto?” I said. “Alberto flew the coop,” Ma said. “Alberto showed his ass,” Harris said. “I hold nothing against that beeper,” Ma said. “I hold a lot against that fucker,” Harris said. “Including he owes me ten bucks.” “Harris ain’t dealing with his potty mouth,” Ma said. “She’s only doing it because of work,” Harris explained. “Harris don’t work,” Ma said. “Well, if I did work, it wouldn’t be at a place that tells me how I can talk,” Harris said. “It would be at a place that lets me talk how I like. A place that accepts me for who I am. That’s the kind of place I’d be willing to work.” “There ain’t many of that kind of place,” Ma said. “Places that let me talk how I want?” Harris said. “Or places that accept me for who I am?” “Places you’d be willing to work,” Ma said. “How long’s he staying?” Harris said. “Long as he wants,” Ma said. “My house is your house,” Harris said to me. “It ain’t your house,” Ma said. “Give the kid some food at least,” Harris said. “I will but it ain’t your idea,” Ma said, and shooed us out of the kitchen. “Great lady,” Harris said. “Had my eyes on her for years. Then Alberto split. That I don’t get. You got a great lady in your life, the lady gets sick, you split?” “Ma’s sick?” I said. “She didn’t tell you?” he said. He grimaced, made his hand into a fist, put it upside his head. “Lump,” he said. “But you didn’t hear it from me.” Ma was singing now in the kitchen. “I hope you’re at least making bacon,” Harris called out. “A kid comes home deserves some frigging bacon.” “Why not stay out of it?” Ma called back. “You just met him.” “I love him like my own son,” Harris said. “What a ridiculous statement,” Ma said. “You hate your son.” “I hate both my sons,” Harris said. “And you’d hate your daughter if you ever meet her,” Ma said. Harris beamed, as if touched that Ma knew him well enough to know he would inevitably hate any child he fathered. Ma came in with some bacon and eggs on a saucer. “Might be a hair in it,” she said. “Lately it’s like I’m beeping shedding.” “You are certainly welcome,” Harris said. “You didn’t beeping do nothing!” Ma said. “Don’t take credit. Go in there and do the dishes. That would help.” “I can’t do dishes and you know that,” Harris said. “On account of my rash.” “He gets a rash from water,” Ma said. “Ask him why he can’t dry.” “On account of my back,” Harris said. “He’s the King of If,” Ma said. “What he ain’t is King of Actually Do.” “Soon as he leaves I’ll show you what I’m king of,” Harris said. “Oh, Harris, that is too much, that is truly disgusting,” Ma said. Harris raised both hands over his head like: Winner and still champ. “We’ll put you in your old room,” Ma said. On my bed was a hunting bow and a purple Halloween cape with a built-in ghost face. “That’s Harris’s beep,” Ma said. “Ma,” I said. “Harris told me.” I made my hand into a fist, put it upside my head. She gave me a blank look. “Or maybe I didn’t understand him right,” I said. “Lump? He said you’ve got a—” “Or maybe he’s a big beeping liar,” she said. “He makes up crazy beep about me all the time. It’s like his hobby. He told the mailman I had a fake leg. He told Eileen at the deli one of my eyes was glass. He told the guy at the hardware I get fainting dealies and froth at the mouth whenever I get mad. Now that guy’s always rushing me outa there.” To show how fine she was, Ma did a jumping jack. Harris was clomping upstairs. “I won’t tell you told about the lump,” Ma said. “You don’t tell I told about him being a liar.” Now this was starting to seem like the old days. “Ma,” I said, “where are Renee and Ryan living?” “Uh,” Ma said. “They got a sweet place over there,” Harris said. “Rolling in the dough.” “I’m not sure that’s the best idea,” Ma said. “Your ma thinks Ryan’s a hitter,” Harris said. “Ryan is a hitter,” Ma said. “I can always tell a hitter.” “He hits?” I said. “He hits Renee?” “You didn’t hear it from me,” Ma said. “He better not start hitting that baby,” Harris said. “Sweet little Martney. Kid’s super-cute.” “Although what the beep kinda name is that?” Ma said. “I told Renee that. I said that.” “Is that a boy or a girl name?” Harris said. “What the beep you talking about?” Ma said. “You seen it. You held it.” “Looks like a elf,” Harris said. “But girl or boy elf?” Ma said. “Watch. He really don’t know.” “Well, it was wearing green,” Harris said. “So that don’t help me.” “Think,” Ma said. “What did we buy it?” “You’d think I’d know boy or girl,” Harris said. “It being my freaking grandkid.” “It ain’t your grandkid,” Ma said. “We bought it a boat.” “A boat could be for boys or girls,” Harris said. “Don’t be prejudice. A girl can love a boat. Just like a boy can love a doll. Or a bra.” “Well, we didn’t buy it a doll or a bra,” Ma said. “We bought it a boat.” I went downstairs, got the phone book. Renee and Ryan lived over on Lincoln. 27 Lincoln. Twenty-seven Lincoln was in the good part of downtown. I couldn’t believe the house. Couldn’t believe the turrets. The back gate was redwood and opened so smooth, like the hinge was hydraulic. Couldn’t believe the yard. I squatted in some bushes by the screened-in porch. Inside, some people were talking: Renee, Ryan, Ryan’s parents, sounded like. Ryan’s parents had sonorous/confident voices that seemed to have been fabricated out of previous, less sonorous/confident voices by means of sudden money. “Say what you will about Lon Brewster,” Ryan’s dad said. “But Lon came out and retrieved me from Feldspar that time I had a flat.” “In that ridiculous broiling heat,” Ryan’s mom said. “And not a word of complaint,” Ryan’s dad said. “A completely charming person.” “Almost as charming—or so you told me—as the Flemings,” she said. “And the Flemings are awfully charming,” he said. “And the good they do!” she said. “They flew a planeload of babies over here.” “Russian babies,” he said. “With harelips.” “Soon as the babies arrived, they were whisked into operating rooms all around the country,” she said. “And who paid?” “The Flemings,” he said. “Didn’t they also set aside some money for college?” she said. “For the Russians?” “Those kids went from being disabled in a collapsing nation to being set for life in the greatest country in the world,” he said. “And who did this? A corporation? The government?” “One private couple,” she said. “A truly visionary pair of folks,” he said. There was a long admiring pause. “Although you’d never know it by how harshly he speaks to her,” she said. “Well, she can be awfully harsh with him as well,” he said. “Sometimes it’s just him being harsh with her and her being harsh right back,” she said. “It’s like the chicken or the egg,” he said. “Only with harshness,” she said. “Still, you can’t help but love the Flemings,” he said. “We should be so wonderful,” she said. “When was the last time we rescued a Russian baby?” “Well, we do all right,” he said. “We can’t afford to fly a bunch of Russian babies over here, but I think, in our own way, we do just fine.” “We can’t even fly over one Russian,” she said. “Even a Canadian baby with a harelip would be beyond our means.” “We could probably drive up there and pick one up,” he said. “But then what? We can’t afford the surgery and can’t afford the college. So the baby’s just sitting here, in America instead of Canada, still with the lip issue.” “Did we tell you kids?” she said. “We’re adding five shops. Five shops around the tri-city area. Each with a fountain.” “That’s great, Mom,” Ryan said. “That is so great,” Renee said. “And maybe, if those five shops do well, we can open another three or four shops and, at that time, revisit this whole Russian-harelip issue,” Ryan’s father said. “You guys continue to amaze,” Ryan said. Renee stepped out with the baby. “I’m going to step out with the baby,” she said. The baby had taken its toll. Renee seemed wider, less peppy. Also paler, like someone had run a color-leaching beam over her face and hair. The baby did look like an elf. The elf-baby looked at a bird, pointed at the bird. “Bird,” Renee said. The elf-baby looked at their insane pool. “For swimming,” Renee said. “But not yet. Not yet, right?” The elf-baby looked at the sky. “Clouds,” Renee said. “Clouds make rain.” It was like the baby was demanding, with its eyes: Hurry up, tell me what all this shit is, so I can master it, open a few shops. The baby looked at me. Renee nearly dropped the baby. “Mike, Mikey, holy shit,” she said. Then she seemed to remember something and hustled back to the porch door. “Rye?” she called. “Rye-King? Can you come get the Mart-Heart?” Ryan took the baby. “Love you,” I heard him say. “Love you more,” she said. Then she came back, no baby. “I call him Rye-King,” she said, blushing. “I heard that,” I said. “Mikey,” she said. “Did you do it?” “Can I come in?” I said. “Not today,” she said. “Tomorrow. No, Thursday. His folks leave Wednesday. Come over Thursday, we’ll hash it out.” “Hash what out?” I said. “Whether you can come in,” she said. “I didn’t realize that was a question,” I said. “Did you?” she said. “Do it?” “Ryan seems nice,” I said. “Oh, God,” she said. “Literally the nicest human being I have ever known.” “Except when he’s hitting,” I said. “When what?” she said. “Ma told me,” I said. “Told you what?” she said. “That Ryan hits? Hits me? Ma said that?” “Don’t tell her I told,” I said, a little panicked, as of old. “Ma’s deranged,” she said. “Ma’s out of her frigging mind. Ma would say that. You know who’s gonna get hit? Ma. By me.” “Why didn’t you write me about Ma?” I said. “What about her?” she said suspiciously. “She’s sick?” I said. “She told you?” she said. I made a fist and held it upside my head. “What’s that?” she said. “A lump?” I said. “Ma doesn’t have a lump,” she said. “She’s got a fucked-up heart. Who told you she’s got a lump?” “Harris,” I said. “Oh, Harris, perfect,” she said. Inside the house, the baby started crying. “Go,” Renee said. “We’ll talk Thursday. But first.” She took my face in her hands and turned my head so I was looking in the window at Ryan, who was heating a bottle at the kitchen sink. “Does that look like a hitter?” she said. “No,” I said. And it didn’t. Not at all. “Jesus,” I said. “Does anybody tell the truth around here?” “I do,” she said. “You do.” I looked at her and for a minute she was eight and I was ten and we were hiding in the doghouse while Ma and Dad and Aunt Toni, high on mushrooms, trashed the patio. “Mikey,” she said. “I need to know. Did you do it?” I jerked my face out of her hands, turned, went. “Go see your own wife, doofus!” she shouted after me. “Go see your own babies.” Ma was on the front lawn, screaming at this low-slung fat guy. Harris was looming in the background, now and then hitting or kicking something to show how scary he could get when enraged. “This is my son!” Ma said. “Who served. Who just came home. And this is how you do us?” “Sousa’s back!”Buy the print » “I’m grateful for your service,” the man said to me. Harris kicked the metal garbage can. “Will you please tell him to stop doing that?” the man said. “He has no control over me when I’m mad,” Harris said. “No one does.” “Do you think I like this?” the man said. “She hasn’t paid rent in four months.” “Three,” Ma said. “This is how you treat the family of a hero?” Harris said. “He’s over there fighting and you’re over here abusing his mother?” “Friend, excuse me, I’m not abusing,” the man said. “This is evicting. If she’d paid her rent and I was evicting, that would be abusing.” “And here I work for a beeping church!” Ma shouted. The man, though low-slung and fat, was admirably bold. He went inside the house and came out carrying the TV with a bored look on his face, like it was his TV and he preferred it in the yard. “No,” I said. “I appreciate your service,” he said. I took him by the shirt. I was, by this time, good at taking people by their shirts, looking them in the eye, speaking directly. “Whose house is this?” I said. “Mine,” he said. I put my foot behind him, dropped him on the grass. “Go easy,” Harris said. “That was easy,” I said, and carried the TV back inside. That night the sheriff arrived with some movers, who emptied the house onto the lawn. I saw them coming and went out the back door and watched it all from High Street, sitting in the deer stand behind the Nestons’. Ma was out there, head in hands, weaving in and out of her heaped-up crap. It was both melodramatic and not. I mean, when Ma feels something deeply, that’s what she does: melodrama. Which makes it, I guess, not melodrama? Something had been happening to me lately where a plan would start flowing directly down to my hands and feet. When that happened, I knew to trust it. My face would get hot and I’d feel sort of like, Go, go, go. It had served me well, mostly. Now the plan flowing down was: grab Ma, push her inside, make her sit, round up Harris, make him sit, torch the place, or at least make the first motions of torching the place, to get their attention, make them act their age. I flew down the hill, pushed Ma inside, sat her on the stairs, grabbed Harris by the shirt, put my foot behind him, dropped him to the floor. Then held a match to the carpet on the stairs and, once it started burning, raised a finger, like, Quiet, through me runs the power of recent dark experience. They were both so scared they weren’t talking at all, which made me feel the kind of shame you know you’re not going to cure by saying sorry, and where the only thing to do is: go out, get more shame. I stomped the carpet fire out and went over to Gleason Street, where Joy and the babies were living with Asshole. What a kick in the head: their place was even nicer than Renee’s. The house was dark. There were three cars in the driveway. Which meant that they were all home and in bed. I stood thinking about that a bit. Then walked back downtown and into a store. I guess it was a store. Although I couldn’t tell what they were selling. On yellow counters lit from within were these heavy blue plastic tags. I picked one up. On it was the word “MiiVOXMAX.” “What is it?” I said. “It’s more like what’s it for, is how I’d say it,” this kid said. “What’s it for?” I said. “Actually,” he said, “this is probably more the one for you.” He handed me an identical tag but with the word “MiiVOXMIN” on it. Another kid came over with espresso and cookies. I put down the MiiVOXMIN tag and held up the MiiVOXMAX tag. “How much?” I said. “You mean money?” he said. “What does it do?” I said. “Well, if you’re asking is it data repository or information-hierarchy domain?” he said. “The answer to that would be: yes and no.” They were sweet. Not a line on their faces. When I say they were kids, I mean they were about my age. “I’ve been away a long time,” I said. “Welcome back,” the first kid said. “Where were you?” the second one said. “At the war,” I said, in the most insulting voice I could muster. “Maybe you’ve heard of it?” “I have,” the first one said respectfully. “Thank you for your service.” “Which one?” the second one said. “Aren’t there two?” “Didn’t they just call one off?” the first one said. “My cousin’s there,” the second said. “At one of them. At least I think he is. I know he was supposed to go. We were never that close.” “Anyway, thanks,” the first one said, and put out his hand, and I shook it. “I wasn’t for it,” the second one said. “But I know it wasn’t your deal.” “Well,” I said. “It kind of was.” “You weren’t for it or aren’t for it?” the first said to the second. “Both,” the second one said. “Although is it still going?” “Which one?” the first one said. “Is the one you were at still going?” the second one asked me. “Yes,” I said. “Better or worse, do you think?” the first one said. “Like, in your view, are we winning? Oh, what am I doing? I don’t actually care, that’s what’s so funny about it!” “Anyway,” the second one said, and held out his hand, and I shook it. They were so nice and accepting and unsuspicious—they were so for me—that I walked out smiling and was about a block away before I realized I was still holding MiiVOXMAX. I got under a streetlight and had a look. It seemed like just a plastic tag. Like, if you wanted MiiVOXMAX, you handed in that tag, and someone went and got MiiVOXMAX for you, whatever it was. Asshole answered the door. His actual name was Evan. We’d gone to school together. I had a vague memory of him in an Indian headdress, racing down a hallway. “Mike,” he said. “Can I come in?” I said. “I think I have to say no to that,” he said. “I’d like to see the kids,” I said. “Past midnight,” he said. I had a pretty good idea he was lying. Were stores open past midnight? Still, the moon was high and there was something moist and sad in the air that seemed to be saying, Well, it’s not early. “Tomorrow?” I said. “Would that be O.K. for you?” he said. “After I get home from work?” I saw we’d agreed to play it reasonable. One way we were playing it reasonable was saying everything like a question. “Around six?” I said. “Does six work for you?” he said. The weird part was I’d never actually seen the two of them together. The wife back there in his bed could have been someone else entirely. “I know this isn’t easy,” he said. “You fucked me,” I said. “I would respectfully disagree with that,” he said. “No doubt,” I said. “I didn’t fuck you and she didn’t,” he said. “It was a challenging situation for all involved.” “More challenging for some than for others,” I said. “Would you give me that much?” “Are we being honest?” he said. “Or tiptoeing around conflict?” “Honest,” I said, and his face did this thing that, for a minute, made me like him again. “It was hard for me because I felt like a shit,” he said. “It was hard for her because she felt like a shit. It was hard for us because while feeling like shits we were also feeling all the other things we were feeling, which, I assure you, were and are as real as anything, a total blessing, if I can say it that way.” At that point, I started feeling like a chump, like I was being held down by a bunch of guys so another guy could come over and put his New Age fist up my ass while explaining that having his fist up my ass was far from his first choice and was actually making him feel conflicted. “Six o’clock,” I said. “Six o’clock’s perfect,” he said. “Luckily, I’m on flextime.” “You don’t need to be here,” I said. “If you were me and I were you, would you maybe feel you might somewhat need to be here?” he said. One car was a Saab and one an Escalade and the third a newer Saab, with two baby seats in it and a stuffed clown I was not familiar with. Three cars for two grownups, I thought. What a country. What a couple of selfish dicks my wife and her new husband were. I could see that, over the years, my babies would slowly transform into selfish-dick babies, then selfish-dick toddlers, kids, teen-agers, and adults, with me all that time skulking around like some unclean suspect uncle. That part of town was full of castles. Inside one a couple was embracing. Inside another a woman had nine million little Christmas houses out on a table, like she was taking inventory. Across the river the castles got smaller. By our part of town, the houses were like peasant huts. Inside one peasant hut were five kids standing perfectly still on the back of a couch. Then they all leapt off at once and their dogs went crazy. Ma’s house was empty. Ma and Harris were sitting on the floor in the living room, making phone calls, trying to find somewhere to go. The sheriff was due back first thing in the morning. “What time is it?” I said. Ma looked up at where the clock used to be. “The clock’s on the sidewalk,” she said. I went out. The clock was under a coat. It was nine. Evan had fucked me. I considered going back, demanding to see the kids, but by the time I got there it would be ten and he’d still have a decent point re the lateness of the hour. The sheriff walked in. “Don’t get up,” he said to Ma. Ma got up. “Get up,” he said to me. I stayed sitting. “You the one who threw down Mr. Klees?” the sheriff said. “He’s just back from the war,” Ma said. “Thank you for your service,” the sheriff said. “Might I ask you to refrain from throwing people down in the future?” “He also threw me down,” Harris said. “My thing is I don’t want to go around arresting veterans,” the sheriff said. “I myself am a veteran. So if you help me, by not throwing anyone else down, I’ll help you. By not arresting you. Deal?” “He was also going to burn the house down,” Ma said. “I wouldn’t recommend burning anything down,” the sheriff said. “He ain’t himself,” Ma said. “I mean, look at him.” The sheriff had never seen me before, but it was like admitting he had no basis for assessing how I looked would have been a professional embarrassment. “He does look tired,” the sheriff said. “Plenty strong, though,” Harris said. “Threw me right down.” “Where are you folks off to tomorrow?” the sheriff said. “Suggestions?” Ma said. “A friend, a family member?” the sheriff said. “Renee’s,” I said. “Failing that, the shelter on Fristen?” the sheriff said. “One thing I am not doing is going to Renee’s,” Ma said. “Everyone in that house is too high and mighty. They already think of us as low.” “Well, we are low,” Harris said. “Compared to them.” “The other thing I am not doing is going to any beeping shelter,” Ma said. “They got crabs at shelters.” “When we first started dating, I had crabs from that shelter,” Harris said helpfully. “I’m sorry this is happening,” the sheriff said. “Everything’s backward and inverted.” “I’ll say,” Ma said. “Here I work for a church and my son’s a hero. With a Silver Star. Dragged a marine out by the beeping foot. We got the letter. And where am I? On the street.” The sheriff had switched off and was waiting to make his break for the door and get back to whatever was real to him. “Find someplace to live, folks,” he advised genially as he left. Harris and I dragged two mattresses back inside. They still had the sheets and blankets on and all. But the sheets had grass stains and the pillows smelled like mud. Then we spent a long night in the bare house. In the morning Ma called some ladies she’d known as a young mother, but one had a disk out and another had cancer and a third had twins who’d just been diagnosed manic-depressive. In the light of day Harris braved up again. “So this court-martial thing,” he said. “Was that the worst thing you ever did? Or was there worse things, which you did but just didn’t get caught?” “They cleared him of that,” Ma said tersely. “Well, they cleared me of breaking-and-entering that time,” Harris said. “Anyways, how is this any of your business?” Ma said. “Probably he wants to talk,” Harris said. “Get some air in there. Good for the soul.” “Look at his face, Har,” Ma said. Harris looked at my face. “Sorry I mentioned it,” he said. “How about moving in a little closer?”Buy the print » Then the sheriff was back. He made me and Harris drag the mattresses out. On the porch we watched him padlock the door. “Eighteen years you have been my dear home,” Ma said, possibly imitating some Sioux from a movie. “You’re going to want to get a van over here,” the sheriff said. “My son served in the war,” Ma said. “And look how you’re doing me.” “I’m the same guy that was here yesterday,” the sheriff said, and for some reason framed his face with his hands. “Remember me? You told me that already. I thanked him for his service. Call a van. Or your shit’s going to the dump.” “See how they treat a lady works at a church,” Ma said. Ma and Harris picked through their crap, found a suitcase, filled the suitcase with clothes. Then we drove to Renee’s. My feeling was, Oh, this will be funny. Although yes and no. That was just one of my feelings. Another was, Oh, Ma, I remember when you were young and wore your hair in braids and I would have died to see you sink so low. Another was, You crazy old broad, you narced me out last night. What was up with that? Another was, Mom, Mommy, let me kneel at your feet and tell you what me and Smelton and Ricky G did at Al-Raz, and then you can stroke my hair and tell me anybody would’ve done the exact same thing. As we crossed the Roll Creek Bridge I could see that Ma was feeling, Just let that Renee deny me, I will hand that little beep her beeping beep on a platter. But then, bango, by the time we got to the far side and the air had gone from river-cool to regular again, her face had changed to, Oh, God, if Renee denies me in front of Ryan’s parents and they once again find me trash, I will die, I will simply die. Renee did deny her in front of Ryan’s parents, who did find her trash. But she didn’t die. You should have seen their faces as we walked in. Renee looked stricken. Ryan looked stricken. Ryan’s mom and dad were trying so hard not to look stricken that they kept knocking things over. A vase went down as Ryan’s dad blundered forward trying to look chipper/welcoming. Ryan’s mom lurched into a painting and ended up holding it in her crossed red-sweatered arms. “Is this the baby?” I said. Ma turned on me again. “What do you think it is?” she said. “A midget that can’t talk?” “This is Martney, yes,” Renee said, holding the baby out to me. Ryan cleared his throat, shot Renee a look, like, I thought we’d discussed this, Love-Muffin. Renee changed the baby’s course, swerved it up, like if she held it high enough that would negate the need for me to take it from her, it being so close to the overhead light and all. Which hurt. “Fuck it,” I said. “What do you think I’m going to do?” “Please don’t say ‘fuck’ in our home,” Ryan said. “Please don’t tell my son what the beep he can beeping say,” Ma said. “Him being in the war and all.” “Thank you for your service,” Ryan’s dad said. “We can easily go to a hotel,” Ryan’s mom said. “You are not going to any hotel, Mom,” Ryan said. “They can go to a hotel.” “We’re not going to a hotel,” Ma said. “You can easily go to a hotel, Mother. You love a good hotel,” Renee said. “Especially when we’re paying.” Even Harris was nervous. “A hotel sounds lovely,” he said. “It’s been many a day since I reclined in a nice place of that nature as a hotel.” “You’d send your own mother, who works for a church, along with your brother, a Silver Star hero just home from the war, to some fleabag?” Ma said. “Yes,” Renee said. “Can I at least hold the baby?” I said. “Not on my watch,” Ryan said. “Jane and I would like you to know how much we supported, and still do support, your mission,” Ryan’s father said. “A lot of people don’t know how many schools you fellows built over there,” Ryan’s mother said. “People tend to focus on the negative,” Ryan’s dad said. “What’s that proverb?” Ryan’s mother said. “To make something-or-other, you have to break a lot of something-or-other?” “I think he could hold the baby,” Renee said. “I mean, we’re standing right here.” Ryan winced, shook his head. The baby writhed, like it, too, believed its fate was being decided. Having all these people think I was going to hurt the baby made me imagine hurting the baby. Did imagining hurting the baby mean that I would hurt the baby? Did I want to hurt the baby? No, Jesus. But: did the fact that I had no intention of hurting the baby mean that I wouldn’t, when push came to shove, hurt the baby? Had I, in the recent past, had the experience of having no intention of doing Activity A, then suddenly finding myself right in the middle of doing Activity A? “I don’t want to hold the baby,” I said. “I appreciate that,” Ryan said. “That’s cool of you.” “I want to hold this pitcher,” I said, and picked up a pitcher and held it like a baby, with the lemonade spilling out of it, and, once the lemonade was pooling nicely on the hardwood floor, spiked the pitcher down. “You really hurt my feelings!” I said. Then was out on the sidewalk, walking fast. Then was back in that store. Two different guys were there, even younger than the earlier two. They might have been high-schoolers. I handed over the MiiVOXMAX tag. “Oh shit, snap!” the one guy said. “We were wondering where that was.” “We were about to call it in,” the other guy said, bringing over espresso and cookies. “Is it valuable?” I said. “Ha, oh, boy,” the first one said, and got some kind of special cloth from under the counter and dusted the tag off and put it back on display. “What is it?” I said. “It’s more like what’s it for, is how I’d say it,” the first guy said. “What’s it for?” I said. “This might be more in your line,” he said and handed me the MiiVOXMIN tag. “I’ve been away a long time,” I said. “Us, too,” the second kid said. “We just got out of the Army,” the first kid said. Then we all took turns saying where we’d been. Turned out me and the first guy had been in basically the same place. “Wait, so were you at Al-Raz?” I said. “I was totally at Al-Raz,” the first guy said. “I was never in the shit, I admit it,” the second guy said. “Although I did once run over a dog with a forklift.” I asked the first guy if he remembered the baby goat, the pocked wall, the crying toddler, the dark arched doorway, the doves that suddenly exploded out from under that peeling gray eave. “I wasn’t over by that,” he said. “I was more by the river and the upside-down boat and that little family all in red that kept turning up everywhere you looked?” I knew exactly where he’d been. It was unbelievable how many times, pre- and post-exploding doves, I’d caught sight, down by the river, of some imploring or crouching or fleeing figure in red. “It ended up cool with that dog, though,” the second guy said. “He lived and all. By the time I left, he’d be like riding right up alongside me in the forklift.” A family of nine Indian-Americans came in, and the second guy went over to them with the espresso and cookies. “Al-Raz, wow,” I said, in an exploratory way. “For me?” the first guy said. “Al-Raz was the worst day of the whole deal.” “Yes, me, too, exactly,” I said. “I fucked up big time at Al-Raz,” he said. Suddenly I found I couldn’t breathe. “My boy Melvin?” he said. “Got a chunk of shrapnel right in the groin. Because of me. I waited too long to call it in. There was this like lady-party going on nearby? About fifteen gals in this corner store. And kids with them. So I waited. Too bad for Melvin. For Melvin’s groin.” Now he was waiting for me to tell the fucked-up thing I’d done. I put down MiiVOXMIN, picked it up, put it down. “Melvin’s O.K., though,” he said, and did a little two-finger tap on his own groin. “He’s home, you know, in grad school. He’s fucking, apparently.” “Glad to hear it,” I said. “Probably he even sometimes rides up alongside you in the forklift.” “Sorry?” he said. I looked at the clock on the wall. It didn’t seem to have any hands. It was just a moving pattern of yellow and white. “Do you know what time it is?” I said. The guy looked up at the clock. “Six,” he said. Out on the street I found a pay phone and called Renee. “I’m sorry,” I said. “Sorry about that pitcher.” “Yeah, well,” she said in her non-fancy voice. “You’re gonna buy me a new one.” I could hear she was trying to make up. “No,” I said. “I don’t think I’ll be doing that.” “Where are you, Mikey?” she said. “Nowhere,” I said. “Where are you going?” she said. “Home,” I said and hung up. Coming up Gleason, I had that feeling. My hands and feet didn’t know exactly what they wanted, but they were trending toward: push past whatever/whoever blocks you, get inside, start wrecking shit by throwing it around, shout out whatever’s in your mind, see what happens. I was on a like shame slide. You know what I mean? Once, back in high school, this guy paid me to clean some gunk out of his pond. You snagged the gunk with a rake, then rake-hurled it. At one point, the top of my rake flew into the gunk pile. When I went to retrieve it, there were like a million tadpoles, dead and dying, at whatever age they are when they’ve got those swollen bellies like little pregnant ladies. What the dead and dying had in common was: their tender white underbellies had been torn open by the gunk suddenly crashing down on them from on high. The difference was: the dying were the ones doing the mad fear-gesticulating. I tried to save a few, but they were so tender all I did by handling them was torture them worse. Maybe someone else could’ve said to the guy, “Uh, I have to stop now, I feel bad for killing so many tadpoles.” But I couldn’t. So I kept on rake-hurling. With each rake-hurl I thought, I’m making more bloody bellies. The fact that I kept rake-hurling started making me mad at the frogs. It was like either: (A) I was a terrible guy who was knowingly doing this rotten thing over and over, or (B) it wasn’t so rotten, really, just normal, and the way to confirm that it was normal was to keep doing it over and over. Years later, at Al-Raz, it was a familiar feeling. Here was the house. Here was the house where they cooked, laughed, fucked. Here was the house that, in the future, when my name came up, would get all hushed, and Joy would be like, “Although Evan is, no, not your real daddy, me and Daddy Evan feel you don’t need to be around Daddy Mike all that much, because what me and Daddy Evan really care about is you two growing up strong and healthy, and sometimes mommies and daddies need to make a special atmosphere in which that can happen.” I looked for the three cars in the driveway. Three cars meant: all home. Did I want all home? I did. I wanted all, even the babies, to see and participate and be sorry for what had happened to me. But instead of three cars in the driveway there were five. Evan was on the porch, as expected. Also on the porch were: Joy, plus two strollers. Plus Ma. Plus Harris. Plus Ryan. Renee was trotting all awkward up the driveway, trailed by Ryan’s mom, pressing a handkerchief to her forehead, and Ryan’s dad, bringing up the rear due to a limp I hadn’t noticed before. You? I thought. You jokers? You nutty fuckers are all God sent to stop me? That is a riot. That is so fucking funny. What are you going to stop me with? Your girth? Your good intentions? Your Target jeans? Your years of living off the fat of the land? Your belief that anything and everything can be fixed with talk, talk, endless yapping, hopeful talk? The contours of the coming disaster expanded to include the deaths of all present. My face got hot and I thought, Go, go, go. Ma tried and failed to rise from the porch swing. Ryan helped her up by the elbow all courtly. Then suddenly something softened in me, maybe at the sight of Ma so weak, and I dropped my head and waded all docile into that crowd of know-nothings, thinking, O.K., O.K., you sent me, now bring me back. Find some way to bring me back, you fuckers, or you are the sorriest bunch of bastards the world has ever known.
Clever Girl My stepfather wasn’t a big man, not much taller than my mother. He was lithe and light on his feet, handsome, with velvety dark brows, a sensual mouth, and jet-black hair in a crewcut as thick and soft as the pelt of an animal (not that I ever touched it, though sometimes, out of curiosity, I wanted to). His face was one of those whose features seem compacted, as if under pressure within a frame. He was energetic, intelligent, diligent, faithful—a stroke of luck for my mother, a lightning bolt of luck that had illuminated her grinding, narrow future and transformed it. They’d met at work, at the Board Mill, where the packets for Wills cigarettes were made; he was the manager of cost accounting. It was a real love match, much more than she could have hoped for, past her first youth and with a half-grown daughter as part of the package. If I knew him now as he was then, what would I think of him? I can imagine watching him, restless in a group of his friends, jumping up to buy them drinks, fetching extra chairs: he is a charming man; they like him. He is eagerly indignant, as they are, over money, hierarchy, immigration, discipline. He doesn’t like dirty jokes but just shakes his head, disapproving, smiling. All the time, it’s as if he were preoccupied with some inward effort, which he thinks no one else sees—an effort of decency, of fitting in. There is a little flame burning in him, despite himself, lighting up his expression and his movements. His judgment—not of abstractions like immigration and taxes but knowing how to hold himself, when to be still—is unexpectedly delicate and true. I can see it now, from this distance. We moved from the center of Bristol to a suburb, to a house in a new cul-de-sac called Beech Grove, carved out by a developer where there had once been a little wood amid the rows of houses from the nineteen-thirties. Our house was so new it was raw. There were still labels stuck across the glass in the windows, so that it seemed to stare with lifeless eyes at a ruined landscape of red clay. The paving and the wood of the fence palings were stained red and filthy. Although there were people already living in the finished houses to one side up the Grove, in the other direction there were only half-built shells in the mud; monstrous machines snoozed among piles of breeze blocks and timber, bags of cement. Mum unpacked a bucket and a tub of Vim and began washing out the red mud. Norbert helped carry things in and made sure that every item went into the room it was labelled for. Though he wasn’t big, he was strong, and he always got on well with men who worked for him. Mum and I hadn’t brought much with us; most of the furniture in the van was Nor’s. “It’ll do for the time being,” my mother said warningly, as if she had plans. Her “plans” were a flirtation between them, abrasive and teasing—her female conspiracy (shopping) vs. his tolerant resignation. “Don’t get under our feet,” she said to me. “Why don’t you go out and play?” “Can’t you find her something useful to do?” Nor said. “You don’t know Stella.” This was the first I’d heard that I wasn’t useful. But I was glad—I didn’t want to help. My new bedroom was an empty cell, smelling coldly of cement, not adapted to my shape or anyone’s. Our new garden, which my window overlooked in blind indifference, was only a rectangle of clay, marked off with fence posts and wire from the clay rectangles belonging to the other houses. I wandered out into it, taking my doll. (“Aren’t you too old for dolls?” Nor had already asked.) At the far end of our rectangle were the stumps of two huge trees, cut down to make way for the development; they were the only feature breaking up the imposed symmetry, and I gravitated toward them. Under my sandals, the ridges and troughs of hardened clay were unforgiving. From the base of the tree stump little feelers of new growth were pushing up in doomed hope, waving their flags of leaves; sticky resin oozed from crevices on the cut surface. Even the sky out here—lemon-colored, thinly clouded—seemed blanched and excessively empty; once, I supposed, its emptiness would have been full of trees. Carefully, I sat on the stump and put my doll beside me. Because she was jointed at the pelvis but not at the knee, she had to have her legs stretched out in front of her in a wide V. She was wearing a knitted blue-and-white ski suit. A girl came out from the back door of the next house, picking her way across the red clay. For a while, she and I were intensely mutually aware without seeming to notice each other, behind the convenient fiction of the fence wire. When we outgrew that pretense, she stepped across it and approached my stump. “Hello,” she said. “Have you moved in next door?” “It’s you who’s next door to us,” I said logically. “Counting from here.” She didn’t notice that I’d corrected her perspective. “Oh, good. We can be friends. I hoped there’d be a girl.” Her threshold for friendship wasn’t exacting, then. She seemed unsubtle, and I was a wary, reluctant friend. At least because she was eager, it was easy for me to withhold my approval. She was pretty: breathy and bouncing, with round eyes like a puppy’s, a mass of fuzzy, light-colored hair, and a tummy that strained against her tight stretch-nylon dress. I liked her name, which was Madeleine. She picked up my doll and began to walk her in silly, jouncing steps around the stump, seesawing her legs; I snatched her back. My belief in my dolls, at that point, was in a delicate balance. I knew that they were inert plastic and could be tumbled without consequences upside down and half naked in the toy box. At the same time, I seemed to feel the complex sensibility of each one, like an extra skin stretched taut and responsive, both in my mind and quite outside of me. Unlike my Teddy bear, who was capable of irony, this doll—her name was Teenager—was stiffly humorless. She was outraged by Madeleine’s travesty of real play. “I suppose these were the beeches,” I said, to distract Madeleine’s attention. She was blank. “What were what?” “These trees. The road is called Beech Grove. A beech is a kind of tree.” “What trees?” She was looking around as if she might have missed one. I explained that I meant the stump I was sitting on and the one next to it. I pointed out that there was a stump at the end of her garden, too, and others all along behind the row of houses. “There must have been a little wood. A grove. That’s what a grove is.” My relationship to her began to take on an instructional form that was not unsatisfying. Madeleine looked down at the stump with dawning comprehension. “Oh, is that a tree?” “What did you think it was?” “I didn’t think about it, really. I s’pose I just thought they were part of the ground. Like rocks or something.” Her oblivion seemed so extreme that it had to be disingenuous. This was Madeleine’s performance, I learned later—eyes so wide open that she seemed to be finding her own obliviousness as amusing as you ever could. You never got to the bottom of what she actually knew or didn’t know. “They shouldn’t have chopped down a grove of beech trees,” I said sternly, improvising. “It’s unlucky.” “Why?” “Because they were sacred. In the olden days, people worshipped them.” She thought about this. “What d’you mean, worshipped?” “Prayed to them. Believed that they were sacred—you know, like God.” “God?” Perhaps she’d never noticed whom she was praying to at school. I stood up carefully, respectfully, from the stump. “I hope the gods aren’t angry.” “Is it alive now?” Madeleine asked warily. “Kind of, in a way.” I showed her where the tree was feebly sprouting. “It’s still trying to grow.” “Ooh, I don’t like it,” she squealed, backing off in a pantomime of shuddering. She looked like the kind of girl who would join in whenever there was squealing over something—blood, wasps, veins in school-dinner liver—although she wouldn’t quite mean it, would just be enjoying the noise and the distraction. She was too robust to be properly squeamish. “You’d better not say you don’t like them,” I said. “They might hear.” A gleam of inspiration pierced her vagueness. Taking me by surprise, she dropped onto her knees on the clay, squeezing her eyes shut and clasping her hands together. “For what we are about to receive, may the Lord make us truly thankful,” she gabbled in the prescribed drone. “In the name of the ferrership of the spirit. O holy tree. Who art very nice; and we’re sorry that they’ve cut you down.” I knew that this was mostly for my benefit. Nonetheless, I glanced involuntarily upward. A few fat drops of rain fell without warning or follow-through, darkening spots on the dried clay. “See?” Madeleine said. “It doesn’t mind.” That evening, my mother boiled eggs and warmed beans on a Primus; our gas stove wasn’t connected yet. We buttered sliced bread straight from the bag, and had the milk bottle on the table. “Isn’t this an adventure?” she said excitedly. I was suspicious of something new in her face: not romance, exactly (she was never soft), but as if some force had filled her out, carrying her forward in exhilaration. She must have been just waiting to be married, I realized. I tried intently to imagine my dead father taking up the space that Nor was filling now, but I had no clear picture of him—he’d been gone since I was eighteen months old—and Nor was too assertive. He was sweaty, naturally, after the work he’d done; his hair was wet because he’d doused his head under the tap in the bathroom. His bodily presence intruded every way I turned, making the new house seem crowded, when I ought to have felt its succession of spaces flowering ahead of me, after the two rooms that Mum and I had shared since I could remember. As twilight thickened outside, the house’s shell seemed too pervious, swelling with the electric light as if it were as insubstantial as the canvas tents at school camp. Mum and Nor discussed with deep interest the economics of using the immersion heater. After he’d dried each cup and plate, he held it up to the light to inspect it. He complained that when I washed up I splashed water on the floor. Already I didn’t like living with him, and it had been only a matter of hours. I retreated to my cell-bedroom, where at least now a bed was installed—though it wasn’t the old double bed that I’d slept in since I outgrew my cot. That bed had never been ours, apparently; it had belonged to our old flat. On this new narrow one was a pile of ironed candy-striped sheets. With a martyred consciousness—Where did they think I was? Why didn’t they wonder?—I tucked them inexpertly over the mattress, then climbed between them in my knickers and vest. I could hear my mother and Nor talking downstairs. Though I couldn’t make out their words, I knew that they were deciding, with wholehearted adult seriousness, where to put each piece of furniture. The rumble of their dialogue was lulling, melancholy, remote. Then someone was running a bath; unfamiliar pipes groaned and eased too near at hand. There were no curtains for my window yet. In the dark, I missed the view from my old room intensely; I didn’t want to think about the non-trees I had conjured into being. “Let’s take this one step at a time. First, somebody is going to have to the fish.”Buy the print » We moved just before the beginning of the summer holidays. (I had one year left of junior school.) Madeleine and I were bound to become friends that summer—we had nothing else to do. During holidays in the past, I had been left at my nana’s while Mum went to work; now I stayed at home, under the supervision of Madeleine’s mother, Pam, who offered because it meant that Madeleine would have someone to play with. Pam was cheerfully casual and didn’t bother us. I think she felt sorry for me, being left alone, but, actually, I was relieved to have the house to myself. Mum left paste sandwiches and crisps and Penguin biscuits in the fridge. Madeleine watched me eat, sliding her feet under the kitchen table and hanging from its edge like a monkey. For a tubby girl, she was unexpectedly flexible, turning cartwheels easily and walking on her hands. There was no one to prevent me from starting with the chocolate, finishing with my sandwiches stuffed with crisps. I gulped milk from the bottle; sometimes I cooked up messes of butter and sugar in a pan. I moved around the new house in the adults’ absence, as if I were taking soundings. Madeleine and I clattered and screamed, flying down the stairs two or three at a time. The house’s air, one moment after we’d shattered it, was blandly restored. I picked up ornaments, poked in the miscellany of small things that had been put inside them for safekeeping, opened drawers. I had no criteria of taste with which to judge what was there (wood veneers, streamlined forms, tapering peg legs, fitted carpets, a television inside a cabinet with doors, curtains with a print of autumn leaves), and so I felt the impact of the rooms purely, their bright, brisk statement, their light and order, which aspired to weightlessness and dustlessness. Nor’s desk drawers were boring, full of papers having to do with dull mysteries: mortgages and insurance. With a kitchen knife, I made a tiny nick in the wood at the back of the kneehole in the desk, near the floor. I was filled with trepidation the next time he sat down to do the accounts and pay the bills, but he never noticed; nor did he notice when I added new nicks in the years afterward, every time I was most incandescently angry with him. He did notice that I had been through his drawers, and also that we had bounced on the sofa, rucking the covers and denting the cushions. And although I washed up after my butter-and-sugar messes, like forensic scientists he and Mum somehow discovered traces of my cooking, stuck around the bottom of the pan. “She’s got to learn,” Nor said. “She’s not a baby anymore.” I was clumsy, easily distracted; I was “always in a dream.” Nor dug out the form of this hapless personality for me; out of perversity, defiantly, I felt myself pouring into it and setting hard. I wasn’t pretty or charming or malleable. I went around with a suffering face. I read my book with my fingers in my ears. I wouldn’t laugh at Nor’s jokes. I lost my door key, or I went out with Madeleine leaving the back door unlocked. I left the hot tap running in the bathroom, then I forgot my cardigan at the swimming pool. Nor rarely lost his temper with me, not in that early time. He never, ever hit me. And, of course, days passed, even weeks sometimes, when he and I weren’t in any sort of outright conflict. Sometimes we were even all right together. Once, when he and Mum both had time off work, we went out for the day to Brean Down and Nor and I climbed the dunes in our flip-flops, sliding back one step for every two we took on the shifting sand; he held out his hand to me and pulled me up after him. His hands were brown and strong, with neat-trimmed nails as thick as horn. He always wore a watch on an expanding metal band, and a wedding ring, which men didn’t often do in those days. Mum stood below with her hair escaping from her scarf, whipping across her face in the wind, calling out to us to be careful, the dunes were treacherous, we could be buried alive. And Nor and I laughed together. When I was in trouble, however, he sat opposite me in the lounge, leaning forward with his elbows on his knees and his forehead wrinkled: I felt the whole force of his personality bent upon me—thwarted, concentrated, blinkered. “You’ll find nothing’s handed to you on a plate,” he said. “It’s no good thinking you can stay wrapped up in your own little world. Do you have any idea how hard your mother has to work to earn the money to buy you food and clothes?” In a reasonable voice, he communicated his warnings about the meanness at the heart of things, which he understood and I, in my childishness, was refusing to acknowledge. No doubt he really thought it was his duty, in my father’s place, to teach me to adapt. The trouble was that I hardly knew him. I didn’t exactly argue with him. I sometimes said, “I didn’t mean to,” in a flippant voice, or denied things that it was obvious I had done. If he asked me why I’d done them, I said I didn’t know. I put my hands under my thighs on the chair, swung my legs, and looked off into the corners of the room; my expression was a slippery mask clamped on my face. All my effort was directed at keeping my mouth curved upward in a grimacing smile, which I knew was my best weapon because it made Nor squeeze his fists and raise his voice. Then Mum would appear from the kitchen. “That’s enough,” she would say, tactfully, as if she were saying it to me. “Go up to your room, Stella.” Tugging me backward and forward between them, she and Nor expressed the tension in their new life together. He wanted his wife to himself; he hadn’t reckoned on finding me his rival for her attentions. Mum, with her quick skepticism, must have seen how he deceived himself, dissimulating his resentment, pretending to be impartial. She must have remonstrated with him over how relentlessly he came in pursuit of me, though it was part of their code that she would never openly take my part against him. (And although I felt bitterly his taking her away from me, I also dreaded catching sight of any rift between them.) Let’s be clear—our fight was mutual; I was set against Nor just as he was against me. Only I was a child, so he had power over me. That’s all tyranny is: it’s not in a personality; it’s in a set of circumstances. It’s being trapped with your enemy in a limited space—a country or a family—where the balance of power between you is unequal and the weaker one has no recourse. Because the tree cult began in the shapeless days of summer, there was no drudging sanity of school at first to counteract its power. I came up with the idea of kissing the stumps and leaving offerings—salt, currants, sherbet. We smeared the resin on our foreheads. The three stumps in our gardens grew distinctive personalities, and we named them (Iskarion, Vedar, Mori). They were jealous, capricious, closely informed about our daily lives. More awesome and less easy to propitiate were the nameless stumps we had no access to, in other gardens. Madeleine used to dab the resin on her tongue and then groan and double up, clutching her stomach, making a great fuss over how it had poisoned her. It was her idea that we should cut ourselves and rub our blood into the bark. I pushed myself, trying to receive intimations of the sacred trees’ living existence; occasionally, alone, I could fall into an ecstasy of belief. At other times, I watched myself, skeptical of the authenticity of my transports, knowing that I was only repeating the form of past emotions. Sometimes, after the sessions with Madeleine, I would be visited by a kind of Protestant disgust at our excesses; the more we thrilled and exaggerated, the more it was only a game. For a couple of days I wouldn’t play, no matter how much Madeleine pouted and sulked. Then—once, on a Sunday evening in my bath, when the late sunlight, reflecting off the bathwater, made restless patterns on the ceiling—I’d be visited by the balm of a vision of great trees, at the very moment when I least thought of asking for it. Outside time, after all, the vanished trees were still printed on the air somewhere. At the end of the summer, when Madeleine and I went back to our different schools, the cult cooled down but didn’t die. Out of superstitious habit we still left offerings at the stumps for good luck, and carried bits of bark in our pockets, fingering them out of the teacher’s sight. Nor insisted that I sit the entrance exam for the direct-grant secondary schools. I always had my head in a book, he argued. And not many of the children where we lived now went to the local comprehensive. Madeleine was taking the exam, too, but she didn’t have to do so well on it, because her parents could pay. I needed a scholarship place. I sat the exam. I didn’t care how I did, wasn’t frightened of it. School up to that point had left me unscathed. I didn’t make the connection that Nor did, between the power of what I read in books in my own time and the outward husk of learning, perfectly functional but not involving, that went on in the classroom. Consulting no one, I had promoted myself at our local library to adult books—which meant climbing three steps, covered in yellow lino, into the upper portion of the brick building, with its sensuous hush and beamed Arts and Crafts ceiling. I didn’t know where to begin; I was drawn to complete works in uniform bindings, because I thought they would be a series, like the ones I had loved in the children’s section: “Anne of Green Gables” or “The Naughtiest Girl in the School.” Often I hardly knew what was happening in the novels I fell upon by chance (Compton Mackenzie, Faulkner, Hugh Walpole, Elizabeth Bowen), but I read absorbedly nonetheless, half disappointed, half revelling in the texture of these worlds jumbling in my ignorance: servants, telegrams, cavalry, race, guilt, dressing for dinner (what time was dinner and what did they wear?), and elliptical conversations unlike any I’d ever heard, signifying things that I could only guess at. I gave up on some, but the books were an initiation. I began piecing their worlds together in my comprehension. I got a scholarship for the Girls High School. (Madeleine got in, too, without the scholarship.) Mum took me out to buy a briefcase; she was proud that I had proved myself at least good for something. Nor said, “She’ll have a lot more to live up to now.” I can’t remember when or how I found out that Nor was brought up in the Homes—I suppose Mum must have told me. He didn’t speak to me about it until long afterward. (At the time he said only, “Not everyone has your opportunities.”) The Homes was an orphanage, a vast neoclassical gray stone building set back from a main road, its front as implacable as a hospital or a prison, a little kingdom. We said at junior school that the children who came from there smelled of wee and wore one another’s clothes. They didn’t have real mothers, only aunties. This knowledge I had of Nor lodged in me like a stone. It didn’t make me like him any better. It seemed an extra twist to how arbitrarily he and I were fastened together: I had to bear the burden of his childhood sorrows. He had done heroically well, working his way up at the Board Mill, overcoming the handicap of his beginnings (his mother hadn’t been “able to look after him”). I was determined not to care. My own selfishness seemed to eat me up; I worked at being oblivious of all my advantages. I hated high school. Madeleine and I hated it together, though differently. Her face, wiped clear of point or guile, goaded a couple of the more savage teachers, who mistook her blankness for insolence. At first, it seemed that I had the gift of invisibility. I stayed somewhere around the middle of the range of achievement. I kept my mouth shut in class and out of it. I absorbed obsessively the intricate system of prohibitions, so as not to attract anyone’s attention by transgressing: no fewer than five lace-holes in our outdoor shoes, no green ink, all textbooks to be covered in brown paper, girls not to use the toilet in twos (in junior school, we had crowded three or four into the little cubicles, to gossip), and so on. By the end of the first week, I knew that I’d found my way, through some terrible error, into enemy territory, where I must, as a matter of life or death, keep my true self concealed. The school was a mill, whose purpose was to grind you into its product. Every subject shrank to fit inside the exam questions, even—especially—the books we read in English class. We were supposed to be grateful to have been selected for this grinding, and most of the girls were grateful. Madeleine and I didn’t fit in. Our tree cult revived, garnered new passionate power. In addition to the bark fragments in our pockets, we had a code of words and signs to communicate our mockery and refusal. Meanwhile, my mother began wearing looser dresses. Buy the print » She never told me she was pregnant, only hinted at a significant change coming; I was slow to the point of stupidity in picking up her clues. Why was she putting her feet up every evening after supper, while Nor and I did the dishes in competitive silence? Some conspiracy surrounded her, which I recoiled from, as if I guessed that it had humiliation in it for me. One Saturday morning, watching from my bedroom window while she hung out washing on the metal clothes tree in the garden (which had finally been turfed), I saw what I had not allowed myself to see—the wet sheets billowed like fat sails filled with wind, and she billowed, too. Ducking out of sight behind my window, so that she wouldn’t know I knew, I crouched around my discovery in the tight space between the bed leg and the dolls’ cot, with my back to the pink-sprigged wallpaper I had chosen and Nor had cut and pasted and put up. (I picked at the edges of this paper sometimes, where he wouldn’t notice it, when I was in bed at night; sometimes I spat into the gap beside the bed and let my saliva trickle down the wall.) Mum had betrayed herself, pretending to be complete and then letting this invasion into her body, as if she were not herself but another woman. I’d never considered any relationship between my own mother and the not quite interesting mystery of prams and bibs and bottles. She was too sensible, too old, I had always thought. She had never even seemed to like babies, or made any fuss over them. Except me. Once upon a time, she must have changed nappies and heated bottles of milk for me, fussed over me. But that was a lifetime ago. My mother had to go into hospital for the last weeks of her pregnancy, because her blood pressure was too high. Nor and I were left in a tense proximity at home. He made my tea when he came in from work, a procedure we both found painful. He tied Mum’s apron over his shirt and suit trousers, then, with an exaggerated air of duty, set about producing fish fingers, baked beans, bacon, sausages, pork chops, chips. For a man of that era, he really wasn’t bad at it. In fact, he may have been a better cook than my mother was; she was pretty awful. Only, he didn’t know the little foibles of my likes and dislikes the way she did. I ate everything he put in front of me. I think I was afraid of him, alone in the house without her—afraid, at least, of his contempt. But I didn’t eat it enthusiastically. I cut every piece of toast, or potato, or sausage laboriously into minute pieces before I even tasted them. Then one by one I swallowed these pieces, trying not to chew, washing them down with mouthfuls from my glass of water, asking for refills frequently. Though he couldn’t have known it, I was doing my best. I saw that I put him off his own food (which he ate with the apron still on). “Just eat it, for goodness’ sake,” he said. “Chew it up.” He sat at an angle, hunched around his plate, so that he didn’t have to watch me. After tea, he made me do my homework on the dining-room table. We never used this room to eat in, except at Christmas or on the rare occasions that we had guests, so it was chilly and transitional: papered olive green, with doors at either end and a serving hatch, African violets on the windowsill, a memory of stale gravy in the air, letters and paperwork and Mum’s sewing washed up on the repro rosewood dining table, among the placemats showing Old World coaching inns. Miserably, I cleared myself a space. I had to spread newspaper, in case I made marks on the polished surface. After long days of lessons, we were given two or three hours of homework every night. For most of that first year at high school, I aimed for average marks that would not draw anyone’s attention. I wasn’t consciously holding back; it hadn’t yet occurred to me to desire praise, prizes, distinctions. In science and maths, I struggled anyway. The physics teacher was merciless. Handsome, tall, unmarried, with a rope of white hair twisted around her temples, she belonged to the generation of women who had sacrificed everything for their education. We were supposed to learn the principles of physics not by rote but through problem-solving. One evening, I was wrestling with a question about acceleration: the hare catching up with the tortoise in a race. Actual tears splashed onto the page, blotting the blue ink of my workings; my mind ached with the effort. At junior school, I had been good at problems—“If Harry and Dick together weigh nine stone four pounds, Dick and Tom together weigh eight stone twelve pounds,” and so on—but those problems had been for beginners, I saw now. I urged my mind to take the intuitive leap into comprehension, but again and again it balked. Nor looked in on me, bringing the cup of milky, sugary instant coffee that my mother usually brought. He really was trying very hard. “What’s the matter? Are you stuck?” Our voices startled us—they seemed to break a silence locked like rusting machinery. I knew how I looked, slumped in defeat at the table, pasty-faced with worry. (The teacher’s scorn did not distinguish between those who tried and failed and those who didn’t try.) I had no pride where my schoolwork was concerned—it occurred to me that Nor might be able to help me. He worked with numbers all day; I took it for granted that he would understand the problem. “So long as it isn’t French,” he said cheerfully enough, and pulled up a chair beside me, striped shirtsleeves rolled businesslike up to the elbow. He radiated clean heat from those sessions in the bathroom that left the walls dripping and the mirrors cloudy. I explained that the hare was sleeping at a location twelve hundred metres from the finish line; the tortoise passed it at a steady speed of five centimetres per second. Six and a half hours later, the hare woke up. All of these elements had by now attained a hallucinatory meaninglessness in my head. Nor read the problem over to himself, biting my pen, frowning down at the scrambled page of my homework book. What minimum acceleration (assumed constant) must the hare have in order to cross the finish line first? He worked out easily in his head how long it would take for the tortoise to get there, then went over and over the other elements, sketching a little diagram for himself, the hare’s trajectory cutting across the tortoise’s just before the finish line. I saw that he wanted it to be like one of the Dick and Harry problems, giving way to common sense or to a trick of thought. “How do we calculate acceleration?” he asked. “Haven’t they taught you how? Have you done other problems like this one?” I found in the back of my book a formula that the teacher had given us, expressing D in terms of O, V, T, and A, but I didn’t even know what those letters stood for. Nor thought that perhaps D was distance, but we already knew the distance. His hand began to leave sweat marks on the page, as mine had. He wondered just when the hare needed to pass the tortoise in order to get to the finish line ahead of it; how tiny might the difference between them be? His efforts snagged on this doubt, building up behind it. “You have to concentrate better in class,” he said. “She must have shown you how to do this. Can’t you remember?” I shrugged, flinching. I should have known that I would be to blame. “Physics is boring.” He tried again, stating the elements of the problem in a reasonable, steadying voice. All the time, he must have been consumed with his real worries, about my mother’s condition and what lay ahead for them, about his responsibility for me. “Write me a note,” I said. “Tell the teacher I was ill.” “Don’t be silly. All you need to do is ask her to explain it to you.” “You don’t understand what she’s like!” I wailed. And then somehow we upset my coffee cup. It really wasn’t clear to me which one of us did it: I may have thrown out my hand rhetorically; he may have reached for a pencil without looking. Hot, milky, sugary coffee flooded everywhere, soaking instantly through the layers of newspaper, slewing into our laps, pooling on the precious polished surface of the table; we both threw ourselves backward. I snatched up my homework book—though not before a few splashes dashed across the page, elegant illustrations of the physics of liquid form. (The teacher, the following week, would ring these splashes in red Biro, writing “Disgusting & slovenly presentation,” but by then I didn’t care.) Nor grabbed at a heap of bills and Mum’s sewing—she was making things for the new baby. Too late; coffee stains had already seeped into the cut-out pieces of the little gingham romper suit. “Stella! You idiot!” he yelled, shoving me roughly out of the way of the coffee dripping onto the carpet and onto my fawn socks. I stumbled backward, genuinely confused. “Was it my fault?” Nor ran to fetch tea towels from the kitchen to soak up the coffee, then filled a bucket with soapy water and set to work systematically, mopping and rubbing and wiping, just as my mother would have done, changing the water every so often. Spilled milk was one of the things that Mum and Nor dreaded above all else; if you failed to eradicate every trace, the smell as it soured came back to haunt you. While he wiped, I stood frowning at my homework. “What are we going to do with that skirt?” Nor said, his voice embittered, doomsday-flat. “You’d better take it off. If I wash it out, it’ll never be dry for tomorrow. I’ll try to leach the worst of the coffee out of it without soaking it. At least you’ve got a clean shirt I can iron.” I unbuttoned the skirt and stepped out of it, still staring at the book. Something had happened; I could see all the elements of the problem differently now, as if they had arranged themselves naked under a bright light. “Look,” I said, exulting. “D is distance. A must be acceleration. We need to rearrange the equation so that A is by itself on one side of the equal sign. OV must be original velocity, which is nought—the hare’s asleep—so that cancels out. Times both sides by two, divide by time squared. Acceleration equals two times distance over time squared.” He didn’t even answer; naturally enough, at that moment he didn’t much care about my physics homework. He was too busy trying to sop spilled coffee from the carpet, while his sulky stepdaughter stood in her knickers, not lifting a finger to help him. Or he hated his failure to know more than I did, be cleverer than I was. That was how I got to know that I was clever. When I cleaned my teeth that night in the bathroom, my face was different in the mirror: as if a light had gone on behind my eyes, or an inner eye had been strained open. Every inch of my skin, every pore, every fixture in the bathroom was accessible to my vision pressing remorselessly onward, devouring the world’s substance, seeing through it. I could see my own face as if it weren’t mine. I pressed my nose to the mirror, baring my teeth at myself, misting the glass with my breath. At first, this cleverness was like a sensation of divinity; then, after a while, it ate itself and I couldn’t turn the mind-light off, couldn’t stop thinking through everything, couldn’t sleep. I saw Nor—and my mother and my school—as if they were tiny, in the remote distance. I believed that if I wanted to I could solve all the problems in the physics teacher’s book. When eventually sleep came, I seemed to hear the soughing of trees outside in the empty air. I understood all about those trees. I grasped what they were: how they existed and did not exist, how both contradictory realities were possible at once.
M&M World Ginny had promised to take the girls to M&M World, that ridiculous place in Times Square they had passed too often in a taxi, Maggie scooting to press her face to the glass to watch the giant smiling M&M scale the Empire State Building on the electronic billboard and wave from the spire, its color dissolving yellow, then blue, then red, then yellow again. She had promised. “Promised,” Olivia said, her face twisted into the expression she reserved for moments of betrayal. “Please,” Olivia whined. “You said ‘spring.’ ” She had said “spring.” This she remembered, and it was spring, or almost. Spring enough. Spring advancing, the trees newly budded, the air peppery. Regardless, it felt too early to go home when the light shone this strongly, slanting across Central Park in the way of late March, early April; plus, the city had already collectively sprung forward. Spring has sprung, the grass has ris’. “All right,” she found herself saying. “Just once. Today. Just once. This is it.” Breaking her resolution to stop qualifying—five more minutes, this last page, one more bite—and wishing, mid-speech, she would stop. She has tried. Just as she has tried to be more easygoing, but when push comes to shove, as it always will, she is not easygoing. And she qualifies. It’s a verbal tic: first this and then that. A constant negotiation—action then reward, or promise of reward. What is it that the books say? Screw the books. She takes the girls’ hands and holds tight, changing course, crossing Central Park West to Central Park South. The girls suddenly delighted, and delightful, straining ahead, buoyant. They are gorgeous, bright-eyed, brilliant girls: one tall, one short, pant legs dragging, torn leggings, sneakers that glow in the dark or light up with each step, boom boom boom. They break free and race across, bounding onto the sidewalk, their hands rejoined like paper cutouts, zigzagging here, zigzagging there, Maggie clutching Zoom Zoom with her free hand, choking the thing, its dangly legs and arms, its floppy, flattened ears. Ginny follows them quickly, remembering how her heart would literally stop as Olivia—then, what? four? five?—would run to this same corner, the light not yet changed. Her daughter had only to step into traffic, to veer off the curb. She never did. Olivia climbed the stone seals at seal park in Chelsea, the bronze bears in the playground outside the Metropolitan Museum; she teetered on their heads and could so easily have slipped—she did slip, once, but it was nothing. Still, Ginny had to wake her every hour that night, shake her out of her sleepy fog. “Who am I?” Ginny had said, Olivia’s blue princess pajamas silky beneath her grip, Olivia’s shoulders so thin. “Mommy?” Olivia said, squinting, pupils the right size, shrinking: constricting or contracting, she never knew which, but, whatever, correctly—she was fine. And then, a bit older, those other sneakers—wheelies? heelies?—and Olivia careering along the sidewalk, wheels where the heels should be, the speed! And downhill, too, with nothing to hold on to, no way to stop. The pediatrician had said the most dangerous thing was trampolines, even with nets. And then the rented house that summer had one, netless, in the back yard. She had watched as the girls bounced higher and higher. She couldn’t get them off, Olivia and now Maggie, just like her big sister. She had stood vigil at the window, or next to the rail in her hat and long sleeves buttoned at the wrist, the girls slathered with sunscreen. The point is, her heart stuck in her throat, always in her throat. Ginny hurries to catch up. One has tripped the other accidentally on purpose and now the other howls as if singed with fire. “Stop it,” Ginny hisses. “Right now. Period. Stop it or no M&M World.” They stop, Olivia smiling to clear the air, though the air stinks: they’re near a line of carriages and their horses. “Please,” Maggie’s saying. “Please. Please.” And so they circle around, petting Blackie, petting Whitey, petting Gummie with the drippy nostrils, the one the driver says loves sugar—“Yes, yes, next time we’ll bring a sugar cube”—and Whinny and Happy and the other one, its long yellow teeth reminding her: she needs to bleach. Suddenly everyone’s teeth are whiter than her own; they wear them like necklaces. And their faces, too, seem suspiciously doctored, first one line then another magically evaporating, a whole generation of women paying for erasure. “Ouch,” Maggie says. She holds one hand flat as instructed, the brown carrot there, a gift from the driver. The driver laughs. “No danger,” he says. The horse roots and chews. “You’re fine,” Ginny says. She strokes the soft hair of the horse’s muzzle, the horse nuzzling Maggie’s tiny palm; it wears a hat with a feathered plume, as if it had trotted here from the stables of a fallen tsar. Ginny leans into its solid skull, and the horse stares back at her with a huge watery eye. Where am I? it wonders, or something equivalent, and she thinks of the whale in Patagonia that asked the same thing. This was years ago, before the girls were born, when she and the girls’ father took a trip to Chile. They were there for vacation; there to see animals. Animals had been promised, including whales. A center existed, manned by earnest students, young men and women from all over the world who spoke Spanish beautifully and wore thin silver bracelets with a symbol that meant something. They piloted the boats and explained to the tourists the seriousness of the venture, the need for extra donations. The tourists kept quiet, mostly, standing on the side of the boat where they’d been told to stand, given the radar and various other instruments that would determine the location of the whales—sometimes a female with a calf or two, or, rarer, a male on its own. The whales communicated over great distances, as everyone knew, but the students could intercept their communications, or decipher them: regardless, somehow the students knew what the whales were saying, or might be saying, and so could steer the boat in the right direction where, for a fee, the tourists could take pictures of the whale surfacing or of the plume of water from the blowhole, or sometimes, even, if the tourists were very lucky, of a whale jumping gracefully as if showing off. On this particular voyage, the one Ginny found herself on with the girls’ father, Ginny chose to stay on the side of the boat with more shade. She was hot, she told the girls’ father. He could call her if anything exciting happened. She had opened her book: “War and Peace,” a paperback edition she had picked up in the paperback exchange in Santiago, where they had stayed for a few days before heading south. She had been at a good part, a really good part, and so perhaps it took some time for the whale to get her attention. She had had, when she later thought about it, the feeling of being watched. And so she had looked up from her place in “War and Peace” and seen the whale, a female, she would learn, uncharacteristically alone, lolling before her on the surface of the water. She folded the corner of her page and stood, shading her eyes; then she walked to the boat rail to get a better look. She didn’t call the girls’ father; she didn’t call anyone. She looked down at the whale. It lay on its side, staring with one eye straight at Ginny, drifting alone in its disappearing sea, the sun burning both of them, beaming through the torn shreds of the shredded atmosphere. They stayed like that for a while, Ginny convinced that the whale had a message to deliver, something she might translate and convey to the world. But she never figured out what, since too soon someone from the other side saw it and the whale was gone. “Mother!” Maggie’s saying. Ginny pulls away from the solid skull of the horse and turns back to her youngest. “You weren’t listening,” Maggie is saying. “Was so,” Ginny says. “Then can I?” Maggie says. Ginny bends down to kiss Maggie’s head, the part between the plastic barrettes that Maggie repeatedly refastens each morning, wanting to look, she says, “right.” Maggie’s hair smells delicious. “No,” she says. Maggie stomps her foot; she’s pushed Zoom Zoom deep in her pocket, its strange face, not quite rabbit, not quite anything else—“it’s extinct,” Maggie once said—just above the fold. “I love you,” Ginny says. “You’re beautiful.” “What about me?” Olivia says. She has been standing next to Ginny, as quiet as a stone. “You too, sweetheart,” she says, pulling her oldest in. “You, too.” “O.K., Larry, out with it—who’s Mom?”Buy the print » There are other things to fix, not just her yellow teeth. She needs some spots removed from her skin; she needs to dye her gray roots, the stubborn tuft that refuses to blend. She could use something for her posture—Pilates—and she’s overdue a mammogram, a bone scan, a colonoscopy. She needs a new coat, an elegant one like those she’s seen on other mothers, something stylish to go with the other stylish clothes she means to buy, and the boots, the right boots, not just the galoshes she’s slipped on every morning all winter; it’s spring now, isn’t it? She should pay to have her toes soaked, her feet scrubbed of dead skin. She could choose a bright color of nail polish, a hip color, a dark purple or maybe even that shade of brown. She should take a class—philosophy, religion, vegan cooking—and wear sandals there, the new kind, with the straps that wrap the ankle or twist all the way to mid-calf, her brown toenails shiny smooth, as if dipped in oil. There are posters on the subway and numbers to call. She writes down the Web sites in the notebook she carries for such things: lists, reminders. But she is constantly out of time, losing track, forgetting. Sunday’s Monday evening, then Wednesday vanishes altogether. M&M World looms in the distance, the electronic billboard—“M&M’S WORLD”—as bright as a beacon. They hurry down Broadway. At Fifty-first, Olivia claims she can see the waving M&M hanging from the spire of the Empire State Building. “It’s blue!” she says. “Where? Where?” Maggie says. “No, it’s green!” she says. “Where?” Maggie says, hopping. She’s suddenly furious. “I can’t see! Lift me!” “Be patient,” Ginny says. She takes Maggie’s hand and pulls her along. Olivia is in front, swimming upstream, parting the crowds. Hallelujah to the end of the hideous winter: blackened snowdrifts and dog shit and lost gloves. The city erupts, oozes, overflows; everyone is outdoors, walking quickly or standing on the corner checking phones, dialling phones, speaking on phones. “Where?” someone is saying. “You’re breaking up.” “Olivia?” she yells; she doesn’t see her. Olivia has stopped in front of a store window: snow globes and hats and luggage on wheels, a rack of “I New York” T-shirts, electronic gadgets. She is suddenly taller when she turns back around, her face complicated. “I’m here, Mom,” she says. “Don’t scare me.” “It’s the new kind.” “I can’t,” Ginny says. “We’ve got to—” Maggie’s pulling her hand. “Mister Softee!” she’s saying. Christ, already? The truck? “Please?” Maggie says. “Not today,” Ginny says. “Did you see it?” Olivia’s saying. “Just a minute,” she says to Maggie. “What?” she says to Olivia. “Please? It’s a special day, isn’t it?” Maggie’s saying. “It’s spring. You said.” Ginny turns to Maggie. In Maggie’s smile are four missing teeth, each one saved and wrapped in tinfoil in her Tooth Fairy Box. She plans on blowing her wad all at once: fifteen teeth—or are there more?—beneath her pillow, precious little things although three have already been patched for cavities, the dentist wondering how vigilant Ginny has been about flossing, the amount of candy consumed. “Remarkably so and hardly any,” Ginny had said at the last appointment. “It’s a mystery.” “Next time,” she says now to Maggie. “Enough’s enough.” “It’s the new kind,” Olivia is saying. Maggie looks up. “Please,” she says, her teeth tiny pearls. “Mom!” Olivia says. “Oh, all right,” Ginny says. “Just this once. Not again. Only because it’s spring. This is it.” “Thanks, Mom,” Maggie says, smiling. “What?” Olivia says. “Ice cream!” Maggie says. They high-five and dance around Ginny’s knees. Ginny had kept a list of the animals of Patagonia. The ones that interested her. There were the penguins, of course, an entire colony that was completely tame. They had never been hunted and it was as simple as that, the guide had said, she and the girls’ father stooping, squatting to watch them furiously building their nests: the mating season had ended and now they were preparing for eggs. There were some, too, that were not well. Those stood on the outside of the colonies looking in; sometimes small crowds of other penguins gathered around them and nosed them toward the water, a not so subtle suggestion, the guide had said, that they might be better off drowned. Brutal nature, the girls’ father had said. There were the lizards and the guanacos and the numerous birds, the elephant seals they’d watched from a cliff top, the males fighting over a female that lay on its side, clueless or, rather, helpless. Brutal nature, she had said, and the girls’ father had laughed, and in that instant, and this is true, a rainbow had appeared—it was that kind of weather—the arc stretching from one end of the ocean to the other, and she had taken his hand and said, “Yes.” She thought she was ready. Children, she had said. Dozens of them. There are even more people farther on, in Times Square, though the cars have been blocked and so there’s that, at least—one less thing. They’ll finish their ice creams here before turning back toward the store, Ginny says, maneuvering the girls around the tables and chairs, the feet, the flocks of pigeons, the remnants of lunches consumed. Men and women she may or may not recognize—movie stars, rappers, models—loom above them, magnified a thousand per cent, their eyes the size of swimming pools, their teeth cliff walls she could hide behind or possibly dwell in, like the Anasazi, chiselling toeholds so she might scale down at night to forage. The movie stars, rappers, and models are invariably smiling, cheerful; some sing or dance, the women with suggestive postures, the men in dark glasses and fur coats. Everyone is moving, gyrating, blinking, flashing. Tourists sit on the new risers watching nothing or everything, looking down, from time to time, to study their guidebooks. The breeze picks up, eddying ticket stubs and wrappers and waxed paper and brown bags and plastic straws and whatever else has been left behind. Shameless, this litter: if she ran the world. Recently, a flock of plastic bags has caught in the spindly sycamore in front of their apartment, empty bags that inflate and deflate with the wind like marooned sailing ships. They are what she sees when she looks out the living-room window, which, truth be told, she does more often now than she should. It’s as if she were trying to remember something that she’d forgotten, as if there were someone she was supposed to call. She stands at the window and looks, the plastic bags inflating, deflating. Alive, somehow, mocking her or maybe just reminding her—a cosmological message. From whom? Of what? “Mother!” Olivia yells. Maggie, halfway between Ginny and Olivia, is on the pavement, clutching her knee. “Mister Softee!” she’s saying. “My cone!” Ginny is next to her before she knows it, pushing up Maggie’s ragged leggings to expose the skin, stroking her hair. Strangers gather dumbly. “We’re fine,” Ginny says. “Thank you. She’s fine.” She blows on the scraped place, red and scratched raw but not bleeding—they were racing, they were almost tied, Olivia’s explaining. Maggie’s ice cream is upturned and melting in the street, a ruination. Maggie cannot speak for sobbing. “Sweetheart,” Ginny’s saying, stroking her hair. “It’s O.K., sweetheart. We’ll find another truck. We’ll get a new one. We’ll get another.” Olivia licks her cone, listening. “Then I want another one, too,” she says. The place is jammed and loud. There are vats of brightly colored M&M’s everywhere, M&M’s crammed in plastic tubes spiralling to the ceiling. There are M&M T-shirts and M&M mugs and M&M tote bags and stuffed M&M men, or whatever they’re called (M&M guys? M&M characters?), and M&M pillows and M&M beach towels and M&M statues and M&M key rings and M&M snow globes and M&M plates and M&M puzzles and M&M umbrellas. The employees, dressed in M&M colors, dance and sing along—for minimum wage?—to a song Ginny recognizes, a song she’s heard played continuously on the radio station that Olivia listens to in her room now, the door mostly closed. It’s the voice, Olivia pointed out, of one of the men on the billboards, one of the men swathed in fur—or maybe he was the guy in the suit. Ginny can’t remember, her head already clogged, her eyes watering. It is hot in here, the air-conditioning not yet on, the heat remembering winter. The girls stand on either side of her, transfixed. Maggie’s tears have been wiped dry, a Band-Aid found in the deep recesses of Ginny’s purse, the wound, as Maggie called it, cleaned with a Fresh Wipe, then kissed for good luck. Only Big Sister could do that part—wiggling her fingers first to conjure the fairy dust that only Big Sister could conjure. A fairy dust invisible to mothers, its healing powers a mystery, like phoenix tears, Olivia said. Or Zoom Zoom, Maggie said. “Can we, please?” Olivia asks now. She has seen the sign directing customers up, by way of the escalator, to the second floor, where a life-size M&M waits like Santa Claus, available for photographs. “All right,” Ginny says. “Just this once. Because we’re here. But not if there’s a line.” “Yeah!” the girls say. Olivia takes Maggie’s hand and leads the way. Ginny watches them step onto the escalator with their identical ponytails, their small shoulders, their fleeces tied around their waists. From the moment they were born, they looked like her or they looked like their father, or, sometimes, they looked like a combination of both: her hair and his eyes, his mouth and her nose, her chin and his smile. But from behind now they look just like little girls: sisters in a portrait, or Renoir’s beauties in flat black hats, poppies sprung from their ballet shoes. They are timeless, somehow, though too fast growing. “Zoom Zoom is shrinking,” Maggie had said. “Wasn’t Zoom Zoom once bigger?” They ascend and Ginny feels the catch of love unbearable: she never imagined this, she thinks, her heart suddenly thudding, as if stepping down a stair or two, hard, and then a pause and then another thump, or a clump, her heart clumping down the stairs—caffeine, maybe, or nerves. She follows them up but they are already out of sight. The crowds thick, people speaking different languages, laughing, dancing with the employees. Where is she? What is this? At the top of the stairs, Olivia waits to show her. “Look!” she says, holding up a green Statue of Liberty M&M. “You pull the torch.” “Cool,” Ginny says. “Are you looking?” Olivia says. “The torch!” “I saw,” Ginny says. “It’s cool.” “And they have purple ones.” “Cool.” “Can we get some?” “Where’s your sister?” “With the guy. Can we get some?” “What?” “The purple ones! They’re grape!” She and the girls’ father had discussed at length how to explain it to them. He had thought it best to be as honest as possible, to sit them down and simply tell them that he was moving out. “They’re old enough,” he had said. Buy the print » They’re too young, she’d said. She could barely look at him. He was all secrets; they slid around beneath his expression like tectonic plates. He was all the things he wouldn’t say to her that she wanted to know, all deception and cunning. It made her crazy to look at him and so she stared at her feet, at her ubiquitous galoshes. At least she should find some more contemporary ones, the ones with the thick matching socks turned down over the top, the ones in strong solid colors that came from the British Isles or somewhere—Brittany?—and suggested other lives, lives spent mucking stalls or milking cows, or even striding with a fishing rod and a rough-hewn basket through streams where the trout still ran as they once had, before, in other places, they grew strange scales and forgot to spawn; lives spent striding and oblivious of the wet, oblivious of the hard stones that would have pierced the soles of lesser girls. Boots that suggested strength or, at the very least, a day’s catch. “It’s not like they don’t get the concept,” he had said. She looked up at his face and squinted, and the girls were there, too: in his eyes, his eyebrows. “Maggie!” Ginny shouts. She can’t see her. The line for a photograph with the M&M is endless, and she can’t see Maggie anywhere. “What guy?” Ginny asks, turning to Olivia. “What do you mean, ‘the guy’?” “I didn’t say that,” Olivia said. “I don’t know. She was here a minute ago.” “Where?” “Right here,” Olivia says, and starts to cry. “Don’t,” Ginny says. “We’ll find her. Please. She wouldn’t just disappear. She’s got to be somewhere. Maggie!” “Maggie!” Olivia says. “Maggie!” Ginny says. There are too many people in M&M World. There should be some requirements, some restrictions. She’s quite sure that numerous fire codes are being broken. She plans to write a letter, to get someone’s attention—she’ll call 311. There are hundreds of people, if not thousands, in this place. How can anyone see a thing? She looks around at the racks, the ascending columns of stuff, the stacks and piles beneath the garish lights, and she suddenly thinks she spots Maggie, but it’s not her; it’s another child. She yanks Olivia here and there. “Maggie!” she calls. She is trying to remain calm. She’ll find an employee in a minute; there must be an intercom system. “Maggie!” This must happen all the time, as it does at Disney World and places like that. The store can automatically lock the doors. “Maggie!” She sees an employee, a girl no more than seventeen or eighteen in M&M green with a pierced nose and spiky blond hair. “My daughter,” she says, breathless, flagging her. “She’s gone.” The girl’s name tag says Wendy, Kalamazoo, Michigan. Thank God, a Midwesterner. “I mean, she was with me. And now I don’t know where she is.” “Was she here?” Wendy says. “Yes, she was. With me. And I can’t—” Ginny breaks away. “Jesus, is there someone else?” “I’ll help you find her,” Wendy says. “Is there a manager?” “Don’t panic,” Wendy says. “I’ve got to—” “Barbara,” Wendy is saying into some kind of apparatus she’s wearing around her neck. She and the girls’ father sat across from each other at the kitchen table, the light above them harsh, the hour late. From time to time, an ambulance sirened by, or someone shouted in the street; it was the weekend. The girls slept in the other room, Olivia with the quilt wrapping her ankles—she tossed and turned—and Maggie with Zoom Zoom and her other animals positioned around her. Zoom Zoom in the doll cradle, perhaps, or tucked in a towel on the floor, its head on a pincushion or a neatly folded Kleenex. He talked and talked. She needed a change in subject; she needed to go to bed. It was all so banal, wasn’t it? So ordinary? Predictable? An intern? A true love? She looked down at her unvarnished nails: in college she had worn leather moccasins and, on occasion, feathers in her ears; she’d won a prize for her dissertation. Most days, she carried a tote bag, black, with the name of her favorite nonprofit in white. She listened for a while, and then she did not. Then she said, “Maybe we could tell them it’s like what happens when they argue about the fort. How they each want to push the other out of the fort, how there’s never enough room in the fort. We could tell them you’re taking a break from the fort,” she said. “All right,” he said. “This, of course, makes me the fort,” she said. “You are not the fort,” he said. “I was joking,” she said. Outside, a bottle shatters. “But they might understand the thing about the fort,” she said. “All right,” he said. “They might,” she said. “That’s good,” he said. “Maggie!” Ginny yells. She feels Wendy touch her arm, right behind her. “Don’t leave,” Wendy says. “That’s the first thing.” “What?” “Don’t go out of sight.” “She’s out of sight,” Ginny said. “My daughter. She’s five years old.” Olivia cries beside her. “I’m sorry,” Olivia says. “It’s my fault.” “It’s not your fault,” Ginny says. “Sweetheart, it’s not your—Maggie!” Now Ginny’s screaming, her voice swallowed by the wall of sound, the same song, the same rapper, repeatedly singing. Customers stop browsing, unsure what to do. They step back and multiply, as if viewing an accident. Wendy is speaking into the gadget around her neck. She looks up. “Barbara’s on her way,” she says, as if delivering good news. “She was in inventory.” After the whale swam away—disappeared, really—Ginny couldn’t quite explain to the girls’ father why she hadn’t called him immediately. He had promised to call her, he said, so why hadn’t she called him? He had been just on the other side of the boat; he had the camera, after all. He hadn’t seen a thing, he said. By the time he heard the other tourists shouting, the hubbub, the whale was gone and Ginny was standing there, red-handed. “You were red-handed,” he teased her afterward. “A whale hoarder.” “Was not a whale hoarder,” she’d said. “Uh-huh,” he said. “Whale hoarder.” And for a while, in the early years of their marriage, when she spent too much time reading, or rose early to walk alone in the Park or drifted off when the two were having dinner in a restaurant, he’d kick her ankle and say it again. “Whale hoarder,” he’d say. And she’d laugh and then she would not. She’d remember the whale’s expression, how it lay on its side and drifted in the current, how it had been so close that she could see the raised scars of its skin, the mottled-gray color of it and the sheen of evaporating water, and its massive head, how the whale’s eye, onyx black, had looked directly at her, unblinking, and she had thought, If I can stand here long enough, if I can just look hard enough, I’ll understand. What, she wasn’t sure, but she felt it was something she was meant to know, something beyond the noise of everything else, something as clear as the sounds carried across the ocean. “What?” she had said to the whale. “What?” It is Olivia who spots Zoom Zoom after Barbara has arrived and the doors have been manned, after Ginny has sunk to the floor with her head between her legs, after the tourists, English-speaking and those with no idea, have come forward, rallying around the woman with the missing child and the child that remains, a gorgeous girl, freckled, tall, her hair loosened from its ponytail, her face puffed with tears. It is Olivia who sees Zoom Zoom’s ear, and then Maggie’s shoes, or the bottoms of them, beneath the dressing-room curtains, Maggie covered by a heap of discarded M&M wear, an M&M beach towel over her head. She hadn’t heard her mother or her sister, she said, howling. She thought they’d gone, too. “Too?” Ginny says, hugging her youngest to the floor, hugging her small arms and legs, folding her into her own arms as tightly as she can bear. “Too?” she says, crying, laughing, pulling Olivia in as well, so that the three form a kind of solid thing, a weight, a substance, as round as a boulder, which, for the moment, fills in the empty space that was there just before. And suddenly everything returns: the buzzy air, the lemony chocolate scent piped through the store, the rapper’s song, the rainbow wall of colors, the crowds. “Let’s go,” Ginny whispers. The girls are sniffling, their faces hot. She stands then, a daughter gripped in each hand. They ride the escalator down in silence, staring out the large windows toward Broadway, toward the familiar thickening rush-hour crowd, until they reach the bottom and step off. Ginny lets go first, leading them, pushing hard on the glass door against the wind, against what has become more than a blustery day, because in truth it is not yet spring, exactly; there is still the possibility of a freeze. She squats to zip the girls’ fleeces to their chins, to kiss their cheeks—their eyes still wet with tears—then pulls them close to her, again. How soon the whale dissolved into its darkening sea. How soon she was left at the side of the boat, alone.
The Trusty They had been moving up the road a week without seeing another farmhouse, and the nearest well, at least the nearest the owner would let Sinkler use, was half a mile back. What had been a trusty sluff job was now as onerous as swinging a kaiser blade or shovelling out ditches. As soon as he’d hauled the buckets back to the cage truck it was time to go again. He asked Vickery if someone could spell him, and the bull guard smiled and said that Sinkler could always strap on a pair of leg irons and grab a handle. “Bolick just killed a rattlesnake in them weeds yonder,” the bull guard said. “I bet he’d square a trade with you.” When Sinkler asked if come morning he could walk ahead to search for another well, Vickery’s lips tightened, but he nodded. The next day, Sinkler took the metal buckets and walked until he found a farmhouse. It was no closer than the other, even a bit farther, but worth padding the hoof a few extra steps. The well he’d been using belonged to a hunchbacked widow. The woman who appeared in this doorway wore her hair in a similar tight bun and draped herself in the same sort of flour-cloth dress, but she looked to be in her mid-twenties, like Sinkler. Two weeks would pass before they got beyond this farmhouse, perhaps another two weeks before the next well. Plenty of time to quench a different kind of thirst. As he entered the yard, the woman looked past the barn to a field where a man and his draft horse were plowing. The woman gave a brisk whistle and the farmer paused and looked their way. Sinkler stopped but did not set the buckets down. “What you want,” the woman said, not so much a question as a demand. “Water,” Sinkler answered. “We’ve got a chain gang working on the road.” “I’d have reckoned you to bring water with you.” “Not enough for ten men all day.” The woman looked out at the field again. Her husband watched but did not unloop the rein from around his neck. The woman stepped onto the six nailed-together planks that looked more like a raft than a porch. Firewood was stacked on one side, and closer to the door an axe leaned between a shovel and a hoe. She let her eyes settle on the axe long enough to make sure he noticed it. Sinkler saw now that she was younger than he’d thought, maybe eighteen, at most twenty, more girl than woman. “How come you not to have chains on you?” “I’m a trusty,” Sinkler said, smiling. “A prisoner, but one that can be trusted.” “And all you want is water?” Sinkler thought of several possible answers. “That’s what they sent me for.” “I don’t reckon there to be any money in it for us?” the girl asked. “No, just gratitude from a bunch of thirsty men, and especially me for not having to haul it so far.” “I’ll have to ask my man,” she said. “Stay here in the yard.” For a moment he thought she might take the axe with her. As she walked into the field, Sinkler studied the house, which was no bigger than a fishing shack. The dwelling appeared to have been built in the previous century. The door opened with a latch, not a knob, and no glass filled the window frames. Sinkler stepped closer to the entrance and saw two ladder-back chairs and a small table set on a puncheon floor. Sinkler wondered if these apple-knockers had heard they were supposed to be getting a new deal. “You can use the well,” the girl said when she returned, “but he said you need to forget one of them pails here next time you come asking for water.” Worth it, he figured, even if Vickery took the money out of Sinkler’s own pocket, especially with no sign of another farmhouse. It would be a half-dollar at most, easily made up with one slick deal in a poker game. He nodded and went to the well, sent the rusty bucket down into the dark. The girl went up on the porch but didn’t go inside. “What you in prison for?” “Thinking a bank manager wouldn’t notice his teller slipping a few bills in his pocket.” “Whereabouts?” “Raleigh.” “I ain’t never been past Asheville,” the girl said. “How long you in for?” “Five years. I’ve done sixteen months.” Sinkler raised the bucket, water leaking from the bottom as he transferred its contents. The girl stayed on the porch, making sure that all he took was water. “You lived here long?” “Me and Chet been here a year,” the girl said. “I grew up across the ridge yonder.” “You two live alone, do you?” “We do,” the girl said, “but there’s a shotgun just inside the door and I know how to bead it.” “I’m sure you do,” Sinkler said. “You mind telling me your name, just so I’ll know what to call you?” “Lucy Sorrels.” He waited to see if she’d ask his. “Mine’s Sinkler,” he said when she didn’t. He filled the second bucket but made no move to leave, instead looking around at the trees and mountains as if just noticing them. Then he smiled and gave a slight nod. “Must get lonely being out so far from everything,” Sinkler said. “At least, I would think so.” “And I’d think them men to be getting thirsty,” Lucy Sorrels said. “Probably,” he agreed, surprised at the smarts she showed in turning his words back on him. “But I’ll return soon to brighten your morning.” “When you planning to leave one of them pails?” she asked. “End of the day.” She nodded and turned and went into the shack. “The rope broke,” he told Vickery as the prisoners piled into the truck at quitting time. The guard looked not so much skeptical as aggrieved that Sinkler thought him fool enough to believe it. Vickery answered that if Sinkler thought he’d lightened his load he was mistaken. It’d be easy enough to find another bucket, maybe one that could hold an extra gallon. Sinkler shrugged and lifted himself into the cage truck, found a place on the metal bench among the sweating convicts. He’d won over the other guards with cigarettes and small loans, that and his mush talk, but not Vickery, who’d argued that making Sinkler a trusty would only give him a head start when he tried to escape. The bull guard was right about that. Sinkler had more than fifty dollars in poker winnings now, plenty enough cush to get him across the Mississippi to where he could finally shed himself of the whole damn region. He’d grown up in Montgomery, but when the law got too interested in his comings and goings he’d gone north to Knoxville and then west to Memphis, before recrossing Tennessee on his way to Raleigh. Sinkler’s talents had led him to establishments where his sleight of hand needed no deck of cards. A decent suit, clean fingernails, and buffed shoes, and he could walk into a business and be greeted as a solid citizen. Tell a story about being in town because of an ailing mother, and you were the cat’s pajamas. They’d take the Help Wanted sign out of the window and pretty much replace it with Help Yourself. Sinkler remembered the afternoon in Memphis when he’d stood by the river after grifting a clothing store of forty dollars in two months. Keep heading west or turn back east—that was the choice. He’d flipped a silver dollar to decide, a rare moment when he’d trusted his life purely to luck. This time he’d cross the river, start in Kansas City or St. Louis. He’d work the stores and cafés and newsstands and anywhere else with a till or a cash register. Except for a bank. Crooked as bankers were, Sinkler should have realized how quickly they’d recognize him as one of their own. No, he’d not make that mistake again. That night, when the stockade lights were snuffed, he lay in his bunk and thought about Lucy Sorrels. Eighteen months, a year and a half, had passed since he’d been with a woman. After that long, almost any female would make the sap rise. There was nothing about her face to hold a man’s attention, but curves tightened the right parts of her dress. Nice legs, too. Each trip to the well, he had tried to make small talk. Lucy Sorrels had given him the icy mitts, but he had a month to warm her up. It was only on the last haul that the husband had come in from his field. He’d barely responded to Sinkler’s “how do you do”s and “much obliged”s. He looked to be around forty, and Sinkler suspected that part of his terseness was due to the presence of a younger man around his wife. After a few moments, the farmer had nodded at the pail in Sinkler’s left hand. “You’ll be leaving that, right?” When Sinkler said yes, the husband told Lucy to switch it with the leaky well bucket, then walked into the barn. Two days passed before Lucy asked if he’d ever thought of trying to escape. “Of course,” Sinkler answered. “Have you?” She looked at him in a way that he could not read. “How come you ain’t done it, then? They let you roam near anywhere you want, and you ain’t got shackles.” “Maybe I enjoy the free room and board,” Sinkler answered. He turned a thumb toward his stripes. “Nice duds, too. They even let you change them out every Sunday.” “I don’t think I could stand it,” Lucy Sorrels said. “Being locked up so long and knowing I still had nigh on three years.” He checked her lips for the slightest upward curve of a smile, but it wasn’t there. “Yeah,” Sinkler said, taking a step closer. “You don’t seem the sort to stand being locked up. I’d think a young gal pretty as you would want to see more of the world.” “How come you ain’t done it?” she asked again, and brushed some loose wisps of hair behind her ear. “Maybe the same reason as you,” Sinkler said. “Out here in the boonies you can’t exactly get whisked away to another place. I haven’t seen more than a couple of cars and trucks on this road, and those driving them know there’s prisoners about. They wouldn’t be fool enough to pick up a stranger. Haven’t seen a lot of train tracks crossing the road, either.” “Anybody ever try?” Lucy asked. “Yeah, two weeks ago. Fellow ran that morning and the bloodhounds had him grabbing sky by dark. All he got for his trouble was a bunch of tick bites and briar scratches. That and another year added to his sentence.” For the first time since she’d gone to fetch her husband, Lucy stepped off the porch and put some distance between her and the door. The shotgun and axe, too, which meant that she was starting to trust him at least a little. She stood in the yard and looked up at an eave, where black insects hovered around clots of dried mud. “Them dirt daubers is a nuisance,” Lucy said. “I knock their nests down and they build them back the next day.” “I’d guess them to be about the only thing that wants to stay around here, don’t you think?” “You’ve got a saucy way of talking,” she said. Buy the print » “You don’t seem to mind it too much,” Sinkler answered, and nodded toward the field. “An older fellow like that usually keeps a close eye on a pretty young wife, but he must be the trusting sort, or is it he just figures he’s got you corralled in?” He lifted the full buckets and stepped close enough to the barn not to be seen from the field. “You don’t have to stand so far from me, Lucy Sorrels. I don’t bite.” She didn’t move toward him but she didn’t go back to the porch, either. “If you was to escape, where would you go?” “Might depend on who was going with me,” Sinkler answered. “What kind of place would you like to visit?” “Like you’d just up and take me along. I’d likely that about as much as them daubers flying me out of here.” “No, I’d need to get to know my travelling partner better,” Sinkler said. “Make sure she really cared about me. That way she wouldn’t take a notion to turn me in.” “You mean for the reward money?” Sinkler laughed. “You’ve got to be a high cloud to have a reward put on you, darling. They’d not even bother to put my mug in a post office, which is fine by me. Buy my train ticket and I’d be across the Mississippi in two days. Matter of fact, I’ve got money enough saved up to buy two tickets.” “Enough for two tickets?” Lucy asked. “I do indeed.” “Why come you to think a person would turn you in if there ain’t no reward?” “Bad conscience—which is why I’ve got to be sure my travelling partner doesn’t have one.” Sinkler smiled. “Like I said, you don’t have to stand so far away. We could even step into the barn for a few minutes.” Lucy looked toward the field and let her gaze linger long enough that he thought she just might do it. “I have chores to get done,” she said and went into the shack. Sinkler headed back down the road, thinking things out. By the time he set the sloshing buckets beside the prison truck, he’d figured a way to get Lucy Sorrels’s dress raised with more than just sweet talk. He’d tell her there was an extra set of truck keys in a guard’s front desk and that he’d steal them, bring them with him, and wait until the guards were distracted to jump in and drive away. She’d know beforehand and be in the woods down the road. They’d go to Asheville and get the first train. It was a damn good story, one Sinkler himself might have believed if he didn’t know that all the extra truck keys were locked inside a thousand-pound Mosler safe. When he entered the yard the next morning, Lucy came to the well but stayed on the opposite side. Like a skittish dog, Sinkler thought, and imagined holding out a pack of gum or a candy bar to bring her the rest of the way. She wore the same dress as always, but her hair was unpinned and fell across her shoulders. It was blonder and curlier than he’d supposed. Set free for him, Sinkler knew. A cool, steady breeze gave the air an early-autumn feel, and helped round the curves beneath the muslin. “Your hair being down like that—it looks good,” he said. “I bet that’s the way you wear it in bed.” She didn’t blush. Sinkler worked the crank and the well bucket descended into the earth. Once both his buckets were filled, he explained his plan. “There’s an easier way,” Lucy said. “One where you don’t need the truck, nor even a road.” “I never figured you to be the know-all on prison escapes.” “There’s a trail on the yon side of that ridge,” Lucy said, nodding past the field. “You can follow it all the way to Asheville.” “Asheville’s at least thirty miles from here.” “That’s by the road. It’s no more than eight if you cut through the gap. You just got to know the right trails.” “Which I don’t.” “I do,” she said. “I’ve done it in three hours easy.” For a few moments, Sinkler didn’t say anything. It was as though the key he’d been imagining had suddenly appeared in his hand. He left the buckets where they were and stepped closer to the barn. When he gestured Lucy closer, she came. He settled an arm around her waist and felt her yield to him. Her lips opened to his and she did not resist when his free hand cupped a breast. To touch a woman after so long made him feather-legged. A bead of sweat trickled down his brow as she pressed her body closer and settled a hand on his thigh. Only when Sinkler tried to lead her into the barn did Lucy resist. “He can’t see us from down there.” “It ain’t just that,” Lucy said. “My bleed time’s started.” Sinkler felt so rabbity that he told her he didn’t care. “There’d be a mess and he’d know the why of it.” He felt frustration simmer into anger. He tried to step away but Lucy pulled him back, pressed her face into his chest. “If we was far away it wouldn’t matter. I hate it here. He cusses me near every day and won’t let me go nowhere. When he gets drunk, he’ll load his shotgun and swear he’s going to shoot me.” She let go of him slowly. The only sound was a clucking chicken and the breeze tinking the well bucket against the narrow stone wellhead. “All you and me have to do is get on that train in Asheville,” Lucy said, “and not him nor the law can catch us. I know where he keeps his money. I’ll get it if you ain’t got enough.” He met her eyes, then looked past her. The sun was higher now, angled in over the mountaintops, and the new well bucket winked silver as it swayed. Sinkler lifted his gaze to the cloudless sky. It would be another hot, dry, miserable day and he’d be out in it. At quitting time, he’d go back and wash up with water dingy enough to clog a strainer, eat what would gag a hog, then at nine o’clock set his head on a grimy pillow. Three and a half more years. Sinkler studied the ridgeline, found the gap that would lead to Asheville. “I’ve got money,” he told Lucy. “It’s the getting to where I can spend it that’s been the problem.” That night, as he lay in his bunk, Sinkler pondered the plan. An hour would pass before anyone would start looking for him, and even then they’d search first along the road. As far out as the prisoners were working, it’d take at least four hours to get the bloodhounds on his trail, and by the time the dogs tracked him to Asheville he’d be on a train. It could be months, or never, until such a chance came again. But the suddenness of the opportunity unsettled him. He would take a couple of days, think it out. The grit in the gears would be Lucy. Giving her the slip in Asheville would be nigh impossible, so he’d be with her until the next stop, probably Knoxville or Raleigh. Which could be all for the better. A hotel room and a bottle of bootleg whiskey and they’d have them a high old time. He could sneak out early morning while she slept. If she took what her husband had hidden, she’d have enough for a new start, and another reason not to drop a dime and phone the police. Of course, many another convict would simply wait until trail’s end, then let a good-sized rock take care of it, lift what money she had, and be on his way. Travelling with a girl that young was a risk. She might say or do something to make a bluecoat suspicious. Or, waking up to find him gone, put the law on him just for spite. The next morning, the men loaded up and drove to where they’d quit the day before. They weren’t far from the farmhouse now, only a few hundred yards. As he carried the buckets up the road, Sinkler realized that if Lucy knew the trail, then the husband did, too. The guards would see the farmer in the field and tell him who they were looking for. How long after that would he find out that she was gone? It might be just minutes before the husband went to check. But only if the guards were looking in that direction. He could tell Vickery this well was low and the farmer wouldn’t let him use it anymore, so he had to go back down the road to the widow’s. He could walk in that direction and then cut into the woods and circle back. Sinkler was already drawing water when Lucy came out. Primping for him, he knew, her hair unpinned and freshly combed, curtaining a necklace with a heart-shaped locket. She smelled good, too, a bright clean smell, like honeysuckle. In the distance, the husband was strapped to his horse, the tandem trudging endlessly across the field. From what Sinkler had seen, the man worked as hard as the road crews and had about as much to show for it. Twenty years older and too much of a gink to realize what Lucy understood at eighteen. Sinkler stepped closer to the barn and she raised her mouth to his, found his tongue with her tongue. “I been thirsting for that all last night and this morning,” Lucy said when she broke off the kiss. “That’s what it’s like—a thirsting. Chet ain’t never been able to staunch it, but you can.” She laid her head against his chest and held him tight. Feeling the desperation of her embrace, Sinkler knew that she’d risk her life to help him get away, help them get away. But a girl her age could turn quick as a weathervane. He set his hands on her shoulders and gently but firmly pushed her back enough to meet her eyes. “You ain’t just playing some make-believe with me, because if you are it’s time to quit playing.” “I’ll leave this second if you got need to,” Lucy said. “I’ll go get his money right now. I counted it this morning when he left. It’s near seven dollars. That’s enough, ain’t it, at least to get us tickets?” “You’ve never rode a train, have you?” Sinkler asked. “No.” “It costs more than that.” “How much more?” “Closer to five each,” Sinkler said, “just to get to Knoxville or Raleigh.” For a few moments she said nothing, then she touched the locket. “This is a pass-me-down from my momma. It’s pure silver and we could sell it.” Sinkler slipped a hand under the locket, inspected it with the feigned attentiveness of a jeweller. “And all this time I thought you had a heart of gold, Lucy Sorrels,” Sinkler said and smiled as he let the locket slide off his palm. “No, darling. You keep it around your pretty neck. I got plenty for tickets, and maybe something extra for a shiny bracelet to go with that necklace.” “Then I want to go tomorrow,” Lucy said, and moved closer to him. “My bleed time is near over.” Sinkler smelled the honeysuckle and desire swamped him. He tried to clear his mind and come up with reasons to delay, but none came. “We’ll leave in the morning,” Sinkler said. “All right,” she said, touching him a moment longer before removing her hand. Sinkler nodded. “We’ll have to travel light.” “Those who ignore history are entitled to repeat it.”Buy the print » “I don’t mind that,” Lucy said. “It ain’t like I got piddling anyway.” “Can you get me one of his shirts and some pants?” Lucy nodded. “Don’t pack any of it until tomorrow morning when he’s in the field,” Sinkler said. “Where are we going?” she asked. “I mean, for good?” “Where do you want to go?” “I was notioning California. They say it’s like Paradise out there.” “That’ll do me just fine,” Sinkler said, then grinned. “That’s just where an angel like you belongs.” The next morning, he told Vickery that the Sorrelses’ well was going dry and he’d have to backtrack to the other one. “That’ll be almost a mile jaunt for you,” Vickery said, and shook his head in mock sympathy. Sinkler walked until he was out of sight. He found himself a marker, a big oak with a trunk cracked by lightning, then stepped over the ditch and entered the woods. He set the buckets by a rotting stump, close enough to the oak tree to be easily found if something went wrong. Because Sinkler knew that, when it came time to lay down or fold, Lucy might still think twice about leaving her folks or trusting someone she’d hardly known two weeks, and a convict at that. Or the husband might notice a little thing like Lucy not gathering eggs or not putting a kettle on for supper, things Sinkler should have warned her to do. Sinkler stayed close to the road, and soon heard the clink of leg chains and the rasp of shovels gathering dirt. Glimpses of black-and-white caught his eye as he made his way past. The sounds of the chain gang faded, and not long after that the trees thinned, the barn’s gray planking filling the gaps. Sinkler did not enter the yard. Lucy stood just inside the farmhouse door. He studied the shack for any hint that the farmer had found out. But all was as it had been, clothing pinned on the wire between two trees, cracked corn spilled on the ground for the chickens, the axe still on the porch beside the hoe. He angled around the barn until he could see the field. The farmer was there, hitched to the horse and plow. Sinkler called her name and Lucy stepped out on the porch. She wore the same muslin dress and carried a knotted bedsheet in her hand. When she got to the woods, Lucy opened the bedsheet and removed a shirt and what was little more than two slaps of tied leather. “Go over by the well and put these brogans on,” Lucy said. “It’s a way to fool them hounds.” “We need to get going,” Sinkler said. “It’ll just take a minute.” He did what she asked, checking the field to make sure that the farmer wasn’t looking in their direction. “Keep your shoes in your hand,” Lucy said, and walked toward Sinkler with the shirt. When she was close, Lucy got on her knees and rubbed the shirt cloth over the ground, all the way to Sinkler’s feet. “Walk over to the other side of the barn,” she told him, scrubbing the ground as she followed. She motioned him to stay put and retrieved the bedsheet. “This way,” she said, and led him down the slanted ground and into the woods. “You expect me to wear these all the way to Asheville?” Sinkler said after the flapping leather almost tripped him. “No, just up to the ridge.” They stayed in the woods and along the field’s far edge and then climbed the ridge. At the top Sinkler took off the brogans and looked back through the trees and saw the square of plowed soil, now no bigger than a barn door. The farmer was still there. Lucy untied the bedsheet and handed him the pants and shirt. He took off his stripes and hid them behind a tree. Briefly, Sinkler thought about taking a little longer before he dressed, suggesting to Lucy that the bedsheet might have another use. Just a few more hours, he reminded himself, you’ll be safe for sure and rolling with her in a big soft bed. The chambray shirt wasn’t a bad fit, but the denim pants hung loose on his hips. Every few steps, Sinkler had to hitch them back up. The bedsheet held nothing more and Lucy stuffed it in a rock crevice. “You bring that money?” he asked. “You claimed us not to need it,” Lucy said, a harshness in her voice he’d not heard before. “You weren’t trifling with me about having money for the train tickets, were you?” “No, darling, and plenty enough to buy you that bracelet and a real dress instead of that flour sack you got on. Stick with me and you’ll ride the cushions.” They moved down the ridge through a thicket of rhododendron, the ground so aslant that in a couple of places he’d have tumbled if he hadn’t watched how Lucy did it, front foot sideways and leaning backward. At the bottom, the trail forked. Lucy nodded to the left. The land continued downhill, then curved and levelled out. After a while, the path snaked into the undergrowth and Sinkler knew that without Lucy he’d be completely lost. You’re doing as much for her as she for you, he reminded himself, and thought again about what another convict might do, what he’d known all along he couldn’t do. When others had brought derringers or Arkansas toothpicks to card games, Sinkler had come empty-handed; either one could take its owner straight to the morgue or the prison. He’d always made a show of slapping his pockets and opening his coat at such gatherings. “I’ll not hurt anything but a fellow’s wallet,” he’d say. Men had been killed twice in his presence, but he’d never had a weapon aimed in his direction. Near another ridge, they crossed a creek that was little more than a spring seep. They followed the ridge awhile, and then the trail widened and they moved back downhill and up again. Each rise and fall of the land looked like what had come before. The mountain air was thin, and if Sinkler hadn’t been hauling water the distances he had he wouldn’t have had the spunk to keep going. They went on, the trees shading them from the sun, but even so he grew thirsty and kept hoping they’d come to a stream he could drink from. There was no stream, but they finally came to another spring seep. “I’ve got to have some water,” he said. Sinkler kneeled beside the creek. The water was so shallow that he had to lean over and steady himself with one hand, cupping the other to get a dozen leaky palmfuls in his mouth. He stood and brushed the damp sand off his hand and his knees. The woods were completely silent, no murmur of wind, not a bird singing. The trees shut out much of the sky, but he could tell that the sun was starting to slip behind the mountains. Fewer dapples of light were on the forest floor, more shadows. Soon the prisoners would be heading back, one man fewer. Come suppertime, the ginks would be spooning beans off a tin plate while Sinkler sat in a dining car eating steak with silverware. By then, the warden would have chewed out Vickery’s skinny ass but good, maybe even fired him. The other guards, the ones he’d duped even more, would be explaining why they’d recommended making Sinkler a trusty in the first place. When the trail narrowed again, a branch snagged Lucy’s sleeve and ripped the frayed muslin. She surprised him with her profanity as she examined the torn cloth. “I’d not think a sweet little gal like you to know words like that.” She glared at him and Sinkler raised his hands, palms out. “Just teasing you a bit, darling. You should have brought another dress. I know I told you to pack light, but light didn’t mean bring nothing.” “Maybe I ain’t got another damn dress,” Lucy said. “But you will, and soon, and like I said it’ll be a spiffy one.” “If I do,” Lucy said, “I’ll use this piece of shit for nothing but scrub rags.” She let go of the cloth. The branch had scratched her neck and she touched it with her finger, confirmed that it wasn’t bleeding. Had the locket been around her neck, the chain might have snapped, but it was in her pocket. Or so he assumed. If she’d forgotten it in the haste of packing, now didn’t seem the time to bring it up. As they continued their descent, he thought again about what would happen once they were safely free. He was starting to see a roughness about Lucy that her youth and country ways had masked. Perhaps he could take her with him beyond their first stop. He’d worked with a whore in Atlanta once, let her go in and distract a clerk while he took whatever they could fence. The whore hadn’t been as young and innocent-seeming as Lucy. Even Lucy’s plainness would be an advantage—harder to describe her to the law. Maybe tonight in the hotel room she’d give him another reason to let her tag along awhile. The trail curved and then went uphill. Surely for the last time, he figured, and told himself he’d be damn glad to be back in a place where a man didn’t have to be half goat to get somewhere. Sinkler searched through the branches and leaves for a brick smokestack, the glint of a train rail. They were both breathing harder now, and even Lucy was looking tuckered. Up ahead, another seep crossed the path and Sinkler paused. “I’m going to sip me some more water.” “We’re almost there,” Lucy said. He heard it then, the rasping plunge of metal into dirt. The rhododendron was too thick to see through. Whatever it was, it meant they were indeed near civilization. “I guess we are,” he said, but Lucy had already gone ahead. As Sinkler hitched the sagging pants up yet again, he decided that the first thing he’d do after buying the tickets was find a clothing store or gooseberry a clothesline. He didn’t want to look like a damn hobo. Even in town, they might have to walk a ways for water, so Sinkler kneeled. Someone whistled near the ridge and the rasping stopped. As he pressed his palm into the sand, he saw that a handprint was already there beside it, his handprint. Sinkler studied it awhile, then slowly rocked back until his buttocks touched his shoe heels. He stared at the two star-shaped indentations, water slowly filling the new one. No one would hear the shot, he knew. And, in a few weeks, when autumn came and the trees started to shed, the upturned earth would be completely obscured. Leaves rustled as someone approached. The footsteps paused, and Sinkler heard the soft click of a safety being released. The leaves rustled again but he was too worn out to run. They’d want the clothes as well as the money, he told himself, and there was no reason to prolong any of it. His trembling fingers clasped the shirt’s top button, pushed it through the slit in the chambray.
The Cat’s Table He wasn’t talking. He was looking out the window of the car all the way. The two adults in the front seat spoke quietly under their breath. He could have listened if he wanted to but he didn’t. For a while, at the section of the road where the river sometimes flooded, he could hear the spray of water under the wheels. They entered the fort and the car slipped silently past the post-office building and the clock tower. At this hour of the night, there was barely any traffic in Colombo. They drove out along Reclamation Road, past St. Anthony’s Church, and he saw the last of the food stalls, each lit with a single bulb. Then they entered a vast open space that was the harbor, with a lone string of lights in the distance along the pier. He got out and stood by the warmth of the car. He was eleven years old that night, green as he could be about the world, when he climbed aboard the first and only ship of his life. It felt as if a city had been added to the coast, more brightly illuminated than any town or village. He went up the gangplank, watching the path of his feet—nothing ahead of him existed—and continued till he was on the other side of the ship, facing the dark harbor and sea. There were the outlines of other ships farther out, beginning to turn on their lights. He stood alone, smelling everything, then returned through the noise and the crowd to the side that faced land. A yellow glow over the city. Already it felt as if there were a wall between him and what took place there. Stewards began handing out food and cordials. He ate several sandwiches, then made his way down to his cabin, undressed, and slipped into the narrow bunk. He’d never slept under a blanket before, save once in Nuwara Eliya. He was wide awake. The cabin was below the level of the waves, so there was no porthole. He found a switch beside the bed, and when he pressed it his head and pillow were suddenly caught in a cone of light. He did not go back up on deck for a last look, or to wave at the relatives who had brought him to the ship. He could hear singing and he imagined the slow and then eager parting of families taking place in the thrilling night air. I do not know, even now, why he chose this solitude. In films, people tear themselves away from one another weeping, watching their loved ones’ disappearing faces until all distinction is lost. I try to imagine who the boy in the narrow bunk was. Perhaps there was no sense of self in his nervous stillness, as if he were being smuggled away accidentally, with no knowledge of the act, into the future. It had been arranged that I would travel alone from Ceylon to England, where my mother was living, a twenty-one-day journey. No mention had been made that this might be an unusual experience or even an exciting or dangerous one, so I did not approach it with any joy or fear. I was not forewarned that the ship would have seven levels and hold more than six hundred people, including a captain, nine cooks, engineers, and a veterinarian, or that it would contain a small jail and two chlorinated swimming pools that would actually sail with us across several oceans. The departure date had been marked casually on the calendar by my aunt, who had notified my school that I would be leaving at the end of the term, and it had been explained to me that, after I’d crossed the Arabian Sea and the Red Sea and gone through the Suez Canal into the Mediterranean, I would arrive one morning on a small pier in England and my mother would meet me there. It was not the scale of the journey that was of concern to me but the detail of how my mother could know when, exactly, I would arrive in that other country. And if she would be there. I heard a note being slipped under my door. It allotted me to Table 76 for all my meals. I dressed and went out. I was not used to stairs and climbed them warily. There were nine people at Table 76, and that included two other boys roughly my age. One of them was named Ramadhin, and the other was Cassius. The first was quiet, the other looked scornful, and we ignored one another, although I recognized Cassius. We had gone to the same school, where, even though he was a year older than me, I knew much about him. Cassius had been notorious, and was even expelled for a term. I was sure it was going to be a long time before we spoke. We were situated far from the Captain’s Table, at the opposite end of the dining room. “We seem to be at the Cat’s Table,” a woman called Miss Lasqueti said. “We’re in the least privileged place.” But what was good about our table was that it seemed to include several interesting adults. We had a botanist, and a tailor who owned a shop up in Kandy. Most exciting, we had a pianist who cheerfully claimed “to have hit the skids.” This was Mr. Mazappa. In the evening, he played with the ship’s orchestra, and during the afternoons he gave piano lessons. As a result, he had got a discount on his passage. After that first meal, he entertained Ramadhin and Cassius and me with tales of his life. It was in Mr. Mazappa’s company, as he regaled us with confusing and often obscene lyrics from songs he knew, that we three came to accept one another. For we were shy and awkward. Not one of us made even a gesture of greeting to the other two until Mr. Mazappa advised us to keep our eyes and ears open, because this voyage would be a great education. Thanks to him, we discovered that we could be curious together. I found out unexpectedly that a distant cousin of mine, Emily de Saram, was on the boat. Sadly, she had not been assigned to the Cat’s Table. Because I had no brothers or sisters, my closest relatives were adults, an assortment of unmarried uncles and slow-moving aunts who were bound together by gossip and status. For many years, Emily, who was older than me and lived almost next door, was my link to their grownup world. I’d tell her of my adventures and listen to what she thought. She was honest about what she liked and did not like, and I modelled myself on her judgments. Our childhoods were similar in that our parents were either missing or unreliable. When my parents abandoned their marriage, it was never really explained to me, but it was also not hidden. If anything, their life together was presented as a misstep, not a car crash. So how much the curse of my parents’ divorce fell upon me I am not sure. I do not recall the weight of it. A boy goes out the door in the morning and is busy in the evolving map of his world. Emily’s home life was, I suspect, worse than mine—her father’s business dealings were never assured, and the family lived constantly under the threat of his temper. From the scarce amount she told me, I knew he was a punisher. Even visiting adults never felt safe around him. It was only children, in the house briefly for a birthday party, who enjoyed the unpredictability of his behavior. He’d swing by to tell us something funny and then push us into the swimming pool. Emily was nervous around him, even when he grabbed her in a loving hug and then made her dance with him, her bare feet balanced on his shoes. Much of the time, he was away at his job, or he simply disappeared. There was no secure template that Emily could rely on, so I suppose she invented herself. She had a free spirit that I loved, even though she took too many risks. She taught me to dance, to hold her waist while her upraised arms swayed, and to leap onto and over the sofa so that it tilted and fell backward with our weight. In the end, Emily’s grandmother paid for her to go to a boarding school in southern India, and even when she returned for summer holidays I did not see that much of her, for she’d got a job with Ceylon Telephone. By the time Emily came on board the Oronsay, I had not seen her for two years. It was a shock to catch sight of her leaner, more distinct face, and to be conscious of a grace that I had not noticed before. She was now seventeen years old, and school had, I thought, knocked some of the wildness out of her, though there was still a slight drawl when she spoke that I liked. The fact that she’d grab my shoulder as I was running past her on the promenade deck and make me talk with her gave me some cachet with my two new friends. But most of the time she made it clear that she did not wish to be followed around. She had her own plans for the voyage, a final few weeks of freedom before she arrived in England to complete her schooling. Buy the print » Larry Daniels was the botanist who ate with us at the Cat’s Table. A compact, well-muscled man. He always wore a tie, always had his sleeves rolled up. Born to a burgher family in Kandy, he had spent much of his youth studying forest and plant cultures in Sumatra and Borneo. At first, the only thing we knew about him was that he had an overwhelming crush on Emily, who would barely give him the time of day. Because of this lack of interest, he went out of his way to befriend me. I suppose he had seen me laughing with Emily and her friends by the pool, which was where she could usually be found. At dinner, I was unprotected from Mr. Daniels’s queries about Emily, for my assigned seat was next to his, and I had to talk about her and nothing else. The one piece of information I could honestly give him was that she liked Player’s Navy Cut cigarettes. She had been smoking the brand for at least four years. The rest of her likes and dislikes I invented. “She likes the ice creams at Elephant House,” I said. “And she often wishes to go to the theatre. To be an actress.” Daniels grasped at that false straw. “There’s a theatrical company on the ship. Perhaps I could introduce her.” I nodded, as if recommending it, and the next day I saw him speaking to three members of the Jankla Troupe, entertainers on their way to perform their brand of street theatre and acrobatics in Europe, who also gave performances now and then for the passengers on our journey. He introduced himself to say that he had a good friend, a very talented young lady who loved the theatre, and perhaps she could watch them rehearse if he brought her along? The Jankla Troupe would juggle, sometimes beginning casually at the end of afternoon tea, with their plates and cups, but most of the time they performed formally, in full costume and excessive makeup. Best of all, they would call passengers up onto the makeshift stage in order to disclose private things about them that were sometimes embarrassing. Usually, it was about the location of a lost wallet or a ring or the fact that the passenger was going to Europe to be with his sister, who was ill. All this was revealed at the end of a performance by the Hyderabad Mind, whose face had streaks of purple and whose eyes, rimmed with white paint, looked as if they belonged to a giant. Truly, he could terrify us, strolling into the depths of the crowd to reveal the number of children a person had, or where his wife was born. Late one afternoon, wandering alone on C Deck, I saw the Hyderabad Mind crouching under a lifeboat, putting on his makeup before a performance. He was holding a small mirror in one hand while the other quickly gashed on stripes of purple paint. He had a slight body, and his painted head appeared too big for his delicate frame. He peered into the mirror, improving himself, unaware of me as he worked in the half-shadow of the lifeboat which hung from the davit. When he stood and stepped into sunlight the colors burst forward, the ghoulish eyes now full of sulfur and perception as he glanced briefly at me, then walked past, as if I were nothing. I had witnessed for the first time what took place behind the thin curtain of art, and it gave me some protection the next time I saw him onstage, decked out in full costume. I felt that I could almost see, or, at least, was now aware of, the skeleton within. The friendship between the quiet Ramadhin and the exuberant Cassius and myself grew fast, although we kept a great deal from one another. At least I did. What I held in my right hand was never revealed to the left. I had already been trained into cautiousness. In the boarding schools we’d gone to, a fear of punishment had created a skill in lying, and I had learned to withhold small pertinent truths. Punishment, it turns out, never did humble some of us into complete honesty. The Oronsay was a chance for us to escape all order. And I reinvented myself in this seemingly imaginary world, with its adult passengers, who, during the evening celebrations, staggered around in giant animal heads, dancing with women whose skirts were barely there, as the ship’s orchestra, including Mr. Mazappa, played on the bandstand in plum-colored uniforms. What was I in those days? I recall no outside imprint, and therefore no perception of myself. If I had to invent a photograph of myself from childhood, it would be of a barefoot boy in shorts and a cotton shirt running along the mildewed wall that separated our house and garden in Boralesgamuwa from the traffic on the High Level Road, or looking away from the house toward the dusty street. I found it difficult to be alone on the ship. Most of my day was spent with Ramadhin and Cassius, or sometimes Mr. Mazappa or others from the Cat’s Table. To be by myself, I would retreat to my hot cabin in the late afternoon and lie back on my bunk to study the ceiling a foot or two above me, and think backward. Sometimes I turned on the yellow light above my bed and looked at the map of the world I had traced from a book. I had forgotten to put names on it. All I knew was that we were going west and north across it, away from Colombo. Occasionally, just before dark, I’d find myself on C Deck when there was no one there. I’d walk to the railing, which was the height of my chest, and watch the sea rush alongside the ship. At times, it appeared to rise almost to my level, as if wishing to pluck me away. I did not move, even with a havoc of fear and aloneness in me. It was the same emotion I’d felt when lost in the narrow streets of the Pettah market, or while adjusting to new rules at boarding school. But, no matter how scared I was, I held still, half wanting to pull myself back from the sea, half desiring to leap toward it. Sleep is a prison for a boy who has friends to meet. We were impatient with the night, up before sunrise surrounded the ship. Lying in my bunk, I would hear Ramadhin’s gentle knock on the door, in code: two taps, a long pause, another tap. A pointless code, really—who else could it have been at that hour? If I did not climb down and open the door, I would hear his theatrical cough. And if I still did not respond, I would hear him whisper, “Mynah,” which had become my nickname. Ramadhin and I would meet Cassius by the stairs, and soon we were strolling barefoot on the first-class deck. First class was an unguarded palace at six in the morning, before the night lights on the deck blinked and turned off. We removed our shirts and dived like needles into the gold-painted first-class pool with barely a splash. Silence was essential as we swam in the newly forming half-light. Our nighttime explorations were not as successful. We were never quite sure what we were witnessing, and we would fall asleep later with our minds still half grasping the rigging of adult possibility. On our first “night watch,” we hid in the shadows of the promenade deck, then at random followed a man, just to see where he was going. I recognized him as the Hyderabad Mind, his face unpainted now. Somewhat surprisingly, he led us to Emily, who was leaning against a railing and wearing a white dress that seemed to glow as he came closer. The Hyderabad Mind half hid her from us, and Emily held his fingers cupped within her hands. We could not tell if they were talking or not. We stepped back, farther into the darkness, and waited. I saw the man move the strap of Emily’s dress and bring his face down to her shoulder. Her head was back, looking up at the stars, if there were stars. Should our journey to England have been noted for any reason in the newspapers of the time, it was because of the presence on the Oronsay of the philanthropist Sir Hector de Silva. He was travelling with a retinue that included two doctors, one Ayurvedic, a lawyer, and his wife and daughter, most of whom were stationed in the upper echelons of the ocean liner and were seldom seen by us. No one in his party had accepted the invitation to eat at the Captain’s Table. It was assumed that they were above even that. Although the real reason was that Sir Hector, who had ground out his fortune in gems, rubber, and plots of land, was now suffering from a possibly fatal illness and was travelling to Europe to find a doctor who would save him. Not one English specialist had been willing to travel to Colombo to deal with his illness, in spite of being offered considerable remunerations. At first we did not concern ourselves with Sir Hector’s illness. His presence on board was seldom mentioned by those at the Cat’s Table. He was famous because of his great wealth, and that held no interest for us. But what did make us curious was our discovery of the background to this fateful journey. It had happened this way. One morning, Hector de Silva had been breakfasting on his balcony with friends. They were joking among themselves in the way that those whose lives are safe and comfortable do, when a Battaramulle, or holy priest, walked past the house. Seeing the monk, Sir Hector offered up a pun, saying, “Ah, there goes a Muttaraballa.” Muttara means “urinating,” and balla means “dog.” It was a quick-witted but inappropriate remark, especially when addressed to a priest. Overhearing the insult, the monk paused, pointed to Sir Hector, and said, “I’ll send you a Muttaraballa.” After which the monk, reputedly a practitioner of witchcraft, went straight to the temple, where he chanted several mantras, thereby sealing the fate of Sir Hector de Silva. The next month, Sir Hector was coming down the stairs of his house, his pet terrier at the foot of the steps waiting to greet him. A usual occurrence. But as Sir Hector bent down to pet the dog, the normally affectionate animal leaped for his neck. Sir Hector pulled the dog off him, at which point the animal bit his right hand. Buy the print » Two servants eventually got hold of the creature and put it in a kennel. Apparently, the terrier had been behaving strangely that morning, racing around the kitchen under the feet of the servants, and had been chased out of the house with a broom, before slipping back, calm and muted, at the last minute, to await its master at the foot of the stairs. Twenty-four hours later, the dog died, having shown symptoms of rabies. But by then the “Muttaraballa” had already delivered its message. One by one they came. Every respected doctor who serviced Colombo 7 was brought in for consultation. In the end, Sir Hector decided to take the ship to England. Acquiring wealth, he had also acquired a complete faith in the advancements of Europe, whereas a cure in Colombo seemed to rely on village magic, astrology, and botanical charts in spidery handwriting. He had grown up knowing some local cures, such as urinating on a foot to alleviate the pain of sea-pencil stings. Now he was told that for a mad dog’s bite the seeds of the Black Ummattaka or thorn apple should be soaked in cow piss, ground into a paste, and taken internally. Then, twenty-four hours later, he should take a cold bath and drink buttermilk. The provinces were full of these cures. Four out of ten of them worked. That wasn’t good enough. These surreal revelations about the man with a curse on his head thrilled Ramadhin, Cassius, and me. We gathered every fragment of Sir Hector’s story and remained hungry for more. We cast our minds back to the night of embarkation in Colombo Harbor and tried to recall, or to imagine, at least, a stretcher, and the body of the millionaire being carried at a slight tilt up the gangplank. Whether we had seen this or not, the scene was now indelible in our minds. For the first time in our lives, we were interested in the fate of the upper classes; and gradually it became clear to us that Mr. Mazappa and his musical legends, and Mr. Daniels with his plants, who had until then been like gods to us, were only minor characters, there to witness how those with real power progressed or failed in the world. Our ship continued to move northwest, crossing into higher latitudes, and the passengers could feel the nights becoming cooler. One afternoon the chief engineer ordered that the engines be slowed while the emergency electrical systems were tested, and for a while it seemed as if we had stalled in what was now the Arabian Sea. An eastbound steamer passed us at dusk, all of its lights on, and it was a fantasy among the three of us to row over to it and return to Colombo. Aden was the first port of call, and during the day prior to our arrival there was a flurry of letter writing. It was a tradition to have one’s mail stamped in Aden, where it could be sent back to Ceylon or onward to England. All of us were longing for the sight of land and, as morning broke, we lined up along the bow to watch the ancient city approach, miragelike, out of the arc of dusty hills. Aden had cisterns built out of volcanic rock, a falcon market, an oasis quarter, an aquarium, a section of town given over to sailmakers, and stores that contained merchandise from every corner of the globe. It would be our last footstep in the East. The Oronsay cut its engines. We were docked not on the quay but in the outer harbor, at Steamer Point. If passengers wished to go ashore, they could be ferried into the city by barges that were already waiting beside our vessel. It was nine in the morning and, without the sea breezes that we had grown accustomed to, the air was heavy and hot. That morning, the Captain had announced the rules about entering the city. Passengers were allowed just six hours of shore leave. Children could go only if accompanied by “a responsible male adult.” And women were forbidden to go at all. There was the expected outrage at this, especially from Emily and her group of friends by the pool, who wished to disembark and take on the town’s citizens with their beauty. We ourselves were mostly concerned with finding an irresponsible male, who could be easily distracted, to chaperone us. Mr. Daniels, we heard, was eager to visit the old oasis, where, he said, every blade of grass was swollen with water and as thick as your finger. We offered to help him transport any plants he discovered back to the ship, and he agreed. We went with him down the rope ladders into the barge as quickly as we could. Onshore, we were surrounded instantly by a new language. While Mr. Daniels was busy negotiating a fee with a taxi to transport us to where the great palms were, we slipped away. A carpet salesman gestured to us, offered us tea, and we sat with him for a while, laughing whenever he laughed, nodding when he nodded. There was a small dog that he indicated he wished to give us, but we moved on. We began to argue about what to see. For some reason, Ramadhin wanted to visit the aquarium. He was sullen about having to see the markets first. In any case, we entered the narrow shops that sold seeds and needles, coffins, maps, and pamphlets. Out on the street, you could have the shape of your head read, your teeth pulled. A barber cut Cassius’s hair and poked a narrow, vicious pair of scissors quickly into his nose to clear away the possibility of hair in the nostrils of a twelve-year-old. I was used to the lush chaos of Colombo’s Pettah market, the throat-catching smell of sarong cloth being unfolded and cut, and mangosteens, and rain-soaked paperbacks in a bookstall. Here was a sterner world, with fewer luxuries. There was no overripe fruit in the gutters. There were, in fact, no gutters. It was a dusty landscape, as if water had not been invented. Although Aden was a harbor city, the air held hardly a particle of dampness. The only liquid was the cup of dark tea offered to us by the carpet-maker, along with a delicious almond sweet. The aquarium was a deserted concrete building beside the sea. Ramadhin led the way through a maze of mostly subterranean tanks that housed about a dozen garden eels from the Red Sea and a few colorless fish that swam in a foot of salt water. Cassius and I climbed to another level, where there were taxidermied species of marine life, lying in dust, alongside whatever technical equipment was being stored—a hose, a small generator, a hand pump, a dustpan and brush. We gave the whole place five minutes, then revisited the stores we had already been in, this time to say goodbye. The barber still had no other customers and he gave me a head massage, pouring unknown oils into my hair, before attacking my scalp. We reached the wharf before curfew. Out of belated courtesy, we decided to wait for Mr. Daniels on the dock, Ramadhin wrapped up in a djellabah, and Cassius and I hugging ourselves because of the brisk air coming in from the ocean. We realized that we had seen only a small sliver of the city. We had missed the reconstructed cisterns and wherever it was that Cain and Abel were buried. Still, it had been a day of intricate listening, of careful watching, all our conversations made up of gestures. Finally, we saw Mr. Daniels striding along the wharf. He was carrying a cumbersome plant in his arms and was accompanied by two slender men in white suits, each holding a miniature palm. He greeted us cheerfully—obviously he had not been too concerned about our disappearance. The men helping him were silent, and as one of them passed me his small tree he wiped the sweat from his face and winked and smiled, and I saw that it was Emily in a man’s clothes. I took the palm and carried it onto the barge for the ten-minute ride to the ship. Once back on board, the three of us made our way down to Ramadhin’s cabin, where he unfolded his djellabah to reveal the carpet salesman’s dog hidden inside. We came on deck an hour later. It was already dark, and the lights on the Oronsay were brighter than those on land. The ship still had not moved. In the dining room, there were loud conversations about the day’s adventures. Only Ramadhin and Cassius and I kept silent. So excited were we by our smuggling of the dog onto the boat, we knew that if we spoke even one syllable we’d slide uncontrollably into the whole story. We had spent the last chaotic hour trying to bathe the animal in Ramadhin’s narrow shower stall, avoiding the swipe of his claws. We had dried the dog in Ramadhin’s bedsheet and left him in the cabin while we came up to eat. While listening to the stories of the others at the Cat’s Table, Emily came by and bent down to ask me if I had had a good day. I asked her politely what she had done while we went ashore, and she said that she had “carried things,” and went off laughing. There was a shudder during dessert as the boat’s engines started up, and we all went to the railings to watch our departure, our castle slipping slowly away from the thin horizon of lights, back into the great darkness. We guarded the dog that night. He was fearful of any sudden movement, until Ramadhin managed to take him into his bunk and fall asleep with his arms around him. When the three of us woke the next morning, we had already entered the Red Sea, and it was during this passage, on our first day steaming north, that something astonishing happened. Buy the print » It had always been difficult to penetrate the barrier that separated us from the first-class level, which was guarded by two polite but determined stewards. But even they could not stop Ramadhin’s dog. He had leaped out of Cassius’s arms and bolted from the cabin. We ran up and down the empty hallways looking for him. But within moments the little fellow must have emerged into the sunlight of B Deck and run beside the railings, racing into the lower ballroom, up its gilded staircase, and past the two stewards. They managed to get their hands on him but could not hold on. He had eaten none of the food we had offered him, which we’d smuggled out of the dining room in our trouser pockets, so perhaps he was looking for something to eat. No one was able to corner him. Passengers caught sight of him for just a blurred moment. He did not seem at all interested in humans. Well-dressed women crouched down, calling out high-pitched greetings, but he charged past them without a pause and into the cherrywood cave of the library, disappearing somewhere beyond that. Who could know what he was after? Or what he was feeling, in that no doubt pounding heart? He was just a hungry dog, or a scared one, on this claustrophobic ship, whose alleyways turned into cul-de-sacs as he ran farther and farther from daylight. Eventually, the creature made his way along a mahogany-panelled and carpeted hallway, where he slipped through a half-opened door into a master suite, just as someone left, carrying a tray. The dog climbed up onto an oversized bed, where the prone Sir Hector de Silva lay, and bit down into his throat. All night the Oronsay was within the protected waters of the Red Sea. At daybreak, we passed the small islands off Jizan, and we could see in the distance the hazy presence of the oasis town of Abha, sunlight glinting off a piece of glass or a white wall. Then the city dissolved under the sun and was gone from our sight. It was at this hour, shortly after daybreak, that the news of Sir Hector’s death raced through the ship, quickly followed by whispers that there would have to be a burial at sea. It turned out, however, that a funeral could not take place in coastal waters, so the body would have to wait for the open spaces of the Mediterranean. Next came the more startling news of how he had died, followed by the story that we had already heard, about the charm put on him by the priest. Ramadhin reasoned that fate had killed him, not us, by bringing the dog on board. And, as the little creature was never seen again, we came to believe that the smuggled dog had been a phantom. During lunch, most of the questions had to do with how a dog had boarded the Oronsay. And where was it now? Emily came over to our table and demanded to know if we had brought the dog onto the ship, and we responded with an attempted look of horror, which made her laugh. The only person who showed no interest in the opinions around him was Mr. Mazappa, who sat mulling over his oxtail soup. His musical fingers were, for once, motionless on the tablecloth. I woke the next morning without the usual desire to meet with my friends. I heard Ramadhin’s familiar knock, but I did not answer. Instead, I took my time dressing, then went up to the deck alone. On the other side of the ship, passengers with binoculars were attempting to catch a glimpse of the Nile, somewhere deep inland. They were all adults, no one I knew, and I felt without a connection to anything. I went to Emily’s cabin. I was fondest of Emily when we were not with other people. In those moments, I always felt that I learned the most from her. I knocked a couple of times before she opened the door, wrapped in a dressing gown. “Can I come in?” “Yes.” Emily stalked back and slipped under the sheets, discarding her robe, it seemed, in the same movement. “We’re still in the Red Sea.” “I know.” “We went past Jedda. I saw it.” I stayed with her all morning. I told her about the dog, and how we had brought him on board. I was lying beside her on the bed, holding one of her unlit cigarettes, pretending to smoke, when she reached over and turned my head toward her. “Don’t,” she said. “I mean, don’t tell anyone else about this—what you just told me.” “We think it might have been a ghost,” I replied. “The charm’s ghost.” “I don’t care. You must not mention it again. Promise me.” I said that I wouldn’t. She touched the top of my head in a gesture that said, Let’s forget about it. Don’t worry. But I didn’t turn away and kept watching her. “What?” She raised her eyebrow. “I don’t know, I feel strange. Being here. What will happen when I go to England. Will you be with me?” “You know I won’t.” “But I don’t know anyone there.” “Your mother?” “I don’t know her like I know you.” “Yes, you do.” She leaned over and kissed me. “Now, make me some coffee. There’s the cup. You can use hot water from the tap.” I got up and looked around. “There’s no coffee here.” “Then order some.” When the steward arrived, I met him at the door and, when he had left, brought the tray over for her. She half sat up, then remembered her robe and reached for it. But what I saw hit me in the heart. There was a tremor within me, a mixture of thrill and vertigo. Suddenly, there was a wide gulf between Emily’s existence and mine, and I would never be able to cross it. It was as if part of the desert in the distance had reached into the ship and touched me. But where had it come from? And was it a pleasure or a sadness, this life inside me? I felt as if I were lacking something essential, like water. I put the tray down and climbed back onto Emily’s bed. I felt in that moment that I had been alone for years. I had existed too cautiously with my family, as if there had always been shards of glass around us. And now I was going to England, where my mother had been living for three or four years. She had already become a stranger. That morning, in Emily’s cabin, shuttered away from the dazzle of the Red Sea and the desert, I knelt on her bed and shook. She leaned forward and held me, so soft a gesture that I felt barely touched, an envelope of loose air between us. My hot tears rubbed off on her cool upper arm. The small props of necessary defense with which I’d surrounded myself, and which contained and protected me, marking the outline of me, were no longer there. “What is it?” “I don’t know.” Perhaps we talked then. I don’t remember. My breathing eventually calmed to the pace of hers. I must have fallen asleep for a moment and woke when she reached over her shoulder in a backstroke gesture for the cup of coffee. Soon I heard her quick swallows, my ear against her neck. Her other hand was still gripping mine, convincing me of a security that probably did not exist. After I left Emily’s room—and there was to be no repeat of this kind of intimacy—I knew that I would always be linked to her, as if by some underground river or a seam of coal or silver. I had never known the grip of another’s hand, or the smell of a body that had just emerged from sleep. I had never wept beside someone who also excited me in a way that I could not fathom. It was probably a casual, if genuine, kindness that Emily gave me—and saying that takes nothing away from her gesture. “You should go now,” she said finally, and rose from the bed and walked to the bathroom, shutting the door behind her. A new rumor percolated that the two-day-old corpse of Hector de Silva would soon be dispatched into the sea. The Captain wished to wait until we reached the Mediterranean, but the all-powerful de Silva widow was now insisting on a quick, private burial. And so, within the space of an hour, everyone had discovered the location and the time of the final ceremony. Stewards roped off the section of the stern where the service would take place, but gawkers soon assembled behind the rope and crowded the metal stairways, and some looked down from the higher decks. A few, less impressed souls regarded the proceedings through the windows of the smoking room. As a result, the body—the first sighting of Hector de Silva for most of us—had to be carried along a very narrow aisle, grudgingly opened by the crowd. It was followed by his widow, his daughter, his doctors (one of them dressed in full village regalia), and the Captain. I had never been to a funeral, let alone one for which I was partially responsible. I saw Emily a few yards away, and she gave me a cautious look and a slight shake of her head. Everyone from the Cat’s Table was there. We gazed down at the small figures of the entourage surrounding a trestle table, which held a bust of Hector de Silva and some flowers. We were barely able to hear the last rites. The voice of the priest faltered and faded in the shuddering winds that were drifting over the water. When the family approached the body wrapped in its white shroud, we all leaned forward to witness whatever secret was being passed to the dead. Then Hector de Silva slid from the ship and disappeared into the sea.
He Knew When he felt good, or even vaguely a little bit good, and sometimes even when he was not, by psychiatric standards, well at all, but nonetheless had a notion that he might soon be coming out of the Dread, as he called it, he insisted on taking Alice to Bergdorf Goodman, and afterward for a walk along Fifty-seventh Street, to Madison, where they would turn—this had become a tradition—and work their way north through the East Sixties and Seventies, into the low Eighties, touring the expensive shops. He was an occasional clotheshorse himself, of course, at times when he was not housebound in a bathrobe. And it was one or the other, increasingly. The apartment or the square! He should have bought a place when he could have—he and Alice rented in the Village—back when he worked all the time instead of only rarely. But, no, that wasn’t the right attitude. Keep moving, he said to himself. She was half a block ahead, across the street already, carrying her bags, which held the simple white blouse and the French lotions they’d bought for her. She was waiting for him to catch up. The light changed, and he crossed the street. He had a young wife. She didn’t yet know what life had in store for her. Or did she? He’d long ago been a competitive runner, and he sometimes thought about resuming his sport at the veteran level. He’d been worrying about his heart, and it would do him good. But he’d never do it. Or maybe he would. She called out, “How do you get to stay so handsome?,” and he was in love again. He trotted up the sidewalk and said, “Ha, that’s nice of you, but I’m overweight.” “Who cares? So am I,” she proclaimed. “Look at my ass! I need to get exercise!” “I love your ass,” he said. “What do you see?” They were standing in front of a boutique. She laughed. “We already have enough Italian sheets!” There it was, the volume rising on the last word, her shrill crescendo. It was about the time of day when they should be choking down a few pills. “We’ll need to find some fluids before too long,” he said. He put his arm around her shoulders and gently hugged her. She arranged her shopping bags in one hand and wrapped her other, free arm too tightly around his waist, steering him up the block. They didn’t fit well, walking so close—she swung her butt, and their hips collided—and eventually they drew apart and held hands. She had long dark hair and round brown eyes, which, when he looked into them, seemed to have other eyes behind them. What did he mean by that? It was a feeling, hard to shape into words. Thank God the money was holding out. He wasn’t too worried about their shopping. It had been his idea, to begin with; it couldn’t be laid at her feet, and, in fact, he wasn’t always spending on her. To do so, as was his intention that afternoon, might implicate him in a father stereotype, it was true, but who cared? It was a bright, cold Saturday, the last Saturday in October—Halloween—and the light seemed already to be fading toward night. Stephen had got himself shaved and outdoors for the first time in two weeks, and women wearing heels and men in European clothes were showing themselves in the uptown air. “Can we stop here?” she said. They’d arrived at the lingerie store where, every year, before Christmas—usually at the last minute on Christmas Eve, at the end of one of his eleventh-hour gift-gathering runs—he came to buy her tap pants or a camisole, just as he’d done for his former wife on Christmases in years past. Marina, how was she? Was she still with Jeff? “Let’s go in and get you a pair of fishnets,” he said, and they went in—the store was narrow—in single file. Two salesgirls were there to help them. One walked around the counter, toward Stephen, who raised his hands in the air, as if to prevent her from coming too close. Alice could easily be made upset if she thought she saw intimacy springing up between Stephen and another woman, even an attentive shopgirl or waitress, and he had learned to play down these innocent encounters. He announced to the women that he was shopping for his wife, and then put his arm around Alice and pulled her up beside him. “We’ll need a tall size,” he said. He charged a pair of black woollen fishnets and two pairs of regular black stockings, and then they crossed the street and detoured off the avenue to look at a window display of men’s suits. He had no need of one, and in fact hadn’t bought one in quite some time, not since the world economy had taken its downturn. “Let’s keep moving,” he said. A beautiful jacket in blue worsted wool was making him feel sad over—what? His reduced opportunities in life, probably. “How’re you doing?” he asked Alice. “Are you holding up?” She was leaning against him. Here and there around them, babies, pushed in strollers, came and went. “I’m holding up,” she said. The problem—the problem—was that he was no longer getting cast in the comic roles that had become, over years of acting in plays and, for a brief spell, on television, his strong suit. Or, no, maybe that wasn’t the root problem. In a way, though, it was, in part because the dropoff in work and income had increased his normal daily load of terror, but also because his heartbreaking difficulties onstage had amplified his sense of himself, of his Self, he should say, as somehow consisting in, or activated by—what was a fitting way to put this?—the willing community made by the laughter of audiences. “Will you please let me hold those for you?” he asked, and reached for Alice’s shopping bags, the things he’d bought for her. She backed away from him quickly—had he startled her?—and said, “You’re too slow, man!” “You’re right about that,” he said. “Come on! You’re not even going to try?” “Oh, God. You want me to fight you for the bags?” “Yeah. Fight me.” “Are you fucking with me right now?” he said, in the snarl of a stock comic-melodrama villain. But this didn’t come out funny—it was far too unhinged-sounding, in tone and in volume—and her smile dropped, and she exclaimed, “Jesus, you don’t need to freak out!” She handed over the two purple bags and the one little black one, and they continued up Madison. They stopped for a light, and he asked her, “Are we skipping Barneys?” The entrance to the women’s side of the department store was close by. Around the corner, over near Lexington Avenue, was the apartment of a hooker he’d visited in the nineties. Victoria. What he hated about nice clothes was both wanting and not wanting to wear them. He disliked his own conspicuousness to himself, whenever he was out in the world expensively costumed. It was only the pleasure he felt in his tactile awareness of sewing and fabric, of the hands of the maker in the garment, that led him, again and again, to risk the danger of seeing himself—literally; reflected in the mirror of a bar, perhaps—as somehow faintly ridiculous. It was an American problem, something that he felt only in America. He should have moved across the ocean when he had the chance, after his divorce from Marina. Though he’d never really had the chance. Where would he have gone? Rome? Berlin? London? How would he have worked? His old Neighborhood Playhouse friend Ned had decamped to the Netherlands some years back—when people still called it Holland—in order, Ned had told Stephen, to follow through on an artistic commitment to experimental performance, of which there always seemed to be so much in northern Europe; but then Stephen had heard through mutual acquaintances that Ned had married a Dutch woman, who’d helped him qualify for some form or other of enlightened state arts support, and that the two of them had taken to spending their days and nights smoking pot with expatriates in Amsterdam coffee shops, which sounded, to Stephen, both awful and wonderful. “There’s nothing at Barneys this season. Everything’s got an Empire waist,” Alice was telling him. She said, “That cut makes me feel like a little girl in an Easter dress. A giant little girl.” “It’s not my favorite look,” he agreed. “It’s all right on some people,” she said, and he finished her thought for her, saying, “But not on you.” “Is it my tits? Are my tits too small? Is that the problem?” “Take it easy. It’s not your tits. Your tits are great,” he said, and went on, “Those dresses are weird sometimes. You know what I mean? You’re maybe a little too tall for an Empire waist, unless, I guess”—he made shapes with his hands in the air—“unless the skirt is very long.” It was how they’d met and fallen in love five years before—her absurd height. Alice and Stephen had been invited to the same dinner party, for which they’d arrived at the same time. They got into the elevator together, and he pressed the button for their friends’ floor, and she said, “That’s me, too, thanks,” and after that the doors closed and they avoided making eye contact, but on the way up they slipped and saw each other in the same instant, and, in the shock of meeting her eyes, he exclaimed, in a whisper, “You’re so tall!” and she blushed, and his face got red, too. Later that night, after they’d both drunk a lot of wine, while their hosts were clearing up, she confessed to him that, in the elevator, he’d uttered aloud her first, fleeting thought whenever she met anyone, which was that she was tall—her noticing of herself being seen, being taken in, was part of her appealing self-consciousness: it was her come-on, and it was working on him—and she’d added that (though Stephen had hardly been the first man to lead with a comment on her height) no one had ever read her mind in quite the way he seemed to have done. That Halloween afternoon on Madison Avenue, she sounded mildly manic. “You’re right! You’re right, as always. It’s not a big deal. I’m too tall for an Empire waist. It’s as simple as that! I try it and it doesn’t work, and I try it and it doesn’t work, and I should know better by now, because it’s obvious!” They were holding hands again. But he had a strong feeling that she was beginning to sink, that she was anxiously coming to feel and believe that she would somehow never be right. “Let’s get you something to eat,” he said, and she sighed and said, “Yeah, I’m starting to spin.” “I can hear it,” he told her. “You can?” “Your Southern accent is coming out.” “I don’t want to be too tall for you,” she cried. “You’re not.” “I’m a wee bit dizzy.” “I’ll hold you,” he said. A baby carriage was bearing down on them. He gripped her coat sleeve. On the next block, on the other side of Madison, was a coffee shop. He would have preferred a bar, but the one that he and Alice liked lay many blocks ahead. It wasn’t yet time for drinking, anyway. He guided her off the curb, between two closely parked cars, and directly out into the open avenue—there was a moment, he figured, before the light changed and traffic surged forward—where he maneuvered her diagonally across against the wind that funnelled down between the buildings. “We’re almost there, come on,” he called. He heard cars rushing up behind them, and a horn from one blew loudly as he sped her across the final lane, onto the sidewalk, and then ten feet more, to the door of the restaurant. He held the door. “In you go,” he said. At the booth, he counted out pills, his anti-depressants and her anti-anxieties—he carried and dispensed for her more often than not, ever since her suicide attempt—and he asked her, “How many do you think will do the trick? One? Two? Do you need two? Honey, can you talk?” “Are those ten-milligram?” “They are.” “Give me two. For now.” “Hang on.” “You’re scattering them across the table!” “Sorry. Sorry.” It was true, he’d dumped out a few too many pills, and some had rolled off toward the condiments, the ketchup and the sugar and the salt and pepper shakers and so forth, and he was missing—what was he missing? He had Alice’s portion under control. And there were his pink-and-yellow anti-psychotics. Where had his beta-blockers gone? “Before we take this up a notch, I need to know where you are with cats.”Buy the print » He peered up and saw that Alice’s hair was a mess from the wind. He could see the tension in her face—it always came on so swiftly and visibly. It was her terror of going back into the hospital. Her jaw had clenched; she was grinding her teeth, and the muscles in her neck were taut. “You’re twisted up,” he said, and reached across the table to help her adjust her clothes. Her cotton blouse had been pulled back over one shoulder when she’d taken off her coat, causing the shirt’s brilliant mother-of-pearl buttons to look as if they were about to pop off at the collar. He pushed two Valium tablets her way. Then he noticed Dr. Tillman, sitting alone at the counter, at the back of the restaurant. The waitress arrived, and Alice said, “I’d like a Coca-Cola and a big piece of chocolate cake, but not the kind with raspberry filling.” Stephen said to Alice, “I think I see my former doctor over there,” and Alice asked him rather too loudly if he was ready to order. She told him, “You should eat something. If you don’t, you’re going to have a crash, and you’re going to get all angry, and I don’t want to be screamed at by you later on the street.” “Excuse me?” He rolled his eyes at the waitress and blurted, “Ha, I don’t know what to say to that!” But he felt embarrassed, and conceded to her, to the waitress, that he’d probably better have a muffin. “Pumpkin, please,” he added, and abruptly got up and pushed past her and escaped to the rear of the diner, calling, “Dr. Tillman? Dr. Tillman?” But the man didn’t seem to hear him. Stephen came closer and got a better look at his old analyst, hunched over a plate of pancakes. Why was Dr. Tillman alone? Had his wife, whom Stephen had never met or even glimpsed, passed away? Dr. Tillman had to be in his eighties by now; he’d shrunk, of course, and his hair had finally gone fully white. And then Stephen remembered, shockingly, that Dr. Tillman had died six or seven or maybe eight years before. The man in the diner could never have been Dr. Tillman. Stephen marched off to the men’s room, where he sat in a stall and checked his cell phone for text messages from his old friend Claire. Where was she? Had she gone to the country with Peter? He needed to talk to her—he needed her to calm him down—if only for a moment. It was a risky thing to do, with Alice so close by. Alice accepted as fact her suspicion that he and Claire had had an affair, several years back, during the months when Alice was hospitalized. They hadn’t had an affair, actually, though for a while Claire had been important to him as a confidante. He’d fallen in love with her, a little, for her kindness, and, he told himself now, for her soft, deep voice, which always seemed to reassure him. He flushed, buckled, went back to the booth, and, thinking of Dr. Tillman, told Alice that he felt as if he’d seen a genuine ghost, and that he couldn’t imagine how he’d forgotten the death of his psychiatrist of almost fifteen years, and that, although he understood that that time in his life, the time of his analysis with Dr. Tillman, was far in the past—or maybe because of this fact—he felt disoriented, weird. “Welcome to the club,” Alice replied. The Valium was doing its work. She already sounded slurry. He said, “How’s your chocolate cake?” “Better than your muffin.” “You ate my muffin?” “I didn’t eat your muffin. It’s sitting in front of you on your placemat.” “Right you are, there it is,” he admitted. He heard the sounds of a football game. Was there a television in the restaurant? It was the weekend of the Nebraska-Colorado game. Was it? Or, no, that game came closer to Thanksgiving. “Are you all right?” she asked him. He watched her eat. She’d scooped out all the cake and left a shell of frosting on her plate, which she’d saved for last. He watched her lick the icing off the tines of her fork.“Are you?” he asked her. “I asked you first.” “I’m all right,” he told her. “Should I believe you?” He picked up her medicine bottle, shook it gently, and dropped it into his sport coat’s inside breast pocket. “Are you all right?” he asked once more. “I’m fine. I’m eating my lunch.” Later, back on the street, they made their way at a kind of wobbling pace uptown, toward the Whitney Museum. The sun was getting low in the sky. He said to her, “Alice, how many did you take?” She was leaning hard on his shoulder, like a drunk date. They slowed to gaze at autumn scenery in the shop windows along the way. The first children wearing Halloween costumes had begun to appear on the avenue. Stephen saw a dragon, a skeleton, and several little princesses. He again asked Alice how many pills she’d sneaked while he was in the men’s room. “Five?” Her voice sounded like a young girl’s. “Five in all? Or five plus the two I gave you?” “Five in all. Three more.” He shifted her shopping bags from his left hand to his right, and offered her his other shoulder. Supporting her weight, block after block, wasn’t easy, and at Seventy-third Street he insisted that they get in a cab, go straight home, and tuck her into bed for the rest of the day. But she simply apologized for letting her anxiety get the better of her. She said that she was also sorry for provoking him, in the restaurant, with her fear that he might yell at her if he didn’t eat properly. She hadn’t meant to shame him. She loved him. She wanted them to have a fantastic time out in the world. That was all that mattered. More children, herded by parents and nannies, ran past them, trick-or-treating, hitting the boutiques. The costumes were good. A few—in particular, a spectacular lion suit on a four- or five-year-old boy—looked to have been sewn with care, showing a level of detailing appropriate to durable stage costumes, the sort meant for nightly scrutiny under theatre lights. When Stephen was younger, when he was a young actor, working in his costume for the first time—putting it on before the call for the first dress rehearsal—had always been a revelation. This was the case for many actors, certainly. Wearing the garment was an acquisition of—why not say it?—humanity. A Victorian frock coat or a pair of Windsor-style stovepipe trousers or even Depression-era dungarees, worn as a character, could in turn produce character. When Stephen put on a costume, he could feel his whole nervous system, his muscles, and his bones, rearranging themselves to form his character’s body and posture. For instance, the heavy woollen overcoat worn by a foolish servant caused a slump in the shoulders and an itchy stiffness in the neck that might seem to an audience to be the symptoms of a master’s beatings. The drama became palpable through tailoring. Maybe it followed that Stephen’s life seemed to gain grace and substance when he walked at an even pace on a nice street in well-cut pants. She wasn’t letting him do this. Both of her arms were wrapped around him. Alice was hugging him tightly from the side, and they’d become like two people in a three-legged race at some county fair or family reunion. Neither of them had much in the way of family. She’d come to the city from North Carolina, as had he. They’d grown up in neighboring valleys in the Smoky Mountains, though he’d left home—he was gone before his eighteenth birthday—before she was even born. Their somewhat shared origins had, of course, been a crucial factor in their romance. (It wasn’t her body alone that had attracted him, that night at the dinner party; nor had she truly believed, when he spoke to her in the elevator, that he was an actual mind reader.) For the first year or two of their relationship, they’d discussed plans to rent a convertible and drive south together through New Jersey and Delaware and Maryland, continuing around Washington and on through the Shenandoah Valley, in Virginia—there was a nineteenth-century inn near Staunton that he’d read about in a food magazine and wanted to spend a night or two at—and then from there into the southerly regions of the Blue Ridge, where, taking their time, they’d leave the interstate and get on the old two-lane, hairpin-turn state and county roads that would take them up and across the mountains, to home. But they hadn’t done it. They hadn’t done it because there was no one there for them. His parents were dead, and he had no aunts or uncles left, either. He had only a sister, who lived in Minnesota. Stephen and his sister had less and less to do with each other these days; and it had been at least a couple of decades since he had heard from, or thought to be in touch with, any of their remaining kin, the more or less distant cousins, who (some of them, at least) were surely still scattered about the countryside around Asheville. Alice’s situation wasn’t much happier. Her father, an alcoholic, had left her mother when Alice was four, and the man whom Alice had grown up calling father had been killed in an automobile accident when she was sixteen. Her mother, in later years, had become one of those people who try new places again and again, endlessly relocating. Currently, she was parked outside Fort Worth. Alice had an unmarried, born-again brother who repaired computers in Sacramento. Stephen turned to face her. Adjusting himself wasn’t easy to do; they were pressed together, and his arms were pinned at his sides by her close embrace. Her clothes remained as they’d been in the restaurant, tugged slightly askew, and strands of her hair, caught between their bodies, were pulled when he moved. “Ouch!” she said. She looked good—no, great. That she was so attractive while sedated troubled him. Did he like her best when she was out of it? “I know exactly the thing to do,” he said, and she whispered, “What’s that?” “Let’s go buy you a hat.” “A hat!” she said. “Would you like that?” “Yes.” “You’ll have to let me move. Let go, all right?” he asked. But she didn’t release him. The boy in the fancy lion suit bolted from a store’s open doorway, and Alice said, “Oh, honey.” She wasn’t talking to Stephen. She was peering down at the boy, who’d stopped short on the sidewalk in order to roar at them. “Are you a lion?” Alice asked. “What kind of lion are you? Are you a fierce”—she paused; it was the Valium—“lion?” “Yes,” the lion growled, though not very fiercely. Here came the father, calling, “Baby girl, baby girl, where are you going? Don’t run off! Come take Daddy’s hand. Leave those people alone.” The man was about thirty-five or maybe thirty-eight or –nine years old, forty or so, and his wife was coming up behind. “Sorry about that, please excuse us,” the lion’s father said. The man’s wife looked plain, with short brown hair and a small chin, though, on the other hand, she was attractive. “Don’t be a bother,” she instructed her daughter. She was English. Both she and her husband were conservatively dressed. The man was frankly, openly appraising Alice. Did this entitled young punk think that greater age made Stephen weak? He said to the parents, “I was noticing what a finely made costume your little girl is wearing. She looks so ferocious in it, I was certain she was a boy.” “Girls can’t be ferocious, then?” the mother said, and her mildly accusing tone made Stephen unsure how to take this. Was it a reprimand, and, if so, was it also a flirtation? A low mood was creeping up on him. “Of course girls can be ferocious,” Stephen replied. “My name is Stephen.” He held out his hand and said, “And this is my ferocious wife, Alice.” Alice was still leaning on his shoulder, with her right arm wrapped around his neck. Her body, against his, seemed to be sliding toward the pavement. “I’m Margaret,” the English wife said, and her American husband followed: “Robert. It’s nice to meet you.” The mother said, “Claire, can you say hello to these nice people?” Stephen felt a sharp tremor in Alice, and he thought, Fuck, why that name? Together, as if on cue, they all peered down at the daughter. The girl was slowly turning, spinning in a circle inside the cage of legs that had formed around her when the adults squared off to shake hands. “Don’t spill your candy, dear,” her mother said. The lion girl looked at her mom. She checked in with Dad. She seemed quite drawn to Alice, whose gaze she held a long moment. “Claire, please say hello,” her mother said again. “Claire!” her father ordered. Stephen could feel Alice clinging to him and pulling away at the same time. “Hello,” the little girl said, and Stephen loudly blurted, “And how old are you?” “Five.” “Five!” he exclaimed. “We’re in kindergarten, aren’t we?” her mother said to her, and went on, “It takes her a while to feel comfy with strangers.” “Why do I have to be talented at something? Why can’t I just be talented?”Buy the print » “I understand,” Stephen said, and wondered what Margaret and Robert were thinking of him and Alice. What picture did they make, this older man worrisomely buoying up his sedated young wife? His anxiety was on the rise, the sun was setting in earnest, the temperature was falling, and the wind was building. He might need to sneak one or two of Alice’s Valiums. He spoke for them as a couple. “It’s awfully nice to have met you and your lovely daughter, but we should get going.” And to Alice he proposed, brightly, “Hey, we’re looking for a hat for you, remember?” But before they could make their getaway Margaret announced to her husband, “Oh, Rob! I know who he is!” “You were on that TV show,” she said to Stephen. “Am I right? What was the show called? Was that you?” “It may have been me, yes.” “You were that friend of the main character who was always causing mischief for everyone.” “Get out of my way,” Stephen said. “What?” the husband said. “The show was called ‘Get Out of My Way,’ ” Stephen explained, and added, “That was a long time ago. I’m amazed that you recognized me.” “You were very funny.” “Thank you.” To her husband, Margaret said, “Do you remember that show, dear?” And he answered, “No, I don’t.” “He’s not much for television,” she said to Stephen, in a low, confiding tone. “Are you on something now?” she asked, and he thought to make a joke about his meds. “No. I’ve been in a hiatus.” “Refuelling the creative juices?” “Something like that.” “And are you an actress?” Margaret was addressing Alice. Stephen said, “Alice, she’s asking you.” Sleepy Alice replied, “Oh, no.” “My wife is also between things,” he said, and then, stupidly, he remarked to Alice, “We’re taking some time to enjoy our lives, right?” He gave her a squeeze, and she glared at him. Later, after they’d finally got free and resumed their trek up Madison Avenue, she accused him: “You were flirting with her.” “What? I wasn’t.” “She’s the type for you. Refuelling the creative juices.” “Come on, let’s get you home.” “I don’t have a home!” “Yes, you do, you have a home with me.” They’d been lost in these woods before. “How many pills did you take, Alice? Will you tell me how many pills you took? You took more than five, Alice. Please don’t lie to me. How many?” She wasn’t talking. They passed shop after shop, but she didn’t want to go into any of them. She’d pulled away at last and was walking faster, out ahead of him now, fleeing. He buttoned up his coat and pulled off his scarf—it was the blue scarf that she’d given him in the first year of their marriage; he loved it and wore it all the time in the colder months—and ran up beside her and wrapped it around her neck. He said, emphatically, “Alice, nothing ever happened between me and Claire. Nothing was ever going to happen,” which was true, though Alice would not believe it. Alice had met Claire and found her to be very beautiful. She suspected that Stephen would be more comfortable, more at home, with a woman closer to him in age—Stephen and Claire had gone to college together. Alice had conceived of Stephen’s betrayal in the days before her breakdown, and, once in the hospital, when she’d been unable to simply go to a phone in the night and call him, the idea of their affair had grown in her; to this day, he could not say with certainty whether she’d tried to kill herself over her anticipated abandonment or whether that deranging fantasy had been a symptom of some deeper despair. It haunted them still. Alice said, “Don’t blow up at me.” “I’m not.” “You’re shouting.” “Alice, I love you! Please try to take that in!” he shouted, and then quickly glanced around to see if he’d been heard by people passing by. In a lowered voice he said, “Why must we always return to this?” “You were sleeping with her when I was on a locked ward! I thought my life was over! Where were you?” she pleaded. “I was with you every day, Alice. I visited you every single day.” “And then you went to her!” she said angrily. Now he could hear and feel her terror, and he, too, began to feel frightened, because he knew where this fight could take them. “Alice, stop this,” he commanded. “Leave me, just leave me already,” she cried, and he watched as she ran away, up the block and across Seventy-ninth Street. “Alice!” he called. But she was still going, a dark shape charging unsteadily up the street with her shopping bags. It was the time of day when the lights from apartment buildings and stores begin to shine brightly. Through the pools of light spilling out of shop doors came people in costume, not only children but adults, on their way to Halloween parties and bars. He forged ahead against a tide of ghosts and pirates and sexy nurses from the spirit realm. He passed a shattered Marilyn Monroe, but could no longer see Alice in the distance. With hands trembling, he took her pills from his coat pocket, opened the lid, and shook out two. Did he need one or two? It was the question he’d asked Alice earlier in the coffee shop. He put one in his mouth and another in his shirt pocket, in case. His mouth was parched from his own medications. He held the pill under his tongue. Eventually it would dissolve. He had only to wait. He would wait at their bar. Maybe she was there already, he thought, as he turned the corner and left the avenue. The place was a carnival inside. Cardboard witches and crêpe-paper bats hung from the ceiling, and candlelit jack-o’-lanterns had been set out on the marble surface of the bar. Everyone inside was costumed, to some degree, but in his agitation Stephen imagined that it was actually he, in his soft windowpane jacket and pressed shirt and woollen pants—he and not the dead and undead thronging about him, blocking his way—who was wearing a costume. Through the crowd he pushed, searching for her. Finally he gave up and went to the bar, where he leaned into a gathering of wraiths and ordered a bourbon from a pretty bartender with a blood-red slash impastoed darkly across her neck. The Valium was starting to help. He drank, and the alcohol burned his throat. When a seat became free, he took it immediately and ordered another bourbon, before locating his phone and dialling Alice’s number. “You can run a tab,” he told the bartender, and added, “I could use some water, too, when you get a minute.” Outside in the night, he thought, Alice would be walking, disoriented. She’d be feeling scorned. She would hear her phone ringing in her purse, and know it was him, but she’d be unable to answer, though she badly wanted to. She’d be afraid of him pulling her back, afraid of going childless all her life, and winding up a widow, like her mother, running from place to place and never stopping. He’d heard all of this played out before. Of course, he’d told her again and again that he wanted to have a baby with her. Why hadn’t it happened already? Why hadn’t they yet done it, like normal people? He pictured her gathering her coat around her and slumping on a town-house stoop, ignoring his calls, or, likely, though by now she knew better than to expect a helpful response, calling her mother. When he dialled her number for the fifth or sixth time, Alice answered. He told her that he was in their bar and felt desperate. “Come back,” he said. “Will you?” “Are you having a drink?” she asked. “I am,” he said. He pressed his phone hard against his ear. Loudly, above the bar chaos, he asked her, “Where are you? Do you know where you are? Do you need me to come get you?” “No,” she said. She hadn’t gone far; she was only around the corner from where they always wound up at the end of these days when he took her out and bought her gifts. She said that she was on her way, and a few minutes later he saw her appear behind him in the antique saloon mirror above the bar. She peered over the crowd of monsters and ghouls, his statuesque, distraught Alice, until she caught sight of him, his reflection and hers making contact in the glass. He stood and said, “Excuse me, excuse me,” to some skeletons and ghosts who were clustered between them. He opened a path for her and led her back to his seat. The goblin who’d been sitting beside him at the bar, when he saw Alice in her very real anguish, said, politely, “Oh, here, please, sit,” and Stephen said, “Thank you,” and nestled in beside his wife and let her rest her head on his shoulder. Gently, she cried. He wrapped one arm around her shoulders, and with his other hand he stroked her hair, pressing her close to him, so that her cheek lay against his heart. The bartender approached, but he gestured at her to give them time, another minute, then picked up his drink and brought it to Alice’s lips, saying, “Here, love, it’s O.K., it’s O.K.” “I’m scared,” she said. He let her drink, then put the glass on the bar and, with his fingers, softly massaged away the mascara that had run in streams down her cheeks. For a while, they stayed together like that. He ordered a drink for her, and another for himself, and, little by little, she regained herself and was able to sit up straight. “I’m sorry,” she said to him, and he said, “I’m sorry, too,” and she asked, “Can you forgive me for running away?” and he said, “Alice. I don’t want anyone but you.” “Do you mean it?” she said. “More than anything,” he answered. He said, “I know what we need to do. We need to take a vacation. We need to take our trip to the mountains. Let’s do it. If we go soon, we’ll still be in time to see the autumn leaves.” They talked about the trip, what kind of car they’d rent—not a convertible at this time of year, certainly—and about how many days they might spend in this place or that; and they wondered together what they’d find, after so many years away, of their old home towns and the houses in which they’d grown up. He held her hand tightly in his as they spoke, and she remembered something she’d never told him before. There had been a spring that made a little swimming hole in the woods behind her house. It had been a secret place for her—she hadn’t even told her brother about it. Would it still be there? Would it have been bulldozed for a strip mall or a retirement community or a new drive-through bank? Would she be able to find it again? “Let’s go there,” he said, and with that he left three twenty-dollar bills on the bar and stood up and put on his coat and helped her to stand. He buttoned her coat for her and wrapped his scarf in a knot around her collar. He picked up her bags and took her by the hand and led her carefully through the Halloween necropolis. They were the only two regular-looking people in the place. Outside, he hailed a cab. He held the door for her, then got in beside her and gave the address, and they rode down Fifth Avenue, past Central Park and the Plaza and Tiffany & Co., and Cartier and Rockefeller Center and Saks, down through the Forties and the Thirties and the Twenties, to Washington Square Park, the very bottom of the Avenue, and west from there into the Village. She leaned on him as they climbed the four flights to their walkup. He unlocked and pushed open the door. He turned on a light and guided her through the living room and into their bedroom, where he turned on the little lamp beside the bed. He took her coat and sat her on the edge of the bed and knelt before her on the floor. He started tugging off her clothes—first her shoes, then her skirt and her stockings. “Raise your arms, baby,” he said, and pulled her blouse up and over her head. He unsnapped her bra and took that, too. He helped her to lie down. He pulled the covers over her, and then undressed himself, switched off the lamp, and went unclothed into the living room, where he sat on the sofa, absently touching and spinning the gold ring on his ring finger. After a while, he got up and turned off the living-room light and made his way quietly back to her in the dark. He raised the covers and got into bed beside her and brought her close, spooning, so that he could cup her breasts in his hands and feel the length of her body against his. In the morning, he told himself before falling asleep, they would sit naked beside each other, resting against pillows, drinking coffee in bed—his black, hers with milk—and he would speak to her openly and forthrightly about getting his acting career back on track; and before long they would kiss, and when they made love he would drive hard into her and come, hoping, hoping for her pregnancy, for the child, their son, perhaps—a boy like him!—and believing as best he could that their family was drawing close, was near at last.
Deniers “Trauma this, atrocity that, people ought to keep their traps shut,” Mandy’s father said. American traps tended to hang open. Pure crap poured out. What he and the others had gone through shouldn’t have a name, he told her friend Tovah, all those years later in the nursing home. People gave names to things so they could tell stories about them, goddam fairy tales about children who got out alive. Mandy’s father, Jacob, had never said anything like this to Mandy, not in any of his tongues. He’d said other things, or nothing at all. He had worked for thirty-nine years as a printer in Manhattan. The founders of the company had invented the Yellow Pages. “Think about that,” he’d often said. Mandy did think about it, the thick directory that used to boost her up on her stool at the kitchen counter. She’d spent her childhood mornings at that counter, culling raisins from her cereal, surveying the remains of her father’s dawn meal, his toast crusts, the sugared dregs in his coffee mug. Sometimes she’d wondered if he would come home from work that day, but it was a game, because he always came home. He’d eat his dinner and take to his reclining—or, really, collapsing—chair, listen to his belly gurgle, read popular histories of the American West. Maybe he’d watch a rerun of “Hogan’s Heroes,” the only show he could abide. His gastric arias mostly stood in for conversation, but some evenings he managed a few words, such as the night he spotted Mandy’s library book on the credenza. This teen novel told the story of a suburban boy who befriends an elderly neighbor, a wanted Nazi. Mandy watched her father study the book from across the room. The way he handled it made her think he was scornful of its binding or paper stock, but then he read the dust flap, shuddered. He whispered in his original language, the one he rarely used, so glottal, abyssal. “Daddy,” she called from the sofa, her leotard still damp from dance. She liked the way the purple fabric encased her, the sporty stink. “Daddy,” she said. He spat out a word that sounded like “shame,” but more shameful. That night, her mother, who’d grown up in the next town over, who’d dreamed of exotic travel only to live the inverted version—the older European man, handsomely gaunt, haunted, roaring up on his motorcycle at a county fair—commanded Mandy to explore new reading topics. The great explorers, perhaps. The not-so-great explorers. “He never talks about it,” Mandy said. “There might be no words, honey.” “Does he talk to you?” “We communicate,” her mother said. “Was he like this when you met him?” “Yes. But it was different. He wanted to kiss me all the time.” Mandy decided she wouldn’t read anything else about the era of her father’s agony. If she wasn’t good enough to hear his story, so be it. Other, more generous catastrophes would arrive. Like, for instance, the spring day a dashing fellow in a pink blazer knocked on their door. The man worked for Shell Oil, which wanted to build a new gas station down the block. Mandy, soon to turn eleven and pained by any news unrelated to her birthday party, had heard murmurings. The plans called for a monstrous sign, the glowing sort more suitable for the highway, and the neighborhood had geared up for a fight. The working stiffs and the old Dutch families had joined with the lawyers and doctors to battle a common nemesis whose garish sign would savage property values. Lawrence, with his sailing tan and smart, maybe more off-salmon blazer, had been sent to talk to the townspeople—with honesty and understanding, he told Mandy’s mother—about their misguided fears and the benefits of both the gas station and the sign, which, incidentally, would spin with incandescent beauty against the north-Jersey night. Alone, Mandy’s mother let him in, and within an hour agreed to assist him in his campaign. Within a week they were tearing off each other’s polyfibres at Arlen’s Adult Motel near the George Washington Bridge. Mandy heard the details years later from her Aunt Linda, who added odd touches, such as Mandy’s growing a tiny potbelly from too much junk food, since the assignations left her mother no time to cook. Mandy didn’t remember that. She’d once seen Lawrence hunched over some papers in their kitchen—he threw her a funny, rueful look—but she did not recall a season of Whoppers and strawberry shakes. Still, for all she knew, her torments with the mirrors and malnourished beauties of fashion magazines and even her esophageal tract, all of which she had come to call, after years of therapy and therapeutic coffee dates, her “body shit,” might as well have been spawned from the slime of some long-buried, corn-syruped confusion. The Shell-sign resistance movement grew strong and raucous. When word leaked of Mandy’s mother’s collaborationist stance, somebody egged their stucco garage. Though Lawrence’s door-to-door sorties against tree-hugger pieties seemed lonely and courageous to Mandy’s mother, what took place was a legal contest between a tiny township and a transnational corporation. After bitter and pointless debate, the council zoned the lot for the gas station and the galaxy above the lot for the sign. Mandy’s mother chilled champagne in the motel ice bucket, but Lawrence never arrived for the victory toast. Not even Linda knew if Mandy’s mother drank the bubbly or poured it over the terrace, but everybody remembered how she sobbed herself home and took to her bed. She clutched the motel’s “Do Not Disturb” card for days. Even Jacob seemed touched by his wife’s distress. Who could refute the awfulness of what this bastard had done to the woman who once, long ago, after the Germans had murdered his mother and sister, had come reasonably close to being the only woman he could ever love? He tended to his wife with the wary compassion of a plague nurse. One night, Mandy woke near dawn to see her father yanking open her bureau drawers. He stuffed a duffelbag with her tank tops and jeans. She could count the times he had crossed the threshold of her room, but now he lifted her in his arms as he once had their sick spaniel and slid her into his sedan. She fell asleep again, cozy against the cool vinyl, and woke once more in Linda’s Upper West Side apartment. Linda put a teacup to Mandy’s lips. Her mother, they told her, was dead. Running motor. Sealed garage. Sweet suburban sleep. She’d left a note, Mandy found out, years later, on a Shell petition in the kitchen. “Oh, shit,” it read. Beneath her scrawl, boldfaced words exhorted “Give American Business a Chance!” So. Her father was a Survivor. Her mother had not survived. And Mandy? Nineteen years later, Mandy semi-survived, had three months clean, some fluorescent key-ring tags to prove it. Her ex-boyfriend Greg had tags, too, wore them snaked together off his belt. Mandy saw him at meetings, but she worried that he wasn’t letting the program work on him, was maybe just white-knuckling it, a funny thing to say about a black man. Greg had almost finished college before the pipe got him. He possessed such a wry and gentle soul, except for the times he railed at her for being an evil dwarf witch who meant to stew his heart in bat broth (he’d majored in world folklore), and she’d always adored those horn-rimmed glasses that made him look like the professor he could still become if he let go of his rage. But if he had a discipline at the moment, an area of scholarly expertise, it was deep knowledge of how to steal or to lick diseased penises for the teensiest rocks. It wasn’t as if Mandy had been any better months back. But now she was, and Greg, who often shared about what he called his terror runs, appeared to be planning one, the way some people contemplate a Berkshires getaway. Otherwise, things were on the uptick. Linda, in such pain these last few years, had gone to a better place. If an afterlife existed, Mandy figured that for Linda it would be more of the same—cappuccinos, Chinese, films at Lincoln Center. You could do that stuff dead. Now the studio apartment on a barren stretch of Upper Broadway would be Mandy’s. She deserved it—she had lived there as Linda’s caretaker, never missed a medication or a chemo trip, always laundered the sheets, no matter how high she was off Linda’s morphine. Jacob spent his days in stoic near-paralysis in a nursing home close to their old house, since sold to a happy (though you never knew) Sri Lankan family. Clean and sober, Mandy would be able to visit him regularly now. Also, Bill Clinton had been reëlected, which was what Mandy had wanted, and, perhaps most exciting, people were really responding to cardio ballet, the class she taught at the Jewish Community Center. Maybe once she’d dreamed of jazz-dance stardom, roses heaped on her Capezios, but keeping it real and teaching cardio ballet constituted triumphs enough. True, her sponsor, Adelaide, was in fact a star, a regular on the afternoon soaps, but that was just normal Manhattan recovery weirdness. The main thing for Mandy was to focus on her goals and keep her eyes peeled for Greg. She could imagine the ease of a slip, a search for that early bliss when all they did was snuggle and drink brandy and smoke crack and have their epic conversations about—about what, the vicissitudes? Was that the word Greg favored? Then they’d fuck and grapple until dawn, when the cooing of pigeons tilted them into jittery sleep. But of course it went bad. You had to play the whole tape, Adelaide told Mandy from her makeup chair. Mandy’s disease was just waiting for her to pick up again. Her disease was tougher than ever, did pushups, Pilates. (The girl with the foundation paint nodded.) “Remember those last, ugly moments,” Adelaide said. “That’s the part of the tape you’ve got to watch, Mand.” So she remembered how their pigeon sleep scooped something out of them, shattered their circadian clocks, which Mandy thought might also be their moral compasses. They fought, they hit—over drugs, money, presumed betrayals. Most of the presumptions proved correct. Mandy confessed to mutual fondling with a banker from the rooms, a guy who liked to repeat the same story: how he got tired of always having to score and bought an entire half kilo for his apartment, but his cat found the package, clawed it to shreds—dead calico, toxic carpet, some unborn child’s college education up in pharmaceutical-grade clouds. “That pussy saved your life!” a retired East Coast Crip in a wheelchair shouted. Uncle Drive-By, Greg called him. While Mandy confessed her infidelity to Greg she caught him eying the high-end Austrian cleaver on the magnetic kitchen strip. A good terror run begins at home. But they did a brave thing. They quit crack together, for the weekend. Then came the day she entered the apartment and through clots of rock smoke saw Greg, on his knees, his face in the crotch of an obese girl with a platinum chignon. The treasurer of Mandy’s Saturday-morning Clean Slate Meditations meeting jerked off in the girl’s ear. Something about seeing the afghan that Linda had wrapped herself in during her last, ravaged days shifting under the girl’s buttocks shook Mandy. Then Greg looked over, slurry-eyed, asked Mandy to join the group. Yes, the vicissitudes. Mandy summoned her inner banshee, threw a lamp and some decent flatware. The others fled, and Greg packed the measly possessions he’d amassed in his turd of a life—some rusted throwing stars, a box of stale marzipan, his crack pipe, his cherished coverless paperback edition of Knut Hamsun’s “Hunger”—and scrammed. Now she saw him at meetings, and tried not to retch at his con-job shares, or recall the sweetness of their precious predawn hours, when addiction itself seemed as exquisite and harmless as a baby giraffe. Today, after she’d led the ladies of cardio ballet through a true grueller, Mandy leaned on the mirrored wall of the dance studio, sipped her bottled water, thought about her father in his living rigor mortis. If they’d had them when he was younger, he might have thrived in some sort of Holocaust support group, with sponsors, chips, key tags, coffee. Just once, history could have given her father a sloppy hug. “Keep coming back,” history could have said, just as they did in the rooms. Mandy rolled her shoulders, sank into that honeyed post-class ache. A runnel of sweat curled down her calf. The day drained out of her and endorphins filled her floodplains. Some people in recovery couldn’t manufacture these chemicals anymore. But then her body tightened again. She sensed movement, a figure, a man maybe, tall, through the corridor window. The figure disappeared, and a new smaller person clopped toward her in chunky heels. “You seem so peaceful, I hate to disturb you.” Tovah Gold looked twelve but she had a degree in creative writing and a published poetry chapbook. She’d once presented a copy to Mandy, but said she should not feel obligated to read it. Mandy sometimes wondered if Tovah thought she was dumb. The chapbook was called “For the Student Union Dead,” and Mandy thought the poems in it were dumb, the way smart people were often dumb. Tovah taught a memoir class at the J.C.C. Mostly grandmothers spilling family matzoh-ball secrets, she’d said, or retired men composing disturbingly dry accounts of affairs with their best friends’ wives. “Mostly, I just help them with their segues,” Tovah said. “Hi,” Mandy said now. “How’s it going?” “Slowly, painfully. No immortal lines this week, and my boyfriend, or ex-boyfriend, I should say, has decided that our poetics are incompatible.” “Right there myself,” Mandy said. “I kicked Greg out. He’s no good for me.” Tovah knew the Ballad of Mandy and Greg, took anthropological delight. “What is it you all say?” she said. “ ‘Show up until you grow up’?” “Greg won’t grow up. He can go to hell.” “But don’t you think he needs some—” “Girlfriend, please,” Mandy said, did that dismissive wave all the sisters did in meetings, and lately on TV, but which Mandy couldn’t master. “Yeah? Well, I sentence to death!”Buy the print » “What’s that other one?” Tovah said. “ ‘You’re only as sick as your secrets’? Is that it? I love that one. It doesn’t know it, but it’s poetry.” “It knows it,” Mandy said. Tovah was a good friend, maybe her only one in the so-called civilian world, but that didn’t mean Mandy couldn’t hate her sometimes, the gooey earnestness which, along with the poetess shtick, seemed both pure and calculated, a saintly condescension. Tovah’s innocence was a type of abuse. But Mandy could trust her, and she understood that Tovah’s fondness was genuine. That made it better and worse. “Listen, Mandy. I need to tell you something. I don’t want you to feel strange about it. Because in my world, the artist’s world, it’s a common thing. But maybe not for normal people.” “I’m normal?” “You’re wonderful,” Tovah said. “Thanks,” Mandy said, already mourning the rousing solitude of a few minutes ago. Bitch had snatched her natural rush. “Anyway,” Tovah said, “I’ve been working on a poem cycle about you.” “A what?” “A bunch of poems.” “About me?” “Yeah.” “You don’t know anything about me.” “I know a lot, Mandy.” “Not really. Maybe about me and Greg.” “Researching facts isn’t the point,” Tovah said. “It’s about my construction of you. My projection.” “So,” Mandy said. “I don’t get it. Are you asking permission?” “A real artist never asks permission.” “Oh.” “But I don’t want any static between us.” “Am I Mandy?” Mandy asked. “Pardon?” “In your poem, am I Mandy? Do you name me? Do you say Mandy Gottlieb?” “No. It’s addressed to a nameless person.” “Then why would I care?” Tovah seemed stunned. “Well . . . because it’s so obviously you.” “But you said it’s about your structure of me.” “My construction of . . . yes, that’s right.” “So who cares?” “I don’t really understand your question.” “It’s O.K., Tovah, write what your heart tells you to write.” “You are so marvellous, Mandy. You see life so clearly and simply, and it makes so much sense to you. I can’t thank you enough.” “It’s enough,” Mandy said. Tovah clutched her leather satchel, clopped away. Mandy had a shower and steam, ran her favorite purple comb through her hair. All you could do was stay clean and fit. Cardio ballet was mostly cardio. The ballet was more like a dream of yourself, like when you picture being in love. The real thing could never live up to the dream. You didn’t want the real thing, even if it saved you from the heart rip of off-salmon blazers. Outside the locker room a tall man in a hooded sweatshirt leaned against the wall. He looked about thirty, with wavy hair and blond stubble on his chin. Mandy made to move past him, and he cleared his throat, for comedic effect, she figured, though she could also hear phlegm swirl. “Good class today?” The man’s voice was thin and kind. “Do I know you? Have you taken cardio ballet?” “I want to,” the man said. “I want to very much.” “There’s a sign-up sheet at the front desk.” “I was hoping to talk to you first. Get a read on the class.” “A read?” “What it’s all about,” the man said. “It’s about cardio and ballet. Sign up. We need men.” “Would I get to be your partner?” “Excuse me?” “Your ballet partner. Throw you up in the air.” “Sorry. It’s not very advanced ballet. This is just to get the blood pumping. There are other classes where you might . . . What? Why are you laughing?” “I’m not laughing.” “You look like you’re laughing.” “I know. It gets me in trouble sometimes. It’s just how my face goes when I’m listening to somebody cool and beautiful talk about something she cares about.” Mandy took some delicate steps back. “Oh, no!” The man palmed his mouth. “I guess I just accidentally spoke my heart! I should get out of here. I’m sorry. Maybe I’ll sign up for the class.” The man grinned—strong, white teeth! You didn’t see many of those in meetings. At the plastic table on the patio, overlooking a tomato field, her father picked at bird crap. “Daddy,” Mandy said. “That’s poop.” Her father gave a lazy leer. “How’s your mother?” “You know.” “Dead.” Jacob picked at the flecks. An attendant came over, young, with cornrows, patted her father’s arm. His printer’s arm, shrunken. “Having a good visit, Mr. Gottlieb?” she said. “Swell.” It sounded like “svelte.” He’d purged most of his accent nearly half a century ago, but now it had returned. “I’m Mandy.” “Oh, I know,” the attendant said. “I know all about you. He says wonderful things about his Mandy. I take care of him.” “Does he ever talk about his childhood?” “All the time. Sounds so special, upstate, fishing and all that good stuff.” Mandy’s mother had said something about a summer camp for war orphans in the Adirondacks. Jacob had been older than the other children, some kind of counsellor. Mandy noticed a glint in her father’s eye now, something annihilating, bitter. Mandy couldn’t understand its source. The Nazi death machine? Shell Oil? The fact that only Mandy would remember him? Did he think maybe he’d been wrong to oppose the never-forgetters, the never-againers, the never-shut-uppers? Because nobody remembered anything. They’d even forgotten fat Schultz and the wiley Hogan, who’d died a sex freak in sleazy California. He’s not even that old, Mandy thought. Seventy, seventy-one. But he’d always been old. “Does he talk about the war? The camps? He never talked about it when I was a kid.” “What camps?” “The one where soldiers bend you over and give you bread,” her father said. “The one where you tell the guards where other men hide a rotten apple and the soldiers shoot those men.” “Maybe you should rest,” Mandy said. “But I have to get to the shop. Mr. Dwyer is expecting me.” “Better if you rest.” “Mandy, Mr. Dwyer’s grandfather invented the Yellow Pages. What do you think of that? Ever have an idea like that? Your mother never visits. She still with the goy?” “I want to thank you,” Mandy said to the attendant. “For being here for him.” “It’s my job.” “It’s a noble job. I’d like to give you a little extra.” “Something extra would be appreciated.” “Mandy,” Jacob said. “Darling. How’s the whoring? You make enough money for the drugs? You let the schwarzers stick it in you?” “Only one,” Mandy said. “My fiancé, Greg.” She looked up to the attendant for some flicker of solidarity, but got nothing. Mandy dug in her bag, plucked some bills out, and handed them over. The attendant tucked them in her pocket, but not before noticing, just at the moment Mandy did, that it amounted to only four or five dollars. “Thanks,” the attendant said. “Goodbye, Daddy.” The tall man was not in cardio ballet the next week, and Mandy did not think of him. She kept to her steps and turns, the ones whose flawless demonstration maybe merely pained the owners of the panting faces before her. Though she had known some of the class for years, they all seemed a blur now, a moist, jiggling blob. Even as she glided into what she called her Funky Pirouette, she thought: I need a fucking meeting. She’d been avoiding meetings to avoid Greg. But now she decided to skip her post-class musing-on-the-mats routine, head straight for the Serenity Posse II meeting on Amsterdam. She shooed all that spandex and sadness out of the studio, switched off the lights, stepped into the corridor. The tall man stood by the water fountain. “I just came by to apologize for being a yammering idiot last week.” “No problem,” Mandy said. “But I really have to go.” “Oh, O.K., sure. My name is Cal, by the way.” “Mandy. I thought maybe you’d signed up for class.” “I’m afraid I’m not Jewish.” “You don’t have to be Jewish to take an aerobics class.” “Are you sure?” Mandy thought about it. “I think anybody can join the J.C.C.” “Really?” the man said. “Why not?” Mandy said. “But what do I know?” “I guess it would be weird if you weren’t Jewish, though,” the man said. He wore a scent, smelled like high-school boy. “Well, then,” Mandy said. “I guess we better sneak you out of here.” “I thought you were going somewhere.” “I am.” It was just a nice neighborhood bistro and it was just a glass of Chardonnay. She wasn’t groping under a baseboard heater for a phantom rock. She wasn’t sucking on a glass stem. Instead, she sipped from a stemmed glass. A slip, sure, her life was an endless slip, but this was civilized. Fuck crack. Fuck everything but Chardonnay and Cal’s teeth, his azure—which meant blue but more intense—eyes. Cal lifted his beer. “Mazel tov,” he said. “You mean l’chaim.” “No, mazel tov to you for sneaking me out of there.” “Cheers,” Mandy said. “Are you Jewish on both sides?” Cal asked. For a moment, she thought he meant both sides of her body. “Yes,” she said. “When did they come here?” “Who?” “Your people.” “I don’t know. I think my mother’s grandfather came from Holland or something. My father grew up in Europe. He came here and rode his motorcycle to the county fair. That’s where my parents met. What about you?” “Did your father come after the war? Did he . . . was he part of the Holocaust? I mean, not in a bad way, I mean . . .” “Yes, he was.” “Unbelievable.” “What?” “No, just, it’s so amazing he survived.” “It is.” “Because, I should get this out there, I’m absolutely convinced all of that stuff really happened.” “I’m glad to hear it,” Mandy said. This Cal was an odd bird. “What’s your background?” “I’m pure American.” “So am I.” “No, of course you are,” Cal said, studied the label on his beer. Soon, Mandy knew, he would peel it. “So, you’re, like, a Jewish American?” “Hey,” Mandy said. “What’s going on?” “I just like to get to know people.” “I see. O.K. Where are you from?” “Oregon, originally.” “What brought you to New York?” “A job. Computer stuff. I wanted to relocate. Change my life.” “I hear you.” “You don’t like your life?” “I take it one day at a time.” “Sounds reasonable,” Cal said. The sopped beer label curled around his thumb. “You want to see a movie?” “It’s pretty late.” “Nah, it’s early.” “I think the showtimes are over. I go to the movies a lot.” “We could go to my place,” Cal said. “I have movies. I have a bottle of wine there. You like Pinot Blanc?” “I don’t know.” “Find out.” “Next time,” Mandy said. “I do have to go somewhere now.” Mandy ducked into the church basement, found a seat. There was something seriously off about Cal. She could picture him as a king in the Middle Ages: Cal the Seriously Off. What a waste of a slip. She didn’t want to be here at the meeting, either, but some inner instrument had guided her. She would never call it a higher power. Nor would she ever share with booze in her system. You had to honor the honor code. Adelaide waved, pointed to a free seat beside her, but Mandy shook her off. They all sat in the dark, dilapidated theatre built by the church during more enlightened years, when some priest had thought a sanitized production of “Hair” could lead bohemian strays to Christ. Some nights it felt as though the meeting were in fact an Off Off Broadway show, feverish, vital, undisciplined. Now the addict audience nodded along with the speaker, and when he’d finished they took turns from the seats with their woes. Newcomers bemoaned their cravings for powders, begged for release. Old-timers droned on about their sex addictions, their divorces, how fat they’d gotten on red velvet cake. A familiar voice boomed from the back rows. “I’m Greg and I’ve got five weeks clean!” “Hello, Greg!” “And I plan to make it this time, God willing, one day at a time, but I don’t feel safe right now, in the only place I can ever feel safe, here with my Serenity Posse Two posse. Why don’t I feel safe? Let me tell you a little story. Really, it’s more like a fable or a folktale. Once, long ago, this farmer worked his fingers to the bone so his son could learn to be a clerk at the castle. Every day, the farmer’s son walked many dangerous miles to the castle for his classes, but one morning a beautiful girl stepped out onto the path holding a magic potion. ‘Drink this,’ the girl said, ‘and you will feel so fucking good.’ Now, the farmer’s son, truth be told, had dabbled in this kind of potion before, but he knew it was wrong and had sworn off it. This girl, though, she was so kind and beautiful, he figured, what the hell? Well, I don’t have to tell you the rest, do I? Except to say that the beautiful girl turned out to be an evil skeezy witch who wanted to gobble up the farmer’s son, which made the farmer’s son act out in some emotionally hurtful sexual ways he couldn’t control. The farmer’s son did make amends to everyone involved, except the witch. He can’t talk to the witch, because she’s evil and contagious with spiritual cancer. Yet here she is tonight, the skank, testing me, testing me. You want war, bitch? Let’s do it. Your lame underdeveloped humanism is no match for my tower of higher power!” Mandy rose, bolted up the narrow stairs toward the street. She could hear Adelaide scrape across the stone floor in her heels, but Mandy didn’t look back. She went home to vomit the wine. The next night, after class, Cal stood in the corridor. He flicked his chin and she followed him out to the street. It felt like a music video. Old movie posters hung on the walls of Cal’s apartment. Old movie stars stared out over a leatherette couch, a television, a rack of videocassettes, a card table with a few chairs. Mandy didn’t get the old-movie thing, but the pictures looked classy in their frames. Gold karate trophies obscured the half-dozen books on the lone shelf. “Welcome to my humble abode,” Cal said. He laughed, and Mandy decided that the word “abode” made it funny. “Maybe what’s good for Wall Street isn’t good for Main Street, but it’s great for Tribeca.”Buy the print » The wine Cal brought from the kitchen was cold and a little tart. “Salud,” Mandy said. “L’chaim.” They talked about whether they were hungry and decided to order something later. Cal ripped open a bag of that smart popcorn. “So,” he said. “What do you feel like watching? Something sad, something funny? A drama?” “How about something romantic?” Mandy said, but Cal pursed his lips in a fretful way, and she regretted it. “Or a thriller!” “I’ve got something,” he said, pushed a tape into the slot. Almost immediately, Mandy recognized what he’d chosen. It was black-and-white, but it wasn’t old. She’d dragged herself to see this film after it won every award. She thought it might help her understand her father, but she’d left the theatre after that sexy British actor kept shooting Jews from his balcony. “I don’t think so, Cal.” “What?” “Not this. Let’s watch something else.” “But this is the most important movie ever made. You can’t even get this at the store. I have a friend who—” “Please turn it off,” Mandy said. Cal paused it. Any idiotic excuse could work. She just needed to get her jacket from the chair. “It’s heavy, I know,” Cal said. “I’ve seen it dozens of times. I always cry.” “Why?” “Why? How can you ask that, you of all people?” “No, why have you seen it dozens of times?” “So I can understand,” Cal said. Now he stood, clenched and unclenched his fists. His arm veins twitched. “So I can understand and get well,” Cal hissed. Cal stared at Mandy, and she tried to get a read, as he might have put it. Just a beating, or a bonus rape? But then Cal relaxed, or, really, kind of deflated. His breathing slowed and he kneaded his hands. “Man, I’m sorry.” “It’s O.K.” The jacket would be easy now. But how many bolts were there on the door? “I need to tell you something.” “No, you don’t,” Mandy said. “It’s all O.K.” “I do,” Cal said. “Because there is something good between us, and I don’t want to mess it up.” “Everything’s fine.” “Six fucking million,” Cal said. “How can it be fine?” “Don’t forget the Gypsies,” Mandy said. “Millions of Gypsies. And gay guys. Union guys. Retarded people. Tons were killed.” “Six million Jews,” Cal said. “I know all about it. Is that what you wanted to tell me?” “No,” Cal said, and told her what he wanted to tell her. When he was done, he took off his shirt and showed her the tattoos, the swastikas and Iron Crosses, and even an ingenious Heydrich who Sieg-heiled when Cal flexed his deltoid. “But you said you had no choice in prison,” Mandy said. “It was the Brotherhood or get the skiv.” “The shiv. But no, Mandy. I believed it all. I was hard core. Even before the Brotherhood. That’s how I got to prison. I beat a guy almost to death. I thought he was a Jew. Turned out he was something else. Probably would have hated him anyway. Do you get it?” “Get what?” “What I’m trying to do.” “Not really.” “I’m confessing my sins. To you. I want to get better.” “Are you even attracted to me?” “Not in a healthy sense,” Cal said. “I mean, I definitely went out of my way to find the cutest girl at the J.C.C.” “I’d better go.” “Please, Mandy. Stay.” “No.” “I’ve got other movies,” Cal sobbed. Home, Mandy found a message on her machine from her father’s attendant. It was garbled, because every message was garbled on this crappy old machine that Greg had stolen off a homeless guy’s blanket and given to her with great ceremony on her birthday, but she thought she heard the words “mild” and “stroke.” She’d have to wait until morning for a bus. She called Adelaide. “I knew you used,” Adelaide said. “I could tell. What happened, honey?” “I just had some wine.” “Just some wine? Who are you talking to, Mandy? Do you want to die?” “Not tonight.” “Good girl. I’ll have the car pick you up in the morning, take you to the soundstage. I’ve got a read-through, but after that we can hit a meeting. I have to say, I have a crazy week. You picked a fucked time to slip. But I’ve got your back.” “Thanks, Adelaide.” “Don’t thank me too much. It’ll go to my head and I might relapse!” “My father had a stroke.” “Oh, Jesus, I’m sorry, sweetie.” “Maybe you could come out to the nursing home with me?” “The one in New Jersey? Honey, you know I don’t go out there unless somebody has died. Is he going to die?” “They said mild.” “Mild is the best. Don’t worry, baby. Call me whenever. I’ll try to call back. No fucking wine, Mandy. Don’t be a victim.” “O.K.” “What kind of wine?” “Chardonnay.” “I’m not envious at all,” Adelaide said. Her sponsor hung up before Mandy could tell her about the Pinot Blanc. Tovah answered Mandy’s call on the first ring, as though waiting years for this moment. “Of course I’ll come with you,” she said. “In fact, I have a car.” “I don’t mean to impose.” “I would be honored,” Tovah said. A poem cycle. Like what some stuck-up clown would ride. Tovah’s Subaru had a dead battery. The garage guy offered to jump the car. He popped the hood, and they all leaned in for a better look at the massive corrosion, the split hoses, what the garage guy called a cracked block. Not that Tovah could have known. She never used her car, though she’d loaned it out often over the years. “I’m still going with you,” she said. They didn’t speak much during the bus ride. Tovah scribbled in her notebook, and Mandy studied the Hudson River and hated Tovah. They got off at the town plaza and bought some calzones. When they reached the home, they found Jacob sitting up in his patio chair. Mandy had expected a weirdly folded arm, a contorted jaw, maybe some slobber, but he looked fine. He waved off his calzone but gestured for Tovah to join him. The attendant pulled Mandy into a tiny dispensary to talk. “So,” Mandy said. “He seems pretty O.K. Pretty . . . mild.” “The doctor was here this morning. We’re thinking now it wasn’t a stroke at all.” “That’s great.” “Yeah, well.” “Well what?” “The doctor noticed some other things. Symptomatic things with the eyes and such. Your father described recent headaches.” “Headaches?” “The doctor wants to run some tests.” “Tests for what?” The attendant pointed to her temple, shrugged. “What does that mean?” Mandy asked. “Nobody knows anything. That’s why we have tests.” Maybe if Mandy had tipped the attendant more, she would have divulged the ailment that would soon slaughter her father. The attendant stepped out of the room, which was full of locked white cabinets. Greg would have known how to knock everything open, grab the goodies. Tovah and Mandy’s father hunched together at the table. Mandy joined them, tried to think of something nostalgic and uplifting to say until she realized she couldn’t understand them at all. They were speaking in what sounded like German about something very serious, but also occasionally funny, and frightening and unendurable, judging by Tovah’s face, which every so often froze like the faces of women in silent movies. “You guys are getting on like gangbusters,” Mandy interrupted. “Tovah, I had no idea you spoke German.” “It’s Yiddish. My grandmother taught me.” “What are you guys talking about?” “The Whatchamacallit,” Jacob said. He stared up at his daughter with that foul gleam. She’d never had a chance, really, could never have been the daughter, the destiny you claw through the blood and feces of enslavement, of death, to claim. She consoled herself with something she’d read back in the days she still read about the Whatchamacallit, by the man who threw himself down the stairs: The good people died. Mostly only assholes made it out. That was how she remembered the passage, anyway. That was her read. “You must know all these stories,” Tovah said. “Yes, I’m a child of a survivor. A survivor of a survivor.” Mandy smiled, stood. “I need to check on some things. Are you two O.K. here for a while?” “Oh, yes,” Tovah said. “Your father is amazing. I had no idea.” “Daddy?” “How’s your mother doing?” he said. “She’s dead, Dad. Feel free to share your pain about it.” Jacob’s cheeks drew in. “You can’t share pain,” he said, laid his hand on Tovah’s wrist. “This girl knows that. She’s a poet.” It took hours to cross the towns—Nearmont, Eastern Valley, Rodney Heights—that led to Mandy’s old house. All that cardio ballet and it still wiped her out, though she got her second wind and a floaty feeling in the bargain. Her friends the endorphins. She wanted to leap off a boat and swim with them. Now she stood at the end of the driveway on Duffy Lane, a lost pilgrim in front of the pea-green split-level with beige trim. She ached for a certain sensation, a sudden click in the soul’s alignment. God: the ultimate chiropractor. Closure, some called it in the meetings. The more churchy addicts referred to forgiveness, but she knew what people meant. She hungered for it. Maybe if she just knocked on the door a beautiful Sri Lankan boy would answer, and she’d lean down and whisper her story. “Is it closure you seek?” he’d say, in melodious English. Inside, the father of the family would smile and take the mother’s hand. “You have made us happy by coming,” he would say. “We have waited many years for this.” “Closure is not forgiveness,” the mother would say, even more melodically than the child. “But you are a blessed one, for you shall enjoy both.” Then there would be an unexpected crunching sound, but actually that noise wasn’t coming from Mandy’s movie. An S.U.V. rolled into the gravel driveway. The doors opened and children scurried out in scout uniforms. A tired-looking woman with grocery bags followed. “Can I help you?” she said. Mandy thought she might be Brazilian. Or maybe Belgian. “Look,” the woman said, and pointed her chin down toward the Shell station. “If it’s about the night club, I already signed the petition. I don’t want them to build it any more than you do. Those drunks will crash into my living room. But I’m really busy right now. I signed the petition. Take care.” Mandy nodded, and the woman turned to her stoop. Her legs had gone rubbery, and the bus back to the city was in the other direction, but Mandy hiked on around a bend of firs. The Shell sign hovered, its colors dulled, a corner of it broken, or maybe bitten off. They’d shuttered the station, covered the pumps with dirty canvas hoods. What the poor woman died for, Mandy thought, but then knew it was a rotten thought, too romantic, something for Tovah’s poem cycle. The blazer, the tan, the lost dream of American entrepreneurship, her seduction and abandonment by transnational loins—these things hadn’t killed her mother. Nor had her father, with his smeary, world-historical wound. What had murdered her was her mind, a madness factory full of blast furnaces and smokestacks. Mandy’s mind had erected one, too, but Mandy would discover a way to raze it. She would grow a beautiful garden on the ashes of the factory, teach cardio ballet in more and more places, build a modest cardio-ballet empire. She would forgive Greg and help him however she could. She would help everybody. She would save herself. The bus pulled into Port Authority, and she rode the subway uptown. Cal was waiting near the door of her building, and again they didn’t speak but did their dance of nods and shrugs, and he followed her into the lobby, just as he must have followed her home some night to find out where she lived. What was creepy to civilians was protocol for their kind. How else were you going to figure out where somebody lived, where the drugs were, or the money, or somebody to cling to long enough to forget the shame? Inside the apartment, Cal pulled a bottle of wine from his coat, but Mandy shook her head, poured them glasses of water from the tap. They gulped them down and filled the glasses again and drank. Then Mandy led Cal into the bedroom and lit a lavender candle. Cal stood before her and stroked her hair with hands that had tried to kill a man, a Jew. Hate-crime hands, loving now. He started to take off his shirt, but Mandy whispered, “No.” He seemed to understand, even tugged his sleeves down to his wrists to better hide his tattoos. He pulled her to the bed and his body was smooth and taut through his shirt. Toward the end, he whispered something too muffled to make out, though she heard the words “beautiful” and “feels” and “so good,” and then maybe “cabal.” The world was what it was, one day at a time. Mandy rocked Cal to sleep and thought about this day she’d had, this stranger in her bed. She thought about Pinot Blanc. She thought about all the colors of the key tags, about salmon and salmon-colored blazers and the cleaver on the kitchen’s magnetic strip. Before she fell asleep, she yawned once and stretched her arm across the Panzer tank, invisible to her now, that in the morning would burst forth in loud hues from Cal’s belly. Tomorrow she’d look up tattoo removal. They were doing big things with lasers now. When Cal was just a little more stable, she’d break up with him, gently, and then she’d begin her project of helping everybody she could help, and after that she’d head out on a great long journey to absolutely nowhere and write a gorgeous poem cycle steeped in heavenly lavender-scented closure and also utter despair, a poem cycle you could also actually ride for its aerobic benefits, and she’d pedal that fucker straight across the face of the earth until at some point she’d coast right off the edge, whereupon she’d giggle and say, “Oh, shit.”
The Good Samaritan Szabo didn’t like to call the land he owned and lived on a ranch—a word that was now widely abused by developers. He preferred to call it his property, or “the property,” but it did require a good bit of physical effort from him in the small window of time after he finished at the office, raced home, and got on the tractor, or, if he was hauling a load of irrigation dams, on the A.T.V. Sometimes he was so eager to get started that he left his car running. His activity on the property, which had led, over the years, to arthroscopic surgery on his left knee, one vertebral fusion, and mild hearing loss, thanks to his diesel tractor, yielded very little income at all and some years not even that—a fact that he did not care to dwell on. He produced racehorse-quality alfalfa hay for a handful of grateful buyers, who privately thought he was nuts but were careful to treat his operation with respect, because almost no one else was still producing the small bales that they needed to feed their own follies. They were, most of them, habitués of small rural tracks in places such as Lewistown or Miles City, owners of one horse, whose exercise rider was either a daughter or a neighbor girl who put herself in the way of serious injury as the price of the owner’s dream. Hadn’t Seattle Slew made kings of a couple of hapless bozos? Szabo was not nuts. He had long understood that he needed to do something with his hands to compensate for the work that he did indoors, and it was not going to be golf or woodworking. He wanted to grow something and sell it, and he wanted to use the property to do this. In fact, the work that he now did indoors had begun as manual labor. He had machined precision parts for wind generators for a company that subcontracted all the components, a company that sold an idea and actually made nothing. Szabo had long known that this approach was the wave of the future, without understanding that it was the wave of his future. He had worked very hard and his hard work had led him into the cerebral ether of his new workplace: now, at forty-five, he took orders in an office in a pleasant town in Montana, while his esteemed products were all manufactured in other countries. It was still a small, if prosperous, business, and it would likely stay small, because of Szabo’s enthusiasm for what he declined to call his ranch. It wasn’t that he was proud of the John Deere tractor that he was still paying for and which he circled with a grease gun and washed down like a teen-ager’s car. He wasn’t proud of it: he loved it. There were times when he stood by his kitchen window with his first cup of coffee and gazed at the gleaming machine in the morning light. Even the unblemished hills of his property looked better through its windshield. The fact that he couldn’t wait to climb into it was the cause of the accident. The hay, swathed, lay in windrows, slowly drying in the Saturday-morning sun. Szabo had gone out to the meadows in his bathrobe to probe the hay for moisture and knew that it was close to ready for baling. The beloved tractor was parked at the foot of the driveway, as though a Le Mans start would be required once the hour came around and the moisture in the tender shoots of alfalfa had subsided, so that the hay would not spoil in the stacks. Szabo, now in jeans, tennis shoes, hooded sweatshirt, and baseball cap, felt the significance of each step as he walked toward the tractor, marvelling at the sunlight on its green paint, its tires nearly his own height, its baler pert and ready. He reached for the handhold next to the door of the cab, stepped onto the ridged footstep, and pulled himself up, raising his left hand to open the door. Here his foot slid off the step, leaving him briefly dangling from the handhold. A searing pain informed him that he had done something awful to his shoulder. Releasing his grip, he fell to the driveway in a heap. The usually ambrosial smell of tractor fuel repelled him, and the towering green shape above him now seemed reproachful. Gravel pressed into his cheek. As he lay in recovery, the morphine drip only prolonged his obsession with the unbaled hay, since it allowed him to forget about his shoulder, which he had come to think of not as his but as a kind of alien planet fastened to his torso, which glowed red like Mars, whirling with agony, as soon as the morphine ran low. It was a fine line: when he wheedled extra narcotic, his singing caused complaints and he got dialled back down to the red planet. Within a day, he grew practical and managed to call his secretary. “Melinda, I’m going to have to find somebody for the property. I’ve got hay down and—” “A ranch hand?” “But just for a month or so.” “Why don’t I call around?” “That’s the idea. But not too long commitment-wise, O.K.? I may have to overpay for such a limited time.” “It is what it is,” Melinda remarked, producing a mystification in Szabo that he ascribed to the morphine. “Yes, sure,” Szabo said. “But time is of the essence.” “You can say that again. Things are piling up. The guy in Germany calls every day.” “I mean with the hay.” Melinda was remarkably efficient, and she knew everyone in town. Her steadiness was indispensable to Szabo, who kept her salary well above temptation from other employers. By the next day, she had found a few prospects for him. The most promising one, an experienced ranch hand from Wyoming, wore a monitoring ankle bracelet that he declined to explain, so he was eliminated. The next most promising, a disgruntled nursery worker, wanted permanent employment, so Szabo crossed him off the list, ignoring Melinda’s suggestion that he just fire him when he was through. That left a man called Barney, overqualified and looking for other work, but happy to take something temporary. He told Melinda that he was extremely well educated but “identified with the workingman” and thought a month or so in Szabo’s bunkhouse would do him a world of good. Szabo called Barney’s references from his hospital bed. He managed to reach only one, the wife of a dentist who ran a llama operation in Bozeman. Barney was completely reliable, she said, and meticulous: he had reshingled the toolshed and restacked their large woodpile in an intricate pattern—almost like a church window—and swept the sidewalk. “You could eat off it!” she said. Szabo got the feeling that Mrs. Dentist had been day-drinking. Her final remark confused him. “Nobody ever did a better job than Barney!” she said, laughing wildly. “He drove us right up the wall!” Szabo took a leap of faith and hired him over the phone. The news seemed not to excite Barney. “When do you want me to start?” he droned. After the call, Szabo gazed at his phone for a moment, then flipped it shut. His arm in a sling, his shoulder radiating signals with every beat of his heart, he returned to his office and stirred the things on his desk with his left hand. Eventually, he had pushed the papers into two piles: “urgent” and “not urgent.” Then there was a painful reshuffle into “urgent,” “not that urgent,” and “not urgent.” Melinda stood next to him. “Does that make sense?” he asked. Melinda said, “I think so.” “I’m going home.” Barney, who looked to be about forty, with a pronounced widow’s peak in his blondish hair and a deep dimple in his chin, was a quick study, though it took Szabo a while to figure out how much of his instruction the man was absorbing. Barney was remarkably without affect, gazing at Szabo as he spoke as if marvelling at the physical apparatus that permitted Szabo’s chin to move so smoothly. At first, Szabo was annoyed by this, and when Barney’s arm rose slowly to his mouth to place a toothpick there, he had a momentary urge to ask him to refrain from chewing it while he was listening. It was the sense of a concealed smirk behind the toothpick that bothered Szabo the most. But once he’d observed Barney’s efficiency Szabo quickly trained himself not to indulge such thoughts. Some of the hay had been rained on, but Barney raked it dry, and soon the shiny green tractor was flying around the meadows making beautiful bales for the racehorses of Montana. This gave Szabo something of a heartache, but he praised Barney for the job he had done so well. Barney replied, “That’s not enough hay to pay for the fuel.” Szabo tried to ride his old gelding, Moon, a tall chestnut half-Thoroughbred he had been riding for thirteen of the horse’s sixteen years. One-armed, he had to be helped into the saddle. He could get the bridle over Moon’s head and pull himself up from the saddle horn, barely, but the jogging aroused the pain in his shoulder so sharply that he quickly gave up. Barney looked on without expression. Szabo said, “I really need to ride him regularly. He’s getting old.” “I’ll ride him.” “That would be nice, but it’s not necessary.” “I’ll ride him. There’s not much else to do.” Barney rode confidently but without grace of any kind. Moon’s long trot produced a lurching sway in Barney’s torso, exaggerated by the suspenders he always wore, that was hard for Szabo to watch. And it was clear from Moon’s sidelong glances that he, too, was wondering what kind of burden he was carrying. But the sight of Barney’s lurching exercise rides seemed a small price to pay for the skilled work he provided: repairing fences, servicing stock waterers, pruning the orchard, and even doing some painting on the outbuildings. One day, as he rode Moon down the driveway, Barney said to Szabo, who had just pulled up, “By the time you get the sling off, I’ll have your horse safe for you to ride.” From the window of his car, Szabo said, resisting the impulse to raise his voice, “As I recall, he’s been safe for me to ride since he was a three-year-old colt.” Barney just looked down and smiled. When Barney restacked the woodpile, Szabo decided to treat it as an absolute surprise. He stood before the remarkable lattice of firewood and, while his mind wandered, praised it lavishly. He was reluctant to admit to himself that he was trying to get on Barney’s good side. “It’s one of a kind,” he said. Szabo’s mother lived in a ground-floor apartment across the street from a pleasant assisted-living facility. She had stayed in her own apartment because she smoked cigarettes, which was also what seemed to have preserved her vitality over her many years. Further, she didn’t want to risk the family silver in an institution, or her real treasure: a painting that had come down through her family for nearly a century, a night stampede by the cowboy artist Charlie Russell, one of very few Russell night pictures in existence, which would likely fetch a couple of million dollars at auction. The old people across the street would just take it down and spill food on it, she said. When Szabo was growing up as an only child, his mother’s strong opinions, her decisive nature, had made him feel oppressed; now those qualities were what he most liked, even loved, about her. He recognized that when he was irresolute it was in response to his upbringing, but caution, in general, paid off for him. Barney enjoyed tobacco, too, smoke and smokeless. One afternoon, Szabo sent a shoebox of pictures and two much annotated family cookbooks to his mother by way of Barney, who was heading into town to pick up a fuel filter for the tractor. Later, Szabo cried out more than once, “I have only myself to blame!” In a matter of weeks, Szabo was able to discard the sling and to exercise his shoulder with light weights and elastic strips that he held with one foot while feebly pulling and releasing, sweat pouring down his face. The next morning, three bird-watchers entered the property without stopping at the house for permission and were all but assaulted by Barney, who chased them to their car, hurling vulgar epithets until they disappeared down the road with their life lists and binoculars. “But, Barney, I don’t mind them coming around,” Szabo said. “Did they have permission, yes or no?” “‘Oligarch’—terrible word, we’ll need a new one.”Buy the print » There was no time for Szabo to explain that this didn’t matter to him, as Barney had gone back to work. At what, Szabo was unsure, but he seemed busy. Szabo had to be in Denver by the afternoon. He took an overnight bag and drove to town, past Barney, lurching from side to side on Moon, who bore, Szabo thought, a fresh look of resignation. He stopped on the way to the airport to see his mother, who sat in her living room doing Sudoku in front of a muted television, a cigarette hanging out of the corner of her mouth. On a stand next to her chair, her cockatiel, Toni, hunched in the drifting smoke. “I’m off to Denver till tomorrow, Ma. I’ll have my cell if you need anything.” She looked up, put down her stub of pencil, and moved the cigarette from her mouth to the ashtray. “Nothing to worry about here. I’ve got a million things to do.” “Well, in case you think of something while I’m—” “Lunch with Barney, maybe drive around.” “O.K.!” Luckily his mother couldn’t see his face. Melinda had things well in hand, had even reduced some of the piles on his desk by thoughtful intervention where his specific attention was less than necessary. She was a vigorous mother of four, barely forty years old, happily married to a highway patrolman she’d grown up with. They were unironic enthusiasts for all the mass pleasures the culture offered: television, NASCAR, cruises, Disney World, sports, celebrity gossip, and local politics. Szabo often wished that he could be as well adjusted as Melinda’s family, but he would have had to be medicated to pursue her list of pleasures. And yet she was not just an employee but a cherished friend. It was a tested friendship with a peculiar intimacy: Szabo’s former wife, Karen, an accomplished ironist, had made several stays at the Rimrock Foundation for what ended up as a successful treatment for alcoholism—successful in that she had given up alcohol altogether. Unfortunately, she had replaced it with other compulsions, including an online-trading habit that had bankrupted Szabo for a time. Once it was clear that Szabo was broke, she had divorced him, sold the house, remarried, and moved to San Diego, where she was, by the reports of their grown son, David, happy and not at all compulsive. What does this say about me? Szabo wondered obsessively. Maybe she was now on a short leash. Szabo had met her husband, Cliff: stocky, bald, and authoritarian—a forensic accountant, busy and prosperous in the SoCal free-for-all. His dour affect seemed to subdue Karen. In any case, Szabo had loved her, hadn’t wanted a divorce, and had felt disgraced at undergoing bankruptcy in a town of this size. He’d sunk into depression and discovered that there was no other illness so brutal, so profound, so inescapable, that made an enemy of consciousness itself. Nevertheless, he had plodded to the office, day after day, an alarming, ashen figure, and there he had fallen into the hands of Melinda, who dragged him to family picnics and to the dentist, forged his signature whenever necessary, placed him between her and her husband at high-school basketball games, as though he might otherwise tip over, taught him to cheer for her children, and occasionally fed him at her house in the uproar of family life. When, once, as she stood by his desk in the office, he raised a hand to her breast, she amiably removed it and redirected his attention to his work. By inches, she had restored his old self, and solvency seemed to follow. He began to see himself as someone who had returned from the brink. He liked making money. He liked visiting his little group of suppliers in faraway places. He liked having Melinda as a friend, and her husband, Mike, the highway patrolman, too. Mike was the same straight-ahead type as his wife: he once gave Szabo a well-deserved speeding ticket. Now Szabo’s only argument with his ex-wife’s contentment in San Diego was that it seemed to prove to David that it had been Szabo who drove her crazy. As Szabo headed away from the Denver airport, he could see its marvellous shape at the edge of the prairie, like a great nomads’ camp—a gathering of the tents of chieftains, more expressive of a world on the move than anything Szabo had ever seen. You flew into one of these tents, got food, a car, something to read, then headed out on your own smaller journey to the rapture of traffic, a rented room with a TV and a “continental” breakfast. It was an ectoplasmic world of circulating souls. On a sunny day, with satellite radio and an efficient mid-sized Korean sedan, the two-hour drive to the prison that had held his son for the past couple of years flew by. Szabo was able to think about his projects for the ranch—a new snow fence for the driveway, a mouse-proof tin liner for Moon’s grain bin, a rain gauge that wouldn’t freeze and crack, a bird feeder that excluded grackles and jays—nearly the whole trip. But toward the end of the drive his head filled with the disquieting static of remorse, self-blame, and sadness, and a short-lived defiant absolution. In the years that had turned out to be critical for David, all he had given him was a failing marriage and a bankrupt home. I should have just shot Karen and done the time, Szabo thought with a shameful laugh. The comic relief was brief. Mom in California, Dad in Montana, David in prison in Colorado: could they have foreseen this dispersion? Razor wire guaranteed the sobriety of any visitor. The vehicles in the visitors’ parking lot said plenty about the socioeconomics of the families of the imprisoned: Szabo’s shiny Korean rental stuck out like a sore thumb. The prison was a tidy fortress of unambiguous shapes that argued less with the prairie surrounding them than with the chipper homes of the nearby subdivision. It had none of the lighthearted mundane details of the latter—laundry hanging out in the sun, adolescents gazing under the hood of an old car, a girl sitting on the sidewalk with a handful of colored chalk. The place for your car, the place for your feet, the door that complied at the sight of you were all profoundly devoid of grace—at least, to anyone whose child was confined there. David came into the visiting room with a promising, small smile and gave Szabo a hug. He had been a slight, quick-moving boy, but prison had given him muscle, thick, useless muscle that seemed to impair his agility and felt strange to the father who embraced him. They sat in plastic chairs. Szabo noticed that the room, which was painted an incongruous robin’s-egg blue, had a drain in the middle of its floor, a disquieting fact. “Are you getting along all right, David?” “Given that I don’t belong here, sure.” “I was hoping to hear from you—” Szabo caught himself, determined not to suggest any sort of grievance. David smiled. “I got your letters.” “Good.” Szabo nodded agreeably. There was nothing to look at in the room except the person you were speaking to. “How’s Grandma?” David asked. “I think she’s doing as well as can be expected. You might drop her a note.” “Oh, right. ‘Dear Grandma, you’re sure lucky to be growing old at home instead of in a federal prison.’ ” Szabo had had enough. “Good, David, tell her that. Old as she is, she never got locked up.” David looked at his father, surprised, and softened his own voice. “You said in your letter you’d had some health problem.” “My shoulder. I had surgery.” Szabo knew that the David before him was not David on drugs, but, now that the drugs were gone, he still hadn’t gone back to being the boy he’d been before. Maybe it would happen gradually. Or perhaps Szabo was harboring yet another fruitless hope. “Melinda still working for you?” “I couldn’t do without her. She stayed with me even when I couldn’t pay her.” “Melinda’s hot.” “She’s attractive.” “No, Dad, Melinda’s hot.” Szabo didn’t know what David meant by this, if anything, and he didn’t want to know. Maybe David just wanted him to realize that he noticed such things. “David, you’ve got less than a year to go. Concentrate on avoiding even the appearance of anything that could set you back. You’ll be home soon.” “Home?” “Absolutely. Where your friends are, where you grew up. Home is where your mistakes can be seen in context. You go anywhere else—David, you go anywhere else and you’re an ex-con. You’ll have to spend all your time overcoming that, when everyone at home already knows you’re a great kid.” “When I get out of here,” David said in measured tones, “I’m going to live with Mom and Cliff.” “In California?” “Last time I checked.” Szabo was determined not to react to this. He let the moment subside, and David now seemed to want to warm up. He smiled faintly at the blue ceiling. “And, yes, I’ll write Grandma back.” “So you heard from her?” David laughed. “About her boyfriend, Barney. I think that’s so sweet. A relationship! Is Barney her age?” “Actually, he’s quite a bit younger.” As Szabo drove back to the airport, he tried to concentrate on the outlandish news of Barney’s role in his mother’s life, but he didn’t get anywhere. He couldn’t stop thinking about David, and thought of him in terms of a proverb he had once heard from a Mexican man who had worked for him: “You have only one mother. Your father could be any son of a bitch in the world.” That’s me! I’m any son of a bitch in the world. He did have a mother, however, there in God’s waiting room with a new companion. His late father, a hard-working tradesman, would have given Barney a wood shampoo with a rake handle. But my standing, thanks to my modest prosperity and education, means that I shall have to humor Barney, and no doubt my most earnest cautions about the forty-year age gap between Barney and my mother will be flung back in my face, Szabo thought. Suddenly tears burned in his eyes: he was back to David. Drugs had swept through their small town one year. They’d always been around, but that year they were everywhere, and they had destroyed David’s generation. The most ordinary children had become violent, larcenous, pregnant, sick, lost, or dead. And then the plague had subsided. David, an excellent student, had injected the drugs between his toes, and his parents had suspected only that he suddenly disliked them. Instead of going to college, he had apprenticed with a chef for nearly a year, before heading to prison. David didn’t think that he would go back to drugs when he was released, and neither did his father. But his bitterness seemed to be here to stay, fed, likely, by his memory of the things that he had done in his days of using. Perhaps he blamed himself for the failure of his parents’ marriage. The body he had acquired in the weight room seemed to suit his current burdened personality. The way he looked, he could hardly go back to what he had been. The tractor was wet and gleaming in the bright sunlight. Barney was gathering stray bits of baler twine and rolling them up into a neat ball. He hardly seemed to notice Szabo’s arrival, so Szabo carried his suitcase into the house without a word. Once inside, he glanced furtively through the hall window at Barney, then went back out. “Good morning, Barney.” “Hi.” “This shoulder thing is behind me now. I think I’m ready to go back to work here.” Barney looked more quizzical than the situation called for. “So let’s square up and call it a day.” “Meaning what?” Barney asked with an extravagantly inquisitive look. “Meaning the job is over. Thank you very much. You’ve been a great help when I needed it most.” “Oh?” “Yes, I think so. I’m quite sure of it.” “It’s your call, Szabo. But there’s something about me you don’t know.” “I’m sure that’s the case. That’s nearly always the case, isn’t it, Barney?” Some ghastly revelation was at hand, and Szabo knew that there would be no stopping it. “But I’d be happy to know what it is, in your instance.” Barney gazed at him a long time before he spoke. He said, “I am a respectable person.” Buy the print » Szabo found this unsettling. Clearly, it was time to have a word with his mother. He asked her out to lunch, but she begged off, citing the new smoking rules that, she said disdainfully, were “sweeping the nation.” So he took her to the park near the river. Her size had been reduced by tobacco and her deplorable eating habits. She scurried along briskly, and any pause on Szabo’s part found her well ahead, poking into garden beds and uprooting the occasional weed to set an example. They found a bench and sat. Mrs. Szabo shook out a cigarette by tapping the pack against the back of her opposing hand, then raising the whole pack, with its skillfully protruded single butt, to her lips. There the cigarette hung, unlit, while she made several comments about the weather and dropped the pack back into her purse. Finally, she lit it, and the first puff seemed to satisfy her profoundly. “How did you find David?” “Fine, I think. The way I get to see him down there . . . it’s uncomfortable. Just a big empty room.” “Is he still angry?” “Not that I could see.” “He was such an angry little boy.” “Well, he’s not little anymore, Mom. He’s got big muscles.” “Let’s hope he doesn’t misuse them. He got that attitude from your wife. The nicest thing I can say about her is that she kept on going.” “She married a decent, successful guy.” “What else could she do? She didn’t have the guts to rob a bank.” “You forget what David was like before his problems. He didn’t have an attitude. He was a nice boy.” He could see she wasn’t listening. “Barney said you told him he was no longer needed.” “He knew it was temporary from the start.” “Well, he’s certainly got my place pulled together. My God, what a neatnik! And he made me insure the Russell, which I should have done a long time ago. He thinks that David’s in this pickle because he got away with murder while he was growing up.” “What? He’s never met David!” “Barney’s a very bright individual. He doesn’t have to know every last thing firsthand.” “I think his views on how Karen and I raised David would be enhanced by actually meeting David.” “Why?” “Jesus Christ, Mom.” “Of course you’re grumpy. Barney does so much for me and you want me all to yourself. Can’t you just relax?” Telling people to relax is not as aggressive as shooting them, but it’s up there. The first time Barney had driven the tractor, he’d nearly put it in the irrigation ditch. Szabo had cautioned him, and Barney had responded, “Is the tractor in the ditch?” Szabo had allowed that it was not. “Then relax,” Barney had said. There was nothing like it: leaning on his shovel next to the racing water, the last sun falling on gentle hills crowned with bluestem and golden buffalo grass, cool air rising from the river bottom. Moon grazed and followed Szabo as he placed his dams and sent a thin sheet of alpine water across the hay crop. The first cutting had been baled and put neatly in the stack yard by Barney. The second cutting grew slowly, was denser in protein and more sought after by owners trying to make their horses run faster. All the way down through this minor economic chain, people lost money, their marvellous dreams disconnected from hopes of success. Once winter was in the air, Szabo spent less time on his property and made an effort to do the things for his business that he was most reluctant to do. In November, he flew to Düsseldorf and stayed at the Excelsior, eating Düsseldorfer Senfrostbraten with Herr Schlegel, while pricing robotic plasma welding on the small titanium objects that he was buying from him. The apparent murkiness of Germany was doubtless no more than a symptom of Szabo’s ignorance of the language. He wondered if all the elders he saw window-shopping on the boulevards were ex-Nazis. And the skinheads at the Düsseldorf railroad station gave him a sense of historical alarm. After a long evening in the Altstadt, Szabo found himself quite drunk at the bar of the Lindenhof Hotel, where he took a room with a beautiful Afro-Czech girl, called Amai, who used him as a comic, inebriated English instructor, her usual services being unnecessary, given his incapacity. Since Szabo appeared unable to navigate his way back to the Excelsior, Amai drove him there in return for the promise of a late breakfast in the Excelsior’s beautiful dining room. Afterward, she asked for his address so that they could stay in touch once he was home. From Germany, Szabo flew directly to Denver. He slept most of the way and awoke to anxiety at the idea that this was probably the last visit he would have before David was released. In the chaotic year that preceded his son’s confinement, he had never known what David was doing or to what extent he was in danger; in the last weeks of his marriage, he and Karen had admitted to feeling some relief, now that David was in jail, simply at knowing where he was. Perhaps it was that relief that had allowed them to separate. Yet Cliff’s prompt appearance had aroused Szabo’s suspicion: he sensed that California had beckoned while his marriage was still seemingly intact. David was warmer toward his father this time, but more fretful than he had been on the previous visit. Szabo understood that David was probably as afraid of his impending freedom as Szabo was on his behalf. He seemed, despite the muscles, small and frightened, his previous sarcasm no more than a wishful perimeter of defense. And the glow of anger was missing. Szabo wondered if jet lag was contributing to his heartache. He hardly knew what to say to his son. “In two weeks, you’ll be in California,” Szabo said. “That was the plan.” “Is it not anymore?” “Mom and Cliff said they didn’t want me. I’ve got to go to Plan B.” “I’m sorry, David. What’s Plan B?” “Plan B is I don’t know what Plan B is.” “What made your mom and Cliff change their minds?” David smiled slightly. He said, “I’m trying to remember how Mom put it. She said that a new relationship requires so many adjustments that introducing a new element could be destabilizing. It was sort of abstract. She left it to me to figure out that I was the destabilizing new element. Then Cliff got on the phone and said that unfortunately closure called for the patience of all parties.” “Did you say anything?” “Yes, Dad, I did. I told Cliff to blow it out his ass.” Szabo could have taken this as evidence of David’s unresolved anger. Instead, he enjoyed the feeling that they were in cahoots. “How did Cliff take that?” “He said he was sorry I felt that way. I told him not to be. I told him I didn’t feel anything at all.” They were quiet for long enough to suggest the inkling of comfort. Finally, David said, “Tell me about Barney.” “Barney! What about him?” “Why did you send him here to see me?” Startling as this was, Szabo did not react at first. He was quiet for a long and awkward moment. Then he asked quite levelly, “When did Barney show up?” “While you were still in wherever. He said you sent him.” “Not exactly. Perhaps, based on our conversations, Barney thought it might be something I wanted him to do.” Szabo had no idea why he was dissembling like this, unless it was to buy time. He suddenly recalled, from David’s childhood, the purple dinosaur toy called Barney that was guaranteed to empower the child, a multimillion-dollar brainstorm for cashing in on stupid parents. “Did he explain what he was doing here? How did he get here?” “He came in your car.” “Of course. Well, that was cheaper than flying. What was the purpose of his trip?” “Are you asking me?” “David, cut me some slack. I’ve been halfway around the world.” “Did you sleep in those clothes, Dad?” Now Szabo was on the defensive, still in the clothes of his Düsseldorf night with Amai, whom, in this moment of bewilderment, he was certain he should have married. Escape was not so easy. If he hadn’t fallen off a tractor and injured himself, this squirrel Barney wouldn’t be in the middle of his life. What would he be doing? Living in Germany with Amai, siring octoroons and trying to keep her out of the bars? “I’m afraid I underpacked, David. I wore this suit at meetings and slept in it on the plane. So, Barney was here . . . for what?” “I guess for counselling of some kind, to prepare me for the outside world.” David winced at these last two words. “Why would Barney think he was in a position to counsel you?” “If you don’t know, Dad, I’m sure I don’t, either. At least he has a Ph.D.” “Is that what he told you?” “Dad, I’m not following this! I didn’t send him here—you did!” “I know, I know, and I’m sure it’s all to the good. Was Barney helpful?” “You tell me. He said I should go home and take over the ranch.” “It’s hardly a ranch, David. It’s just some property. What made him think you should do that?” “Nothing you need to hear.” “What do you mean by that? I want to hear what some jackass with a Ph.D. had to say.” “You won’t like it.” “David, I’m a big boy. Tell me.” “He said that you were incompetent and that it was only a matter of time before you broke your neck doing something you had no business doing.” Furious, Szabo took this in with a false thoughtful air. Karen had said almost exactly the same thing. But her words had been motivated by a wish to replace the property with a winter home in San Luis Obispo, a town that had ranked No. 1 in a Times survey of residential contentment. “I trust you told Dr. Barney Q. Shitheel that you were not interested.” “I didn’t tell him that, Dad.” “What did you tell him?” David smiled at his father. “I told him I wasn’t welcome there.” “You could have come there anytime you wanted.” “Right.” “What’s this? Dave, why are you crying?” David wiped his eyes with the back of his hand and spoke with odd detachment. “I knew I would never understand business, but I worked on a lot of ranches in high school. I was good at that.” Not all the fight was gone out of Szabo. Nor had he given up on the story he’d been telling himself. But even as he asked his derisive question he was reminding himself how he might have been absent for his own child. “Did you think selling drugs was a way of learning business?” David looked weary. He didn’t want to play anymore. “You’re right, Dad. What was I thinking?” “I’m not saying I’m right.” “No, Dad, you’re one hundred per cent right.” “Well,” he said, “I’m right some of the time.” This exchange, more than anything, troubled Szabo. Here was David, broken down, imprisoned, soon to be released with his stigma. And Szabo was only adding to his insecurity, instead of trying to make the situation better. There was plenty to do when he got home. And there was something to learn when he visited his mother: Barney had absconded with the Charlie Russell painting. The next morning, Szabo met the detective who was interviewing his mother, while fanning away the smoke with his clipboard. She only glanced at Szabo, crestfallen, defeated. From the detective, a handsome fellow in a short-sleeved shirt, too young for his mustache, Szabo learned that his ranch hand’s name wasn’t Barney; it was Ronny—Ronny Something. Ronny’s gift was for slipping into a community with one of his many small talents: the sculptural woodpile had taken him far. The painting would go to a private collector, not likely to be seen again. “This isn’t Ronny’s first rodeo,” the detective said. “The only thread we’ve got is the Ph.D. There is no actual Ph.D., but it’s the one thing Ronny drops every time. There’s been a string of thefts and they all lead into the same black hole. I don’t know why everyone is so sure that Ronny wants to help them.” When Szabo repeated this to Melinda and saw her wide eyes, he just shrugged and shook his head. Maybe to change the subject, she asked after David, and Szabo told her that he would soon be coming home.
A Withered Branch I met my twin soul at dawn on a narrow street by the cathedral. The city smelled of wood smoke; clay shingles glistened in the drizzle; medieval walls exuded dampness; and the cathedral bells were booming. I’d just hitchhiked my way into Vilnius. I was alive. I almost cried with joy. The day before, a Russian trucker had picked me up on an empty highway by a bridge. I liked my driver well enough—he was polite and quiet—but there was another truck following his. At dusk, we suddenly turned off onto a long dirt road that led to a shabby picnic spot on the water. “Time for a breather,” my driver explained. A smallish thug leaped down from the second truck and said hello. They put a pot on a propane stove and produced two vodka bottles and three muddy shot glasses. Then they took bread and sausage in their grubby, dirty-nailed hands and sliced them with jackknives. They each had a jackknife. A murky foreboding crept into my heart. I proceeded to chat casually, as if everything were as I’d expected: I asked them if they’d ever driven through Moscow and if they had families; I told them about my eight-year-old son (who was at a children’s sanatorium at that moment). I also told them that I was collecting material for a magazine article about hitchhiking. (“That’s right—I’m a professional journalist on an assignment. Here’s my notebook!”) Thank God they didn’t ask to see my accreditation, because I didn’t have any. The real reason I was hitchhiking was that I had neither job nor money. We ate. They drank all the vodka. I told them I was on the wagon. Then the thug (my driver was peeing behind a tree) asked me whom I was going to sleep with that night. I said, “With Alexei”—my driver—“of course.” The thug didn’t argue: I was Alexei’s passenger. When Alexei came back and we got in the truck, he asked me a question. I told him that I couldn’t, that I was sorry; he didn’t insist—he was tired and drunk. I climbed into the upper berth and covered myself with my sweater. Alexei lay down below. From my position, I could see the thug in his cabin. He kept jerking up his disproportionately small head like an excited worm, checking on us. Darkness wouldn’t come; it continued to be the terrifyingly endless sunset of a Baltic summer night. At five in the morning, Alexei walked down to the stream. I moved into the passenger seat, afraid to leave the truck, in case they left me there. Alexei came back and began to drive in silence. In the city, I got out, thanked him. Again: it drizzled, the air smelled of smoke, and I walked blissfully through narrow foggy streets, shivering after the warm truck. Then I ran into her, a modestly dressed woman of about fifty, wearing a kerchief. I asked her, almost without hope, the way a penniless beggar asks where they sell bread, if there was a hotel nearby. She understood immediately and explained, in broken Russian, that the hotels were all full, I wouldn’t find a room, but that I could stay in her home if I wished. I was stunned. Even among the hospitable Russians, such an offer would be an exception, like that one time in Tula, in the winter, when I asked two little girls if they knew where I could rent a bed for the night, and they took me home, instead, to their grandmother and their father (their mother had just died, right there, in that poor room with a single, feeble light), and one of the girls later shared her sofa bed with me. My heart still aches when I remember that sofa and the children’s simple trust. It was the same with this Lithuanian woman, who, at that ungodly hour, took me to her tiny, very clean apartment, which was really just part of the attic of a two-story house. The place was barely furnished; she had only necessities, no potted plants, no useless family heirlooms, no framed pictures, nothing. I was served tea with crackers (my hostess kept pushing butter and sugar toward me), and then she gave me a key and dictated her exact address, and I walked out into the city, the beautiful Old Town and its elegant crowd of ladies in little hats. I dropped in on the editor-in-chief of a major Lithuanian magazine. After a week of travelling—on foot, in trucks, in private cars, on a motorcycle, and even in a wedding van, where I had to listen to Lithuanian singing for two hours and was then asked to perform a Gypsy song—I sat in the comfortable office, among books and typewriters, among colleagues. The editor received me graciously: he expounded at length on the wonders of the Lithuanian language (which, it turned out, was directly related to Sanskrit), knowing all the while that I was there for a reason, and he was right, of course, for I presented him with my manuscripts—in Russian, and completely useless here—which he took politely, making sure that there was a return address on the back. Oh, naïveté! It was 1973, and he didn’t know that at home, in Russia, I had already become a writer non grata—after just two publications, no magazine would touch me, and fifteen years would pass before the release of my first collection of prose. He didn’t know any of this when he took my stories, but three months later I received a wire for thirty-two rubles, a lordly sum for me then, and a letter from him: he informed me, apologetically, that my stories had been published in a women’s magazine, in Lithuanian. Later that day, I walked around Vilnius in the rain and eventually stepped hesitantly into a café, where ladies in hats and tan gloves sat with miniature cups of coffee, nibbling on little cakes without moving their lips. The waitress loomed over me as I stared at the menu, dreading the prices: I was on a tight budget; I could spend only a ruble a day on food and another ruble on lodging. “Chin up,” I told myself. “You are a Russian writer, don’t forget!” Back into the chilly rain, in wet shoes, after the clean, warm café. It was evening now—deep-violet skies, shimmering puddles, absurdly lavish shopwindows—and then an instant of panic: how was I going to find that little apartment in a strange city? Somehow, in the gathering dark, I managed to set myself on the right road, and after endless uphill climbing past neat shrubbery and infrequent lights I finally came upon the right house, where the stairs smelled like old timber and dust. I was greeted with dinner. I blushed: my food ruble had been spent in the café on coffee and cake so I wouldn’t lose face with the waitress, and now I had only enough money to pay for the bed. This I tried to explain, shamefaced, to my hostess, Jadviga, who brushed off my refusals and piled dumplings with sour cream on my plate. Oh, happiness—hot tea! It had taken me two hours, in the cold rain, to find the house again. After the meal, I answered her questions. Yes, I had passed a number of Lithuanian towns on the way. Panevezys? Yes, I had, as a matter of fact. There was a famous theatre company there, I said. I’d wanted to leave them my play, but the theatre was closed. “That’s right, the theatre,” Jadviga says. “I’m from Panevezys.” “No, really? Good for you, such a lovely town, gorgeous parks, flowers in every window . . .” “Yes, I’m from Panevezys,” she repeats, and continues to move things around on the table like chess figures: sugar, butter, sour cream. “I couldn’t live there anymore, you see, so I came here, bought this place.” “Good for you,” I repeat mechanically, sensing trouble. “I had to move, you know. My house burned down.” Silence. My tongue has frozen. “I’d left for the market that morning. They all burned to death in their sleep while I was gone. My husband, my daughter, her son, her husband. Since then I cannot cry.” Silence. Poor light from a single lamp, like at that motherless house in Tula. What is there to say? Jadviga is visibly displeased with herself: she has revealed her secret too quickly. She should have waited, made small talk first, kept quiet. But how could she? She has been quiet, saying nothing to her new neighbors. They would never accept such tragedy, would shun her the way her old neighbors did in Panevezys. Every morning, she leaves her new home at six, the same hour at which she had left her beloved family, asleep in their beds, that very last time. She goes where I met her, to the cathedral—where else? The next day, however, she doesn’t leave so early: I’m still there, with her. She sets the table with coffee, fresh rolls—she must have run out to the store. Her poor little apartment fills with the aromas of wood smoke and coffee. But I must keep moving. There are still many miles to my final destination, the former house of my favorite author, Thomas Mann, on the Baltic shore in Nida. I must also finish the play I’ve been writing on this trip. I have to hurry; hitchhiking isn’t the fastest way to travel, and I need to be in Moscow at the end of August, to pick up my boy from the sanatorium. My son has asthma. As for my husband, he died a year ago, in October, at the age of thirty-two; for the last six years of his life, he was paralyzed. By the end he was so emaciated he looked like Jesus. Awkwardly, Jadviga tries to kiss my hand. My mother, too, always tries to kiss my hand and my boy’s. I’ve told Jadviga everything. We weep together. The tram carries me outside the city, to the highway. Once again I’m hitchhiking by a bridge—I cannot afford the train. Freedom, a deafening freedom after six years of hospitals. Ten more days of freedom, and after that—everyday life, in which I can hold my child, my savior, my treasure, while Jadviga remains alone in her bare room, a withered branch on a dead tree.
Goo Book It was fucking hot. He could feel something on his thigh, a bruise. It felt like a bruise, sweet and small, and he poked it with his finger a couple of times. He didn’t know how he’d got that. He rolled it around his body like a taste. Sometimes he found cuts where he thought he was only bruised. Car fumes grimed his skin. He moved through the arches with his shirt hanging from his back pocket and a pair of stall sunglasses biting his nose, the pads missing. He weaved around the pillars and the statues and he stopped by the drinking fountain and watched for a while, but there were only schoolkids and builders and one or two guys like him. Tourists never drank from the drinking fountain. He had left her by the canal, dozing on the grass in the shade with his tobacco and his weed and his lighter and his keys and his wallet, and she was probably snoring now, dreaming. Or she was being robbed, raped, murdered, bullied, torn apart, and if the canal had a tide she would drown, just for him, just because of him, because he had thought of it, and then he would have that instead of her. You can love someone too much. He scratched his armpit and poked the bruise and tried to stop thinking about her. By the gallery doors there was a group of old Japanese or Chinese or something tourists, and they all had bags hanging off their shoulders. He slapped himself on the face a couple of times and worked up the bright smile, and put on his shirt and patted down his hair, and he slid through them like Jesus through children, smiling at them and saying ciao ciao, and they smiled back at him, and one or two clutched their cameras and laughed, and he lowered his arms and paused at the entrance and they forgot about him and he came out the other side with a box purse and what his fingers had thought was a wallet but turned out to be a notebook. Not very fucking good then. He stopped around the corner where the cameras didn’t reach and he looked at the notebook. It was full of writing in different-colored inks. Pages covered in strange script. There was a photograph of a small girl, taken in the black-and-white past. Shit. He went back to the corner and picked out a shy-looking schoolboy and gave him the notebook and told him to give it to one of the Japanese outside the gallery, and to do it immediately and to do it right or he’d fucking kill him, and he gave him a couple of quid. Then he took off his shirt again, counted the cash from the purse and pocketed it, and threw the purse in a bin, and the sunglasses as well. She was sitting up, dazed, staring at the water. He kissed her and stroked her back, but she was too hot and she shrugged him off. She picked up her things and they walked toward the road, and he hailed a taxi and they went home and she got in the shower and he gave her a few minutes, then he climbed in beside her and they stood together in the cool water and they held each other skin to skin, and he was the happiest he had ever been, again, and he had no worries, none, and he worried about that. He stole from tourists. Everyone steals from tourists. He stole honest. He put his hand in their pockets. And he had arrangements with the night managers at a couple of hotels. Maybe twice a week he’d get a call. Sometimes he worked as a driver for a man called Mishazzo, but that was irregular. Mishazzo was a gentleman. He was small and thin like a teen-ager, so he always wore a beard and an expensive suit, and sometimes he carried an umbrella when there was no sign of rain, and he sat quietly in the back with his legs crossed, smoking or reading the paper or talking on the phone. There were other men who worked for Mishazzo. There was Price. Some younger ones. They would pile into the car without Mishazzo and direct him somewhere and then they would pile out and be gone for a while and sometimes he heard shouting. He didn’t like violence. She was younger than him. They had friends; that was how they’d met. Her brother used to go out with his friend Derek’s sister, when they were kids. They all went to the same two pubs and the same shitty club in Waltham Cross. Noisy friends, and their voices in the middle of all that, and their voices went quiet when they met. And their friends knew quicker than they did. Her mother said it was a bad crowd, but it wasn’t. She hated her name. He hated his name. Price was a professional. —I am a professional. You hear me? You need to be a professional, too. You hear me? You need to show up shaved and showered and wearing a shirt. No fucking trainers. You will never show up after you’ve been drinking or smoking or taking whatever the fuck it is you take. Never. If I call you and need you, and you’ve been drinking, you fucking tell me. I’ve had a couple of glasses of wine, Mr. Price. I’ve just smoked a fat spliff, Mr. Price. I’m out of my fucking mind on meth, Mr. Price. The inconvenience this will cause me is as nothing to the fucking mess I will make of you if you ever turn up anything less than stone-cold fucking sober. You hear me? Pro-fucking-fessional. He nodded, smiling. —You are, needless to say, completely fucking deaf, blind, mute. You are a stone. You are stupid. You understand nothing. You remember nothing. You drive the fucking car. And that is all you fucking do. You hear me? —Yes sir. His father had put him in touch with Price. He didn’t know the story. His father knew a lot of people. His father came and went. His father thought he was soft. He didn’t trust his father. They couldn’t talk. They were not good talkers, either of them. And once, long ago now, she had bought a notebook for a course. It lay empty and forgotten on the kitchen table until one afternoon, when she had gone out to the shops and he was worried that she would be killed by a bus or by lightning, he opened the notebook and he wrote lines about how he loved her, the way he loved her, about his fucking heart and crap like that, about his body brim full and his scrambled head. All that. She came back from the shops. He left the notebook where it was, and he didn’t mention it. And it wasn’t until about a week later that he noticed it again, and he flicked it open, and he saw his lines followed by lines from her. She’d written words that she had never said. He sat down. He read them over and over for a long time. Then he wrote a paragraph for her to find. This went on for ages before either of them said anything about it. But he thought that maybe they touched each other differently. It was like the book freed stuff up, allowed it to happen, that the tenderness was covered, they had it covered, they had all the love and kindness and gentleness covered, and the sex became something else. He had never seen anyone die. He’d never seen a body. Sometimes when it was just Price and some of the others they would get back in the car and laugh and shout and punch the back of his seat. —Did you see his fucking face? —Thought you were going to have his fucking arm off! —I swear I’ve broken a fucking finger! He thought that this was probably for his benefit. That they’d done nothing other than have a chat or maybe shout at someone a bit. He drove Mishazzo to a meeting in a suburb where he had never been before, to an industrial estate that seemed abandoned, but only temporarily, as if it was the weekend, even though it was a Tuesday. He sat in the car, waiting. He read a newspaper. Then there was a shot—a sound like a shot—and he looked around, but he couldn’t see anybody, and he wasn’t sure if it had been a shot at all. What does a shot sound like? He saw Mishazzo in the rearview mirror and he started the engine, and he saw Mishazzo hurry, and he frowned at the frown on Mishazzo’s face, and as he drove off he waited for something to be said, but nothing was said. It was only when they were some distance away that Mishazzo spoke. —Slow down. Hours, sometimes. He sat in the car outside somewhere or other. Warehouses, electrical shops, pubs now and then. A lot of the time he had to wait around the corner, on a side street, his eyes peeled for wardens. Sometimes he just had to drive around in a circle, waiting for Mishazzo to emerge. Furniture shops, little lawyers’ offices, cafés, a house in East Ham. A mini-cab place in Walthamstow. He would smoke with the windows open. He’d get out and lean against the door. He wasn’t allowed to go anywhere. He sent texts. He started keeping an empty plastic bottle under the driver’s seat. He thought of things to write in the book, and he would try to remember them until he got home. It was like trying to hold water in his hands, and sometimes he made it back and sometimes he didn’t. He decided that whenever he forgot something it wasn’t a loss but a correction. He went dipping less and drove more. The money was better. Price generally told him a couple of days in advance when he’d be needed. He could calculate. He liked to have Saturdays free so that he could do the matches and the tube crowds, and that was O.K., because Mishazzo took weekends off most of the time. The money was good. He bought her stupid little presents until she told him to stop, Jesus. When he was naked she would look at all of him, and move him around to see what would happen, and she would keep him still and tether him. She got some straps from somewhere. Then he bought ropes, and collars. They sometimes had to stop, a little spooked, sweating and laughing suddenly, something breaking the spell. She was better at ropes. She said it was because she wasn’t as self-conscious about the whole thing, that he had a sort of leftover embarrassment. And because he was used to trying to touch people so that they didn’t notice. He had to practice, she said, and he’d get better. Mishazzo asked him questions. —Do you gossip? —No, sir. I don’t gossip. —Why not? —I don’t know. —You don’t know why you don’t gossip? —Not really. —Are you not interested in people? —Not really. —What are you interested in? —Myself, he said. He could see Mishazzo nodding in the rearview mirror, and that was the end of the conversation. He thought about how myself really meant him and her together. He could say myself and mean another person as well. It didn’t feel like he was leaving anything out. They kept the book in a drawer in the kitchen. They never looked at it together. It came out of the drawer only when one of them was alone in the flat. He was afraid someone would find it. Once he moved it when her mother was coming over. —Where the fuck is it? —What? —You know. She looked at him like he was the stupidest fucking idiot she had ever seen. “We found this in your brain.”Buy the print » —It’s not in the drawer, she said. Slow, sharp, so that he’d understand. He smiled at her. —It’s not fucking funny. Where is it? —It’s on top of the kitchen cupboard. She couldn’t reach. She was clambering up on top of a chair when he went to get it down for her. —Don’t do that again. —O.K. It was fucking hot. He was mingling with a match crowd—burly men with burly wallets, hip pockets, drink taken, everyone happy and hugging. Replica shirts, T-shirts, no shirts. Home wins were the best. If they lost they were surly—mean-eyed and watchful. He picked out a potbellied man who was keeping a close eye on his two boys, guiding them, pointing things out, steering them away from the drunks and the shirtless thickets. One of the boys kept clutching his father’s belt for a tow. He maneuvered to the boy’s side, coming toward them out of a raucous knot of beery singing, and bumped against him gently, laughing, getting the timing just about right, and veered behind his mark, whose attention was down at the bumped boy reaching for the reassuring belt. It was all good. He stuck the wallet down his jeans and moved toward the footpath. They took him from both sides, quietly, two great grips on his arms, whispering his name and that they wanted a word, no trouble now or it’d be the van. Don’t let’s make a scene, son. Or it’d be Sunday night in a cell, and the magistrate first thing Monday morning. How did they know his name? He sucked in his stomach, hoping the wallet would fall into his crotch where they might not search him, or if he was lucky all the way down his leg and out onto the ground. But it stuck on his bollocks, and as they opened the car door one of them held out his hand for it. They weren’t uniforms. —What? —The wallet. —The what? —Don’t be a stupid fucking cunt. They were the worst kind of police. Suits. Relaxed. Blank-faced, youngish, stone-eared. They looked like estate agents. He fished the wallet out of his jeans. They pushed him onto the back seat. One sat beside him, the other sat in the front and turned around. It was Mishazzo they wanted. He felt stupid for not even suspecting it until they said it. He felt stupid but he kept his face still. They wanted a relationship. A friendly chat every now and again. —I know what you’re thinking. For dipping a wallet? Well, there’s the hotels. There’s the routine you have down in Angel and the one you have in that boutique place in Shoreditch. We have you on camera for both of those, some nice DNA in the last room you did, with the dead-drunk guy sleeping through the whole thing. The policeman laughed like he’d seen it. —We have you as far back as April in Shoreditch. Nice targets. Clever stuff. I like it. Dodgy types, but wobbly. Little out of their depth. They get a couple of girls in, they snort some coke, they’re not quite sure if they’ve been robbed sometimes. And they never want to report it even if they are. But we still have you on at least three in Angel and five in Shoreditch. The one in the front seat was doing all the talking. His glasses reflected bits of the car. Every now and then he pushed them back up his nose. The other one sat next to him saying nothing, looking at him, at the side of his face. —I know what you’re thinking. You’re thinking you’ll go see nice Mr. Mishazzo and tell him all about it. I can tell you what he’ll say. He’ll tell you to take your chance in court with whatever we have and he’ll see to it that you don’t get too badly fucked up inside, and when you get out you go see him and he’ll find something for you to do. And that’s you married to Mishazzo for the rest of your life. And you proposed. He looked at the other one. His face was crooked. He looked the younger of the two, maybe. He smiled as well. It was all very civilized. —Or, said this one, his crooked face falling straight when he talked. You could take my phone number. You could go back home and have a nice relaxed Sunday night and enjoy the rest of your week, and you could keep on doing the driving, and whatever else comes up, for Mr. Mishazzo. And let us know. Nothing dramatic. Just where you take him, who he meets, what he says on the phone, that kind of thing. We’re not asking you to do anything. Just listen. And be your own man. Able to walk away from him and from us anytime you like. Safe. You stop the hotels. But apart from that . . . nothing. You just have a couple of new friends. They let him think about it. They never mentioned her once. He went home and cooked for her, and she sang bits of things at him and laughed at her own voice. They lay together in front of the television for a while, and then she wanted him to tie her up, to practice his knots, to fuck her, come on her, fuck her again. Mishazzo said to him: —When you turn to the right you have a tendency to cut the corner. To slice it. Ever so slightly. When you turn left it’s not a problem. You are leaning to the right. Do you have a limp? —No. —You’re right-handed? —Yes. —Your legs are the same length? —Yes. —And your arms? —Yes, I think so. —You get your eyes tested? —My eyes are fine. —One isn’t weaker than the other? —No. My eyesight is . . . you know. Twenty-twenty. Mishazzo looked around the back seat. —Do you dress to the right? He laughed. —I think it goes down the left side, actually. You know. If anywhere. In the mirror Mishazzo nodded. —Well, that explains it then. She worked a couple of days a week in a café in Stoke Newington. Serving, and some cooking, too. Frying eggs and bacon, making sandwiches. She didn’t like it when he came in. But he came in anyway, sometimes, when he was nearby. —Let’s go on a holiday, he said. —Where? —Anywhere. She thought about it. —Spain, she said. —You’ve been to Spain. —I liked it. —You don’t want to go somewhere new? She wrapped an arm around his hip. —I didn’t see everything they have there. —We could go to France. Or Morocco. Derek went to Morocco, said it was great. —We could go to Spain and then get the boat to Morocco. —How long does that take? —It’s really close. Really short. —Is it? —Yeah. If you look at it on a map. It’s where Spain and Africa nearly touch. At home, she went online and found a map. They looked up ferries and prices. He wondered whether they could live in Morocco. They could probably live more easily in Spain. He wondered what they could do. He could learn Spanish. He thought that Mishazzo probably had lots of friends in Spain. So then now. What are you interested in? —Sir? Mishazzo was sitting on the back seat with his legs crossed, smoking a cigarette, looking at him in the rearview mirror. —Is it money? Are you interested in money? —Yes, I am. —Well, of course. You think I pay you well? —Yes, sir. Mishazzo was smiling. He had come out of a meeting in a Golders Green café, all smiles. Now they were stuck in traffic on the Hampstead Heath back road. —You have a girl? He blushed. It was the first time Mishazzo had asked. He had a plan. He had the whole thing worked out and ready. But still he blushed. —A boy? —No, I have a girlfriend. —It’s a serious thing? A love thing? —No, not really. We get on well. But it’s . . . it’s not very serious. —You live with her? —We share, yes. It’s more convenient that way. Financially. Makes sense. —You love her? —It’s more like a friendship. —You love your friends, though. —I suppose. But it is a different sort of love. He nodded in the mirror, his face behind smoke. They sat still for a while. Mishazzo rarely liked the radio. Sometimes he requested a CD. He liked world music. African. Middle Eastern. He would tap his hand on his knee, or bounce his leg up and down. He liked joyful music. —I’ll see. Maybe you can do more driving. And maybe some other things, too. You are very young, and you have no face. So. More money for you. And your girlfriend. When they got into Highgate, Mishazzo told him to pull in to the side of the road and to turn around and look at him. —You should be careful who you make your friend. And who you take into your bed. They are different things. If you mix them up you lose . . . perspective on both of them. Do not mix them up. That is my advice to you, my friend. The dick has no loyalty. Only the heart. But your head manages them both. So be clever. Be happy. Have fun. Have money. Have beautiful girls. Have a good life. Do not fuck your friends. Only your lovers. Never fuck your friends. He met Hawthorn in some coffee shop on Stroud Green Road, full of people with laptops. He looked at screens and bags and people’s faces. He didn’t know if they were students or what. They took a table outside. It was hot. Hawthorn was wearing a T-shirt and jeans. He was less like a cop. But his leg jigged up and down all the time and his hair was cut. —Are you off duty? —Not really. Hawthorn asked him where he’d been on Thursday and Friday. He got him to go through the times, the route he’d taken. How many phone calls had Mishazzo made? What had he said? What names did he use? Had he opened his briefcase? What was in it? What sort of mood was Mishazzo in? He bought the coffees. After he’d asked his questions and written some stuff down in his notebook he sat back in his chair and smiled. —Now I’m off duty. The way he said it. It sounded like a sort of come-on. They looked at each other. Hawthorn half blushed, up near the tops of his cheeks, like some invisible thing had just flicked fingernails against his face. He looked away. Nothing happened for a while. Then Hawthorn looked back at him. Held his eyes. For exactly the amount of time it takes for a look like that to become a look like that. They met sometimes in the coffee shop on Stroud Green Road, sometimes in a pub in Holloway. Or near Hawthorn’s flat, so that they could go there, if they wanted to. Sometimes he met Child as well, and then they usually just sat in Child’s car, or they drove around. Hawthorn wrote in his notebook. He got the feeling that they knew everything already. That he was just confirming stuff. Maybe they were testing him. He made a few things up. He told them about a route he hadn’t taken. Said they’d gone out to Hackney when they hadn’t. Nothing seemed to surprise them. He didn’t understand why any of it was important—the roads and the times—unless they were trying to trip him up. He knew the names were important. The phone calls, the buildings and houses and cafés he waited outside. The bits of conversations. “I’m Jewish and Don is Catholic, but we’re raising the kids as wolves.”Buy the print » He thought that it was all probably bullshit. That he wasn’t telling them anything they needed to know. They would spend six months getting him used to them, and then they would start to press. See if you can find out this or that. Or maybe they were waiting for Mishazzo to begin to trust him more. He didn’t tell them about the bottle. About sitting there dying for a piss, sure that as soon as he started Mishazzo would reappear. He didn’t tell them about smoking more than he’d ever smoked before, out of boredom. He didn’t tell them about trying to think of things to write in the book, or how most of the things he thought of were things he would never write. His mind was dividing. Parts of it were roped off. There were things he could say. There were things he could not say but could write in the book. And now there were things he could neither say nor write but only think, and they pressed up against the others like they wanted a fight. Hawthorn told him sometimes about other cases he was working on. A couple of murders. A robbery. Vague, no details. Sometimes Hawthorn asked him if he knew certain people. He named names. Most of them were unfamiliar. Once or twice there was one he thought he knew, but he said nothing. —How come you know no one? —I’m not . . . —What? He brushed the skin of his chest. —I’m not a crook. I don’t hang out with crooks. Hawthorn said nothing for a while. He was smiling. —What are you then? —I just do the driving thing. —And the pickpocketing thing. And the hotel thing. —I rob, sometimes. Yeah. But I’m not a crook. I don’t like crooks. I don’t like all that. I stay away from it. I avoid those people. —How are you going to get ahead? —I don’t want to get ahead. Mishazzo asked him one day: —Why are you looking in the mirror? —I am? —Are we being followed? —No. I don’t think so. —So why? —I didn’t know I was looking in the mirror. —You’re looking in the mirror all the time. —Sorry. —That’s O.K. You know what to do if we’re being followed? —I tell you. I drive normally. I describe the car. —Yes. If it happens, then we drive back to Tottenham. Back to the office. Nice and slow. Nice and normal. It will be police. He nodded. Mishazzo swayed his shoulders so that his head travelled from one edge of the mirror to the other. —If it isn’t police, then what do you do? Price had said that it would always be police. That no one else is that stupid. —I don’t know. Mishazzo laughed. —Then we call the fucking police, my friend. We call 999, and you put your fucking foot down. One day he counted up all the things he’d written. And he counted up all the things she had written. He had written more. More sentences, entries, whatever they were. He wasn’t sure about words. Sometimes she wrote a whole page. Or more. Sometimes she drew little doodles, or pictures. Faces and flowers and a house with windows and a fence in the front and a path to the door, and the sun overhead. Her drawings were terrible, like an infant’s. But he stared at them for ages. Once, he started to draw something. A face, he thought. But it was a mess from the first mark he made, and he scribbled it out. He didn’t tell Hawthorn about the book. He thought that if she died he would keep it. But he would destroy it before he died, and he would let no one else look at it. No one else in the world, ever, would read it. It would be something that had only happened for them, and when they were gone it would be something that had never happened. That made him sad to the point of crying, almost, and he felt like an idiot. One morning there was a man in the car with Mishazzo. This was not unusual. But this time Mishazzo did not want to go to a café. He wanted to be driven around. —Drive east. Go toward the Olympics. I need to see what it looks like now. We can talk as we drive. He could sense a pause as the other man gave Mishazzo a look. —It’s O.K., Mishazzo said quietly. It’s good. They talked about cars. They talked about money. They talked about expanding something that was working well. The man mentioned a name. Gull. Gull, he said, wanted no splashback. They talked about money again. Mishazzo produced a little calculator from his briefcase and they added numbers. Small numbers: 86 plus 134, 17 divided by 5. The other man wrote down some of the numbers on a scrap of paper on his knee. They seemed then to be talking about hurting someone, but then they seemed to be talking simply about collecting someone. Or something. Then they were laughing about everything. He drove around the Olympic fences, past the hoardings, the long, colorful boards sometimes marked by graffiti. They couldn’t really see anything. Mishazzo got bored and told him to turn around. In the back seat they were talking about music. Mishazzo wanted a CD played, then a different one, a specific song. He braked sharply. He’d been fiddling with the CD player. There was a short silence. Then he apologized. —My fault, Mishazzo said. I employ you to drive. Not to be my fucking d.j. Mishazzo and the other man started to sing in the back seat. They sang songs they both knew in raucous, untuned voices and laughed, and he found himself laughing as well, and singing sometimes, too, when he knew the words or the tune. The man handed him a roll of money when he got out of the car. It was nearly a hundred pounds in grubby fives and tens that smelled of his father’s kitchen, and sweat, and ropes. Mishazzo told him to drive back to the office. That was it for the day. —Now you see, he said. Now you see how dull my business is. But it pays well. And it makes you friends. They lay next to each other in the bed and touched each other and laid their faces against each other, and when they were tired of talking they fucked and when they were tired of fucking they talked, and many different afternoons became one afternoon that persisted in his mind for the rest of his life and he never knew what to make of it, then or after. What does Mishazzo do? —What? —Mishazzo. Why are you interested in him? What does he do? —You don’t know? —I know some. Hawthorn didn’t say anything. —I know he does some buying and selling. Stolen cars. Hawthorn nodded. —I know he owns a couple of cafés. —He does. —They’re just cafés. —Yeah. They are. —So what else does he do? Hawthorn hummed and rubbed his nose. —He owns two laundrettes. —I didn’t know that. —Yeah. The laundrettes, the cafés. He owns that building in Tottenham. —The office? I thought he rented. —No. He’s the landlord. Or maybe his daughter is. —He has a daughter? —He has two daughters. Their mother is dead. —So what does he do? —He provides. Largely speaking, that’s what he does. He’s a businessman. He talks. He makes deals. He negotiates. He opens up conversations with people running various . . . rackets, all over North London. He offers them things they might need. Resources. And he introduces people to other people. Broker. Provider. Facilitator. He nodded. Mishazzo was a businessman. A talker. Like his father. —It’s tangled. He wanted to ask Hawthorn how dangerous he was. Whether Mishazzo hurt people. Whether he got Price to hurt people. Whether that was part of business or whether it was all exaggerated. —What laws has he broken then? —All of them. —He doesn’t kill people. Hawthorn looked at him suddenly, his eyes a bit wide. —He doesn’t kill people, he agreed. —He doesn’t? —No. They said no more about it. He didn’t believe him. Child looked at them. He looked at them and seemed to shut his eyes for a tiny moment. He looked from one to the other and seemed to pause, and shut his eyes. For a second. Two seconds. And then he muttered, Oh, for fuck’s sake and he went to the counter to pay for their coffees and Hawthorn’s cake slice and the bottle of water. He never saw Child again. Mishazzo stared at him. In the mirror. All he could see was the middle of Mishazzo’s face. His eyes. Half of his forehead. His nose. His upper lip. Mishazzo said nothing. He didn’t want music. They were driving to the café in Holloway. He looked sad. As if he wanted to confide something. —Your girl is good? —Yes, sir. —What is her name? —Mary, he lied. Mishazzo laughed. —She is a virgin? He turned into Seven Sisters Road. The sun came through the passenger window and warmed his face. He did not want anything to go wrong. —She has a job? —Yes. —What does she do? —She’s a receptionist. Mishazzo nodded. —Where is she a receptionist? —At an estate agent’s. —Where? —Oh. Down in the City. —Down in the City. She likes that? —Yes, I think so. —You think so? —She likes it. She likes working there. She likes the people. She likes being in the City. —Commercial? He looked in the mirror at Mishazzo’s third of a face. He could tell nothing from it. —What do you mean? —Commercial property? Residential property? —Residential. Mishazzo’s voice was impatient. Maybe it was the traffic. The traffic was light. But it was veering all over the road. He felt his face light up. His skin was hot on the left. —Do you want me to stay on Seven Sisters? —Why wouldn’t you stay on Seven Sisters? Mishazzo’s eyes were on his left. Everything was burning up. He wanted to crash the car. For a second he thought about it. He could swerve suddenly, glance off the van on his inside, spin around, be hit by the approaching bus. He could skid off the road into railings. He could hurt himself if he did it hard enough. He could end up in a bed with people bringing him grapes and cards, watching TV all day, with her by his side. He shifted in his seat so that the eyes were smaller. He drove with his shoulder pressed up against the door as if trying to open it. He called Hawthorn. It went straight to voice mail, and he hung up. He walked through the park. He tried Hawthorn again. Twice. He sat on a bench and looked at some boys playing football. He called again and left a message. —Call me, please. As soon as you can. She was at work. He could see the café from the bench. He stayed put. There were the boys playing football. There were some people walking. There were no parked cars. She was surprised to see him. —What’s wrong? —Nothing is wrong. I finished early. Thought I’d come over. She took his arm and they walked along the canal for a while. She kept asking him what was wrong. He kept laughing and saying, Nothing. Nothing. Hawthorn called him back just as they got home. —What is it? —Nothing. —Nothing? —What time tomorrow? —The usual. What’s wrong? He looked at his fingers and watched her close the curtains against the low sun. He felt that something awful was happening but he didn’t know what, and he stared at her back in shadow and suspected that the feeling itself was the awful thing, and then she said something and he lost his train of thought and Hawthorn had hung up. “How do you know if you’re under the radar or washed up?”Buy the print » He waited by the car, smoking, looking at the street. He wasn’t thinking about anything. He didn’t notice Price until he heard him. Price standing in the door of the café a couple of doors down from the office. They sat in there a lot of the time—Price and some of the others that he’d driven around. They sat there fiddling with their phones, reading the papers, annoying the waitress, doing whatever it was they did, coming and going. —You avoiding me? —What? Price motioned to him. He glanced at the office, threw down his cigarette, walked over. —I never see you these days. You don’t socialize. You don’t come see me. —Well, I’m working. It’s been busy. —Lots of busy. Hither and thither and yon. It’s as good as the Knowledge. He nodded. Price was smiling. All friendly, hands in pockets, rocking back and forth a little. —How’s the car? It need anything? —It’s fine. —How’s the missus? He tensed, and his stomach did something, and he tried to look blank but he was sure he didn’t. —Who? —Mary, Mary, all contrary. The boss was telling me. You should come out at the weekend. To my place. Sunday afternoon. I have some of the lads over sometimes. Girlfriends, wives, kids. That sort of thing. Price was wearing jeans. A blue jumper. He was smiling. He had his hands stuck halfway into his pockets. —Don’t look so fucking shocked, kid. It’s a good thing. Wholesome. Family-friendly. Barbecue and drinks. Got a big plunge-pool thing for the kids. Watch out for Vinnie’s missus after she’s had a couple. You’ll love it. —Whereabouts? —Near Braintree. Easy. You can take the car, I suppose. But probably better to hitch a lift with Pavel. Teetotal. He doesn’t live far from your place. Five minutes. Give or take. —I said I’d see my father this weekend. Price frowned. —Don’t bring your father, no offense. —I mightn’t be able to make it though. Price rocked back and forth. Glanced to his left. —You should come. You know, put on some friendly. It’d be smart. Let me know tomorrow. Price nodded to his left. —Your date is here. Mishazzo was standing outside the office door looking at them, a little smile on his face, his umbrella clutched under his arm and his hands peeling the cellophane off a packet of cigarettes. They drove all the way to Luton, not talking, listening to Ernest Carvallio’s “Music of the Barrios,” the smile on Mishazzo’s face as constant as the road. Is there a procedure? For . . . if I get in trouble. What happens? What do you do? Hawthorn rubbed his eyes. He smelled of a long day. —You’re a long way off anything like that. —He knows where I live. —Of course he knows where you live. What made you think he wouldn’t know where you live? You probably told him where you live. When you went there first. —No. —Your father then. He said nothing. He sipped his coffee. He bounced his fucking knee and he looked out the fucking window. —So you won’t help us? —You don’t need help. You’re panicking. You’re being stupid. They are not suspicious. They like you. They’re being friendly. He tried to tell her to tie him tighter. To hit him harder. To yank his head back by the hair. He wanted her to spit in his face, in his mouth. He wanted her to hit him. But he was no good at talking. He tried to make her guess things by the way he reacted. She seemed to get it. But not enough. She was too careful, too considerate. She checked too much. He thought about writing it in the book. Like instructions. But the book was not for that. Price called him on the Friday. —Don’t need you today after all. —No? —I’ll pay you half. —O.K. —You coming on Sunday? —Sure. —Good boy. I’ll get Pavel to pick you up about midday. What’s the girlfriend’s name again? He looked at the curtain. The day was making it bulge. She had gone to work. He pressed his thumb against a bruise on his ribs. —Mary. —Right. Mary. Informal. Bring a bottle. And he hung up. Without asking for the address. Not even which flat. Nothing. You’re not going to help us. Hawthorn sighed again. —What do you want me to do? —Money. At least some money. —For what? —To get away. Hawthorn laughed. —Where are you going to go? —Morocco. —Morocco. What are you talking about? —Or Spain. Morocco or Spain. Hawthorn crossed his arms. He looked like he was going to cry, but his body was angry and his voice was cold and he was laughing at him. They sat in Hawthorn’s kitchen, at Hawthorn’s table. He felt like he had never been there before. —You want to run away to Morocco or Spain because a couple of dodgy geezers have invited you to a barbecue? Hawthorn’s voice was quiet. There was a shake in it. He couldn’t tell if it was laughter or anger. Fuck. Fuck it. He tried to hit Hawthorn. He threw his left arm out—why his left arm he didn’t know, all his strength was in the right—and Hawthorn simply leaned away from it, and it glanced off his shoulder, maybe his ear, and Hawthorn had stood and his chair was clattering to the floor, and he had stood up, too, apparently, and he threw the right and Hawthorn caught it, and something hit his stomach and he clenched, and then Hawthorn was smothering him, his arms around him, clamping him down so that he could not hit again, couldn’t raise his hands, and he tried to butt with his head and break the hold, but he was just jerking in Hawthorn’s arms like a crying child and he could hear sobs, and he looked for the door, he just wanted the door, and he struggled and he shouted, Let me fucking go, and he had made no impact at all, none, and they broke from each other and he could not look back, and there was just a simple gap where there had previously been something complicated. On the stairs he wiped his cheeks but they were dry. She was watching television. He stood in the doorway. Eventually she looked back at him. —What is it? —We have to go. —What? —Pack, he said. Quickly. She stared at him. He could see her start to feel afraid. It was the way he looked. —“EastEnders,” she said, very quietly. —Pack. Now. Not much. Basic stuff. Money. Passport. Some clothes. We might not be back . . . for a while. —What the fuck? —Just do it. He went to the bedroom. He threw things on the bed. Clothes. He couldn’t think. He pulled bags from the top of the wardrobe. He took the shoebox from the bottom drawer, tipped it out on the dresser. Her passport, his, the other half of his driver’s license, a credit card he never used, some euro notes. He stopped. He took off his shoes, his jeans. He walked back into the living room. She was on the phone. —Who are you talking to? —My mother. He didn’t know what to say. —Tell her you’ll call her tomorrow. He went to the bathroom. He took off the rest of his clothes and switched on the shower. He was sweating. He stepped in and stood under the water and he thought about trains. Trains, hotels, money. He thought through all of it again. He knew he wasn’t thinking straight, but he didn’t know how to fix that. After a few minutes she came in. —Where are we going? —Paris. —What’s happened? —I’ll tell you when we get going. Please go and pack. When he got out she was still there. —It’s O.K., he said. Everything will be O.K. Just fucking pack, will you. —You have to tell me. —I fucked up. Stay if you want to. I have to leave. I’m going in about ten minutes. He walked, dripping, through to the bedroom. In the doorway he froze. It took him a second or two to realize that it hadn’t been ransacked, that he’d made the mess himself. In the taxi, she called her mother and told her they were flying to Barcelona for a couple of days on a cheap last-minute deal. At St. Pancras station they had to rush for the Eurostar. It hadn’t cost much, he told her. He ran up the escalators with both their bags. He could hear himself wheezing. Cigarettes. They had two seats facing the wrong way. When they were settled he kissed her. Then he told her. He told her about Mishazzo, that he was a big deal. He told her about the violence. How they went and beat people up. He told her about Price. He told her about the gunshot. He told her about the two policemen who had picked him up by the Emirates. He told her about the deal they gave him. This was the story. He told her about the hotel jobs. He told her that he’d had no choice. He told her that Price was a psycho. He told her that the cops were psychos, too. He told her that Price had become suspicious. He didn’t know why. Maybe he’d heard something. That the cops were talking to someone. Price was onto him, he thought. He’d tried to keep her out of it. But Price knew where they lived. —I didn’t tell them anything about you. Nothing true. They think you work at an estate agent’s. They think you’re called Mary. —What the fuck? —They fucking kill people. You understand? They kill people. I’m driving this guy around and I’m telling the cops where I take him and he has people beaten up, killed. You understand that? This is the fucking story. He was speaking through his teeth, trying to be quiet. Around them were couples just like them. Couples went to Paris on the train—it was what they did. She wanted to know why he hadn’t told her about the hotels. Then she wanted to know more about the violence. She wanted to know what Mishazzo did. —He’s a businessman. Resources. He puts people together. —What are you talking about? What resources? He told her about the cars. —He steals cars? —No. He sells them on. Stolen. Or he trades them. That’s part of it. —What’s the other part of it? —I don’t know. He’s a broker. —A broker? He nodded. —What the fuck is a broker? He told her again about the shot. About Mishazzo’s face in the rearview mirror. He mangled things. They sounded slight in his mouth, like nothing. Like he made them up. But this was what was happening to them. They had to get away because of what mattered. And nothing else mattered. Why couldn’t she see? He stopped suddenly. The book. He remembered the book. He had left it. It had slipped his mind. He stopped talking in the middle of a sentence and he looked at her. Jesus. —What? —The book. He could not feel the train moving. He could feel nothing. He was encased in something, buried in something, smothered or drowning. His hand was shaking and he could not focus his eyes and he stared at her for a second and then he could not see her. She moved toward him as if he was disappearing, and her face became something he could see, and she reached out to him and she held his head. —I have it. I have it. She made him look at her. —I have it. It’s in my bag. I have it. He breathed out but could not breathe in. He let himself slump against her. There was no relief. He had forgotten it. He had run and left it behind. He had run. All those words.
Atria Hazel Whiting had finished her freshman year at Mountain Hills High, where there were a lot of ponytails and clanging metal lockers with pictures of hotties taped inside. She had some friends there, but not too many, and usually preferred being by herself to discussing other people’s haircuts or dreamed-of love lives. The truth of those love lives—a glance in the dingy hallway from a crushable boy, a dark, tangled session on an out-of-town parent’s couch—was like a tiny, yellowed tooth, hidden under a pillow, which the high schoolers believed, prayed, would soon be replaced by gorgeous, naked, adoring treasure. Hazel, of course, wanted love someday, too, and she did admit to feeling a whir in her chest when she thought about a bed shared with a boy—or a man, by then. Still, when she looked at Bobbie Cauligan’s gelled-back hair and calculated leather jackets, or the white perpetually new sneakers and tennis-club polos strutted by Archer Tate, or the too-big flannel shirts of the shy boys like Russell Fieldberg-Morris and Duncan Story billowing as they tried to dart from the safety of one classroom to another, Hazel did not see the possibility of love. Will these people look more like humans when they are grown? she thought. Now they looked to Hazel like children, like beasts, like helpless, hairless baby rats. Do I look like that to them, too? she wondered. Whatever else it was, high school was a soggy thing, being a teen-ager was a soggy thing, and Hazel had decided early on that she would survive each of these endeavors by not becoming invested. Hazel chose not to follow the troupes of other girls toward endless slumber parties and pictures of models torn from magazines and stuck to mirrors to remind them every morning, while they were popping a pimple or switching the part in their hair, of the enormous distance between beauty and their own unfinished faces. Instead, Hazel wanted to observe the day revealing itself unspectacularly around her. She wanted to feel that her life was a small thread in the huge tangle of the world and that nothing she did mattered all that much one way or the other. When school let out for summer, while her mother held meetings about the potholes and the winter food drive, Hazel walked all over town, street by street. She upped one block and downed the next while ladies watered their roses and the few men who were home during the day—retired or sick or broke—sat at the window reading the paper. When Hazel returned home for a sandwich in the middle of the day she found her mother in their newly renovated blue-and-yellow kitchen, bent over the construction of a low-this, high-that salad, trying feverishly to grate an almond. “Why are you doing that?” Hazel asked. Her mother had never needed to work, yet she filled her days with an endless string of tasks, executed with the conviction of a first responder at the scene of an accident. “The body has an easier time breaking down foods that aren’t whole,” her mother answered, scraping the single nut. “What’s the point of breaking something if it isn’t whole?” Hazel asked. Her mother looked up at her and narrowed her eyes in a comic-book glare. “You are such a teen-ager,” she said. “I thought I was done with this stage after your sisters went through it, and that was ages ago. Now I’m right back where I started. Couldn’t you just skip ahead?” “Gladly.” Hazel lived alone with her mother, though she had three sisters, all much older, all in their own houses with their own dishwashers, lists of emergency phone numbers, and husbands who had good jobs, good values, and well-shaped eyebrows. This family had been symmetrical, a family of plans and decisions made years in advance in which Hazel was a very late, very surprising accident followed almost immediately by her father’s diagnosis. While Mother grew fatter, Father grew thinner, and everyone had felt certain that they were watching a direct transfer of life from one body to another. Hazel and her father were never in the world together—by the time she entered, he had already closed the door behind him. Her mother was still wearing mourning black in the delivery room, surrounded by a ring of grieving daughters. The final shock came when the baby was not a boy but a girl, looking nothing like the man she was meant to replace. As she kicked a rock down the oak-lined streets, Hazel considered her mother’s wish. Perhaps, if she opened her arms to whatever came to her and stopped turning it all away, she might arrive at adulthood earlier. Adulthood was a place Hazel pictured as a small apartment kitchen far from anyone to whom she was related, furnished with upturned milk crates and exactly one full place setting. After a lot of afternoon walking, Hazel wanted a break and a snack or a soda with a straw. She went to the 7-Eleven, where she always sat out back on a nice bit of grass that was close enough to the dumpsters so that no one else came but far enough away that she didn’t smell anything except when there was a big gust or a bad bag. Johnny came out of the store on his lunch break, his uniform button-down untucked, planning to piss on the trash bins because they were cleaner than the toilets. He was clearly surprised to see a girl there, but he just said “Hello” and paused for a second before going on with his plan anyway. He stood with his back to her, a plastic bag in his left hand and his right hidden. She could hear two things: him whistling “Strangers in the Night,” and a delicate stream hitting the green metal of the dumpster. Afterward, he sat down next to Hazel and took a large package of teriyaki beef jerky and a six-pack of Miller Lite out of his bag. He started right in about the horse races in Deerfield and the off-track betting down in Green Springs. He told her about Million Dollar Mama and Sweet Sixteen, both winners. But not Johnny—he’d lost fifty. “Just not my lucky day,” he said. As he said “lucky day” he looked right into Hazel’s eyes and winked, and it seemed that he’d been practicing this for years in his rearview. She sucked her lemon-lime fizzy and noticed his arms, skinny and brown, like hungry snakes. Just a few feet beyond where they had talked, Hazel and Johnny lay down on their young backs. There was a muddle of bushes there that hid them from the road and the midday gassers and snackers. Johnny didn’t have a line, he’d just asked, “Wanna go lie down behind those bushes?” “O.K.,” Hazel had said, because she did not have a better answer, and because, having decided an hour before to say Yes to growing, she could hardly now say No. He carried her soda for her, left his two empties where they were. When she sat he said, “Nice hair.” “Thanks.” He leaned over and kissed her, putting his tongue right into the center of her mouth and moving it around in whirling circles. It tasted like beef jerky and beer. She decided that she was supposed to do the same—two tongues spinning now. But then she wanted a rest, pulled her head back. Johnny took the pause to mean: O.K., next step. He rolled on top. He moved his hips the same way he’d moved his mouth. She could feel him pressing into her bladder. Hazel had had one close call before, in eighth grade, with a pimply boy named Derek, who was the brother of the girl having a slumber party. After everyone else had fallen asleep to the sound of “The Texas Chainsaw Massacre,” they had made out in the laundry room. Bloody screams masked the washing machine’s rattle as Hazel and Derek pawed at each other on top of a pile of mateless socks. Johnny got up the courage to grab her breasts. He sat, straddling her, and put one big hand on each B-cup and pumped as if they were udders. He did not softly caress and he did not pinch. Just squeezed and released, squeezed and released. She could tell that this was making him happy because his closed eyes were squinting and his mouth was pursed. “Mmmmmm,” he said. “Mmmmmm,” she returned. Hazel thought they were like whales in the sea, searching for something over long, dark distances. Johnny took his shirt off and her shirt off. He had a few scratchy little hairs. Then pants and pants. He looked at her and said, “O.K.?” She didn’t know exactly what he meant, but she nodded. She found out right away that he meant underwear, and in a second both were off—his first, then hers. He rolled on top, ungraceful and floppy, bit his lower lip and pushed. Hazel started out making the noise but then realized that he didn’t notice either way, so she stopped and instead watched his big head move in the sunlight. This is it? she thought. This is the whole entire thing? Hazel went home that night and ate salad with her mother on the screened-in porch while mosquitoes tapped audibly to get in. “How was your afternoon?” Hazel’s mother asked. “Fine,” Hazel said, wondering if this was a true answer and deciding that it was. “Yours?” “Just the usual disasters. The club has the red, white, and blue flowers ordered in time for the Fourth, and what is the city out there planting in every median? Marigolds.” Hazel did not tell her mother that she had had sex with a convenience-store clerk, and that it had been disappointing but harmless—she felt no ache to see the boy again, no real change in her own body, no broken heart. She had done this grownup thing, yet she suspected that her mother would find her even more childish for it. Hazel walked the northern quadrant of town and, since it was a Saturday, there were a lot of folks out in their yards trimming bushes and pulling dandelions out of the ground with flowered canvas hands. The day after that it was the same thing, but the western quadrant, where she watched the first few innings of a family softball game and petted some dogs in the dog park. She walked past a flower shop where dyed-blue carnations were the best things going. She walked through the church parking lot. Father O’Donnel’s Honda was the only car there. She peeked into the back seat: an open gym bag, one ratty gray running shoe out, one in. “Hi,” someone said, roughly. Hazel turned around fast. It was a tall man, and big, too. He had a fat face and a comb-over; his shirt buttons were barely holding. He was close. “Hi,” she said. “Hi,” he said again. She edged toward her right, her back pressed up against the car. “Are you hungry?” he asked. “No. Thanks.” Hazel tried to smile. “I’d like to talk to you.” “I have to go.” “Actually, you have to stay.” He put his hand on her arm, but didn’t grab hard. “Look,” he said, “don’t scream. I won’t hurt you if you don’t scream.” Hazel did not scream. Later, she thought that she might have been better off if she had. But at that moment everything was underwater and she was underwater and there was a strong current pulling her deeper. “I’ll have to get back to you—I’m going into a tunnel.”Buy the print » The big-faced man took her hand, almost gently. His round fingers interlaced with her skinny ones. Her heart took over her entire body. She was a drum. Did she ask the obvious questions? Why am I walking? Why am I not drinking a Shirley Temple and adjusting my bikini top over at the country-club pool like all the other girls? Why did I agree to grow up? Her body asked the questions for her—that slamming heart spoke them so loudly that she could not breathe fast enough to fuel it, but the drumbeat was empty of answers. They walked behind the church, under the steeple-shaped shadow, and into maples covered in the new green of summer leaves. The man stopped walking and smiled at her. “I just want to have some sex with you,” he said. “I won’t hurt you if you have some sex with me.” The trees were barely breathing, and the turned earth from their footsteps smelled cold. Hazel thought about running or screaming or kicking, but she just looked up at him and said, “Please. Wait. Help.” He pulled her down to the ground. He undid pants and pants. His breath, strong and bitter with alcohol, was like boiling water on her face. His mouth was right up next to her mouth but he didn’t kiss her, just breathed into her. She turned her head, but he followed. She could not avoid his lungy air. His weight was everywhere. Two words kept pinging in her mind, though she didn’t know what they meant. And yet, and yet, and yet. A tiny white spine began to knit itself inside Hazel. Now it was just a matter of growing. Hazel sat on the closed toilet next to a little plastic spear with a bright-blue plus sign on one end. She put her hands in her hair, tried to hold her head up. She thought of the men who could have created this. “How could you be a person?” she asked her growing baby. She dreamed that night, and for all the nights of that summer, of a ball of light in her belly. A glowing knot of illuminated strands, heating her from the inside out. Then it grew fur, but still shone. Pretty soon she saw its claws and its teeth, long and yellow. It had no eyes, just blindly scratched around, sniffing her cave. She did not know if this creature was here to help or to punish her. “Mother,” Hazel said in early fall in the kitchen, where the difficult process of roasting a duck was under way. Hazel’s mother was holding it by the neck over a large pan, searing. “Yes, darling,” her mother said. “I need to tell you something.” “My wallet is in the front hall. I, for one, would like to see you in a pair of decent shoes.” “I am very pregnant.” The duck dropped to the pan. Hazel omitted Johnny and the 7-Eleven from her story. She omitted her own complicity from the story, she omitted any possibility of a father. Hazel’s mother looked up at her with every kind of lost in her eyes. She lifted up the baggy sweatshirt Hazel was wearing and looked at her belly and started to cry. “Who was he? How could he do that to you?” And then quickly, “I will take care of everything.” Hazel thought, There is so much now that I have to hold on to. She was about to be someone’s mother. Someone who would be killable and hurtable and whose body would be just a lump of tendons and muscles and a few hollow bones. Hazel’s mother began her crusade. The police came and took a description, drew a man who looked nothing like anyone Hazel had ever seen. The drawing was pinned to each lamppost in town until it rained and the posters shredded and bled, leaving torn bits of paper all over the sidewalk. A women’s self-defense class was started up at the gym. The mayor proposed a citywide emergency phone system in Hazel’s name. But Hazel herself was not meant to benefit from any of these activities. Too late now for self-defense, too late to find a bright-yellow phone with a direct line to the police. School began again and she went, stared at and eyed and gossiped about, and then she walked home, where her sisters came over in shifts, bringing her movies and trays of Poor Hazel Cookies. For the town, in a way, it was exciting to have an Illegitimate Bastard Baby from a Rape, because people had plenty to talk about and plenty of sympathy to dispense. They whispered in the grocery-store aisles: “Did you hear about that poor Whiting girl behind the church? And to think the Lord was right next door. I’m going to drop off a casserole later.” If you could have lopped off all the pointed roofs of all the yellow-white houses and watched from above, you would have seen the top of a blond head in each kitchen, pulling hot pans out of the oven, steam rising off meat loaves and lasagnas, counters covered in empty tuna cans, the severed heads of zucchini lying in heaps. A line of station wagons streamed past Hazel’s house, full of reheatables meant to make their way from Ford and Dodge right into the stomachs of the grieving. Hazel’s mother stopped answering the door after a while. The freezer was full, the refrigerator and the mini garage refrigerator were full. Casserole dishes started to pile up on the front steps. Baked ziti baked again in the sun. Beth Berther, who could not cook even one thing, left a grocery-store cake—chocolate with chocolate frosting and the word “Condolences!” scrawled in orange cursive on top. People also started to deliver diaper bags and bouncy swings and little hats made to look like various vegetables. Hazel wrote thank-you notes without mentioning that her strange fur baby would be unable to wear the woollen gifts. She saved them in a box under her bed, the bed where she stayed most of the time when she was not in school. Where she was when her mother came in every morning with lemon tea and a biscuit. Where her mother sat, her big reddish-blond hair full of light, singing “Go Tell It on the Mountain” until the breakfast tray was empty. By month six, the glowing fur baby had turned itself into a large bird of prey. It spread and curled its wings. Hazel felt them strong and tickling. It built a nest of borrowed organs, her small intestine twisted in a pink knot, the bird’s sharp claws resting in the center. Then it started to lay eggs the size of a fist. Hazel planned sweaters with wing holes and three-pronged booties. She hummed the blues. Soon she felt the eggs starting to hatch, milky eyes and wet feathers emerging. The mother fed them Hazel’s digested meals through her beak. The babies twittered and grew. There were too many of them, though, and as they got larger they couldn’t move anymore. They were packed in, their famously good eyes useless now, pressed up against the walls of the cave. Meanwhile, school was exactly as boring as it had always been. Hazel was smiled at more because she was frowned at more. “My mother says God is glad you are keeping the innocent baby,” a senior said to Hazel at her locker. “And I don’t agree that being raped makes you a slut.” The girl handed her a piece of notebook paper with a list of names on it. In the girl column: Grace, Honor, Constance, Mary, Faith. And in the boy column: Peter, Adam, David, Axel Rose. Hazel thought about a giant bird of prey with the name Constance. The birds could no longer open their womb-smashed beaks to eat and they began to starve. Hazel could feel them getting weaker. They made no noise; they didn’t twitch or flutter. One morning she woke up and knew they were dead. Knew their bodies had given up and were now just a mess of needle bones and feathers. Hazel cried in the shower. For weeks she could feel the empty weight of them in her. Through the end of fall and into winter, the avian bodies stayed. Snow was on the ground outside and storms were inside Hazel as the bodies started to flake like ash, a pile frozen inside the windless space. Before Thanksgiving break, the girls and boys were separated and shown charts of each other’s bodies. They learned that chlamydia was not a pretty blossom to add to a floral arrangement. The girls, not the boys, were each given a sack of flour with a smiley face drawn on it which they had to carry around and feed with an empty bottle. “Hazel doesn’t have to do this assignment,” the teacher said to the class. The girls gathered in the bathroom and changed white-dusted diapers. Some bought little outfits for their flour babies—cute dresses and hats and bows. The teacher pulled them all back into the classroom, where a large penis sat erect on her desk, and said, “These are not dolls, ladies. You aren’t supposed to be having fun with this exercise.” The pile of ashes turned into something else. Hazel couldn’t tell what it was at first, but she felt that it had little round hooves. Night by night it got clearer. The body and the long legs, and then it started to grow three heads, distinctly giraffelike. The necks lengthened, limp poles loosely twisted together like bread dough, with heads bobbing at their skinny ends. Hazel spent the weekend in bed. She pulled her yellow-and-orange flowered quilt up to her chin. Her mother said, “Maybe Father will finally come back,” patting her daughter’s rounded belly. “If I’m not him, I don’t think my baby will be, either,” Hazel said. Her mother’s eyes looked desperate, so Hazel added, “Maybe he will.” Her sisters came to sit with her, circled their hands over her pregnantness. One did Hazel’s toenails in pink polish, one rubbed her hands with rose oil. One washed her hair in the sink and twisted it into two damp braids. Hazel dreamed about the giraffe heads emerging for a visit, their three long purple tongues licking her chest. They were rough and ragged and she shone with their spit, her chest paint-white and glistening. She said, “It’s nice to finally meet you.” In the morning, she checked for the markings on her breasts from fur pressed down. She thought that she could still smell their warm skin like hay and cheese. Hazel went to the doctor for her usual checkup. “You have a beautiful cervix,” he said. Hazel, staring up at the poster of a coral reef on the ceiling, said, “Thank you. I get that all the time.” The doctor laughed so long while staring into her that she wished she hadn’t said anything at all. The doctor retrieved Hazel’s mother. He rubbed goo on Hazel’s belly and listened. Her skin had stretched so much that it was unrecognizable, not forgiving and soft but stiff and hard. A gray curled blob appeared on the screen. Hazel didn’t want to see it, and didn’t believe it when she did. What a good disguise my baby has on, she thought. Hazel’s mother immediately started to cry and stood there, eyes wide and slippery, her hand on her chest. While her mother witnessed the miracle of life, Hazel rolled the corner of her paper gown in her fingers. Hazel’s mother talked about bassinets and carriages and binkies and diapers. She insisted on stopping at Babies R Us to stock up. Hazel waited in the car and listened to the Soft Rock Less Talk station but turned it off when the host started making jokes about his wife’s credit-card bill. She watched people pull into the parking lot in minivans and unload kid after kid, crying, screaming, or jumping around. Mothers struggled to strap them into strollers, to get shoes on and tied. One mother, after a long fight to get her son into his sweatshirt, spit into her delicate diamond-glittering hand and smoothed it over his parted blond hair. “Stick to the specials and no one gets hurt.”Buy the print » Hazel’s mother thundered back with her full cart, its metal vibrating loudly over the asphalt. She unloaded boxes and bags into the back seat, tossed Hazel a pair of miniature orange booties that looked like tennis shoes, complete with plush tread and real laces. Hazel stuck her first two fingers into each one, walked them across the dashboard. “If it has four legs I guess we can just get another pair,” she said quietly. Her mother was busy shaking out the right key from her key chain. “It’s not twins—we would have seen it in the pictures,” she said. “I never said it was twins.” With her mother out one weekend morning, Hazel walked very slowly and heavily to the 7-Eleven. She picked out a six-pack of Miller and a bag of beef jerky. Johnny, behind the counter, said, “I heard what happened.” “I’m sorry,” she told him. “Do you need anything?” he asked. “People are being helpful. Do you sell ribbon?” “Yeah, but I think you’re not supposed to be drinking. You know, in your condition,” Johnny said, pulling out a roll of red. Hazel paid for her items and then, standing there with Johnny, she tied the beer and jerky together with the ribbon. “Here,” she said, “it’s for you. I hope you understand.” She went out the door, which rang its bell to say, Goodbye, whoever you are. With one week to go till her due date, Hazel stopped sleeping. She couldn’t keep her eyes or her mind shut. Her brain bled a list of worries, ongoing and impossible to ignore. All the things she had to remember to do as a mother. She started lists, animal by animal. Lion: lie under a tree with its tail wrapped around my leg, learn to cook its caught rabbits, braid its mane. Koala: grow eucalyptus, watch it climb trees, lie down and look up at it through the branches. She had stacks and stacks of these lists. Some animals were blank. She didn’t know yet how to care for a sloth or a platypus. Almost as an afterthought, she made a list called Human Baby: hire a math tutor, record enough home video but not too much, bake lemon-meringue pies, move to a remote unpopulated island when he/she turns thirteen, sled. They numbed Hazel from the waist down for the birth. It took a few minutes before it started to work, but then Hazel felt the warm emptiness creep over her. She could feel her body melting away. She held her mother’s hand. Her sisters wore sweatsuits and ponytails and looked ready for action, but there wasn’t much to do except hope, which they did while they drank thin, fake-creamer coffee out of Styrofoam cups. Hazel’s mother fell asleep for a few minutes, her black shirt riding up to reveal the loose skin of her midriff. The sisters talked of their own offspring and partners. They discussed a spinach-salad recipe from a magazine, and a new kind of tea that began as a pearl and unfolded into a flower. Hazel could hardly hear them above the sound of her body working to release the creature. All the animals she’d prepared for began to run together. She saw the hooves of a cow and the head of a mouse and the body of a kangaroo. She felt the long teeth of a hyena and the soft fur of an alpaca. Hazel almost felt her own body turn into something else. Something capable of stalking prey and tearing flesh. By the time the doctor made the bittersweet announcement that this healthy baby was a girl, and all the women in the room gave up hope that their husband and father’s sharp features and smarts would live again, Hazel was lost in her menagerie of beasts. She looked right at the bald skin and didn’t see it. Didn’t believe that the puffy-limbed crier, all pink with bright-blue eyes, could be the thing she had been carrying around. Hazel did not reach out when the doctor handed it to her but kept her arms flat by her sides. The baby’s body seemed impossible to her, as if she had given birth to a chair or a bicycle. “It’s a nice little girl,” the doctor said. “Whose is it?” Hazel replied. They all laughed warm and low, as if she were joking. Her mother took the child from the doctor and rocked her, wrapped her in a blanket with big ducks on it. In the growing darkness, Hazel thought a duck’s bill might be attached to the child. She fell asleep thinking about it quack-quacking around the house with its tail bobbing. While Hazel was sleeping, Johnny stopped by with three gas-station cloth roses, pink with plastic dew. He had been ready, calling the hospital every day to see if Hazel Whiting had been admitted. “I’m just a friend of Hazel’s,” he said, leaving the flowers with one of her sisters, who was reading a magazine in the bright hallway. “You shouldn’t bother her,” the sister said. “But I’ll let her know you stopped by.” “Tell her if she needs anything from the store . . . snacks or whatever. Candy. Smokes. Not that, but you know, I think we sell diapers.” The sister brought her eyebrows together and rattled the roses. Johnny’s footsteps were heavy on the floor all the way back down the long corridor. Four in the morning and Hazel was awake. It was raining outside and no one was in the room. Hazel felt around under the blanket to inspect her body, which was still swollen—a tight, empty globe. What had been growing there was done and out and growing someplace else now. It didn’t need her blood or her air. The room was a dark yellow, with a lot of moon and a little hall light coming under the door. The blinds at the windows chopped the glow into slices and divided Hazel’s covered body into slats. She looked around the room at the machines, which breathed back at her. A small red light went on and off. Hoses hung, and the shadows of hoses hung lower. A forgotten mop and a mop bucket. Hazel felt suddenly stuck in a laboratory, caught and studied. She thought she might be left there forever, that her mother had taken her baby and introduced it to the human babies. It would assimilate. It would be accepted into their tribe and given a flowered diaper cover and fed smashed peas. It would never learn to hunt or peck or make its mating call. Hazel sat up and then stood up but got dizzy and sat again. She hit the pillow with her fist. The baby, sleeping in her bassinet in the corner, began to cry. Hazel got up, slower this time, her body creaking as she slid her socks over the linoleum like a skier. There was almost no light in the bassinet, nothing to brighten the skin of the new life lying there. It cried, the new life. Hazel put her index finger into the bassinet and poked softly until she felt the warm mound. She touched the ears, the spirals of them. She touched the back of the neck and the front of the neck. She tried to find the mouth, which was still crying. She thought she felt whiskers and a wet nose. She felt soft fur just starting on the top of the head. Suddenly she knew the answer. It was a seal, fat and legless. She put her hands over the round eyes, which she knew were black but could not see. The seal barked into her palm and its breath was warm. This was one animal Hazel hadn’t planned for. She thought of those twirling underwater torpedos in the zoo. It was gill-less, an air breather as she was, but it also liked to be wet. She went to the window and opened it, cupped her hands and waited while the air blew cold across her skin. Drops fell but dripped through her fingers and she couldn’t collect much. She returned to the flopping baby and rubbed her wet hands onto its face and then its back, which someone had tried to cover with a nightgown, a thing that seemed ridiculous to Hazel. She remembered the mop bucket and slid her way over to it. It was hard for her to bend down, but she was able to drag it to the bassinet using the mop as a handle. She pulled the mop up and water streamed down, splashing her feet and the floor. She ran its gray tendrils over the baby, smelling the soap and dirt in the water. The baby started to cry again. She made shushing sounds in her mouth and tried to hum “Go Tell It on the Mountain.” The mop went back and forth, the baby cried, Hazel hummed. She took a deep breath and leaned down to grab the bucket. Sharp shots crossed in her belly. She winced and squeezed her eyes shut but kept bending. She caught hold of the handle and lifted. It wasn’t as heavy as she had expected, and coming up was easier than going down. Hazel started to sing the words of the song as she raised the bucket above the bassinet and poured. The water was cold and gray in the dark room. It ran out in ropes and splashed into the bassinet, where the baby cried and threw her small weight from side to side. The blanket soaked through. The thin mattress soaked through. The front of Hazel’s hospital gown was wet from splash. The baby’s cough was so small it didn’t even make it to the walls to bounce back. “Is that enough?” she asked. No sound came after that except a plip plip plip on the floor. The baby was quiet and Hazel was quiet. The rain continued to be rain, the bed continued to be flat and rumpled. Nurses in other rooms carried on trying to move soundlessly while they adjusted feeding tubes and emptied bedpans. Hazel’s mother was still her mother. Hazel was still not her father, and neither was her baby. The two of them would be fatherless together. They would be young together. “Now that I am a mother,” Hazel said to the baby, “I get to set the rules. And the rules are: swimming, sunning, playing. Everything else, we ignore.” She put the bucket down, empty now, and leaned into the bassinet to pick up the baby, blanket-wrapped and dripping. The bundle coughed one beautiful polished river rock of a cough. Hazel put her ear right down against its lips and heard air, in and out. The eyes looked up at her, surprised and afraid. Hazel breathed her air into her baby’s mouth and then waited until the baby breathed out so she could inhale that sweetness. Hazel walked around the room, careful and slow. The baby’s body was cool against her. Her clothes stuck to her breasts. She sat on the edge of the bed. She put the baby down and removed her hospital gown, and then decided to remove the baby’s clothes, too, so that their skin could touch. She held the baby to her chest, guided a nipple into the little mouth. Hazel had become aware of the baby’s arms and legs, but still saw the seal face, the slick black eyes. She could feel the whiskers brushing against her while it sucked, toothless and silent.
U.F.O. in Kushiro Five straight days she spent in front of the television, staring at crumbled banks and hospitals, whole blocks of stores in flames, severed rail lines and expressways. She never said a word. Sunk deep in the cushions of the sofa, her mouth clamped shut, she wouldn’t answer when Komura spoke to her. She wouldn’t shake her head or nod. Komura could not be sure that the sound of his voice was even getting through to her. Komura’s wife came from way up north in Yamagata, and, as far as he knew, she had no friends or relatives who could have been hurt in Kobe. Yet she stayed planted in front of the television from morning to night. When he got up, Komura would make his own toast and coffee, and head off to work. When he came home in the evening, he’d fix himself a snack with whatever he found in the refrigerator and eat it by himself. She’d still be glaring at the late news when he dropped off to sleep. In his presence, at least, she ate nothing and drank nothing and never went to the toilet. A stone wall of silence surrounded her. Komura gave up trying to break through. And when he came home from work on Sunday, the sixth day, his wife had disappeared. Komura was a salesman at one of the oldest audio-equipment stores in Tokyo’s Akihabara “Electronics Town.” He handled high-end stuff and earned a sizable commission whenever he made a sale. Most of his clients were doctors, wealthy independent businessmen, and rich provincials. He had been doing this for eight years and had earned a decent income right from the start. The economy was healthy, real-estate prices were rising, and Japan was overflowing with money. Wallets were bursting with ten-thousand-yen bills, and everyone was dying to spend them. The most expensive items were often the first to sell out. Komura was tall and slim and a stylish dresser. He was good with people. In his bachelor days, he had dated a lot of women. But after getting married, at twenty-six, he found that his desire for sexual adventures simply—and mysteriously—vanished. He hadn’t slept with any woman but his wife during the five years of their marriage. Not that the opportunity had never presented itself—but he had lost all interest in fleeting affairs and one-night stands. He much preferred to come home early, have a relaxed meal with his wife, talk with her awhile on the sofa, then go to bed and make love. This was everything he wanted. Komura’s friends were puzzled by his marriage. Next to his clean, classic looks, his wife could not have seemed more ordinary. She was short, with thick arms, and she had a dull, even stolid, appearance. And it wasn’t just physical: there was nothing attractive about her personality, either. She rarely spoke, and her expression was often sullen. Still, though he himself did not quite understand why, Komura always felt his tension dissipate when he and his wife were together under one roof; it was the only time he could truly relax. He slept well with her, undisturbed by the strange dreams that had troubled him in the past. His erections were hard; his sex life was warm. He no longer had to worry about death or venereal disease or the vastness of the universe. His wife, on the other hand, disliked Tokyo’s crowded urban life style and longed for Yamagata. She missed her parents and her two older sisters, and she would go home to see them whenever she felt the need. Her parents operated a successful inn, which kept them financially comfortable. Her father was crazy about his youngest daughter and happily paid her round-trip fares. Several times, Komura had come home from work to find his wife gone and a note on the kitchen table telling him that she would be visiting her parents for a while. He never objected. He just waited for her to come back, and she always did, after a week or ten days, in a good mood. But the letter his wife had left for him five days after the earthquake was different: “I am never coming back,” she had written, and gone on to explain simply but clearly why she no longer wanted to live with Komura. “The problem is that you never give me anything,” she wrote. “Or, to put it more precisely, you have nothing inside you that you can give me. You are good and kind and handsome, but living with you is like living with a chunk of air. It’s not your fault. There are lots of women who will fall in love with you. But please don’t call me. Just get rid of the stuff I’m leaving behind.” Not that she had left much of anything behind. Her clothes, her shoes, her umbrella, her coffee mug, her hair dryer: all were gone. She must have packed them in boxes and shipped them out after he left for work that morning. The only things still in the house that could be called “her stuff” were the bicycle she used for shopping and a few books. The Beatles and Bill Evans CDs that Komura had been collecting since his bachelor days had also vanished. The next day, he tried calling his wife’s parents’ house in Yamagata. His mother-in-law answered the phone and told him that his wife didn’t want to talk to him. She sounded somewhat apologetic. She also told him that his wife would be sending him the necessary divorce forms soon and that he should sign them and send them back right away. Komura answered that he might not be able to send them back right away. This was an important matter, and he wanted time to think it over. “You can think it over all you want, but I don’t think that’ll change anything,” his mother-in-law said. She was probably right, Komura thought. No matter how long he waited, things would never be the same. He was sure of that. A bridge in Nishinomiya, Japan, fourteen miles from Kobe, after an earthquake struck on January 17, 1995. Photograph from Sankei Archive / Getty Shortly after he sent the papers back, Komura asked for a week off from work. February was a slow month, and he had already told his boss what was going on in his life. He had no trouble getting permission. A colleague of Komura’s named Sasaki came over to him at lunch and said, “I hear you’re taking time off. Are you planning to do something?” “I don’t know,” Komura said. “What should I do?” Sasaki was a bachelor, three years younger than Komura. He had a delicate build and short hair, and he wore round, gold-rimmed glasses. He talked too much and had a certain overconfident air about him, which a lot of people disliked, but he got along well enough with the easygoing Komura. “What the hell—as long as you’re taking the time off, why not travel somewhere nice?” “Not a bad idea,” Komura said. Wiping his glasses with his handkerchief, Sasaki peered at Komura as if examining him for some kind of clue. “Have you ever been to Hokkaido?” he asked. “Never,” Komura said. “Would you like to go?” “Why do you ask?” Sasaki narrowed his eyes and cleared his throat. “To tell the truth, I’ve got a small package I’d like to send to Kushiro, and I’m hoping you’ll take it there for me. You’d be doing me a big favor, and I’d be glad to pay for the ticket. I could cover your hotel in Kushiro, too.” “A small package?” “Like this,” Sasaki said, shaping a four-inch cube with his hands. “Nothing heavy.” “Something to do with work?” Sasaki shook his head. “Not at all,” he said. “Strictly personal. I just don’t want it to get knocked around, which is why I can’t mail it. I’d like you to deliver it by hand, if possible. I really ought to do it myself, but I haven’t had the time to fly all the way to Hokkaido.” “Is it something important?” His closed lips curling slightly, Sasaki nodded. “It’s nothing fragile, and there are no ‘hazardous materials.’ There’s no need to worry about it. They’re not going to stop you when they X-ray it at the airport. I promise I’m not going to get you in trouble. The only reason I’m not mailing it is I just don’t feel like mailing it.” Hokkaido in February would be freezing cold, Komura knew, but cold or hot it was all the same to him. “So who do I give the package to?” “My sister. My younger sister. She lives up there.” Komura decided to accept Sasaki’s offer. Thinking it over would have been too much trouble. He had no reason to refuse, and nothing else to do. Sasaki called the airline immediately and reserved a ticket for two days later. At work the next day, he handed Komura a box like the ones used for human ashes, only smaller, wrapped in manila paper. Judging from the feel, it was made of wood. It weighed almost nothing. Broad strips of transparent tape were wrapped around the package, over the paper. Komura held it in his hands and studied it for a few seconds. He gave it a little shake, but he couldn’t feel or hear anything moving inside. “My sister will pick you up at the airport,” Sasaki said. “She’ll be arranging a room for you. All you have to do is meet her at the gate.” Komura left home with the box in his suitcase, wrapped in a thick shirt. The plane was far more crowded than he had imagined it would be. Why were all these people going from Tokyo to Kushiro in the middle of winter? he wondered. The morning paper was full of earthquake reports. He read it from beginning to end on the plane. The number of dead was rising. Many areas were still without water and electricity, and countless people had lost their homes. Each article contained some new tragedy, but to Komura those tragedies registered as oddly lacking in depth. The aftermath of the earthquake was like a distant monotonous echo to him. The only thing he could give any serious thought to was his wife’s drawing ever further away. When he grew tired of thinking about his wife and of following the lines of type, he closed his eyes and napped. When he woke, he thought about his wife again. Why had she followed the earthquake reports with such intensity, from morning to night, without eating or sleeping? What had she seen that he didn’t see? Two young women wearing overcoats of similar design and color approached Komura at the airport. One was fair-skinned and maybe five feet six, with short hair. The area from her nose to her full upper lip was oddly extended, in a way that made Komura think of short-haired hoofed animals. The other woman was closer to five feet one and would have been quite pretty if her nose hadn’t been so small. Her long hair fell straight to her shoulders. Her ears were exposed, and there were two moles on her right earlobe which were emphasized by the earrings she wore. Both women looked to be in their mid-twenties. They took Komura to a café in the airport. “I’m Keiko Sasaki,” the taller woman said. “My brother told me how helpful you have been to him. This is my friend Shimao.” “Nice to meet you,” Komura said. “Hi,” Shimao said. “My brother tells me that your wife recently passed away,” Keiko Sasaki said, with a respectful expression. Komura waited a moment before answering, “No, she didn’t die.” “I just talked to my brother the day before yesterday. I’m sure he said quite clearly that you had lost your wife.” “I did. She left me. But, as far as I know, she’s alive and well.” “That’s strange. I couldn’t possibly have misheard something so important.” She gave him an injured look. Komura put a small amount of sugar in his coffee and stirred it gently before taking a sip. The liquid was thin, with no taste to speak of. What the hell am I doing here? he wondered. “Well, I guess I did mishear it. I can’t imagine how else to explain the mistake,” Keiko Sasaki said, apparently satisfied now. She drew in a deep breath and bit her lower lip. “Please forgive me. I was very rude.” “Don’t worry about it. Either way, she’s gone.” “I’m not wasting my life online—I’m building my brand.”Buy the print » Shimao said nothing while Komura and Keiko spoke, but she smiled and kept her eyes on Komura. She seemed to like him. He could tell from her expression and her subtle body language. A short silence fell over the three of them. “Anyway, let me give you the important package I brought,” Komura said. He unzipped his suitcase and pulled the box out of the folds of the thick shirt he had wrapped it in. Keiko stretched her hands across the table, her expressionless eyes fixed on the package. After testing its weight, she did the same thing Komura had and gave it a few shakes by her ear. She flashed him a smile as if to signal that everything was fine, and slipped the box into her oversized shoulder bag. “I have to make a call,” she said. “Do you mind if I excuse myself for a moment?” “Not at all,” Komura said. “Feel free.” Keiko slung the bag over her shoulder and walked off toward a distant phone booth. Komura studied the way she walked. The upper half of her body was still, while everything from the hips down made large, smooth, mechanical movements. He had the impression that he was witnessing some moment from the past, shoved with random suddenness into the present. “Have you been to Hokkaido before?” Shimao asked. Komura shook his head. “Yeah, I know. It’s a long way to come.” Komura nodded. Then he turned to survey his surroundings. “Strange, though,” he said, “sitting here like this, it doesn’t feel as if I’ve come all that far.” “Because you flew. Those planes are too damn fast. Your mind can’t keep up with your body.” “You may be right.” “Did you want to make such a long trip?” “I guess so,” Komura said. “Because your wife left?” Komura nodded. “No matter how far you travel, you can never get away from yourself,” Shimao said. Komura was staring at the sugar bowl on the table as she spoke, but then he raised his eyes to hers. “It’s true,” he said. “No matter how far you travel, you can never get away from yourself. It’s like your shadow. It follows you everywhere.” Shimao looked hard at Komura. “I bet you loved her, didn’t you?” Komura dodged the question. “You’re a friend of Keiko Sasaki’s?” “Right. We do stuff together.” “What kind of stuff?” Instead of answering him, Shimao asked, “Are you hungry?” “I don’t know,” Komura said. “I feel kind of hungry and kind of not.” “Let’s go and have something warm, the three of us. Eating something warm will help you relax.” Shimao drove a small four-wheel-drive Subaru. Keiko Sasaki sat next to Shimao, and Komura had the cramped rear seat to himself. There was nothing particularly wrong with Shimao’s driving, but the noise in the back was terrible, and the suspension was nearly shot. The car had to have more than a hundred thousand miles on it. The automatic transmission slammed into gear whenever it downshifted, and the heater blew hot and cold. Shutting his eyes, Komura imagined that he had been imprisoned in a washing machine. No snow had been allowed to accumulate on the streets in Kushiro, but dirty, icy mounds stood at random intervals on both sides of the road. Dense clouds hung low, and, although it was not yet sunset, everything was dark and desolate. The wind tore through the city in sharp squeals. There were no people out walking. Even the traffic lights looked frozen. “This is one part of Hokkaido that doesn’t get much snow,” Keiko explained in a loud voice, looking back at Komura. “We’re on the coast, and the wind is strong, so whatever piles up gets blown away. It’s cold, though, freezing cold. Sometimes it feels like it’s taking your ears off.” “You hear about drunks who freeze to death sleeping on the street,” Shimao said. “Do you get bears around here?” Komura asked. Keiko giggled and turned to Shimao. “Bears!” Shimao gave the same kind of giggle. “I don’t know much about Hokkaido,” Komura said by way of excuse. “I know a good story about bears,” Keiko said. “Right, Shimao?” “A great story!” Shimao said. But their talk broke off at that point, and neither of them told the bear story. Komura didn’t ask to hear it. Soon they reached their destination, a big noodle shop on the highway. They parked in the lot and went inside. Komura had a beer and a hot bowl of ramen noodles. The place was dirty and empty, and the chairs and tables were rickety, but the ramen was terrific, and when he had finished eating Komura did, in fact, feel more relaxed. “Tell me, Mr. Komura,” Keiko said, “do you have something you want to do in Hokkaido? My brother says you’re going to spend a week here.” Komura thought about it for a moment but couldn’t come up with anything that he wanted to do. “How about a hot spring? I know a little country place not far from here.” “Not a bad idea,” Komura said. “I’m sure you’d like it. It’s really nice. No bears or anything.” The two women looked at each other and laughed again. “Do you mind if I ask you about your wife?” Keiko asked. “I don’t mind.” “When did she leave?” “Hmm . . . five days after the earthquake, so that’s more than two weeks ago now.” “Did it have something to do with the earthquake?” Komura shook his head. “Probably not. I don’t think so.” “Still, I wonder if things like that aren’t connected somehow,” Shimao said with a tilt of her head. “Yeah,” Keiko said. “It’s just that you can’t see how.” “Right,” Shimao said. “Stuff like that happens all the time.” “Stuff like what?” Komura asked. “Like, say, what happened with somebody I know,” Keiko said. “You mean Mr. Saeki?” Shimao asked. “Exactly,” Keiko said. “There’s this guy—Saeki. He lives in Kushiro. He’s about forty years old. A hair stylist. His wife saw a U.F.O. last year. She was driving on the edge of town all by herself in the middle of the night and she saw a huge U.F.O. land in a field. Whoosh! Like in ‘Close Encounters.’ A week later, she left home. Just disappeared and never came back. They weren’t having any domestic problems or anything.” “And it was because of the U.F.O.?” Komura asked. “You might as well turn back—all they have is cheese.”Buy the print » “I don’t know why. She just up and left. No note or anything. She had two kids in elementary school, and she just walked out. Not a word from her since,” Keiko said. “The whole week before she left, all she’d do was tell people about the U.F.O. You couldn’t get her to stop. She’d just go on and on about how big and beautiful it was.” She paused to let the story sink in. “My wife left a note,” Komura said. “And we don’t have any kids.” “So your situation’s a little better than Saeki’s,” Keiko said. “Yeah. Kids make a big difference,” Shimao said, nodding. “Shimao’s father left home when she was seven,” Keiko explained with a frown. “Ran off with his wife’s younger sister.” A silence settled over the group. “Maybe Mr. Saeki’s wife didn’t run away but was captured by an alien from the U.F.O.,” Komura said, to change the subject. “It’s possible,” Shimao said with a sombre expression. “You hear stories like that all the time.” “You mean like you’re-walking-along-the-street-and-a-bear-eats-you kind of thing?” Keiko asked. The two women laughed. The three of them left the noodle shop and went to a nearby love hotel. It was on the edge of town, on a strange street where love hotels alternated with gravestone dealers. The hotel Shimao had chosen was an odd building, constructed to look like a European castle. A triangular red flag flew on its highest tower. Keiko got the key at the front desk, and they took the elevator to the room. The windows were tiny, compared with the absurdly big bed. Komura hung his down jacket on a hanger and went into the toilet. During the few minutes that he was gone, the two women managed to run a bath, dim the lights, turn up the heat, turn on the television, examine the delivery menus from local restaurants, test the light switches at the head of the bed, and check the contents of the minibar. “The owners are friends of mine,” Keiko said. “I had them get a big room ready. It’s a love hotel, but don’t let that bother you. You’re not bothered, are you?” “Not at all,” Komura said. “I thought this would make a lot more sense than sticking you in a cramped little room in some cut-rate business hotel by the station.” “I’m sure you’re right,” Komura said. “Why don’t you take a bath? I filled the tub.” Komura did as he was told. The tub was huge. Komura felt almost uneasy soaking in it alone. The couples who came to this hotel probably took baths together. When he emerged from the bathroom, Komura was surprised to see that Keiko Sasaki had left. Shimao was still there, drinking beer and watching TV. “Keiko went home,” Shimao said. “She wanted me to apologize and tell you that she’ll be back tomorrow morning. Do you mind if I stay here a little while and have a beer?” “No,” Komura said. “You’re sure it’s no problem? Like, you want to be alone, or you can’t relax if somebody else is around or something?” Komura insisted that it was no problem. Drinking his beer and drying his hair with a towel, he watched TV with Shimao. It was a news special on the Kobe earthquake. The same images appeared again and again: tilted buildings, buckled streets, tearful old women, confusion, and aimless anger. When a commercial came on, Shimao used the remote to switch off the TV. “Let’s talk,” she said, “as long as we’re here.” “Fine,” Komura said. “What should we talk about?” “In the car, you and Keiko said something about a bear, remember? You said it was a great story.” “Oh, yeah,” she said, nodding. “The bear story.” “You want to tell it to me?” “Sure, why not?” Shimao got a fresh beer from the refrigerator and filled both their glasses. “It’s a little raunchy,” she said. “You don’t mind?” Komura shook his head. “No, go ahead.” “I mean, some men don’t like hearing a woman tell certain kinds of stories.” “I’m not like that.” “It’s something that actually happened to me, so it’s a little embarrassing.” “I’d like to hear it if you’re O.K. with it.” “I’m O.K.,” Shimao said, “if you’re O.K.” “I’m O.K.,” Komura said. “Three years ago—back around the time I started college—I was dating this guy. He was a year older than me, and he was the first guy I had sex with. One day, the two of us were out hiking—in the mountains way up north.” Shimao took a sip of beer. “It was fall, and the hills were full of bears. That’s the time of year when the bears are getting ready to hibernate, so they’re out looking for food and they’re really dangerous. Sometimes they attack people. They’d done an awful job on a hiker three days before we went out. So somebody gave us a bell to carry with us. We were supposed to shake it while we walked to warn the bears that there were people around. Bears don’t attack people on purpose. I mean, they’re pretty much vegetarians. They don’t have to attack people. What happens is they suddenly bump into people in their territory and they get surprised or angry and they attack out of reflex. If you walk along ringing your bell, they’ll avoid you. Get it?” “I get it.” “So that’s what we were doing, walking along and ringing the bell. We got to this place where there was nobody else around, and all of a sudden he said he wanted to . . . do it. I kind of liked the idea, too, so I said O.K., and we went into this bushy place off the trail where nobody could see us, and we spread out a piece of plastic. But I was afraid of the bears. I mean, think how awful it would be to have some bear attack you from behind and kill you while you’re having sex! I would never want to die that way. Would you?” Komura agreed that he would not want to die that way. “So there we were, shaking the bell with one hand and having sex. Kept it up from start to finish. Ding-a-ling! Ding-a-ling!” “Which one of you shook the bell?” “We took turns. We’d trade off when our hands got tired. It was so weird, shaking this bell the whole time we were doing it! I think about it sometimes even now, when I’m having sex, and I start laughing.” Komura gave a little laugh, too. Shimao clapped her hands. “Oh, that’s wonderful,” she said. “You can laugh, after all!” “Of course I can laugh,” Komura said, but, come to think of it, this was the first time he had laughed in quite a while. When was the last time? “Do you mind if I take a bath, too?” Shimao asked. “No,” Komura said. While she was bathing, Komura watched a variety show m.c.’d by a comedian with a loud voice. He didn’t find it the least bit funny, but he couldn’t tell whether that was the show’s fault or his own. He drank a beer and opened a packet of nuts from the minibar. Shimao stayed in the bath for a very long time. Finally, she came out wearing nothing but a towel and sat on the edge of the bed. Dropping the towel, she slid between the sheets like a cat and lay there staring at Komura. “When was the last time you did it with your wife?” she asked. “At the end of December, I think.” “And nothing since?” “Nothing.” “Not with anybody?” Komura closed his eyes and nodded. “You know what I think,” Shimao said. “You need to lighten up and learn to enjoy life a little more. I mean, think about it: tomorrow there could be an earthquake; you could be kidnapped by aliens; you could be eaten by a bear. Nobody knows what’s going to happen.” “Nobody knows what’s going to happen,” Komura echoed. “Ding-a-ling,” Shimao said. After several failed attempts to have sex with Shimao, Komura gave up. This had never happened to him before. “You must have been thinking about your wife,” Shimao said. “Yup,” Komura said, but in fact what he had been thinking about was the earthquake. Images of it had come to him one after another, as if in a slide show, flashing on the screen and fading away. Highways, flames, smoke, piles of rubble. He couldn’t break the chain of silent images. Shimao pressed her ear against his naked chest. “These things happen,” she said. “Uh-huh.” “You shouldn’t let it bother you.” “I’ll try not to,” Komura said. “Men always let it bother them, though.” Komura said nothing. Shimao played with his nipple. “You said your wife left a note, didn’t you?” “I did.” “What did it say?” “That living with me was like living with a chunk of air.” “A chunk of air?” Shimao tilted her head back to look up at Komura. “What does that mean?” “That there’s nothing inside me, I guess.” “Is it true?” “Could be,” Komura said. “I’m not sure, though. I may have nothing inside me, but what would something be?” “Yeah, really, come to think of it. What would something be? My mother was crazy about salmon skin. She always used to wish that there were a kind of salmon that was made of nothing but skin. So there may be some cases when it’s better to have nothing inside. Don’t you think?” Komura tried to imagine what a salmon made of nothing but skin would be like. But even supposing there were such a thing, wouldn’t the skin itself be the something inside? Komura took a deep breath, raising and then lowering Shimao’s head on his chest. “I’ll tell you this, though,” Shimao said. “I don’t know whether you’ve got nothing or something inside you, but I think you’re terrific. I’ll bet the world is full of women who would understand you and fall in love with you.” “It said that, too.” “What? Your wife’s note?” “Uh-huh.” “No kidding,” Shimao said. Her earring rubbed against the skin of his chest. “Come to think of it,” Komura said, “what’s the something inside that box I brought up here?” “Is that bothering you?” “It wasn’t bothering me before. But now, I don’t know, it’s starting to.” “Since when?” “Just now.” “All of a sudden?” “Yeah, once I started thinking about it, all of a sudden.” “I wonder why it’s started to bother you now, all of a sudden.” Komura stared at the ceiling for a minute. “I wonder.” The two listened to the moaning of the wind. The wind came from someplace unknown to Komura, and it blew past, to another place unknown to him. “I’ll tell you why,” Shimao said in a low voice. “It’s because that box contains the something that was inside you. You didn’t know that when you carried it here and gave it to Keiko with your own hands. Now you’ll never get it back.” Komura lifted himself from the mattress and looked down at the woman. Tiny nose, moles on her earlobe. In the room’s silence, his heart beat with a loud, dry sound. His bones cracked as he leaned forward. For a split second, Komura felt as if he were on the verge of committing an act of incredible violence. “Just kidding,” Shimao said, when she saw the look on his face. “I said the first thing that popped into my head. It was a lousy joke. I’m sorry. Don’t take it personally. I didn’t mean to hurt you.” Komura forced himself to calm down and sank his head into his pillow again. He closed his eyes and took a deep breath. The huge bed stretched out around him like a nocturnal sea. His heart was still pounding. “Are you starting to feel a little as if you’ve come a long way?” Shimao asked. “Hmm. Now I feel as if I’ve come a very long way,” Komura answered honestly. Shimao traced a complicated design on Komura’s chest with her fingertip, as if casting a magic spell. “But really,” she said, “you’re just at the beginning.”
Rollingwood It’s still dark when the weeping erupts, so Mather knows it’s early. How early he isn’t sure, but he won’t be able to fall back asleep, so it doesn’t matter. He pulls the extra pillow over his head, tries to smother the sound, but it’s still there, the distant siren of the boy crying in the other room. The boy is wedged under the machine when Mather goes in. The machine has run dry again, streaks of pink fluid smeared inside the hose, the tank in the crib issuing an exhausted wheeze. It’s a terrible design. Under the clouded tank is a cavity just large enough to conceal the boy if he crawls in, which is what he does when he wakes up too early and no one comes for him. So Mather has to wedge his fingers beneath the thing, which barely fits in the crib, anyway, and lift it just enough to grab the boy and pull him out. Of course the boy has been crying. Crying isn’t really the right word for it. He has been explosively weeping, maybe for a long time, and when Mather picks him up and holds him close the weeping escalates, the boy breaking down in Mather’s arms. Mather tries to set the boy down in the dark kitchen so that he can make coffee, but as soon as the boy is released he bursts into sobs again. As usual, Mather talks to him, tries to calmly reassure him, but the boy’s crying is so loud that Mather cannot even hear his own voice. He sits on the dirty kitchen floor and gathers the boy in to try to soothe him, but the boy squirms from his grasp and goes on wailing, so Mather leaves the kitchen and shuts himself in the bathroom, triggering even higher-pitched cries from the boy. When the doorbell rings to signal that Mather’s ride to work is here, he isn’t ready to go. The boy’s diaper was dry when he got up, which meant that he hadn’t had enough water, but Mather could not get him to drink anything. The boy twisted his head away when offered a bottle, so Mather tried to interest him in different cups, even his own coffee mug, which the boy usually tried to pry from his hands. Finally, the boy took a few greedy gulps from the mug, with most of the water running down his chest. He wouldn’t eat the egg that Mather had prepared for him, but he did steal Mather’s toast, which he clutched into a gummy mass in his fist while wandering around the living room, still half crying. Now Mather has to quickly force the boy into his clothing as he struggles to get away. From the hallway, he grabs the same day bag he used yesterday, and the day before, packed with the same spare clothes for the boy and the same dry snacks that he never seems to want. No one says hello when Mather opens the door of the car-pool vehicle. They have had to wait for him in the unlit garage, and he can tell that they’ve lost patience. There’s no car seat installed today, no space reserved for the boy, and he won’t hold still in Mather’s lap. The woman next to Mather is not amused when the boy throws himself across her legs, trying to crawl toward the window. She sits back, hands up, indicating that Mather must remove the boy himself. Mather apologizes and pulls the boy back, squeezing him tightly so that he can’t escape. This makes the boy shriek and squirm with surprising strength. But Mather does not relent. He has no real choice. They pass the old bald hill and the spire, then get waved through at the Faraday gate, where they join the line of cars that form a single file to climb to the top. The little trees out the window are bare and the grass is colorless this time of year, but it’s a bright, clear day. Mather wishes there were a window open, but he doesn’t feel that he can ask. No doubt someone decided, before they picked him up, that they’d ride to work with the windows closed, breathing one another’s stale air. In the parking lot, overlooking the valley, the boy wants to walk under his own power, but there are cars pulling in and it’s too dangerous. Mather finds a little patch of grass for the boy to run around in. It isn’t much, and it quickly drops off into a steep decline, so he stations himself to keep the boy from running down the cliff. For a while the boy staggers around, reaching over to clutch at little sticks, which he holds up to his father with pride. When the work bell sounds, Mather lines up at the service entrance and waits his turn for the security check. The boy tenses in Mather’s arms as they approach the nursery, but when Mather hands him off to the caregiver the boy does not let himself cry. Even at this age, he is trying to be brave. Mather watches through the high window as the boy is quickly placed on the floor of the playroom, in front of a bucket of foam blocks. The caregiver disappears into an office, but the boy does not seem to notice. He picks something out of the bucket and puts it in his mouth. Mather gives him a last look, then heads up the ramp to the elevator. The boy is one and a half years old and his name is Alan Mather, and already he has dense black hair on his head. To Mather, Alan is a name not for a baby but for a grown man. When they were naming him, he had let the boy’s mother choose, thinking that he should pick his battles. She had been so sure about it, and Mather had found that he could not think of a single name that didn’t make him feel uneasy when he said it out loud. Mather has tried to call the boy “honey” instead, and maybe if he keeps doing so it will come to feel more natural. The boy has a quiet, wet cough and pink-rimmed eyes, and he’s already capable of a sustained, piercing eye contact that his father can never quite match. At his lunch hour, Mather takes his thermos and sandwich down to the nursery. The boy is in a crib, but he is not asleep. He has the same little foam object clutched in his hand, and it’s been chewed to shreds. When the boy sees Mather, he starts to cry, but softly, as if he had already cried himself hoarse. The respirator in the nursery hasn’t been turned on, and when Mather checks the log to see if the boy has received his asthma medication there are no entries for today. The boy has the kind of asthma that keeps his lungs from properly lubricating, so he has to inhale moisture through a mask every four hours or his lungs will start to dry out. It’s not serious, the doctor told Mather, but he should try not to miss a treatment. The director of the nursery seemed to be concealing a smirk when Mather first introduced him to the equipment, as if Mather had simply brought in one of Alan’s favorite toys. After Mather holds the mask to the boy’s face and the boy obediently inhales the wet air, his little brow wrinkled in concentration, they return to the patch of grass outside. Mather tries to eat while the boy sits in his lap, facing downhill. The boy wants to hold Mather’s sandwich, but when Mather lets him he won’t eat any of it, and when Mather tries to rescue the sandwich the boy clutches it into a ball. Mather isn’t hungry for the sandwich, anyway. When he hasn’t slept well, he wants only a sugared muffin with a Coke. His sandwich is cucumbers with olive spread, between slices of thin, black toast, and it smells like potting soil. It’s a bright, clear day, and Mather can see all the way down to Rollingwood, the neighborhood where he grew up. He can’t see his old house, but he can see the street where it would be, behind a hooked cul-de-sac of narrow homes. His old elementary school’s clock tower rises high out of the trees. The clock stopped at three-fifteen a long time ago, and unless you stand beneath the tower you’d think the little hand had fallen off, because it’s perfectly hidden beneath the big hand. Mather’s son won’t go to school there, because they live far away from Rollingwood now. Mather doesn’t even know where the public schools are in his new neighborhood. It’s not so much a neighborhood as an exit off the freeway, but it’s pretty, in its way, with circular grass parks and housing staggered down the middle. In the spring, it’s one of his favorite parts of town. Something about the absence of trees makes the light seem perfect. It’s hard to imagine that he’ll still be in the same apartment, at the same job, in the same city, when the boy starts kindergarten in a few years. But of course the boy will attend kindergarten wherever his mother is living at the time, so Mather isn’t even sure why he’s thinking about the schools in his neighborhood. Mather points out landmarks to the boy—the old Rotterman Dam and the shipping depot built of natural black bricks—but the boy doesn’t look. He hangs on Mather’s outstretched arm and tries to swing from it. Mather stands up and swings him around and the boy laughs, but the laugh turns into a whimper, and Mather isn’t sure if the boy is frightened or happy. After work, they take the bus to the boy’s mother’s apartment, but she isn’t home. She has repeatedly asked Mather to return his key, but it’s times like this that persuade him to hang on to it. Otherwise he’d be waiting forever on the narrow balcony of her building and the boy would be imperilling himself by trying to squeeze through the bars. Mather lets himself inside and medicates the boy with the old ventilator in the living room, then looks for something to give him for dinner. There is only a chicken salad, so Mather spreads it on a cutting board and begins chopping it fine. The boy refuses the first spoonful, but Mather leaves the bowl on the low coffee table, and after the boy has finished running around the apartment he discovers the bowl of mashed chicken and starts to awkwardly feed himself while Mather watches from his chair. It’s late and dark when the boy’s mother comes home. She’s with her boyfriend, who excuses himself to the bedroom without even taking off his coat. Mather has done his best to accept the boyfriend, has always been cordial and said hello, but the boyfriend won’t look Mather in the eye and never stops to talk. At these dropoffs, Mather and the boy’s mother, Maureen, do not say much. They confirm the next exchange of the boy and discuss his medication, what he’s eaten, how he’s been sleeping. They stick to factual matters and flatten their tone of voice as much as possible, disguising all feeling. But today Maureen says that she needs to talk to him and asks him to sit down. Mather hides his excitement. Maureen never wants to talk to him. Usually she seems disgusted by his presence, critical of how he fathers the boy, indifferent to anything Mather says that is unrelated to the boy’s care. It is as if she had stored up disappointment that she is determined to show him during the ten minutes they see each other twice a week. So for a moment Mather imagines that Maureen has grown suddenly tender toward him, even with the boyfriend lurking in the bedroom. She misses Mather, maybe, and would like to talk to someone who really knows her. Someone who understands, because they once went through a lot together. Except that’s not it. Maureen needs a favor. She tells him that she can’t take the boy right now. She’s going away. “O.K.,” Mather says carefully, wanting to sound coöperative. He’d love to do her a favor, because she thinks he never does. If he shows resistance, she’ll be upset and then they’ll have another fight. “Thanks for understanding,” Maureen says. “I appreciate it.” She gets up as if that were all they needed to discuss. But Mather doesn’t understand. What is she telling him? “I guess we need to wake up Alan,” Maureen says, and she heads for the curtained-off hallway where Mather put him to sleep in the portable crib. “Where are you going, can I ask?” Mather says. He’s not sure why he sounds apologetic. “To Robert’s home town.” Robert is the boyfriend. Mather thinks that Robert is lucky to be alone in a dark room right now. Maybe Robert is standing at the door, still wearing his winter coat, listening to them. “Why can’t you take Alan? It’s your turn. He can’t go with you?” “No. Alan can’t come.” “Well, when are you coming back?” “Really soon. I’ll call you. I’ll make up the days.” “So you’re just going off in the middle of the workweek?” Maureen looks at him sharply, and it’s clear that she doesn’t think she needs to explain herself. She picks up the boy and starts whispering to him, her voice losing its scolding tone, dissolving into singsong. She bounces and hushes him, even though he’s not crying. The boy clings to his mother. When she bends over the couch to change him, he clutches her as if he were a baby animal, and she has to peel him away. She tells the boy that he will be staying with his daddy for a little while longer, and that she will miss him so much. She will see him soon, and then they will do fun things and she will give him lots of kisses because he’s her little boy, isn’t he, and all she wants to do is kiss him all the time. Should they go on a boat ride when she comes home? Does he remember the boat ride they once took? Would he like to do that again? That’s what they’ll do. She’ll come home and they’ll go down to the river and take a nice boat ride. Mather stands there in the dark living room. There won’t be a boat ride. He knows that. She’s showering so much love on the boy that he will become dazed by it, then Mather will have to take over and the boy will be bitterly disappointed again. To Mather, these intense displays of love are what he must help the boy recover from. Fatherhood has somehow become about helping the boy not love his mother too painfully. Maureen hands the boy off to Mather, and the boy registers the change for one perfectly quiet second, then screams. He’s never liked parting from his mother, and now they’ve woken him up late at night only to make him suffer a sudden separation. Mather closes his eyes and takes a deep breath. There’s nothing he can do. He’d like Maureen to seem more obviously guilty, but she shows no sign of having done anything wrong. It is, apparently, Mather’s fault that the boy does not love him with the same desperation. There’s no one else at the bus stop, and from what Mather can tell, after reading the posted schedule, the next bus will come in one minute, which is lucky for him, because the boy is not pleased, outside in the early winter at night. Except when one minute passes, then two, then five, it becomes clear that the bus must have come already and now the next one isn’t due for half an hour. Alone, which is what he was supposed to be tonight, Mather wouldn’t care. He’d sit on the bench and read, enjoying the cold night. But he has the boy with him, and the boy is fully awake after all his screaming and will be cold soon. This isn’t the sort of area where empty taxicabs drive around looking for fares. Mather calls information and gets the number for a car service, then speaks to a dispatcher. They can send a driver in forty-five minutes. Mather tells the man that it’s late and his baby is tired and hungry, and the man repeats that he can send a car in forty-five minutes. More like an hour, actually, to be honest—as if he were doing Mather a favor by lengthening the estimate. Mather starts to walk home, carrying the boy, along the bus route, even though it’s less direct. He figures that the bus, when it comes, won’t cruelly pass him by if he stands in the road and waves. The roads are so empty that Mather wonders for a moment if something terrible has happened, and everyone is at home watching the news, knowing better than to go outside. He stops walking and listens. It’s the quietest he’s ever heard his city. The boy, too, seems transfixed, staring into the darkness. But then a bus rolls into sight and Mather stands right over the white line, waving. He doesn’t want to take any chances. Maureen doesn’t call the next day, or the day after that, and then it’s the weekend. On Sunday, Mather’s parents visit, but they’re so tired they don’t leave their chairs. Mather’s parents have been to Lisbon, and they tell him of eating fish seared on the rocks at the harbor. The flat rocks are heated by torches overnight, and when the morning’s catch comes in a man cleans whole fish to order and lays them out, butterflied, on the hot stone, which is black and oily from the cooking. When you salt this fish, it’s the best thing you’ve ever eaten. You eat it with your fingers. Even the locals eat it, which, of course, is the best endorsement. Mather’s father studies him for signs of enthusiasm. Mather nods his approval and says that he’d love to try it sometime. The boy goes to the front hallway and grabs his little white shoes, then brings them over to Mather. Then he carries first one, then the other, of Mather’s old maroon work shoes, dumping them loudly at Mather’s feet. “He wants to go out,” Mather mumbles. Mather’s parents smile with abstract pleasure but do not move. When he doesn’t hear from Maureen by Monday afternoon, Mather calls and gets her voice mail. He would like to know her plans. The boy is doing fine, he tells her. He’s actually eating, and he gets up twice at night, but Mather downgrades this to once in his message, because somehow the extra night wakings might seem like a failure of his. He asks Maureen to get back to him so that he knows when to drop Alan off. He gets no call the next day. The day after that, at work, the nursery is closed. The lights are off and the door is locked when Mather carries the boy over in the morning. Mather waits outside while his colleagues head upstairs. He calls the nursery number and gets no answer. He bangs on the dark glass. Finally, when he is going to be late for work, he takes the boy up the ramp to the elevators and brings him into the suite of offices. Mather asks someone named Drew what’s going on with the nursery today. Drew has pictures of kids on his desk. He must have used the nursery at some point. But Drew just shrugs and looks at Alan in Mather’s arms as if Mather had smuggled contraband into work. “I’ll go see Ferguson, I guess,” Mather says. Ferguson is the supervisor and maybe he’ll understand. “He’s not coming in this morning,” Drew says, his face arranged in an unconvincing look of concern. Mather heads to Ferguson’s office, anyway, and asks his assistant if he can see him. “And you are?” the assistant asks. “It’s just for a moment,” Mather says. “It’s an emergency.” He holds up the boy as proof. See my emergency. The assistant doesn’t look. “Your name?” he asks. “Mather,” Mather says. “I work over there.” He gestures at the cubicle with his head. There’s a young woman writing something at his desk. Sometimes temps from the night shift set up at empty desks for their red-eye collation projects and have to move when the full-timers come in. He’s going to have to ask her to leave and she’s going to be annoyed, even though it’s his desk. “How’s Friday at eleven?” the assistant asks. “The day after tomorrow?” The assistant is irritated. “That would be Friday, yes.” “Could you please just let him know I’ve had an emergency and need a personal day?” The assistant eyes him carefully. “You’d better write that out yourself to be sure the message is how you want it.” But Mather says that he trusts the assistant to get it right. It’s not very complicated. At home, he phones Maureen’s office and the call is routed to a receptionist. Maureen is not available. But he’d like to know if she’s there, if she’s actually at work today. The receptionist repeats that she’s not available to come to the phone and would Mather like to leave a message? He says that it’s about her son and would she please call him. The boy won’t nap, but he doesn’t cry. He sits in his crib quietly, and Mather notices that his breath is coming heavily, with a faint whistling sound. Under the boy’s dark hair, Mather thinks, the scalp looks unusually red, and when he touches it the boy flinches. He gives him the humidifier mask and the boy takes hungry gulps of the wet air. When Mather tries to remove him from the crib, the boy protests, points back to his mattress, so Mather leaves him there, and the boy crawls under the tank of the humidifier. Mather checks on him later and he is still awake, but he cries when Mather tries to pick him up. The tank is empty, so Mather rinses it out and fills it with more distilled water. The boy returns the mask to his face and Mather can hear a whinny in his breath now. Is he getting better or worse? The redness on the boy’s scalp has spread beyond his hairline, down his face. Mather’s mother, before she retired, was a nurse, so he calls her. “Just wait till you walk in the front door—you’ll find out if I have a death ray or not.”Buy the print » “You worry too much,” she says. “Leave him alone. Children are remarkably strong. They’re much stronger than us. You never got sick, never once. You never caused us any problems.” The next morning the car-pool vehicle does not come. Mather has been up for hours and is packed and ready to go. He’s lost track of whose turn it is to drive today, so he can’t even make a phone call. He’s been so grateful to be part of the car pool, since he has no car of his own, that he’s paid more than his share of the gas, just to be sure that nothing goes wrong. He tries not to make trouble, particularly on days when he has the boy. But there’s no car today, and if he doesn’t leave right away he will be late for work. On the bus there are no empty seats, so Mather stakes out a position for himself against a pole. The boy is pale inside his snowsuit. His face is dry and peeling. His skin seems nearly translucent. His cough is small and weak, and it could just be that he’s dehydrated. The bus lets them off downhill from the Faraday gate. With the boy in his arms, Mather hikes up the side of the road as a stream of cars pass them on the way to work. He sees some people he knows, but no one stops. He’s never hiked this road, and it’s much steeper than he would have thought. He’s drenched inside his winter coat, and the boy’s face is flushed, even though he’s not exerting himself. At the gate, Mather has to show his credentials and they ask to pat down the boy, who goes with one of the guards without complaint. He doesn’t even seem to notice that someone else is carrying him. The nursery is closed again this morning. Someone has taped a piece of paper to the door, but it’s since been ripped down, leaving just the clear tape fastened over a shred of blank paper. Mather brings the boy up to his office and there are two temps sharing his desk. He stands there holding the boy, needing to put him down so that he can figure out what to do. “All right,” he says to the temps, trying to sound cheerful. “I guess I have to get in here.” He has no idea what he’s going to do with Alan today, but at least if he gets his desk back he can settle in and maybe make a play area for him on the floor. The temps look up at him and blink. “We’re here until noon,” the young man says. Probably he’s in his early twenties, but he looks like a boy. “Well,” Mather says, “you need to move to the conference room or somewhere else, because this is my desk.” He shouldn’t have to articulate this. “Mr. Ferguson told us to work here,” the other temp says impatiently, a young woman who is so striking he’s afraid to look at her. The boy wriggles out of Mather’s grasp and sets off away from him, not even looking back, so Mather excuses himself to follow him, until they bump into Ferguson, who is speaking with some executives outside the conference room. “Well, who do we have here?” Ferguson says, addressing the boy. Mather leans over the boy, as if he needed to formally present him to his supervisor. “This is Alan,” he says. “Alan. Is that right? Are you helping your father get his stuff, Alan?” “My stuff?” Mather asks. “What do you mean?” “I had a note that you were leaving.” The executives standing with Ferguson smile at Mather. Ferguson smiles, too. “No, no, no,” Mather protests. “I had to take a personal day yesterday, that’s all. His mother is supposed to have him and the nursery was closed. I’m sorry for the misunderstanding. I’m not leaving at all.” “Well, that is a misunderstanding,” Ferguson says. “That contradicts the note I received.” His face has clouded over. When someone like Ferguson exceeds the allotted time for encounters with employees in the hallway, he does not try to hide it. “No,” Mather says. “I’m here, I’m here. I’m not going anywhere.” “O.K.,” Ferguson says, and he looks down at the boy, who’s still in his snowsuit, pressed against the glass of the conference room. “But what about today?” Ferguson wants to know. “What’s your plan today?” What he’s going to do is check the nursery again, Mather tells Ferguson, because maybe they’ve opened it by now, and then he’ll be right back. But of course the nursery is still closed when he gets there, locked and dark, with no note on the window. He asks the security guards if they know anything, but they don’t. From the guard booth, they look over at the unlit nursery room as if they’d never seen it before. So Mather has no choice but to go home with the boy in his arms, who is so light it feels to Mather that he is carrying an empty snowsuit. At home, he calls Maureen again, but her voice mail is full and she’s not picking up. Mather would try Robert, just to reach Maureen, but if he was ever told Robert’s last name he can’t remember it now. Mather knows nothing about him, let alone where his home town is. There are a few of Maureen’s friends to try, but Alma is the obvious one, the loyalist, whose negative forecasts about Mather were always, according to Maureen, a hundred per cent accurate. “If Alma is so smart,” Mather once asked, “then why is she fat and alone?” He wanted to think that this was an innocent question, prompted by irreconcilable pieces of information. “Of course you’d ask that,” Maureen said, smiling. “Of course.” She always seemed genuinely happy when Mather was at his worst. And of course you’d have no answer, Mather thought, back at her, in the unspoken way he often fought with her, but then Maureen did have an answer, at least about Alma’s weight. A gland or a duct or perhaps an entire organ had begun to work overtime, could not stop laboring inside Alma, as if there were always unfinished work to do. And the result was that incredibly pale skin Alma had and, yes, it was true, some extra weight. A depressed metabolism, because Alma actually ate less than the rest of us. But Mather didn’t even deserve to know that, Maureen assured him. He wasn’t even worthy of knowing that about Alma. She picks up on the first ring, stating her full name, Alma Ryan, which everyone does at her office, a publishing house that specializes in children’s books. Mather quickly says that it is him, and that she shouldn’t hang up, because this is about Alan, and does Alma know where Maureen is? “What’s happened to Alan?” Alma asks in a careful voice. Mather explains that nothing has, but Maureen is still not back and this isn’t like her and it’s causing problems for him. He’s home with the boy now when he needs to be at work. He might even lose his job because of this. “I’m sorry to hear that your child is an inconvenience to you,” Alma says. Mather curses at her, freely and at length, and Alma hangs up. Then he calls her right back. “Alma Ryan.” Mather explains that he is sorry and he needs her help. Alan is no inconvenience to him. Alan is his son and he loves him. Alma has to believe that, no matter what she thinks of him. But the boy needs his mother, too. Mather explains that Alan is just too little to be away from his mother for this long, with Mather not even knowing where she is or when she’s coming back. Maybe Alma does not know all the details, but Alan is not well. His asthma. This is not fair to Alan. He explains all this to Alma, but when he waits for her to respond she isn’t there. The line is dead. It is possible that Alma hung up as soon as she heard Mather’s voice. She doesn’t pick up again. In the late afternoon, the boy won’t breathe through his mask. He covers his mouth with his hands and turns his head away. Mather tries to listen to his breath, but the boy won’t stay put. Still, Mather hears a whistle in the boy’s lungs, and he pictures them shrivelling inside the boy’s small chest, as dry as two little pieces of paper curling up in the heat. He knows that if the boy would inhale the vapors from the mask his lungs would lubricate and he would feel better, but the boy is stubborn and the more Mather tries to press the mask over his face the more he twists out of reach. Mather reminds himself that it isn’t serious. The treatments are supposedly optional, meant to increase the boy’s comfort. It is only asthma. But the boy is pale and certainly too little for his age, and he sits listlessly on the rug after his nap, uninterested in the toy cars that Mather has arranged around him. Mather schedules a sitter, and the next morning he shows her around the apartment while the boy clings to him. Mather demonstrates the ventilator to the sitter, but it is clear that she has already decided that it is too complicated for her to operate. Mather was going to leave early for the bus stop, to be sure that he wasn’t late for work, but then his doorbell rings, and he runs downstairs to the car-pool vehicle, the boy crying behind him in the sitter’s arms. A proper goodbye would only have made it worse, and the boy will recover faster this way. In any case, Mather needs to go to work. This is how it has to be. In the dark car, no one so much as looks his way. Mather wonders what happens day after day in this car before he is picked up that makes for such grim silence. They stare ahead while he settles in and buckles his seat belt, and for a moment Mather feels the enormous relief of travelling alone, even if there are mute co-workers pressed against him. He has no one to take care of and he can relax. Mather lowers his window when they pull out of the garage, and the woman beside him huffs. He’ll consider himself justly scolded. They turn onto the Hills Parkway and the car picks up speed. Outside, it’s a flat, gray morning, but the air is warm, and Mather lets the wind cover his face. There are sweet, smoky streaks in the sky, the kind of clouds that scatter if a bird so much as flies through them. Mather almost feels that he could sleep, and he wishes the ride were much longer. He’d love to stay in the car like this all day, just driving around town, sleeping a little, looking out the window, doing nothing, while someone else keeps the boy busy at home. The temps are at his desk when he gets to work. “O.K., guys, break it up,” he says, wanting to sound jovial about it. They’re completely engrossed in their work and don’t look up. It’s the same two temps from yesterday, and a third one leans over them, staring at the computer screen. They have coffees and food wrappers cluttering the desk, and Mather’s own in-box is nowhere to be seen. There’s hardly room for him to put down his briefcase. “I’m back,” Mather says, this time more softly. “We’re pretty hunkered down,” the young man from yesterday says. Mather isn’t sure, but the young man’s hand motion may be waving him away. Mather says, “I can see that.” It’s important to stay friendly, extend an olive branch. He was a temp once. There’s no reason to lord his rank over them. “Would you guys like to take a minute to find another place to work?” The young man seems to consider this but mentions their deadline and how settled in they are at Mather’s desk. He says that they’re good where they are, but thanks for the offer. Of course it’s a misunderstanding, and a small one, but Mather feels that he hasn’t been at his desk in ages and he’d like things to return to normal. How long has it been since he’s had a normal workday? He looks around for some sort of backup, commiseration from the other full-timers, but his colleagues are all hopelessly tuned in to their computers. Unfortunately, he has to go higher up on this one. He’d have liked to avoid that, but the temps have given him no choice. Ferguson’s assistant tells Mather that his appointment isn’t until eleven. Mather says, “I didn’t make that appointment. Remember? I need to see him now. The temps are at my desk and I have to get to work. It’s already after nine.” “So are you cancelling the eleven o’clock?” the assistant asks, crossing something out in his book. “No,” Mather says quietly, “because I never made it.” “Never made what?” a voice booms behind him. It’s Ferguson, just walking in, acting as though he’d missed the beginning of a joke. Mather wonders if Ferguson ever gets exhausted, smiling like that. The assistant disengages, returns to his work. “I never made an appointment with you,” Mather explains, realizing that this will only confuse Ferguson, but Ferguson has the ability not to show confusion, perhaps not to even experience it. A man like Ferguson can remain impervious to all messages beyond his own internal script, which drives him with purpose from room to room. Ferguson pats Mather on the back. “So you got rid of him, huh?” he asks. “Who?” Mather says. “Who!” Ferguson laughs. “The kid! You finally fobbed him off! Good work!” “Oh,” Mather says. “I did. Yeah.” “Just a quick thing,” he says to Ferguson, using a serious, professional tone. He would like Ferguson, if possible, to resolve this situation with the temps, he says, because he needs to get back to work, and why does he always have to vacate people from his desk every morning? It’s stressful, if Ferguson wants to know the truth, and Ferguson nods with sympathy. The temps should have marching orders and time frames before they even sit down at someone else’s desk. Mather explains that it creates tension and it’s maybe not a great idea for office morale. “The temps left at eight today,” Ferguson says, “as usual. But let me introduce you to our new team. We’ve just made some pretty killer hires. Morale couldn’t be better.” At Mather’s desk, Ferguson presents the three new hotshot employees, but Mather doesn’t listen to their names. Ferguson is boasting about the marketing initiative they took as temps and how they’re the first temps in a year to move up the ladder like this. Straight up the ladder. Fire at their heels. The three of them, still caught up in the seriousness flowing from Mather’s computer, are flushed with Ferguson’s praise, as if they believed that soon they’d be running the company. And somehow Mather is supposed to feel happy for them, which he tells Ferguson he is, but of course this is his desk, where his unfinished projects remain and can’t the new team work somewhere else? Ferguson says that he and Mather should go talk at the elevator. His voice is soft, and he tries to shepherd Mather that way, placing an arm around him. Walk employee to quiet place. Present news in positive terms. About the only way that Mather can have an edge on Ferguson is to hold his ground and force this conversation to happen right here. He can feel his co-workers pretending not to look at him. Ferguson says, “I think the next step is a good strategy talk down in H.R. They’ll have a really tactical perspective on what might be next for you. It’s never a bad time to talk strategy. You think you’ve considered all your options and possibilities, but you never have. There’s always something you haven’t thought of.” Mather’s cell phone rings and he doesn’t recognize the number, but he feels he must pick up, even though the timing is bad. It could be Maureen calling from someone else’s phone. Maybe she lost her phone, which is why she hasn’t picked up for so long. Maybe she’s calling to say she’s sorry, and how is baby Alan, and can she see him soon? Except it’s not Maureen, it’s someone with poor English, on a poor connection, who asks several times for Mr. Mather. “This is he,” Mather says, as Ferguson and the new employees look at him with polite curiosity. The caller asks again for Mather, and again he says “This is he,” until it occurs to him that she doesn’t understand the expression. “This is Mr. Mather. Who’s calling, please?” Without people watching him, he might have hung up already. Mather figures out that it’s the sitter, and what she’s saying to him, over and over, is the name of his boy. She’s saying “Alan,” except with her accent it sounds like “Allah.” She has little ability to elaborate. Something is wrong with the boy. She needs him to come home right away. Mather stays calm. “I have to go. It’s my son.” “I guess you can’t get rid of him that easy!” Ferguson laughs. Mather rushes to the elevator, and behind him Ferguson calls out that business about H.R. again and scheduling an appointment. “Strategy!” Ferguson shouts, as the elevator doors close. It’s not until Mather gets on the bus that he realizes precisely what has happened. This is how it’s done. No doubt Ferguson took a workshop to learn just that language. Perhaps he was excited to practice it on Mather. Firing is an opportunity, the start of something wonderful and new. While Mather is on the bus, the sitter calls again, but there’s nothing he can do. He’s on his way, she has to hold tight, and he will be there as soon as he can. His phone rings again as he approaches the back of his building. This time it’s Maureen. “Finally,” he says. It’s as if the whole crisis were over, simply because she has called. He’s not even mad, just relieved. “Where are you,” Maureen demands. “Where am I? Where am I?” Mather can’t believe it. “Are you kidding me? Where the fuck are you?” Then he sees, across the parking lot, at the entrance to his building, Maureen, talking on her phone. Robert is with her, and he’s got the boy. Next to them is the sitter, and even from here Mather can see that she’s crying hysterically. “You left him with a stranger,” Maureen hisses into the phone. “I can’t go away for one minute. I can’t leave him with you for a single second. A stranger who knows nothing about children.” Mather sees the full hatred in her body, how she’d like to crawl into her phone and kill him as she stalks around the parking lot. “I’m right here,” Mather says. “Look up,” and he watches her uncoil. Maureen sees Mather and takes the boy from Robert. They’ve got him all wrapped up in his snowsuit, and he’s wearing one of those white stocking caps they give to babies at the hospital. Somehow it still fits him. “We’re leaving,” she announces, and Robert instantly falls into step behind her. Mather approaches and the sitter rushes at him, frantic. “I don’t give them Allah. They take Allah. It’s O.K. they take Allah?” Mather tells Maureen to wait, to hold on, there’s a lot to talk about. She can’t just barge over and take Alan like that. She has a lot to account for. “Really?” Maureen says, and she looks almost excited, as if she can’t wait to tear into Mather over this. Mather wants at least to see the boy, and, when he approaches, Alan looks at him with his pink-rimmed eyes, crusty and dry in the corners, and his skin not so much pale as yellow. Mather goes to touch the boy gently—this is his little son, he would like to give him a kiss—and the boy cringes, nestling further into his mother. Mather backs away. “It’s O.K., Mr. Mather?” the sitter says. “It’s O.K. they take him?” She’s acting like Mather’s only friend. “You’re asking the wrong person, you bitch,” Maureen says. But Mather calms the sitter down and says, “Yes, it’s O.K., don’t worry.” “Leave my friends alone,” Maureen spits. “Don’t call my work. Don’t call us.” Robert looks at Mather, and there’s not even malice in his eyes. Just boredom. Mather watches them drive away and he goes upstairs, alone, to his apartment. It’s not even noon. He’ll start by doing laundry, all the boy’s clothes. He takes everything down to the machines in the basement, then upstairs he vacuums, opens the windows for air. From the boy’s crib he removes the humidifier. What Mather will do is take off the tubes and soak them in a good, hot solution. The plastic water tank has to be soaked, too. The mask pulls easily from the hose and it still smells a little bit of the boy, his sleeping breath. When Mather puts it back together it will be as clean as new. Later, Mather will go shopping and he’ll buy the boy’s favorite foods. He’ll stock up on distilled water for the tank. He’ll even lay in some candy, for those times when nothing else works. If it’s not too late after that and he has the energy, Mather will take the bus down to Rollingwood to the toy store he loved when he was young, if it’s even still there, and he will pick up something fun for the boy. There has to be something that Alan will just love to play with, maybe a train table, which he’s too young for at the moment, but not really for long. He’s growing up. It’s not a bad idea at all to start thinking about getting just the right train table built up in the living room. At home tonight, Mather will lay the pieces out on the floor, and he’ll start building, because it could take a few days to get it done, and this way he’ll have a head start. He wants to be ready for next time. He wants to bring the boy in and present it to him and see the look in the boy’s eyes when he lowers him into place and pushes that very first train into view.
Going for a Beer He finds himself sitting in the neighborhood bar drinking a beer at about the same time that he began to think about going there for one. In fact, he has finished it. Perhaps he’ll have a second one, he thinks, as he downs it and asks for a third. There is a young woman sitting not far from him who is not exactly good-looking but good-looking enough, and probably good in bed, as indeed she is. Did he finish his beer? Can’t remember. What really matters is: Did he enjoy his orgasm? Or even have one? This he is wondering on his way home through the foggy night streets from the young woman’s apartment. Which was full of Kewpie dolls, the sort won at carnivals, and they made a date, as he recalls, to go to one. Where she wins another—she has a knack for it. Whereupon they’re in her apartment again, taking their clothes off, she excitedly cuddling her new doll in a bed heaped with them. He can’t remember when he last slept, and he’s no longer sure, as he staggers through the night streets, still foggy, where his own apartment is, his orgasm, if he had one, already fading from memory. Maybe he should take her back to the carnival, he thinks, where she wins another Kewpie doll (this is at least their second date, maybe their fourth), and this time they go for a romantic nightcap at the bar where they first met. Where a brawny dude starts hassling her. He intervenes and she turns up at his hospital bed, bringing him one of her Kewpie dolls to keep him company. Which is her way of expressing the bond between them, or so he supposes, as he leaves the hospital on crutches, uncertain what part of town he is in. Or what part of the year. He decides that it’s time to call the affair off—she’s driving him crazy—but then the brawny dude turns up at their wedding and apologizes for the pounding he gave him. He didn’t realize, he says, how serious they were. The guy’s wedding present is a gift certificate for two free drinks at the bar where they met and a pair of white satin ribbons for his crutches. During the ceremony, they both carry Kewpie dolls that probably have some barely hidden significance, and indeed do. The child she bears him, his or another’s, reminds him, as if he needed reminding, that time is fast moving on. He has responsibilities now and he decides to check whether he still has the job that he had when he first met her. He does. His absence, if he has been absent, is not remarked on, but he is not congratulated on his marriage, either, no doubt because—it comes back to him now—before he met his wife he was engaged to one of his colleagues and their co-workers had already thrown them an engagement party, so they must resent the money they spent on gifts. It’s embarrassing and the atmosphere is somewhat hostile, but he has a child in kindergarten and another on the way, so what can he do? Well, he still hasn’t cashed in the gift certificate, so, for one thing, what the hell, he can go for a beer, two, in fact, and he can afford a third. There’s a young woman sitting near him who looks like she’s probably good in bed, but she’s not his wife and he has no desire to commit adultery, or so he tells himself, as he sits on the edge of her bed with his pants around his ankles. Is he taking them off or putting them on? He’s not sure, but now he pulls them on and limps home, having left his beribboned crutches somewhere. On arrival, he finds all the Kewpie dolls, which were put on a shelf when the babies started coming, now scattered about the apartment, beheaded and with their limbs amputated. One of the babies is crying, so, while he warms up a bottle of milk on the stove, he goes into its room to give it a pacifier and discovers a note from his wife pinned to its pajamas, which says that she has gone off to the hospital to have another baby and she’d better not find him here when she gets back, because if she does she’ll kill him. He believes her, so he’s soon out on the streets again, wondering if he ever gave that bottle to the baby, or if it’s still boiling away on the stove. He passes the old neighborhood bar and is tempted but decides that he has had enough trouble for one lifetime and is about to walk on when he is stopped by that hulk who beat him up and who now gives him a cigar because he’s just become a father and drags him into the bar for a celebratory drink, or, rather, several, he has lost count. The celebrations are already over, however, and the new father, who has married the same woman who threw him out, is crying in his beer about the miseries of married life and congratulating him on being well out of it, a lucky man. But he doesn’t feel lucky, especially when he sees a young woman sitting near them who looks like she’s probably good in bed and decides to suggest that they go to her place, but too late—she’s already out the door with the guy who beat him up and stole his wife. So he has another beer, wondering where he’s supposed to live now, and realizing—it’s the bartender who so remarks while offering him another on the house—that life is short and brutal and before he knows it he’ll be dead. He’s right. After a few more beers and orgasms, some vaguely remembered, most not, one of his sons, now a racecar driver and the president of the company he used to work for, comes to visit him on his deathbed and, apologizing for arriving so late (I went for a beer, Dad, things happened), says he’s going to miss him but it’s probably for the best. For the best what? he asks, but his son is gone, if he was ever there in the first place. Well . . . you know . . . life, he says to the nurse who has come to pull the sheet over his face and wheel him away.
Backbone Every whole person has ambitions, objectives, initiatives, goals. This one particular boy’s goal was to be able to press his lips to every square inch of his own body. His arms to the shoulders and most of his legs beneath the knee were child’s play. After these areas of his body, however, the difficulty increased with the abruptness of a coastal shelf. The boy came to understand that unimaginable challenges lay ahead of him. He was six. There is little to say about the original animus or “motive cause” of the boy’s desire to press his lips to every square inch of his own body. He had been housebound one day with asthma, on a rainy and distended morning, apparently looking through some of his father’s promotional materials. Some of these survived the eventual fire. The boy’s asthma was thought to be congenital. The outside area of his foot beneath and around the lateral malleolus was the first to require any real contortion. (The young boy thought, at that point, of the lateral malleolus as the funny knob thing on his ankle.) The strategy, as he understood it, was to arrange himself on his bedroom’s carpeted floor with the inside of his knee on the floor and his calf and foot at as close to a perfect ninety-degree angle to his thigh as he could manage. Then he had to lean as far to the side as he could, bending out over the splayed ankle and the foot’s outside, rotating his neck over and down and straining with his fully extended lips (the boy’s idea of fully extended lips consisted at this point of the exaggerated pucker that signifies kissing in children’s cartoons) toward a section of the foot’s outside that he had marked with a bull’s-eye of soluble ink. He struggled to breathe against the dextrorotated pressure of his ribs, stretching farther and farther to the side, very early one morning, until he felt a flat pop in the upper part of his back and then pain beyond naming somewhere between his shoulder blade and spine. The boy did not cry out or weep but merely sat silent in this tortured posture until his failure to appear for breakfast brought his father upstairs to the bedroom’s door. The pain and resultant dyspnea kept the boy out of school for more than a month. One can only wonder what a father might make of an injury like this in a six-year-old child. The father’s chiropractor, Dr. Kathy, was able to relieve the worst of the immediate symptoms. More important, it was Dr. Kathy who introduced the boy to the concepts of spine as microcosm and of spinal hygiene and postural echo and incrementalism in flexion. Dr. Kathy smelled faintly of fennel and seemed totally open and available and kind. The child lay on a tall padded table and placed his chin in a little cup. She manipulated his head, very gently but in a way that seemed to make things happen all the way down his back. Her hands were strong and soft and when she touched the boy’s back he felt as if she were asking it questions and answering them all at the same time. She had charts on her wall with exploded views of the human spine and the muscles and fasciae and nerve bundles that surrounded the spine and were connected to it. No lollipops were anywhere in view. The specific stretching exercises that Dr. Kathy gave the boy were for the splenius capitis and longissimus cervicis and the deep sheaths of nerve and muscle surrounding the boy’s T2 and T3 vertebrae, which were what he had just injured. Dr. Kathy had reading glasses on a cord around her neck and a green button-up sweater that looked as if it were made entirely of pollen. You could tell she talked to everybody the same way. She instructed the boy to perform the stretching exercises every single day and not to let boredom or a reduction in symptomology keep him from doing them in a disciplined way. She said that the long-term goal was not relief of present discomfort but neurological hygiene and health and a wholeness of body and mind that he would someday appreciate very, very much. For the boy’s father, Dr. Kathy prescribed an herbal relaxant. Thus was Dr. Kathy the child’s formal introduction both to incremental stretching and to the adult idea of quiet daily discipline and progress toward a long-term goal. This proved fortuitous. During the five weeks that he was disabled with a subluxated T3 vertebra—often in such discomfort that not even his inhaler could ease the asthma that struck whenever he experienced pain or distress—the heady enthusiasm of childhood had given way in the boy to a realization that the objective of pressing his lips to every square inch of himself was going to require maximum effort, discipline, and a commitment sustainable over periods of time that he could not then (because of his age) imagine. One thing Dr. Kathy had taken time out to show the boy was a freestanding 3-D model of a human spine that had not been taken care of in any real or significant way. It looked dark, stunted, necrotic, and sad. Its tubercles and soft tissues were inflamed, and the annulus fibrosus of its disks was the color of bad teeth. Up against the wall behind this model was a hand-lettered plaque or sign explaining what Dr. Kathy liked to say were the two different payment options for the spine and associated nervosa, which were “NOW” and “LATER.” Most professional contortionists are, in fact, simply persons born with congenital atrophic/dystrophic conditions of major recti, or with acute lordotic flexion of the lumbar spine, or both. A majority display Chvostek’s sign or other forms of ipsilateral spasticity. Very little effort or application is involved in their “art,” therefore. In 1932, a preadolescent Ceylonese female was documented by British scholars of Tamil mysticism as being capable of inserting into her mouth and down her esophagus both arms to the shoulder, one leg to the groin, and the other leg to just above the patella, and as thereupon able to spin unaided on the orally protrusive knee at rates in excess of 300 r.p.m. The phenomenon of suiphagia (i.e., self-swallowing) has subsequently been identified as a rare form of inanitive pica, in most cases caused by deficiencies in cadmium and/or zinc. The insides of the small boy’s thighs up to the medial fork of his groin took months even to prepare for, daily hours spent cross-legged and bowed, slowly and incrementally stretching the long vertical fasciae of his back and neck, the spinalis thoracis and levator scapulae, the iliocostalis lumborum all the way to the sacrum, and the interior thigh’s dense and intransigent gracilis, pectineus, and adductor longus, which fuse below Scarpa’s triangle and transmit sickening pain through the pubis whenever their range of flexibility is exceeded. Had anyone seen the child during these two- and three-hour sessions, bringing his soles together and in to train the pectineus, bobbing slightly and then holding a deep cross-legged lean to work the great tight sheet of thoracolumbar fascia that connected his pelvis to his dorsal costae, he would have appeared to that person either prayerful or catatonic, or both. Once the thighs’ anterior targets were achieved and touched with one or both lips, the upper portions of his genitals were simple, and were protrusively kissed and passed over even as plans for the ilium and outer buttocks were in conception. After these achievements would come the more difficult and neck-intensive contortions required to access the inner buttocks, perineum, and extreme upper groin. The boy had turned seven. The special place where he pursued his strange but newly mature objective was his room, which had wallpaper with a jungle motif. The second-floor window yielded a view of the back yard’s tree. Light from the sun came through the tree at different angles and intensities at different times of day and illuminated different parts of the boy as he stood, sat, inclined, or lay on the room’s carpet, stretching and holding positions. His bedroom’s carpet was white shag with a furry, polar aspect that the boy’s father did not think went well with the walls’ repeating scheme of tiger, zebra, lion, and palm, but the father kept his feelings to himself. Radical increase of the lips’ protrusive range requires systematic exercise of the maxillary fasciae, such as the depressor septi, orbicularis oris, depressor anguli oris, depressor labii inferioris, and the buccinator, circumoral, and risorius groups. The zygomatic muscles are superficially involved. Praxis: Affix string to Wetherly button of at least 1.5-inch diameter borrowed from father’s second-best raincoat; place button over upper and lower front teeth and enclose with lips; hold string fully extended at ninety degrees to face’s plane and pull on end with gradually increasing tension, using lips to resist pull; hold for twenty seconds; repeat; repeat. “What did you think was going to happen when you filled the feeder with lasagna?”Buy the print » Sometimes the boy’s father sat on the floor outside his bedroom with his back to the door, listening for movement in the room. It’s not clear whether the boy ever heard him, although the wood of the door sometimes made a creaky sound when the father sat down against it or stood back up in the hallway or shifted his position against the door. The boy was in there stretching and holding contorted positions for extraordinary periods of time. The father was a somewhat nervous man, with a rushed, fidgety manner that always lent him an air of imminent departure. He had extensive entrepreneurial activities and was in motion much of the time. His place in most people’s mental albums was provisional, with something like a dotted line around it—the image of someone saying something friendly over his shoulder as he heads for an exit. Often, clients found that the father made them uneasy. He was at his most effective on the phone. By the time the child was eight, his long-term goal was beginning to affect his physical development. His teachers remarked on changes in his posture and gait. The boy’s smile, which appeared by now constant because of the effect of circumlabial hypertrophy on the circumoral musculature, looked unusual also—rigid and overbroad and seeming, in one custodian’s evaluative phrase, “like nothing in this round world.” Facts: the Italian stigmatist Padre Pio carried wounds that penetrated both hands and feet medially throughout his lifetime. The Umbrian St. Veronica Giuliani presented with wounds in both hands and feet, as well as in her side, which wounds were observed to open and close on command. The eighteenth-century holy woman Giovanna Solimani permitted pilgrims to insert special keys in her hands’ wounds and to turn them, reportedly facilitating the pilgrims’ own recovery from rationalist despair. According to both St. Bonaventura and Tomás de Celano, St. Francis of Assisi’s manual stigmata included baculiform masses of what presented as hardened black flesh extrudent from both volar planes. If and when pressure was applied to a palm’s so-called “nail,” a rod of flesh would immediately protrude from the back of the hand, exactly as if a real so-called “nail” were passing through the hand. And yet (fact): Hands lack the anatomical mass required to support the weight of an adult human. Both Roman legal texts and modern examinations of a first-century skeleton confirm that classical crucifixion required nails to be driven through the subject’s wrists, not his hands. Hence the, quote, “necessarily simultaneous truth and falsity of the stigmata” that the existential theologist E. M. Cioran explicates in his 1937 “Lacrimi si Sfinti,” the same monograph in which he refers to the human heart as “God’s open wound.” Areas of the boy’s midsection from navel to xiphoid process, at the cleft of his ribs, alone required nineteen months of stretching and postural exercises, the more extreme of which must have been very painful indeed. At this stage, further advances in flexibility were now subtle to the point of being undetectable without extremely precise daily record-keeping. Certain tensile limits in the flava, capsule, and process ligaments of the neck and upper back were gently but persistently stretched, the boy’s chin placed to his (solubly arrowed and dotted) chest at mid-sternum and then slid incrementally down—one, sometimes 1.5 millimetres a day—and this catatonic and/or meditative posture held for an hour or more. In the summer, during his early-morning routines, the tree outside the boy’s window became busy with grackles coming and going, and then, as the sun rose, filled with the birds’ harsh sounds, tearing sounds, which, as the boy sat cross-legged with his chin to his chest, sounded through the pane like rusty screws turning, some complexly stuck thing coming loose with a shriek. Past the southern exposure’s tree were the foreshortened roofs of neighborhood homes and the fire hydrant and street sign of the cross street and the forty-eight identical roofs of a low-income housing development beyond the cross street, and, past the development, just at the horizon, the edges of the verdant cornfields that began at the city limits. In late summer the fields’ green became more sallow, and then in the fall there was merely sad stubble, and in the winter the fields’ bare earth looked like nothing so much as just what it was. At his elementary school, where his behavior was exemplary and his assignments completed and his progress charted at the medial apex of all relevant curves, the boy was, among his classmates, the sort of marginal social figure who was so marginal he was not even teased. As early as Grade 3, the boy had begun to develop along unusual physical lines as a result of his commitment to the objective; even so, something in his aspect or bearing served to place him outside the bounds of schoolyard cruelty. The boy followed classroom regulations and performed satisfactorily in group work. The written evaluations of his socialization described the boy not as withdrawn or aloof but as “calm,” “unusually poised,” and “self-containing” [sic]. The boy gave neither trouble nor delight and was not much noticed. It is not known whether this bothered him. Nor was it ever established precisely why this boy had devoted himself to the goal of being able to press his lips to every square inch of his own body. It is not clear even that he conceived of the goal as an “achievement” in any conventional sense. Unlike his father, he did not read Ripley and had never heard of the McWhirters—certainly it was no kind of stunt. Nor any sort of self-evection; this is verified—the boy had no conscious wish to “transcend” anything. If someone had asked him, the boy would have said only that he’d decided he wanted to press his lips to every last micrometre of his own individual body. He would not have been able to say more than this. Insights into or conceptions of his own physical “inaccessibility” to himself (as we are all of us self-inaccessible and can, for example, touch parts of one another in ways that we could not even dream of touching our own bodies) or of his complete determination, apparently, to pierce that veil of inaccessibility—to be, in some childish way, self-contained and -sufficient—these were beyond his conscious awareness. He was, after all, just a little boy. His lips touched the upper areolae of his left and right nipples in the autumn of his ninth year. The lips by this time were markedly large and protrusive; part of his daily discipline was tedious button-and-string exercises designed to promote hypertrophy of the orbicularis muscles. The ability to extend his pursed lips as much as 10.4 centimetres had often meant the difference between achieving part of his thorax and not. It had also been the orbicularis muscles, more than any outstanding advance in vertebral flexion, that had permitted him to access the rear areas of his scrotum and substantial portions of the papery skin around his anus before he turned nine. These areas had been touched, tagged on the four-sided chart inside his personal ledger, then washed clean of ink and forgotten. The boy’s tendency was to forget each site once he had pressed his lips to it, as if the establishment of its accessibility made the site henceforth unreal for him and the site now in some sense “existed” only on the four-faced chart. Fully and exquisitely real for the boy in his eleventh year, however, remained those portions of his trunk that he had not yet attempted: areas of his chest above the pectoralis minor and of his lower throat between clavicle and upper platysma, as well as the smooth and endless planes and tracts of his back (excluding lateral portions of the trapezius and rear deltoid, which he had achieved at eight and a half) extending upward from the buttocks. Four separate licensed, bonded physicians apparently testified that the Bavarian mystic Therese Neumann’s stigmata comprised corticate dermal structures that passed medially through both her hands. Therese Neumann’s capacity for inedia was attested to by four Franciscan nuns, who attended her in rotating shifts in 1927. She lived for almost thirty-five years without food or liquid; her one recorded bowel movement (March 12, 1928) was determined by laboratory analysis to comprise only mucus and empyreumatic bile. A Bengali holy man known to his followers as Prahansatha the Second underwent periods of meditative chanting during which his eyes exited their sockets and ascended to float above his head, connected only by their dura-mater cords, and thereupon performed (i.e., the floating eyes did) rhythmically stylized rotary movements described by Western witnesses as evocative of dancing four-faced Shivas, of charmed snakes, of interwoven genetic helices, of the counterpointed figure-eight orbits of the Milky Way and Andromeda galaxies around each other at the perimeter of the Local Group, or of all four (supposedly) at once. Studies of human algesia have established that the musculoskeletal structures most sensitive to painful stimulation are the periosteum and joint capsules. Tendons, ligaments, and subchondral bone are classified as “significantly” pain-sensitive, while muscle and cortical bone’s sensitivity has been established as “moderate,” and articular cartilage and fibrocartilage’s as “mild.” Pain is a wholly subjective experience and thus “inaccessible” as a diagnostic object. Considerations of personality type also complicate the evaluation. As a general rule, however, the observed behavior of a patient in pain can provide a measure of (a) the pain’s intensity and (b) the patient’s ability to cope with it. Common fallacies about pain include: • People who are critically ill or gravely injured always experience intense pain. • The greater the pain, the greater the extent and severity of the damage. • Severe chronic pain is symptomatic of incurable illness. In fact, patients who are critically ill or gravely injured do not necessarily experience intense pain. Nor is the observed intensity of pain directly proportional to the extent or severity of the damage; the correlation depends also on whether the “pain pathways” of the anterolateral spinothalamic system are intact and functioning within established norms. In addition, the personality of a neurotic patient may accentuate felt pain, and a stoic or resilient personality may diminish its perceived intensity. “How come I always get the crying baby right behind me?”Buy the print » No one ever did ask him. His father believed only that he had an eccentric but very limber and flexible child, a child who’d taken Kathy Kessinger’s homilies about spinal hygiene to heart, the way some children will take things to heart, and now spent a lot of time flexing and limbering his body, which, as the queer heartcraft of children went, was preferable to many other slack or damaging fixations the father could think of. The father, an entrepreneur who sold motivational tapes through the mail, worked out of a home office but was frequently away for seminars and mysterious evening sales calls. The family’s home, which faced west, was tall and slender and contemporary; it resembled one half of a duplex town house from which the other half had been suddenly removed. It had olive-colored aluminum siding and was on a cul-de-sac, at the northern end of which stood a side entrance to the county’s third-largest cemetery, whose name was woven in iron above the main gate but not above that side entrance. The word that the father thought of when he thought of the boy was: “dutiful,” which surprised the man, for it was a rather old-fashioned word and he had no idea where it came from when he thought of the boy in his room, from outside the door. Dr. Kathy, who sometimes saw the boy for continuing prophylactic adjustments to his thoracic vertebrae, facets, and anterior rami, and was not a loon or a huckster in a shopping-center office but simply a D.C. who believed in the interpenetrating dance of spine, nervous system, spirit, and cosmos as totality—in the universe as an infinite system of neural connections that had evolved, at its highest point, an organism that could sustain consciousness of both itself and the universe at the same time, such that the human nervous system became the universe’s way of being aware of and thus “accessible [to]” itself—Dr. Kathy believed the patient to be a very quiet, inner-directed boy who had responded to a traumatic T3 subluxation with a commitment to neurospiritual integrity that might well signal a calling to chiropractic as an eventual career. It was she who had given the boy his first, comparatively simple stretching manuals, as well as the copies of B. R. Faucet’s famous neuromuscular diagrams (©1961, Los Angeles College of Chiropractic), out of which the boy had fashioned the freestanding four-sided cardboard chart that stood as if guarding his pillowless bed while he slept. The father’s belief in ATTITUDE as the overarching determinant of ALTITUDE had been unwavering since his own adolescence, during which awkward time he had discovered the works of Dale Carnegie and of the Beecher Foundation, and had utilized these practical philosophies to bolster his own self-confidence and to improve his social standing—this standing, as well as all interpersonal exchanges and incidents that served as evidence thereof, was charted weekly, and the charts and graphs displayed for ease of reference on the inside of his bedroom’s closet door. Even as a provisional adult, the father still worked tirelessly to maintain and improve his attitude and so influence his own altitude in personal achievement. To the medicine cabinet’s mirror in the home’s bathroom, for instance, where he could not help but reread and internalize them as he tended to his personal grooming, were taped such inspirational maxims as: “NO BIRD SOARS TOO HIGH, IF HE SOARS WITH HIS OWN WINGS”— BLAKE “IF WE ABDICATE OUR INITIATIVE, WE BECOME PASSIVE-RECEPTIVE VICTIMS OF ONCOMING CIRCUMSTANCES”—BEECHER FOUNDATION “DARE TO ACHIEVE!”— NAPOLEON HILL “THE COWARD FLEES EVEN WHEN NO MAN PURSUETH”—THE BIBLE “WHATEVER YOU CAN DO OR DREAM, YOU CAN BEGIN IT. / BOLDNESS HAS GENIUS, POWER AND MAGIC IN IT. BEGIN IT NOW!” — GOETHE and so forth, dozens or at times even scores of inspirational quotes and reminders, carefully printed in block capitals on small, fortune-cookie-size slips of paper and taped to the mirror as written reminders of the father’s personal responsibility for whether he soared boldly, sometimes so many slips and pieces of tape that only a few slots of actual mirror were left above the bathroom’s sink, and the father had to almost contort himself even to see to shave. When the boy’s father thought of himself, on the other hand, the word that came unbidden first to mind was always “tortured.” Much of this secret torture—whose causes he perceived as impossibly complex and protean and involving both normal male sexual drives and highly abnormal personal weakness and lack of backbone—was actually quite simple to diagnose. Wedded at twenty to a woman about whom he’d known just one salient thing, this father-to-be had almost immediately found marriage’s conjugal routines tedious and stifling; and that sense of monotony and sexual obligation (as opposed to sexual achievement) had caused in him a feeling that he thought was almost like death. Even as a newlywed, he had begun to suffer from night terrors and to wake from nightmares about some terrible confinement feeling unable to move or breathe. These dreams did not exactly require a psychiatric Einstein to interpret, the father knew, and after almost a year of inner struggle and self-analysis he had given in and begun seeing another woman, sexually. This woman, whom the father had met at a motivational seminar, was also married, and had a small child of her own, and they had agreed that this put some sensible limits and restrictions on the affair. Within a short time, however, the father had begun to find this other woman kind of tedious and oppressive, as well. The fact that they lived separate lives and had little to talk about made the sex start to seem obligatory. It put too much weight on the physical sex, it seemed, and spoiled it. The father attempted to cool things off and to see the woman less, whereupon she in return also began to seem less interested and accessible than she had been. This was when the torture started. The father began to fear that the woman would break off the affair with him, either to resume monogamous sex with her husband or to take up with some other man. This fear, which was a completely secret and interior torture, caused him to pursue the woman all over again even as he came more and more to despise her. The father, in short, longed to detach from the woman, but he didn’t want the woman to be able to detach. He began to feel numb and even nauseated when he was with the other woman, but when he was away from her he felt tortured by thoughts of her with someone else. It seemed like an impossible situation, and the dreams of contorted suffocation came back more and more often. The only possible remedy that the father (whose son had just turned four) could see was not to detach from the woman he was having an affair with but to hang in there with the affair, but also to find and begin seeing a third woman, in secret and as it were “on the side,” in order to feel—if only for a short time—the relief and excitement of an attachment freely chosen. Thus began the father’s true cycle of torture, in which the number of women with whom he was secretly involved and to whom he had sexual obligations steadily expanded, and in which not one of the women could be let go or given cause to detach and break it off, even as each became less and less a source of anything more than a sort of dutiful tedium of energy and time and the will to forge on in the face of despair. The boy’s mid- and upper back were the first areas of radical, perhaps even impossible unavailability to his own lips, presenting challenges to flexibility and discipline that occupied a vast percentage of his inner life in Grades 4 and 5. And beyond, of course, like the falls at a long river’s end, lay the unimaginable prospects of achieving the back of his neck, the eight centimetres just below the chin’s point, the galeae of his scalp’s back and crown, the forehead and zygomatic ridge, the ears, nose, eyes—as well as the paradoxical Ding an sich of his lips themselves, accessing which appeared to be like asking a blade to cut itself. These sites occupied a near-mythic place in the over-all project: the boy revered them in such a way as to place them almost beyond the range of conscious intent. This boy was not by nature a “worrier” (unlike himself, his father thought), but the inaccessibility of these last sites seemed so immense that it was as if their cast shadow fell across all the slow progress up toward his clavicle in the front and lumbar curvature in the rear that occupied his eleventh year, darkening the whole endeavor, a tenebrous shadow that the boy chose to see as lending the enterprise a sombre dignity, rather than futility or pathos. He did not yet know how, but he believed, as he approached pubescence, that his head would be his. He would find a way to access all of himself. He possessed nothing that anyone could ever call doubt, inside.
Paranoia When April arrived, it started to get warm and everyone said that the war was definitely going to happen soon and there was nothing anybody could do to stop it. The diplomats were flying home, the flags were coming out, and the call-ups were about to begin. Walking across the bridge, I would sometimes see freight trains lumbering by, loaded with tanks or jeeps, once even the wings of airplanes, heading out West or down South. Some line had been crossed, something said or done, something irrevocable on our side or on the enemy’s, from which there was no longer any possibility of turning back. I hadn’t been following matters that closely, so I had missed exactly when things had taken a turn. Nevertheless, everyone was saying that the war was going to happen soon and there was nothing anybody could do about it, and so I said it, too. Then May came and it got hot and Roberto broke his nose and asked me if I would visit him in the hospital. “I’m here all by myself,” he told me over the phone. Apparently, he had been lifting weights at the gym when one of his buddies, in order to emphasize some conversational point, feinted like a boxer and swung at his face. The guy had meant merely to pantomime the punch, but having just bench-pressed hundreds of pounds he had lost the ability to gauge distance, strength, or speed, and he cracked Roberto right in the nose. I wanted to question the details of this story, because Roberto was subject to hyperbole, and also because I was selfish and didn’t want to make the trip all the way across town, but I was the closest thing to family that Roberto had, and he sounded as if he had socks stuffed down his throat and up his nose. To make matters worse, my car happened to be in the shop and according to the bus map I had to catch three buses I’d never heard of. So what should have taken me twenty minutes was going to take an hour and a half. Sitting in the back of the J-23B with the air-conditioning barely working, I stared out the window as we crawled through residential neighborhoods whose houses were all flying flags. There was no breeze, and the flags hung limply. Once in a while, there’d be a sign stuck in a window that said “Peace” or “No War,” or something to that effect, but for the most part everyone was on the same page. Ten minutes into the ride, I was sweating heavily; rivulets ran from my armpits down my sides and collected in the elastic of my underwear. This is what it must feel like for soldiers sitting on the transport, heading to battle, I thought. I was wearing shorts, and my thighs adhered to the bus seat, so that whenever I shifted my skin peeled away from the plastic. The other passengers were old hands and had come equipped with things to fan themselves with, like newspapers and magazines and even a flattened cereal box. I retrieved a discarded supermarket circular from under the seat in front of me and tried to use it, but the paper was too thin and kept flopping over, so I wasn’t able to generate any current. I folded it four times, and then four more times, and then gave up and tossed it back under the seat where I’d found it. A woman looked at me with accusation. She was waving a library book in front of her face. “It was already there,” I said. I smiled. “What’d you say?” she said. I explained myself. She shrugged. She didn’t care. At every corner, the bus hit a red light, and we’d have to sit idling for sixty seconds, and then once the light turned green and the bus made it through the intersection it would stop again to let passengers on and off, elderly people who took forever, fat people who took forever, a man in a wheelchair who took five minutes, and by the time we arrived at the end of the next block the light would be turning red again and we’d have to stop and idle and do the whole thing all over. It was abysmal urban planning, humiliating and crushing. I kept urging the bus on by tensing and twisting and leaning forward like a bowler who imagines that his body language can influence the trajectory of the ball once it’s left his hand. I blamed everyone: the bus, the driver, the passengers. I blamed Roberto for breaking his nose. Then I blamed myself for blaming Roberto. It wasn’t his fault. Nothing was his fault. His nose was just another symptom of his vulnerability and his desperation, a strange man in a strange land, alone and illegal, hoping one day to transform magically into an American and have a real life. “I’m already an American,” he’d say indignantly, haughtily, in a clipped and formal way that was supposed to emphasize the fact that he had, through extreme effort, lost all traces of an accent. “I’m an American just like you!” But he wasn’t just like me. I was blond and white, and he was dark—dark-skinned, dark-haired, from some village in Chile that nobody’d ever heard of and which he’d left twelve years earlier when his father was awarded a scholarship to study architecture at our university. I had discovered him in the park one afternoon about two weeks after he arrived, thirteen years old, skinny and solitary, unable to speak a word of English, tossing a baseball up in the air. “¿Te gusta jugar al béisbol?” I’d said, because I’d been taking Spanish for two years, though the teacher, despite providing us with an extensive vocabulary, and showing us how to conjugate every verb backward and forward, had neglected to teach us how to construct a complete sentence save one: “Do you like to play baseball?” Roberto had gazed at me in confusion, almost terror, until finally he had responded, “Sí, me gusta jugar al béisbol.” Four years later, his father graduated with honors and the family’s visa expired, effective immediately. It was time to go back. But Roberto had no interest in going back. So they went without him, leaving him with eight months of high school to go, in an apartment that had been emptied of almost everything, including the furniture. I was there the day after. He still had his bed and his clothes, but that was about it. Standing in the void of a three-bedroom apartment that he couldn’t pay for, he tried to act chipper about his prospects at age seventeen. In his newfound independence, he had taken the opportunity to cut out pictures of Arnold Schwarzenegger at various stages of his career and plaster them on the wall like wallpaper. A few blocks from the infamous Maple Tree Heights, I had to transfer from bus one to bus two. As luck would have it, bus two was just pulling away when I arrived. Some elderly black women passed me pushing shopping carts, and one said, “That’s a shame, honey,” and another said, “That’s how they do you up here.” At the end of the street was a hill with a sharp ascent, and a billboard that read, “Welcome to Maple Tree Heights.” The billboard looked brand-new except for the fact that someone had crawled up and spray-painted “Don’t come on in here.” Every week, there was a report on the news of some unfortunate event, many of them involving white people who had lost their way and wound up wandering through Maple Tree Heights, where they were set upon and beaten for sport. Most recently, a mathematics professor had been whipped with a snakeskin belt. It was ten o’clock in the morning, and it was already muggy. “Hitting ninety today, folks,” the weatherman had said. Everyone was saying if it was ninety in May what was it going to be in August. The sky was cloudless, and I could feel the undiluted sun beating straight down on the top of my head. There were various empty buildings surrounding me, and I had the sensation that I was being watched by someone somewhere. I felt exposed in my shorts, as if my whiteness were made manifest by the paleness of my legs. Directly across the street was an Arby’s restaurant with an American flag draped across its giant cowboy hat. I should go inside to wait for the bus, I thought. I’ll be safe there. But, as soon as I thought this, three black guys about my age came out of the restaurant with their roast-beef sandwich bags and big boots and baseball caps, and stood underneath the hat, smoking and staring at me. I put my hands in my pockets casually and looked up the street as if I were fixated on what was coming. The empty air wobbled in the heat. When I glanced back, the guys were saying things to one another, conspiratorial things. I thought about running, but running implied fright. For a moment, I had a clear picture of myself disoriented, panting, turning in error up into Maple Tree Heights. Then I heard my name being called. “Dean!” I heard. “God damn, Dean!” When I looked back at the three guys, I saw that they were smiling and that I knew them, two of them, that we had played together on the football team in high school. And here they came from underneath the Arby’s hat, laughing, yelling, their bags of roast-beef sandwiches in one hand, their cigarettes in the other. There was some initial awkwardness as we tried to coördinate the hand slapping and the hugging and the sandwiches and the cigarettes, but eventually we managed to greet one another properly. I introduced myself to the third one. “What’s up, my man?” he said. He looked skeptical. “We thought you were the police,” Quincy said. This made everyone laugh. The man I didn’t know laughed bitterly, and I laughed out of relief at this fortunate turn of events. Troy blew smoke out of his nose, and Quincy blew it out of his mouth, and I wanted to ask them for a cigarette, because I was eager to fortify our bond and because I only smoke when I can smoke for free. The man I didn’t know removed a handkerchief and wiped his forehead. Then he took out his sandwich and bit into it, and I could smell the roast beef. “What are you doing all the way out here, Dean?” Quincy said. “This here is no man’s land.” “I’m on my way to see Robbie.” “Robbie?” “Robbie Díaz?” “Spanish Robbie?” “God damn, man!” “How’s Robbie?” “He broke his nose.” “That ain’t cool.” “Tell him I said What’s up.” “Hey, Troy,” I said. “How about letting me have one of those cigarettes?” Troy aimed his pack in my direction and out popped a cigarette halfway. A surge of nostalgia and tenderness coursed through me for the old football games. I put the cigarette to my lips with anticipation, but Troy’s matches were moist or stale, and each time I struck one it would flare up for a second and then fizzle out. After the third miss, I asked the man I didn’t know if I could use his lighter. He handed it to me grudgingly. It had a picture of an American flag on it. When I flicked the lighter, the flag fluttered as if waving in the wind. “Let me see that,” Quincy said, and we passed the lighter around, flicking it on and off, marvelling at the trick, until the man I didn’t know said not to waste any more fluid. “I was just thinking about getting me a tattoo like that,” Troy announced. “Right here.” He pulled up his shirt to reveal a saggy and swollen stomach. “Here to here.” He outlined the image like a teacher at a chalkboard. “Here’s where the flagpole goes.” He indicated his belly button. “That would look good,” I said. But I was dismayed by what had happened to his body. He appeared inflated, as if he had inhaled helium and was going to float away. So did Quincy. The man I didn’t know was the opposite, tall and stringy, with ropy muscles and long fingers and protruding knuckles. He was thin but was sweating the worst. Sweat streamed down from under his baseball cap, and he dabbed at it with his handkerchief. He was oddly genteel about this. Then he cracked his knuckles loudly, aggressively. Troy pulled his shirt back down, and I had a vivid recollection of him standing in front of the locker-room mirror after one of our games, completely naked except for his cleats, flexing and preening. At fifteen, he already had a man’s body—shoulders, chest, and cock. He’d scored three touchdowns that game, and knocked one of the other team’s linebackers unconscious. Coach Slippo had given him the game ball. “I’ve got some cuts in here for you,” Troy had told the equipment manager, running his fingers through the deep creases of his stomach muscles and down to the very edge of his pelvis. Everyone had laughed. The equipment manager had blushed. Troy thought he was going to make the N.F.L. They all thought they were going to make the N.F.L. They didn’t even make college. I sucked the smoke in and blew it out. I felt light-headed, and the smell of the roast beef was nauseating. I feared I might puke on the sidewalk. “You O.K., Dean?” I heard Troy say. “You good?” His voice was far away. I wasn’t sure if he was asking whether my life in general was good. “It’s hot out here,” I said. It was all I could do to maintain my balance. “This ain’t hot,” the man I didn’t know said. “If you think this is hot, wait till August.” I stammered, “It’s going to be a hundred degrees in August.” “A hundred degrees?” He was incredulous. He was outraged. “If it’s ninety degrees in May, how’s it going to be a hundred degrees in August? I’m telling you, my man, it’s going to be a hundred and twenty-five degrees in August.” He stated it as if it were fact. “Hey, Dean,” Quincy said suddenly, “you looking for a job?” Troy said, “Dean don’t need no job.” “They’re hiring,” Quincy said. He nodded at an abandoned building with broken windows and a sign that read Textiles Something-or-Other, Inc. The words had eroded. “Who’s hiring?” I said. “Mainframes, man,” Quincy said. “Chemicals and whatnot,” Troy said. “I don’t ask no questions about what they make,” the man said. “I’m thrilled that the aspirations of the oppressed might be fulfilled over there but very concerned that it might spread to over here.”Buy the print » “You watch,” Quincy said. “Once the war starts, they’ll be opening factories all up and down this street. There’s going to be an industrial revolution right here in the ghetto.” This broke them up. They slapped one another’s hands, stinging slaps. I smiled, but I didn’t slap. “Where you working at now, Dean?” Troy said. I told him. “Damn.” “That’s the kind of gig I want.” “That’s what I’m going to get me,” the man I didn’t know said. He said this more to himself. Then he said to the rest of us, “I’m going to get me one of those essential jobs, so that when the draft comes they pass me up.” “There’s not going to be any draft,” I said. It was my turn to state something as fact. The man looked at me in astonishment. Then he guffawed and wiped his handkerchief over his entire face in one swift motion. “How you figure that one out, my man?” I’d heard it somewhere. “It’s going to be a quick war,” I said. “Marines are going to take the peninsula first thing.” I drew in the air as if I were standing in front of a map. “Here’s the bay . . . here’s the peninsula . . . you’ll see.” The guys got quiet as they considered this. “Anyway,” I said cheerfully, “even if it’s a long war there’ll still be plenty of people willing to join up.” “Plenty of people?” the man I didn’t know snorted. “This here’s the guy”—he turned to Troy and Quincy—“who thinks it’s only going to be a hundred degrees in August.” At the hospital, the air-conditioning was going full blast, and the sweat froze on my skin. People with all sorts of ailments came and went, and I thought about how this must be what it’s like for soldiers when they get back from battle. I wasn’t sure if Roberto had checked in under a false name, since he was nervous about being illegal. He had no driver’s license, no bank account, no phone, and his mailbox still had the name of the previous tenant, Cynthia Abernathy, on it even though she hadn’t lived there for two years. Every so often he’d get a package for her, and he’d tell the delivery guy some elaborate story about how Cynthia was his wife but she was out of town because her mother was dying and he didn’t know when she’d be back but he’d let her know that a package had come for her when he talked to her next. It was always the same story. He was positive that the I.N.S. was tracking him and the delivery guy was an agent. “Don’t you think they’re going to start wondering why your mother-in-law never dies?” I’d ask. He didn’t like this. “You’re going to be sorry one day,” he said. “You’re going to be sorry when they come for me. They’re going to lock me up somewhere, like they did those apple pickers, and you’re never going to hear from me again.” “I’m looking for Roberto Díaz,” I told the receptionist. She checked the computer. No, she said, there was no Roberto Díaz listed. “Then I’m looking for Rob Days,” I said. No, sorry. “How about Bob Hays?” I was trying to recall all his permutations. No. “I’m looking for Tyler McCoy,” I said, because this was the name of the main character in his favorite gangster film. The receptionist punched in Tyler McCoy, and I could tell by the way she struck the keys that she was getting suspicious or impatient. “You sure do have a lot of friends,” she said. “I sure do,” I said, and, sure enough, Tyler McCoy was in Room 831. He was asleep when I got there, lying on his back with his mouth wide open, like a drowning man trying to suck oxygen. He had bandages running ear to ear, and his nose, already prominent, seemed gigantic, as if he had an anvil for a nose. I pulled up a chair next to his bed and took a seat. He didn’t wake up. From my vantage point, he looked to be all torso, as if he were lying in bed after having had his legs amputated. This was a result of his having spent ten years lifting weights constantly and incorrectly. His chest was colossal and so were his shoulders and his arms, and he had a thick blue vein in his neck that was permanently engorged as it piped gallons of blood back and forth. But his legs were thin, the legs of a teen-age girl or an insect, and they looked now to be nonexistent beneath the pale-blue hospital gown. “Why don’t you try doing some cardio every once in a while?” I’d counsel. He either didn’t care or didn’t notice that his proportions bordered on the freakish. His physique had provided him with access to those coveted manual-labor jobs which pay under the table—mover, deliverer, unloader—and that was how he had survived all these years without any aid, except what he got from me. He’d carried bricks, drywall, bales of hay. “I’ve got a special job for Robbie,” my mother had once said. He’d come over for dinner and wound up spending half an hour lugging a tree trunk from our back yard to the curb. She’d given him ten bucks. I’d yelled at her later for what I saw as an example of her condescension, but my father had intervened, saying, “Every man has to find how to make his own way in this world.” The way Roberto was making his own way in the world now, however, was through relatively sedentary employment as an assistant to a cobbler who also happened to be his landlord and who cut him a break on the rent as well as giving him shoes if they were left in the shop past sixty days. He’d be turning twenty-five soon and needed to “start thinking seriously about my future and what my future holds for me.” To this end, he’d come up with a fairly reasonable plan that involved learning a trade, saving money, going to college, opening a business, starting a family. The cobbler paid him in cash twice a month, and so twice a month he had an enormous roll of money that he liked to show me. The roll was generally in ones and fives and added up to no more than a couple of hundred dollars, but it made him look and feel rich. “Like Tyler McCoy,” he’d say, and he’d reënact in pitch-perfect detail the scene where Tyler McCoy is trying to get one guy to go in with another guy on the heist that turns out to be a double cross. “Me. You. Now. Together.” Then we would walk to the post office, where he would buy all the money orders he needed to pay all the bills that were under the names of others. We’d wait in a long line of illegal immigrants and the occasional unfortunate American citizen who had just popped in to buy a book of stamps. When we finally emerged, an hour later, he’d be broke. The mass of flesh suddenly shifted like an animal beneath forest leaves, and his eyes opened. They were bloodshot and bleary, and it took a moment for him to orient himself. “Oh, shit,” he said when he finally understood who I was and where we were. “You came. My man.” His voice was thick and stuffy, like air in a cellar, and I was surprised to hear the trace of an accent. It could have been an earlier version of him rising from the dead. Oh, shee. You came. My main. “Of course I came,” I said, wounded, as if I had never contemplated otherwise. And, because I knew it would endear me to him, I added, “Tyler.” He grinned, and the bandages pulled tight across his face, and the grin evaporated as he cried out in agony. I stood in alarm, but the pain seemed to subside quickly. He struggled out of bed, bringing both feet to the floor and forcing himself upright so that he could face me. “This is the best guy,” he said with the utmost sincerity, as if he were introducing me to an audience. “This is the greatest guy in the whole world.” His trunklike arms came around my shoulders and squeezed me hard, until I felt like a child, even though I was taller. I feared he was going to lift me off the ground and swing me. Instead, he laid his head against my chest, so that now he was the one who seemed transformed into a boy, hugging his father the day before he left for good. In June, the Marines were put on high alert, and the temperature reached a hundred degrees and the bill from the hospital arrived. It was three thousand dollars. I loaned Roberto two hundred to cover the minimum, which was a bad idea, because a few days later he called me from the cobbler’s phone to invite me over to see his “surprise.” “What surprise is that?” I asked, but he refused to tell me, and besides he had to get back to work. So we made a plan for the following Saturday, which turned out to be the hottest day of the year so far. It was early evening when I pulled up at his building, but it seemed to be getting hotter, as if the setting sun were drawing nearer. Roberto lived in one of those neighborhoods which were either up-and-coming or on the way out, an equal mix of college students and aluminum siding and small shops—one of which was the cobbler’s, whose awning I now stood beneath, waiting desperately for Roberto to come downstairs and let me in. His doorbell never worked, and the cobbler never fixed it, but I had been forbidden to yell up at the window. Instead, I had to arrive at a mutually agreed-upon time and stand on the sidewalk patiently and quietly until Roberto opened the door. If I showed up early, I’d have to wait; if I showed up late, Roberto would have to wait. Today I showed up right on time, but there was no Roberto. Every few minutes, the cobbler would rise from behind his shoe machine and eye me mercilessly, as if he’d never seen me before. He hated me, and I hated him. He was fat and smoked constantly, and he had a thick head of black hair that I had a theory he colored with shoe polish. He was either Italian or Greek or Armenian—we could never figure out which—and he had been in America for fifty years but still could hardly speak English. I’d got off to a bad start with him the first time I visited Roberto and screamed up at his window at eleven o’clock in the morning: “Robbie!” “You no come here act like hoodlum,” he demanded. “Like nigger.” “Hey! That word’s not called for!” “I call police!” “Fix the doorbell!” “I fix you!” “Fuck off!” “That word not called for!” “He’s my window of opportunity,” Roberto had shrieked when I told him what happened. So I went back downstairs and apologized. “My customers good customers” was all he said. Fifteen minutes after I’d arrived, Roberto still hadn’t come down to open the door. This wasn’t like him at all, and a subtle unease began to creep over me. I recalled the story of the apple pickers who had been rounded up by the I.N.S. in the middle of the night, and I was just on the verge of panicking when Roberto suddenly appeared from around the corner carrying a big blue box that said “DVD Player.” He was grinning freely, despite his nose still being covered with bandages that made it look as if he had a small pillow in the middle of his face. “What’s in the box?” I said, even though it was obvious what was in the box. “Robbie!” the cobbler said, waving. “You buy me DVD player?” Roberto laughed, and so did the cobbler, and the cobbler’s laugh was intended to make me the odd man out. In his apartment Roberto sat cross-legged on the floor, tearing open the box as if it were Christmas Day. Styrofoam peanuts went everywhere, and when he removed the thin silver DVD player it gleamed sharply. He smiled at it lovingly as I sat on the sofa and fumed, dripping with sweat. His apartment was even hotter than outside. It was one square room with a kitchenette, a saggy sofa bed, and three folding chairs—the bathroom was down the hall, and shared with six other tenants. All Roberto’s furniture belonged to the cobbler, and so did the television and the dishes. “Can’t you open a window or something?” I asked. With one gigantic arm, he swung open the window and then got back to fitting wires into inputs. Immediately, a fly came in through the window, but no breeze. I watched it settle on a plate and crawl around. Then a second fly came in. Roberto turned on the television to a game show that was nearing its climax. A woman had to pick the right color if she wanted to win fifty thousand dollars. The audience was screaming at her, and she was flustered. “What will you do with all that money?” the host asked. “I-I-I-I don’t know.” “Pay back the greatest guy,” I answered for her. “What?” Roberto said. His nose swung in my direction. “Pay back the greatest guy in the whole world,” I said. He stood up straight. In his small apartment, his size was immense, his camel legs notwithstanding, and as he loomed over me on the couch I felt a twinge of vulnerability. “I told you I’m going to pay you back every penny!” he said. His face twitched and the pillow-bandage bobbed, and from his pocket he withdrew a slip of paper on which was printed the company logo of Dr. Scholl’s. Beneath this he had written in very precise script “I O Dean $200.00.” He had dated it June 14th and added his initials, as if it were an official document he was endorsing. The gesture was surprisingly touching, and I felt remorseful, even guilty, as if I were the one who owed money. Out loud I said, “What the hell am I supposed to do with this? Get it notarized?” “Motorized?” he said. “Notarized!” “On the bright side, ever since the layoff and my divorce it’s been much easier to balance work and family.”Buy the print » He shrugged. He folded the paper and put it in his pocket and got back to work on the DVD player. The snivelling woman was just about to pick the color yellow when the game show was interrupted by breaking news: every branch of the military had been ordered to join the Marines on high alert—the Navy, the Army, the Air Force, the Coast Guard, and branches I’d never heard of. There were maps with arrows, and the peninsula was highlighted. Plus, there was a sexy reporter interviewing soldiers at their base. “We could be attacked without warning,” she said, dewy-eyed, thick-lipped. “Right here and now.” She wore a flak jacket, and her brown hair flowed from underneath a helmet. “Do you miss your family?” she asked one of the soldiers. “Yes, Ma’am,” the soldier said. Roberto came and sat down beside me on the sofa. The soldier looked like me: blond hair, blue eyes, an upturned nose. If he hadn’t had a twang, he could have been a surfer from Malibu. Night-vision goggles were propped on his forehead. “Are you afraid of dying?” “No, Ma’am.” “We’re on the brink,” the reporter said to us. “We’re on the brink,” Roberto said to me. The sentiment seemed poignant. I draped my arm around his enormous shoulders. I was suddenly in a forgiving mood. “Let’s go get a DVD,” I said. Outside, the cobbler was closing up for the night. He was trying to pull the grate down over the shopwindow, but he was having trouble because he was old and fat. Roberto ran to his aid as if he were rescuing a child from the water’s edge. He reached up with wide forearms, and in an instant the gate came crashing down onto the boiling sidewalk. “Ah, you good man,” the cobbler said. At the video store we browsed the titles. We agreed, finally, on one of those funny buddy road movies. Then Roberto picked a porno that he said he was going to watch later. And then he picked his favorite gangster movie, with Tyler McCoy. I paid for all three. Back at the apartment, there were about forty flies walking over everything, including the dishes. “Maybe you should close the window now,” I suggested. He complied, trapping the flies and trapping the heat. Then he went to the refrigerator and took out some bread and cheese and tuna fish, and put them on the counter where the flies were. He took out a jar of mayonnaise, and while his back was turned the flies landed on the bread and cheese and tuna fish. When he was done making the sandwiches, he put one on a plate where the flies had been and handed it to me. He sat down on the sofa bed and pressed Play. The trailers ran and the sofa sagged. Then the movie with Tyler McCoy began. I pressed Pause. “I thought we were going to watch the other one,” I said. “The buddy one.” “Let’s watch this one first.” “I’ve seen it three times,” I said. “So what,” he said. “I’ve seen it three hundred times.” He pressed Play, and so began Tyler McCoy’s rags-to-riches story through violent and immoral means. When the characters spoke, Roberto spoke, every word, soundlessly mouthing in perfect unison. He pressed Pause. “Why aren’t you eating?” he asked. “I saw a fly land on it,” I admitted. With irritation he said, “You are opulent,” and he took the sandwich from me and bit into it, a huge, obvious bite, so that I could see the food in his mouth. “And I am indigent.” Which was true. I’d had a DVD player for ten years. On the Fourth of July, Roberto and I drove downtown to see the parade. The turnout was extraordinary. The largest ever, people were saying. Others said that each year should be the largest ever and people shouldn’t have to wait for a war to become patriots. “I keep my flag aht year-round,” one man said. “And yunz can come by my haas to see if ahm telling the truth.” The fountain was going even though we were supposed to be conserving water, and the parks people had somehow managed to get it to rise and fall in alternating colors of red, white, and blue. Roberto and I stood shoulder to shoulder, transfixed by the spectacle. Children played along the edge, and their parents screamed at them not to drink the water because it was poisonous. The sun was straight overhead, but the heat felt as if it were coming from down below, from the asphalt, emanating upward through my shoes and legs and out through my scalp. I had brought along sunblock, S.P.F. 45, which I kept applying to my face and neck. Roberto looked on in fascination and amusement. His nose was almost healed except for a small red mark that ran along the bridge and which he kept pressing because he was self-conscious. “Does my nose look big?” he asked. “No,” I lied. “Ladies and gentlemen,” the m.c. said, and a band started up, all trumpets and drums and tubas, playing “My Country, ’Tis of Thee.” Roberto used this as an opportunity to make his first payment. “To the best friend,” he said, holding a pile of crumpled bills. “To the greatest friend in the whole world.” Then he handed over the fistful of dollars as if he were pouring gold coins into my hands. “Count,” he said. “I trust you,” I said. “Count!” I counted twenty dollars. He displayed the sheet of paper with the Dr. Scholl’s logo and his now updated balance sheet. He had crossed out “I O Dean $200.00” and replaced it with “I O Dean $180.00, RD,” dated July 4th. I used the money to treat us to two foot-longs, and I was about to treat us to two more when an altercation broke out near the fountain. People pushed to get to the action, and Roberto and I pushed, too, and the m.c. said not to push. When the wall of people opened, I could see parade-goers shouting and pointing their fingers at a small ragtag group of protesters holding signs that said “War Is Not the Answer” and things of that nature. We jeered at them, and they jeered back. “You’re all fools,” they screamed. “It’s the Fourth of July, for crying out loud,” a woman next to me yelled back. Her face was pink, possibly burning, and she looked close to tears. “Isn’t anything sacred to you people?” Roberto cupped his hands around his mouth and bellowed, “Faggots!” People laughed. “Hey,” I hissed. “That word’s not called for!” Soon the police arrived to escort the protesters to a special section at the other end of the park. Then the band struck up the national anthem. We put our hands over our hearts as veterans from previous wars began marching past, starting with the Second World War. There were only a few of these, and they ambled by slowly, looking confused and displaced, their uniforms baggy like diapers and draped with medals that glinted in the sun. “Thank you,” Roberto called. “Thank you for all you’ve done!” As the wars progressed, the soldiers got younger, until we arrived at the youngest, the new recruits. By the time they appeared, I was exhausted from the heat and from the clapping. I felt as if I were being submerged in boiling water, and I was sure that I had a terrible burn on the back of my neck. Still, I mustered the energy and pounded my hands. This was bon voyage for the soldiers—they were marching from the parade straight to the train depot. “Last stop, the peninsula!” the m.c. said. The crowd went wild as they came past in lines of twenty. Line after line. Ten minutes of lines. A mass of bodies larger than the crowd that watched. They were decked out in the latest gear, everything streamlined and advanced—goggles and helmets, tool belts and boots, lights and antennas. They resembled astronauts. Astronauts with automatic weapons. “To the moon!” I yelled. It had a nice ring to it. “To the moon!” Roberto yelled. And then I saw a familiar face. I couldn’t place the face, but I knew that I knew it. I knew it vaguely. The man was tall and frail, and the helmet looked too large for his head, more like a bonnet than a helmet, and with each step it bobbled and appeared in danger of slipping off. He fumbled with the strap, trying to tighten it and keep pace at the same time. He seemed on the verge of collapse. “I know that man,” I said. The man reached into one of the many pockets on his jacket and withdrew a handkerchief. In one clean motion, he brought the handkerchief down across his dripping face. Then he turned and looked at me. The man I didn’t know. “Hey,” I yelled. I smiled and waved. He squinted. He seemed to be looking at me and then beyond me. The attitude of haughty disdain that he had had that day at the bus stop was now replaced with a look of fatigue and befuddlement. I wondered if Quincy and Troy were with him and I scrutinized the lines of marching soldiers. An instant later, the man I didn’t know had passed, and all I could see was his back, with his enormous backpack. I called after him, “I told you there wasn’t going to be a draft!” In August, something strange happened: it got cold. In one day, it plummeted from a record high of a hundred and seven to ninety-five degrees. This felt like relief. But after that it dropped an average of three degrees each day, until by the middle of the month it was fifty-three. In the beginning of the cold snap, everyone was happy, and then everyone was scared. Everyone was saying that if it was fifty degrees in August what was it going to be in December. Things got busy at work, and I didn’t see Roberto for a while. We made plans and then I cancelled them, and then we made plans again. He said that he really wanted to watch that funny buddy road movie we never got to watch. He said he had my money. All of it. Or almost all of it. I wanted to tell him not to worry about it, that it didn’t matter, but it did matter, and I rationalized that paying me back would help teach him something about responsible American citizenship. We finally arranged to meet on Saturday morning at ten o’clock. The night before, I was lying in bed, watching the news about some bad things that had happened in Maple Tree Heights, when it was interrupted by a special report: the war had begun. The invasion was being broadcast live, lots of lights and flashes and little bursts of smoke from afar. Rat-a-tat-tat. Instead of troops landing on the peninsula, as we had been led to believe, they were coming down over the mountains. The peninsula strategy had all been a deft misdirection to fool the enemy. Ten thousand feet high, the mountains were. Up one side and down the other, a hundred thousand troops on the move. It was going to take them a week to make the crossing. What was it like, I wondered, to reach the summit? I stayed up late, flipping back and forth between channels. The channels all showed the same footage, and all the experts agreed: “Resistance was futile.” “Ladies and gentlemen,” the newscaster said, “blink and you might miss this war.” In the morning, my car wouldn’t start and I had to walk. It was freezing. It might as well have been winter. The sun was hidden, and the wind blew hard, whipping the flags around. People drove past and honked their horns in unity. When I got to Roberto’s apartment, I was numb. My nose was running. The gate to the cobbler’s was up, but it looked as if the shop was unattended. I pounded my hands together, and stomped my feet to get the blood going. Five minutes into waiting, I began to suspect that Roberto was about to come around the corner and “surprise” me with another box of electronics. Five minutes after that, I had to pee, and pee badly. At ten-twenty, I took my chances and shouted up to the window. “Robbie!” Immediately, the cobbler came out. He looked at me and sucked in the sides of his cheeks. “The doorbell doesn’t seem to be working,” I said sarcastically. He shook his head. “No talk here,” he said. His face was tense and swollen, and he puffed hard on his cigarette. Beneath his apron, his stomach protruded, firm and round. “Come in store,” he said. “No good talk here.” I followed him inside. He put his cigarette in the ashtray and sat down at his machine as if he were about to get back to work. I leaned on the counter like a customer. “Yesterday,” he said, as he rubbed his dirty hands over his face. “Yesterday they come.” He wasn’t looking at me as he spoke. Somehow his dirty hands hadn’t made his face dirty. “Who come?” I said. “Oh, no,” he said. He put his black palms up in defense. “I don’t ask question.” “Who come?” I demanded. He looked at me with horror. Slowly, stumblingly, full of error, he told me that yesterday they come for Roberto, yesterday, middle of day, four car, four car, no warning, all pull up same time, right outside, happen fast, take him way, take him. What I can do? I can do no thing. I am one man. They have law. “Hurt me as much as hurt him.” He hunched his shoulders and he looked aggrieved. He was sorry, he said. Damn sorry. “I pray for him now.” I believed him. “He was nice boy,” he said. “Hard worker. Hurt me, too. Oh, boy.” He ran his dirty fingers through his thick hair. Then some people came in with their shoes, and he stood up to help them. His pack of cigarettes was on the counter, and I took one and stuck it in my mouth and lit it. He didn’t notice. He didn’t care. My boldness surprised me. I took the long way home. I walked fast and hard. I smoked the cigarette, and the second I exhaled the cold wind took the smoke. Down the hill and over the bridge I went. At the train tracks, I stopped and tried to get my breath. I was wheezing. A small dot appeared way down the line. After a while, it became a train. When it drew closer, I could see that it was loaded with long tubular objects, missiles no doubt, twenty feet long, thirty feet, covered with canvas and strapped down with canvas belts. As the train approached, I saw the engineer hanging his head and arm out the window and I motioned for him to pull the horn as I would have done way back when I was a kid. A moment later, I heard the blast, braaaaaammmmm; it was louder than I had remembered, longer, too, and then the train passed under the bridge as it headed out West or down South.
The Other Place My son, Douglas, loves to play with toy guns. He is thirteen. He loves video games in which people get killed. He loves violence on TV, especially if it’s funny. How did this happen? The way everything does, of course. One thing follows another, naturally. Naturally, he looks like me: shorter than average, with a fine build, hazel eyes, and light-brown hair. Like me, he has a speech impediment and a condition called “essential tremor” that causes involuntary hand movements, which make him look more fragile than he is. He hates reading, but he is bright. He is interested in crows because he heard on a nature show that they are one of the only species that are more intelligent than they need to be to survive. He does beautiful, precise drawings of crows. Mostly, though, he draws pictures of men holding guns. Or men hanging from nooses. Or men cutting up other men with chainsaws—in these pictures there are no faces, just figures holding chainsaws and figures being cut in two, with blood spraying out. My wife, Marla, says that this is fine, as long as we balance it out with other things—family dinners, discussions of current events, sports, exposure to art and nature. But I don’t know. Douglas and I were sitting together in the living room last week, half watching the TV and checking e-mail, when an advertisement for a movie flashed across the screen: it was called “Captivity” and the ad showed a terrified blond girl in a cage, a tear running down her face. Doug didn’t speak or move. But I could feel his fascination, the suddenly deepening quality of it. And I don’t doubt that he could feel mine. We sat there and felt it together. And then she was there, the woman in the car. In the room with my son, her black hair, her hard laugh, the wrinkled skin under her hard eyes, the sudden blood filling the white of her blue eye. There was excited music on the TV and then the ad ended. My son’s attention went elsewhere; she lingered. When I was a kid, I liked walking through neighborhoods alone, looking at houses, seeing what people did to make them homes: the gardens, the statuary, the potted plants, the wind chimes. Late at night, if I couldn’t sleep, I would sometimes slip out my bedroom window and just spend an hour or so walking around. I loved it, especially in late spring, when it was starting to be warm and there were night sounds—crickets, birds, the whirring of bats, the occasional whooshing car, some lonely person’s TV. I loved the mysterious darkness of the trees, the way they moved against the sky if there was wind—big and heavy movements, but delicate, too, in all the subtle, reactive leaves. In that soft, blurry weather, people slept with their windows open; it was a small town and they weren’t afraid. Some houses—I’m thinking of two in particular, where the Legges and the Myers lived—had yards that I would actually hang around in at night. Once, when I was sitting on the Legges’ front porch, thinking about stealing a piece of their garden statuary, their cat came and sat with me. I petted him and when I got up and went for the statuary he followed me with his tail up. The Legges’ statues were elves, not corny, cute elves but sinister, wicked-looking elves, and I thought that one would look good in my room. But they were too heavy, so I just moved them around the yard. I did things like that, dumb pranks that could only irritate those who noticed them: rearranging statuary, leaving weird stuff in mailboxes, looking into windows to see where people had dinner or left their personal things—or, in the case of the Legges, where their daughter, Jenna, slept. She was on the ground floor, her bed so close to the window that I could watch her chest rise and fall the way I watched the grass on their lawn stirring in the wind. The worst thing I did, probably, was put a giant marble in the Myers’ gas tank, which could’ve really caused a problem if it had rolled over the gas hole while one of the Myers was driving on the highway, but I guess it never did. Mostly, though, I wasn’t interested in causing that kind of problem. I just wanted to sit and watch, to touch other people’s things, to drink in their lives. I suspect that it’s some version of these impulses that makes me the most successful real-estate agent in the Hudson Valley now: the ability to know what physical objects and surroundings will most please a person’s sense of identity and make him feel at home. I wish that Doug had this sensitivity to the physical world, and the ability to drink from it. I’ve tried different things with him: I used to throw the ball with him out in the yard, but he got tired of that; he hates hiking and likes biking only if he has to get someplace. What’s working now a little bit is fishing, fly-fishing hip deep in the Hudson. An ideal picture of normal childhood. I believe I had a normal childhood. But you have to go pretty far afield to find something people would call abnormal these days. My parents were divorced, and then my mother had boyfriends—but this was true of about half the kids I knew. She and my father fought, in the house, when they were together, and they went on fighting, on the phone, after they separated—loud, screaming fights sometimes. I didn’t love it, but I understood it; people fight. I was never afraid that my father was going to hurt her, or me. I had nightmares occasionally, in which he turned into a murderer and came after me, chasing me, getting closer, until I fell down, unable to make my legs move right. But I’ve read that this is one of those primitive fears which everybody secretly has; it bears little relation to what actually happens. What actually happened: he forced me to play golf with him for hours when I visited on Saturdays, even though it seemed only to make him miserable. He’d curse himself if he missed a shot and then that would make him miss another one and he’d curse himself more. He’d whisper, “Oh, God,” and wipe his face if anything went wrong, or even if it didn’t, as if just being there were an ordeal, and then I had to feel sorry for him. He’d make these noises sometimes, painful grunts when he picked up the sack of clubs, and it put me on edge and even disgusted me. Now, of course, I see it differently. I remembered those Saturdays when I was first teaching Doug how to cast, out in the back yard. I wasn’t much good myself yet, and I got tangled up in the bushes a couple of times. I could feel the boy’s flashing impatience; I felt my age, too. Then we went to work disentangling and he came closer to help me. We linked in concentration, and it occurred to me that the delicacy of the line and the fine movements needed to free it appealed to him the way drawing appealed to him, because of their beauty and precision. Besides, he was a natural. When it was his turn to try, he kept his wrist stiff and gave the air a perfect little punch and zip—great cast. The next time, he got tangled up, but he was speedy about getting unstuck so that he could do it again. Even when the tremor acted up. Even when I lectured him on the laws of physics. It was a good day. There is one not-normal thing you could point to in my childhood, which is that my mother, earlier in her life, before I was born, had occasionally worked as a prostitute. But I don’t think that counts, because I didn’t know about it as a child. I didn’t learn about it until six years ago, when I was thirty-eight and my mother was sick with a strain of flu that had killed a lot of people, most of them around her age. She was in the hospital and she was feverish and thought she was dying. She held my hand as she told me, her eyes sad half-moons, her lips still full and provocative. She said that she wanted me to know because she thought it might help me to understand some of the terrible things I’d heard my father say to her—things I mostly hadn’t even listened to. “It wasn’t anything really bad,” she said. “I just needed the money sometimes, between jobs. It’s not like I was a drug addict—it was just hard to make it in Manhattan. I only worked for good escort places. I never had a pimp or went out on the street. I never did anything perverted—I didn’t have to. I was beautiful. They’d pay just to be with me.” Later, when she didn’t die, she was embarrassed that she’d told me. She laughed that raucous laugh of hers and said, “Way to go, Marcy! On your deathbed, tell your son you’re a whore and then don’t die!” “It’s O.K.,” I said. And it was. It frankly was not really even much of a surprise. It was her vanity that disgusted me, the way she undercut the confession with a preening, maudlin joke. I could not respect that even then. I don’t think that my mom’s confession, or whatever it may have implied, had anything to do with what I think of as “it.” When I was growing up, there was, after all, no evidence of her past, nothing that could have affected me. But suddenly, when I was about fourteen, I started getting excited by the thought of girls being hurt. Or killed. A horror movie would be on TV, a girl in shorts would be running and screaming with some guy chasing her, and to me it was like porn. Even a scene where a sexy girl was getting her legs torn off by a shark—bingo. It was like pushing a button. My mom would be in the kitchen making dinner and talking on the phone, stirring and striding around with the phone tucked between her shoulder and her chin. Outside, cars would go by, or a dog would run across the lawn. My homework would be slowly getting done in my lap while this sexy girl was screaming “God help me!” and having her legs torn off. And I would go invisibly into an invisible world that I called “the other place.” Where I sometimes passively watched a killer and other times became one. “You heard me—turn off that fan.”Buy the print » It’s true that I started drinking and drugging right about then. All my friends did. My mom tried to lay down the law, but I found ways around her. We’d go into the woods, me and usually Chet Wotazak and Jim Bonham, and we’d smoke weed we’d got from Chet’s brother, a local dealer named Dan, and drink cheap wine. We could sometimes get Chet’s dad to lend us a gun—in my memory he had an AK-47, though I don’t know how that’s possible—and we’d go out to a local junk yard and take turns shooting up toilets, the long tubes of fluorescent lights, whatever was there. Then we’d go to Chet’s house, up to his room, where we’d play loud music and tell dumb jokes and watch music videos in which disgusting things happened: snakes crawled over a little boy’s sleeping face and he woke up being chased by a psychopath in a huge truck; a girl was turned into a pig and then a cake and then the lead singer bit off her head. You might think that the videos and the guns were part of it, that they encouraged my violent thoughts. But Chet and Jim were watching and doing the same things and they were not like me. They said mean things about girls, and they were disrespectful sometimes, but they didn’t want to hurt them, not really. They wanted to touch them and be touched by them; they wanted that more than anything. You could hear it in their voices and see it in their eyes, no matter what they said. So I would sit with them and yet be completely apart from them, talking and laughing about normal things in a dark mash of music and snakes and children running from psychos and girls being eaten—images that took me someplace my friends couldn’t see, although it was right there in the room with us. It was the same at home. My mother made dinner, talked on the phone, fought with my dad, had guys over. Our cat licked itself and ate from its dish. Around us, people cared about one another. Jenna Legge slept peacefully. But in the other place sexy girls—and sometimes ugly girls or older women—ran and screamed for help as an unstoppable, all-powerful killer came closer and closer. There was no school or sports or mom or dad or caring, and it was great. I’ve told my wife about most of this, the drinking, the drugs, the murder fantasies. She understands, because she has her past, too: extreme sex, vandalizing cars, talking vulnerable girls into getting more drunk than they should on behalf of some guy. There’s a picture of her and another girl in bathing suits, the other girl chugging a beer that is being held by a guy so that it goes straight down her throat as her head is tipped way back. Another guy is watching, and my smiling wife is holding the girl’s hand. It’s a picture that foreshadows some kind of cruelty or misery, or maybe just a funny story to tell about throwing up in the bathroom later. Privately, I see no similarity between it and my death obsession. For my wife, the connection is drugs and alcohol; she believes that we were that way because we were both addicts expressing our pain and anger through violent fantasies and blind actions. The first time I took Doug out to fish, it was me on the hot golf course all over again. As we walked to the lake in our heavy boots and clothes, I could feel his irritation at the bugs and the brightness, the squalor of nature in his fastidious eyes. I told him that fly-fishing was like driving a sports car, as opposed to the Subaru of rod and reel. I went on about how anything beautiful had to be conquered. He just turned down his mouth. He got interested, though, in tying on the fly; the simple elegance of the knot (the “fish-killer”) intrigued him. He laid it down the first time, too, placing the backcast perfectly in a space between trees. He gazed at the brown, light-wrinkled water with satisfaction. But when I put my hand on his shoulder I could feel him inwardly pull away. As I got older, my night walks be came rarer, with a different, sadder feeling to them. I would go out when I was not drunk or high but in a quiet mood, wanting to be somewhere that was neither the normal social world nor the other place. A world where I could sit and feel the power of nature come up through my feet, and be near other people without them being near me. Where I could believe in and for a moment possess the goodness of their lives. Jenna Legge still slept on the ground floor and sometimes I would look in her window and watch her breathe, and, if I was lucky, see one of her developing breasts swell out of her nightgown. I never thought of killing Jenna. I didn’t think about killing anyone I actually knew—not the girls I didn’t like at school or the few I had sex with. The first times I had sex, I was so caught up in the feeling of it that I didn’t even think about killing—I didn’t think about anything at all. But I didn’t have sex much. I was small, awkward, too quiet; I had that tremor. My expression must’ve been strange as I sat in class, feeling hidden in my other place, but outwardly visible to whoever looked—not that many did. Then one day I was with Chet’s brother, Dan, on a drug drop; he happened to be giving me a ride because his drop, at the local college, was on the way to wherever I was going. It was a guy buying, but, when we arrived, a girl opened the door. She was pretty and she knew it, but whatever confidence that knowledge gave her was superficial. We stayed for a while and smoked the product with her and her boyfriend. The girl sat very erect and talked too much, as if she were smart, but there was a question at the end of everything she said. When we left, Dan said, “That’s the kind of lady I’d like to slap in the face.” I asked, “Why?” But I knew. I don’t remember what he said, because it didn’t matter. I already knew. And later, instead of making up a girl, I thought of that one. I forgot to mention: one night when I was outside Jenna’s window, she opened her eyes and looked right at me. I was stunned, so stunned that I couldn’t move. There was nothing between us but a screen with a hole in it. She looked at me and blinked. I said, “Hi.” I held my breath; I had not spoken to her since third grade. But she just sighed, rolled over, and lay still. I stood there trembling for a long moment. And then, slowly and carefully, I walked through the yard and onto the sidewalk, back to my house. I cut school the next day and the next, because I was scared that Jenna had told everybody and that I would be mocked. But eventually it became clear that nobody was saying anything, so I went back. In class, I looked at Jenna cautiously, then gratefully. But she did not return my look. At first, this moved me, made me consider her powerful. I tried insistently to catch her eye, to let her know what I felt. Finally our eyes met, and I realized that she didn’t understand why I was looking at her. I realized that although her eyes had been open that night, she had still been asleep. She had looked right at me, but she had not seen me at all. And so one night, or early morning, really, I got out of bed, into my mother’s car, and drove to the campus to look for her—the college girl. The campus was in a heavily wooded area bordering a nature preserve. The dorms were widely scattered, though some, resembling midsized family homes, were clustered together. The girl lived in one of those, but while I remembered the general location I couldn’t be sure which one it was. I couldn’t see into any of the windows, because even the open ones had blinds pulled down. While I was standing indecisively on a paved path between dorms, I saw two guys coming toward me. Quickly, I walked off into a section of trees and underbrush. I moved carefully through the thicket, coming to a wide field that led toward the nature preserve. The darkness deepened as I got farther from the dorms. I could feel things coming up from the ground—teeth and claws, eyes, crawling legs, and brainless eating mouths. A song played in my head, an enormously popular, romantic song about love and death that had supposedly made a bunch of teen-agers kill themselves. Kids still listen to that song. I once heard it coming from the computer in our family room. When I went in and looked over Doug’s hunched shoulder, I realized that the song was being used as the soundtrack for a graphic video about a little boy in a mask murdering people. It was spellbinding, the yearning, eerie harmony of the song juxtaposed with terrified screaming; I told Doug to turn it off. He looked pissed, but he did it and went slumping out the door. I found it and watched it by myself later. I went back to the campus many times. I went to avoid my mother as much as anything. Her new boyfriend was an asshole, and she whined when he was around. When he wasn’t around, she whined about him on the phone. Sometimes she called two people in a row to whine about exactly the same things that he’d said or done. Even when I played music loud so I couldn’t hear her, I could feel her. When that happened, I’d leave my music on so that she’d think I was still in my room and I’d go to the campus. I’d follow lone female students as closely as I could, and I’d feel the other place running against the membrane of the world, almost touching it. Why does it make sense to put romantic music together with a story about a little boy murdering people? Because it does make sense—only I don’t know how. It seems dimly to have to do with justice, with some wrong being avenged, but what? The hurts of childhood? The stupidity of life? The kid doesn’t seem to be having fun. Random murder just seems like a job he has to do. But why? Soon enough I realized that the college campus was the wrong place to think about making it real. It wasn’t an environment I could control; there were too many variables. I needed to get the girl someplace private. I needed to have certain things there. I needed to have a gun. I could find a place; there were deserted places. I could get a gun from Chet’s house; I knew where his father kept his. But the girl? Then, while I was in the car with my mom one day, we saw a guy hitchhiking. He was middle-aged and fucked-up-looking, and my mom—we were stopped at a light—remarked that nobody in their right mind would pick him up. Two seconds later, somebody pulled over for him. My mom laughed. I started hitchhiking. Most of the people who picked me up were men, but there were women, too. No one was scared of me. I was almost eighteen by then, but I was still small and quiet-looking. Women picked me up because they were concerned about me. I didn’t really plan to do it. I just wanted to feel the gun in my pocket and look at the woman and know that I could do it. There was this one—a thirtyish blonde with breasts that I could see through her open coat. But then she said that she was pregnant and I started thinking about what if I was killing the baby? “We were hoping that you could work from work today.”Buy the print » Doug had a lot of nightmares when he was a baby, by which I mean between the ages of two and four. When he cried out in his sleep, it was usually Marla who went to him. But one night she was sick and I told her to stay in bed while I went to comfort the boy. He was still crying “Mommy!” when I sat on the bed, and I felt his anxiety at seeing me instead of his mother, felt the moment of hesitation in his body before he came into my arms, vibrating rather than trembling, sweating and fragrant with emotion. He had dreamed that he was home alone and it was dark, and he was calling for his mother, but she wasn’t there. “Daddy, Daddy,” he wept, “there was a sick lady with red eyes and Mommy wouldn’t come. Where is Mommy?” That may’ve been the first time I truly remembered her, the woman in the car. It was so intense a moment that in a bizarre intersection of impossible feelings I got an erection with my crying child in my arms. But it lasted only a moment. I picked Doug up and carried him into our bedroom so that he could see his mother and nestle against her. I stayed awake nearly all night watching them. The day it happened was a bright day, but windy and cold, and my mom would not shut up. I just wanted to watch a movie, but even with the TV turned up loud—I guess that’s why she kept talking; she didn’t think I could hear her—I couldn’t blot out the sound of her yakking about how ashamed this asshole made her feel. I whispered, “If you’re so ashamed, why do you talk about it?” She said, “It all goes back to being fucking molested.” She lowered her voice; the only words I caught were “fucking corny.” I went out into the hallway to listen. “The worst of it was that he wouldn’t look at me,” she said. I could almost hear her pacing around, the phone tucked against her shoulder. “That’s why I fall for these passive-aggressive types who turn me on and then make me feel ashamed.” Whoever she was talking to must have said something funny then, because she laughed. I left the TV on and walked out. I took the gun, but more for protection against perverts than the other thing. I gave my boy that dream as surely as if I’d handed it to him. But I’ve given him a lot of other things, too. The first time he caught a fish he responded to my encouraging words with a bright glance that I will never forget. We let that one go, but only after he had held it in his hands, cold and quick, muscle with eyes and a heart, scales specked with yellow and red, and one tiny orange fin. Then the next one, bigger, leaping to break the rippling murk—I said, “Don’t point the rod at the fish. Keep the tip up, keep it up”—and he listened to me and he brought it in. There is a picture of it on the corkboard in his room, the fish in the net, the lure bristling in its crude mouth. I have another picture, too, of him smiling triumphantly, holding it in his hands, its shining, still living body fully extended. She was older than I’d wanted, forty or so, but still good-looking. She had a voice that was strong and lifeless at the same time. She had black hair and she wore tight black pants. She did not have a wedding ring, which meant that maybe no one would miss her. She picked me up on a lightly travelled forty-five-mile-an-hour road. She was listening to a talk show on the radio and she asked if I wanted to hear music instead. I said no, I liked talk shows. “Yeah?” she said. “Why?” “Because I’m interested in current events.” “I’m not,” she said. “I just listen to this shit because the voices relax me. I don’t really care what they’re talking about.” They were talking about a war somewhere. Bombs were exploding in markets where people bought vegetables; somebody’s legs had been blown off. We turned onto a road with a few cars, but none close to us. “You don’t care?” “No, why should I? Oh, about this?” She paused. There was something about a little boy being rushed to an overcrowded hospital. “Yeah, that’s bad. But it’s not like we can do anything about it.” On the radio, foreign people cried. I took the gun out of my pocket. I said, “Do you have kids?” “No,” she said. “Why?” “Take me to Old Post Road. I’m going to the abandoned house there.” “I’m not going by there, but I can get you pretty close. So why do you care about current events? I didn’t give a shit at your age.” “Take me there or I’ll kill you.” She cocked her head and wrinkled her brow, as if she were trying to be sure she’d heard right. Then she looked down at the gun, and cut her eyes up at me; quickly, she looked back at the road. The car picked up speed. “Take the next right or you’ll die.” My voice at that moment came not from me but from the other place. My whole body felt like an erection. She hit the right-turn signal. There was a long moment as we approached the crucial road. The voices on the radio roared ecstatically. She pulled over to the shoulder. “What are you doing?” She put the car in park. “Turn right or you die!” She unbuckled her seat belt and turned to face me. “I’m ready,” she said. She leaned back and gripped the steering wheel with one hand, as if to steady herself. With her free hand, she tapped herself between the eyes—bright, hot blue, rimmed with red. “Put it here,” she said. “Go for it.” A car went by. Somebody in the passenger seat glanced at us blankly. “I don’t want to do it here. There’s witnesses. You need to take me to the place.” “What witnesses? That car’s not stopping—nobody’s going to stop unless the emergency lights are on and they’re not, look.” “But if I shoot you in the head the blood will spray on the window and somebody could see.” It was my own voice again: the power was gone. The people on the radio kept talking. Suddenly I felt my heart beating. “O.K., then do it here.” She opened her jacket to show me her chest. “Nobody’ll hear. When you’re done you can move me to the passenger seat and drive the car wherever.” “Get into the passenger seat now and I’ll do it.” She laughed, hard. Her eyes were crazy. They were crazy the way an animal can be crazy in a tiny cage. “Hell, no. I’m not going to your place with you. You do it here, motherfucker.” I realized then that her hair was a wig, and a cheap one. For some reason, that made her seem even crazier. I held my gun hand against my body to hide the tremor. “Come on, honey,” she said. “Go for it.” Like a star, a red dot appeared in the white of her left eye. The normal place and the other place were turning into the same place, quick but slow, the way a car accident is quick but slow. I stared. The blood spread raggedly across her eye. She shifted her eyes from my face to a spot somewhere outside the car and fixed them there. I fought the urge to turn and see what she was looking at. She shifted her eyes again. She looked me deep in the face. “Well?” she said. “Are you going to do it or not?” Words appeared in my head, like a sign reading “I Don’t Want To.” She leaned forward and turned on the emergency lights. “Get out of my car,” she said quietly. “You’re wasting my time.” As soon as I got out, she hit the gas and burned rubber. I walked into the field next to the road, without an idea of where I might go. I realized after she was gone that she might call the police, but I felt in my gut that she would not—in the other place there are no police, and she was from the other place. Still, as I walked I took the bullets out of the gun and scattered them, kicking snow over them and stamping it down. I walked a long time, shivering horribly. I came across a drainage pipe and threw the empty gun into it. I thought, I should’ve gut-shot her—that’s what I should’ve done. And then got her to the abandoned house. I should’ve gut-shot the bitch. But I knew why I hadn’t. She’d been shot already, from the inside. If she had been somebody different I might actually have done it. But somehow the wig-haired woman had changed the channel and I don’t even know if she’d meant to. The fly bobbing on the brown, gentle water. The long grasses so green that they cast a fine, bright green on the brown water. The primitive fish mouth straining for water and finding it as my son releases it in the shallows. Its murky vanishing. The blood bursting in her eye, poor woman, poor mother. My mother died of colon cancer just nine months ago. Shortly after that, it occurred to me that the woman had been wearing that awful wig because she was sick and undergoing chemo. Though of course I don’t know. The hurts of childhood that must be avenged: so small and so huge. Before I grew up and stopped thinking about her, I thought about that woman a lot. About what would’ve happened if I’d got her there, to the abandoned house. I don’t remember anymore the details of these thoughts, only that they were distorted, swollen, blurred: broken face, broken voice, broken body left dying on the floor, watching me go with dimming, despairing eyes. These pictures are faded now and far away. But they can still make me feel something. The second time I put my hand on Doug’s shoulder, he didn’t move away inside; he was too busy tuning in to the line and the lure. Somewhere in him is the other place. It’s quiet now, but I know it’s there. I also know that he won’t be alone with it. He won’t know that I’m there with him, because we will never speak of it. But I will be there. He will not be alone with that.
Honor My mother and I lived alone. My father was supposedly dead, and I found out only years later that he’d left, walked out when I was eighteen months old. I should have guessed this—should have seen the signs, or the absence of them. Why hadn’t we kept any of his things to treasure? Why whenever he came up in conversation, which was hardly ever, did my mother’s face tighten, not in grief or regret but in disapproval—the same expression she had when she tasted some food or drink she didn’t like (she was fussy, we were both fussy, fussy together)? Why did none of our relatives or friends ever mention his name? (Which was Bert, unpoetically.) What had he died of, exactly? (“Lungs,” my mother said shortly. She had hated his smoking.) But it didn’t really matter. We were pretty happy living à deux—at least, I was. This was in the nineteen-fifties and the early sixties (I was born in 1956), so many things that seem quaint now were current and powerful then: shame, and secrecy, and the fear that other people would worm themselves into your weaknesses, and that their knowledge of how you had lapsed or failed would eat you away from the inside. My mother used to wear white gloves to go to the shops in summer. She’d carry a basket on her arm, real willow, shaped like a segment of orange, with a tan leather flap and a fastener like a little brass barrel turning in a brass slot. Later on, when I was a teen-ager, I thought she was dowdy, in her boxy good coats and silk scarves and low-heeled court shoes. But, looking at the photographs now, I see that I was the one who was a fright—overweight then, with my eyes made up like black pits—and that she was elegant and even sexy, in a cautious, respectable kind of way. She had to go out to work in an office, to support us. So I spent a lot of time with my Nana, my mother’s mother, who lived just around the corner from our flat. (There’s another thing: didn’t I wonder why we never visited any grandparents on my father’s side?) Nana was miniature, with a tiny-featured face and black eyes, like a mouse or a shrew; on her cheeks there really was a kind of downy pale fur, if you caught her in a certain light, and when I was very young I liked to stroke it. She bought her clothes in the children’s department (cheaper), and went to the hairdresser’s once a week to have her hair set in skimpy gray-brown rolls that were pinned to her scalp, not out of vanity but as if it were her duty to submit to this punishing routine. There was a sticker on the underside of every piece of furniture in Nana’s house, saying whom she wanted to have it in the event of her death: Edna (my mother), Uncle Frank, or Uncle Ray. This was when she was still in her early sixties. (“That old chair! No, thank you!” Mum said, but only when Nana was out of earshot.) I had already decided what I wanted: a jewelry box that played music when the lid was opened. Nana was also a widow (a real one). Her house was very bare, and there wasn’t that much furniture in it to inherit. This was because she was poor, but also because she was continually in the process of clearing out, giving things away, as if she were trying to weigh less and less, as if life itself were a mess that she was gradually getting to the bottom of. In the summer, when it wasn’t too cold, I used to play upstairs in the bedrooms, while Nana, in her housecoat, cleaned downstairs. (What was there to clean? She survived in that house as neatly as a mouse living on crumbs.) I played with the jewelry box, and with my dolls, and with a travel set that Uncle Ray had given Nana one Christmas, bottles made of soft thick plastic, with blue screw tops. You were meant, I suppose, to transfer your assorted creams and unguents into these, to take away with you, but Nana used only Nivea, and never went anywhere. I can remember being flooded with happiness once, alone in Nana’s bedroom. I was lying on the brown-stained floorboards looking up at the underside of the bed—its springs and the flock mattress with its pompoms, turned each week. The dressing table, up against the window, blocked the light. Silky mauve curtains were partly drawn behind it, to keep out prying eyes, or to save the furniture from fading. The window was open three inches at the top for airing, and a breeze was tickling the curtains. My chest swelled with the full awareness of the moment, as if I were breathing in a different medium, thick and heady. Dust motes swam in the air. I turned my hand in them, and thought, I’m alive! In this world! Was this before I went to school? It must have been. I didn’t hate school, but it put an end to that rich, slow, expansive time, when I was free. Mum and I were close when I was a child. We deluded ourselves that we were alike, and would always be the best of friends. We snuggled together with hot-water bottles under the eiderdown on the sofa, to watch “Compact” on TV, or “The Man from U.N.C.L.E.” We were both strong-willed, and that was fine as long as we were pulling in tandem: both of us were fastidious and opinionated and ready to disapprove of other people’s tastes, though we kept these judgments diplomatically between us. (Later, our tastes diverged, and we disapproved of each other.) Nana said that we should move in with her. She couldn’t see why we were wasting our money renting a separate place. I took no notice of this. I thought of Nana as harmless, lightweight, easy to brush aside. My uncles teased her patiently; they found her comical. But I knew from my mother’s face that for her the idea of moving back into her old home was a living danger; the place was a trap that could close around her again at any time. If Mum smoked at Nana’s kitchen table (she’d hated my father’s smoking, then taken it up herself), Nana whisked the ashtray away the moment she’d finished, tipping the ash into the bin and rinsing the ashtray under the tap, wiping it first with a dishcloth and then with a tea towel. Without a husband, Mum was vulnerably exposed. The only way for her to defend herself against Nana’s bleaching, purging world view was to defy it: to wear scent and lipstick every day (“for the office”), not to bother taking up the carpet every time she cleaned, to treat me, for her birthday, at a Berni Inn. (Which was a waste, as Nana had predicted. Overawed and stubborn, I wouldn’t eat a thing.) Mum came into my bedroom as usual one morning, in her stocking feet and petticoat, with the pile of sheets and blankets she had slept in neatly folded. We had only one bedroom, with a double bed and no space for any other furniture; most of the time I slept there, and Mum had the sofa. I liked to lie in bed, listening to her getting ready in the next room, moving about quietly so as not to wake me. I’d close my eyes when she came in, pretending to stretch and yawn. “I’ve had a telephone call,” she said. “Stella?” Telephone calls were a big event. The telephone belonged to the woman in the flat below ours, whose number we gave out only for emergencies. The call must have come very early, or very late the night before. “Who from?” I asked, suspicious. Mum said that my Uncle Frank had called, because Auntie Andy needed somewhere to stay for a while. Andy had rung Frank, trying to get in touch with my mother. “You’ll have to budge up,” Mum said. “I’ll be in the bed with you tonight. We’ll give Andy the sofa.” She stood for too long, hanging on to the pile of bedding, looking down at me, seeing me and not seeing me. There was something in her face that I didn’t like, something crumbled and damp. Usually her mask of brightness was securely in place: spirited, capable. My mother was quite a toughie. She could be brisk about other people’s troubles. She couldn’t afford to waste much sympathy: she had herself (and me) to look out for. No one else was looking out for us. I was eight or nine at the time this happened. Buy the print » I could hardly even remember at first who Auntie Andy was: she was a relative of my father’s, married to his cousin, and she was the only person in that family who’d made any effort to keep in touch. We probably saw her once or twice a year. At Christmas, she dropped off a selection box of chocolate bars for me. She may have been moved to this kindness because she had a son about my age, Charlie. (Of course, then Mum had to buy a selection box for Charlie, too.) Andy wasn’t really Mum’s type. She was small and plump, her faded, gingery hair scraped back from her face with hair grips, her skin blotchy, no makeup. She used to wear a little beige beret, tilted to one side of her head, inappropriately jaunty. She was shy and never had much to say, sitting with a plate of our Christmas cake balanced on her lap, her fat knees spread in her tweedy skirt, her feet crossed at the ankles, where her nylons wrinkled. Once, she’d said approvingly, looking round, “You’ve got it very nice here, Edna.” Mum was still looming above my bed, gripping the pile of blankets. “There’s just one thing,” she warned. “When Auntie Andy comes, you mustn’t mention Charlie.” So something had happened to Charlie. Charlie had come in with Andy only once: inches shorter than me, ginger-haired like her, but bursting, unlike her, with sly and hostile energy, full of contempt for girls and women. He’d ignored his mother when she tried to pass him her handkerchief and wiped his nose on his sleeve instead; in one of his eyes, there was a blot, as if black ink had spilled across the iris, and his stare was skewed unnervingly off target. His brown lace-up shoes, polished like conkers, had made me think of the boys kicking in the queue for school dinner. I refused to ask my mother what had happened to him. I didn’t want to have spelled out for me the unseemly thing that had made my mother’s face pulpy. I liked the scandals we read about in magazines, but they were safely glazed over with falsehood and repetition; raw adult complications were as appalling to me as the sight of an egg, splattered in the pan, with its yolk broken and leaking. (I hated eggs.) Mum probably wouldn’t have told me anyway; she was inflexible about keeping secrets. Almost as an afterthought, she added, “And don’t mention Uncle Derek, either.” I hadn’t even known that his name was Derek. I’d never met him. Andy was there when I got back from Nana’s (where I always went after school). I was allowed to walk home on my own, after Nana had given me supper: Spam sandwiches, lettuce and tomatoes with vinegar shaken over them out of a cut-glass bottle. Nana already knew all about Auntie Andy’s coming, but she wouldn’t say anything to me directly: not saying things was her specialty. She had a horror of any kind of publicity or exposure touching the family, however remotely. “I only hope Edna knows what she’s doing,” she fretted, not quite to anyone. I was dreading arriving home in the middle of a big fuss. I couldn’t bear crises: the huddles of women, their lowered voices, smoldering glances, shutting the children out and yet looping them in—tantalizing them—to the dark, sticky center. Mum didn’t like fuss any more than I did; whatever it was that had happened to Andy (and Charlie and Uncle Whatshisname) had been bad enough to shock her out of her usual poise. But when I got there Andy was sitting quietly at the end of the sofa, in the same tweed skirt that she had worn on her last visit. “How are you, Stella?” she said kindly. “How was school?” She did look odd in some way—what? I began gabbling about how well I had done in my mental-arithmetic test, and how in our books we had drawn around plastic stencils of the United Kingdom, with little holes to put your pencil where the cities were, and how I had to bring in something for the nature table next week, now that it was spring. My mother was frowning at me urgently, because by talking about school I must have indirectly been bringing up the subject of Charlie (although I couldn’t imagine Charlie ever shining at mental arithmetic or contributing to the nature table). But I didn’t want there to be any silences out of which ugly truths might tumble. Auntie Andy said calmly, admiringly, that I sounded like a clever girl. Her face was rather white. She reminded me of a girl at school, who had been slapped for extreme insolence (usually only the boys were hit): when this girl walked back to her desk, she was in a sort of smiling daze, vivid with shock. What was odd about Auntie Andy, I realized, was that her shyness had been blasted out of her by whatever had happened, the way an explosion can leave people deaf. When she had sat in the same place on our sofa eating cake, a few months earlier, she had been stuck for anything to say, apologetic, glancing around at the walls of our flat for inspiration. Mum had been imperiously, chillingly polite. (With hindsight, I think she must have chosen this as the right register for relations with my father’s family.) Andy had blushed, and stumbled over her words, and I had guessed that her feet were hurting her, in her stilettos. The time Charlie came in with her she had been suffused with maternal pride and surprise (“Can I really have made this?”), touching his hair and his shoulders surreptitiously, making him wriggle away, but she had also suffered, seeing his nose run in front of us. Now she sat almost serenely, as if nothing ordinary could touch her. Well, of course it couldn’t. “I wanted to come here,” she said to my mother, with no hint of worry that she might be an imposition. “I remembered how nicely you’d done it up. When they asked me if I had anyone to go to, I expect they thought I’d go to my sister’s. But to be honest, Edna, I don’t want anything to do with the whole lot of them just now.” That first afternoon she must have been experiencing severe trauma, as we’d call it these days. I don’t suppose she knew what she was doing or saying. But her shyness never did come back. It wasn’t that she became bold or greedy for attention or anything like that—far from it. Her shyness was transformed into something different: reserve, or dignity. The only outward sign of crisis was the fact that they were drinking sherry. Or Mum was drinking it, and smoking, with hasty, nervous fingers. Auntie Andy’s glass, on the coffee table in front of her, looked untouched. “Go on,” Mum said tenderly. “It’ll do you good.” I’d never heard her be tender like that before with any adult; even our mutual appreciation was mostly expressed through chaffing and teasing. Obediently, Andy picked up the glass to sip, but something happened to it between the table and her mouth, as if her hand simply wasn’t under her control: her arm jerked helplessly, and the sherry spilled over the top of the glass, a big gout of it, onto her skirt and our carpet. She wasn’t just shaking—it was something more violent, like an avalanche or a volcanic eruption. Andy’s old self would have been mortified, but she only put the sherry carefully back on the table and folded her hands in her lap again, while Mum knelt beside her, blotting the mark out of her skirt with a tea towel. I saw that, if anything, it was Mum who was shy now: not shy of Andy herself but of what had happened to her and was now added on to her personality forever, exacting a kind of homage of respect and service. I supposed that as I soon as I was sent to bed the two women would talk, and I would hear the dramatic music of their scandalizing revelations and commiserations penetrating the dividing wall. (I’d heard my mother talk like this with Auntie Jean, Frank’s wife, and had felt betrayed, because usually we made fun of Jean. It was our joke that she knew the gossip before it even happened; “jungle telegraph,” Mum called it.) However, when Mum told me to get my pajamas on Auntie Andy announced that she would go to bed now, too. “The doctor’s given me some pills,” she said. “So I should be all right. I didn’t get much sleep last night.” My mother didn’t explain that this meant that she, too, would have to go to bed, hours before her usual time—as a rule, she never turned in before eleven or midnight. She made up the sofa for Andy, filled a hot-water bottle for her. Then Mum and I were shut in the bedroom alone together. It was strange to have her undressing there while I was still wide awake, tussling to take off her underwear under her nylon nightie, pulling her brassiere out through a sleeve, settling down beside me with her book and her glass of water. She couldn’t concentrate on what she was reading, and her restlessness communicated itself. When she turned out the bedside light (I whined that I couldn’t sleep with the light on), I could feel the frustration of the long hours stretching out ahead of her in the dark, when she was so charged up with vitality and energy. “So what happened to Charlie?” I whispered. “Oh, Stella. Not now, for goodness’ sake.” Heaving the bedclothes over, she turned her back on me. For a while we both lay awake, listening for signs of whatever unimaginable reverie was unfolding in the next room, but there was nothing to hear. Next morning, when Mum got up, Auntie Andy was already dressed, sitting there on the sofa with her slapped face and vague smile, and all the sheets and blankets neatly folded. Buy the print » On the way to school, Mum told me that Charlie was dead, flinging the word at me impatiently, as if it were somehow my fault, and I ought to have guessed by now: as indeed I had guessed, from the beginning. The actual word, spoken between us, worked its ravages nonetheless. I resented Charlie with a pure rage. Why couldn’t anyone else have been dead? He seemed a usurper in a realm that gave him a huge advantage of pity and terror: he surely didn’t belong there, with his ugly stamping feet. Only his squint had been a sign of difference and romance, marking him apart. “Dead, how?” I insisted, and she looked down at me—bright and smart in her office outfit—with distaste, I’m sure. “A nasty accident,” she said. I couldn’t ask, for shame, “What accident?” But the uncertainty squirmed in my imagination, taking on foul forms. “You’re not to repeat a word about it to anyone, is that clear? Not one word, or I’ll take my hand to you.” She rarely smacked me, though she quite often threatened it; I was wounded that my mother could think I wanted to pass on our contaminating secret. Becoming the center of one of those huddles of girls, darkly informed, didn’t appeal. Anyhow, I feared that I wouldn’t be able to carry it off—somehow the tables would be turned and the dirty story would stick to me, making me a pariah. My instinct in those days was to smother any unpleasant truth, push it back into its hole. I was (rather abstractly) enthusiastic about dogs and horses, because they seemed to me clean, unproblematic: I had a dreamy image of myself running through long grass, with a collie jumping up beside me, trying to lick my face. (After long deliberation, I had elected collies as my favorite dogs.) This image was my idea of “nature,” and had in my private world a religious resonance. Determinedly, all that day at school, I held Charlie at bay, inventing games to play with my couple of oddball friends. We lived together in an old farmhouse on an island. A portion of the playground was the sea, and we couldn’t walk on it. Sometimes there were dreadful storms. “Here, boy!” I whistled and clicked my tongue commandingly, fed imaginary sugar lumps to imaginary horses with my hand held out flat. What had happened to Charlie was worse than anything my fears could dredge up. It all came out in the trial. Needless to say, I was never in the court, but my mother got as much time off from the office as she could to sit through it with Auntie Andy. (They were “very understanding” at the office, even if that meant that they didn’t pay her for the time she was out.) So she heard almost all of it, and over the years it filtered down to me. Also, Nana kept the newspaper cuttings, which I found when she died—though in those days the coverage wasn’t as lurid as it would be now, and not everything that came out in court got into the papers. It was a surprise to me that Nana had kept the cuttings. She had never let Mum talk about the case, and she certainly hadn’t manifested any prurient interest in the details. Apparently, for years Uncle Derek had been hitting Auntie Andy (Andrea, she was in the newspaper reports). His own mother admitted in court that he had a violent temper, though she also said that Andy ought to have known how to “get round” him. (Perhaps Uncle Derek’s father had been a wife-beater, too?) The defense tried to make out that Andy had goaded her husband with her “passivity,” her “unresponsiveness.” People had mixed feelings about men’s violence against their families in those days: it was disgusting, but it was also, confusedly, part of the suffering essence of maleness, like the smell of tobacco and the beard growth. I think that sexuality itself was sometimes understood, by the women in my family, as a kind of violence that must be submitted to, buried deep in the privacy of domestic life. Presumably the implication of the case for the defense was that Auntie Andy had driven her husband to murder by frustrating him. They made a great point of Derek’s sobriety (“He never touched a drop,” Auntie Andy loyally testified), and his good reputation at his place of work. He was a salesman in a car showroom, and he “brought home very good money.” Who knows how Uncle Derek would have fared in court if he’d killed Auntie Andy? On the night in question, however, he didn’t. He arrived home from work at the usual time and his tea wasn’t ready. (“Tea,” in this context, meaning meat and two veg, not Earl Grey and triangles of sandwich.) It wasn’t ready because Andy had been asked to go in to talk to Charlie’s teacher after school. (She hadn’t been planning to tell her husband this, but it came out as their row unravelled.) She had thought that perhaps Charlie was in trouble—he sometimes got into fights in the playground—but it turned out that the teacher was worried about his slowness in learning to read. (“Because I don’t have any other children,” Andy said in court, “I didn’t know that he was slow. I wish I’d known.”) Derek had had a bad day. He’d been working on a deal to sell a fleet of cars to a driving school, and it had fallen through. My mother said that they made Andy show them on a plan how he had chased her around the house, punching and kicking her from room to room. “That’s why I ran out in the street,” she said, “without my coat or my bag. And I couldn’t go back inside, because I didn’t have my key. He’d never have let me in. But I didn’t want the neighbors watching while I hung about there in the cold. So I thought I’d better go to my sister’s, who only lives round the corner.” She’d waited a couple of hours for him to cool down. She had gone to her sister’s before, in the middle of one of these rows, and left Charlie with his father. “When police officers saw you later that evening,” the defense objected, “they didn’t observe any signs of violence on your person.” She said that he never hit her where the marks would show. “Could you speak up, please?” He’d said he didn’t want her flaunting it to everyone. Charlie’s body had been found in the bath (with no water in it). They asked Andy where her son had been when she left the house: as far as she knew, he was in the living room, eating beans on toast, because the chops weren’t ready, in front of the television. He might or might not have been aware that his parents were quarrelling. They had both of them always tried to keep him out of it. Andy had been planning to get out his reading book later, as the teacher had recommended, although she hadn’t been very hopeful that he would agree to work on his spelling with her. “He had a mind of his own,” she said. She repeated that Derek had never hurt Charlie before. He wasn’t a bad father. He had been worried about his son’s problem with his eyes. He had even come with her to the doctor. But she agreed with the defense: she shouldn’t have left Charlie alone with him that night. She would never forgive herself. She didn’t know, now, what she had been thinking. They had arrested Derek in Nottingham. She had no idea why he’d gone there. He had no connection with the place. I really wished, while Auntie Andy was staying with us, and then later, during the trial, when we saw a lot of her again, that I didn’t know any of this (and I didn’t know all of it then, though I did know about the bath, and that haunted me). I tried not to listen when anyone talked about it, but I couldn’t help being curious, too, against my better judgment: as if among the details there were information that I needed, for my own survival. Innocent-seeming fragments would get past my defenses (the reading book, Nottingham, chops for tea), then stick to my imagination like tar. Inevitably, people at school got to know about my connection with the case. A deputation of older girls came up to me with solemn faces one playtime and presented me with a posy of flowers—probably picked out of the front gardens on their way to school—tied up with raffia from the craft cupboard. They wanted to say how sorry they were about “my little cousin”; one of them actually stroked my hair, as if I moved her to spontaneous pity. I wanted to tell them that I’d hardly known Charlie, that he was a snotty-nosed kid and I’d hated him, and that he would have hated me back if he’d deigned to notice my existence. But I didn’t dare; I knew they wouldn’t forgive me if I cheated them out of their syrupy, pleasurable sorrowing. So I thanked them and said that I would give the flowers to my auntie. On my way home, I buried them in a dustbin. For a couple of weeks, I was accorded a kind of sepulchral respect at school, and then they forgot about me. “When a psychiatrist says it, it’s not considered psychobabble.”Buy the print » From time to time, when I was alone in a room, I would suddenly become fully, chillingly conscious of the fact that Charlie had once been alive inside his own head, as I was at that moment inside mine. And also that the person that he really was had undergone those things I had heard about in a moment that was as real as this one, and continuous with mine, because it had baked beans in it, and a bathroom with a familiar boring sink and towels and a toilet. My mind expanded to take in new possibilities. This open-air recognition was what lay in wait behind all the gloating, smothering words (“poor little chappie”). A blast of wind blowing through space, icy clean. Most of the time, naturally, when Auntie Andy wasn’t around, I hardly thought about Charlie. I got on with my life. My mother used to say, in one of her set pieces, that she had never known what courage was until she saw how Andrea stood up to the lawyers in court. “She was so perfectly polite and patient, and she never let them get under her skin,” she told me. “I couldn’t have kept my composure the way she did.” But once the trial was over the two of them didn’t see much of each other. Their lives took them in different directions, and they had never really had much in common. Andy didn’t become a new person after Charlie was killed. She never became one of the bright, quick, funny women Mum chose for her best friends; she was always rather sweet and blank and—what’s the word? Not conventional, because Mum was every bit as conventional. Andy was receptive, like a deep vessel into which life was poured. If this terrible particular thing hadn’t been poured into her, she would have been happier—it goes without saying—but less of a person. She was filled out by her fate. I actually think that this is quite rare, the capacity to become the whole shape of the accidents that happen to you. And it wasn’t just a passive thing. I remember when Auntie Jean first came around, while Andy was staying with us. Jean had a big, forthright bust and piled-up black hair. She wore dangling earrings that were vaguely gypsyish. When Andy came out of the bedroom, where she’d been lying down, Jean knelt on the floor in front of her, wrapping her arms around Andy’s knees, sobbing extravagantly. “I don’t know how you can bear it,” she said. “I know I couldn’t.” (Jean had three boys.) The murder had cleared a social space around Andy. People didn’t know how to address her; probably Jean was just trying to broach that space in her overblown way. You can’t deny that her gesture matched the extremity of what had happened. But Andy wasn’t touched or embarrassed. She stood very still and unresponsive, until Jean let go. “I’m sorry, I don’t like scenes,” she said coolly. I’m sure that Uncle Derek was less interesting than his wife; he wasn’t interesting just because he had killed someone. As an adult, I lived for a while in a house that had brick steps leading down into a narrow coal cellar, where we kept the brooms and buckets and broken things we hadn’t got around to fixing. It used to flood with filthy water at certain times of year, and I imagine Uncle Derek’s inner life like that: cramped and musty-smelling, shut away from daylight, subject to the drag of tides of violence. The little despotism he installed inside the four walls of his home mattered only because it derived its authority from the whole towering, mahogany-colored, tobacco-smelling, reasonable edifice of male superiority in the world outside. And mattered, of course, because of its consequences in other lives. My mother reported that in court he said he’d “got the worst of a bad bargain” in his wife. They did let him out of jail eventually, I believe, after he had served fifteen years of his sentence. He settled in some part of the country where he wasn’t known. During the time that Auntie Andy was staying with us, Mum left me alone in the flat with her on Saturdays while she went out shopping. Sometimes Andy played dolls with me. This was a new experience; the adults I knew didn’t play with children unless it was something organized, like cricket. Andy didn’t put on a childish voice. She entered into the reality of the different dolls’ characters and sensitivities with what seemed an authentic interest, almost naïve—I checked her face to make sure she wasn’t teasing me. We undressed and dressed them in their tiny clothes, flipping them over to do up the poppers, skewering plastic boots onto their hard, pointed feet. (After the trial was over, Andy made a dress for my teen-age doll, layered skirts in pink nylon, trimmed with minute roses of satin ribbon, unbelievably pretty, though it was a bit tight and wouldn’t do up down the back.) Sometimes, when she and I were alone in the flat, Auntie Andy went into the other room to lie down, and I heard her crying, although Mum had told Jean that she never did. It didn’t occur to me to try to comfort her. I would pretend to carry on with my play, feeling miserably guilty. I was only a child. There was nothing I could offer, and I must have been a living reproach because I wasn’t Charlie, though Andy never made me feel this, by any word or sign. Auntie Andy had to find a job. She had to get a divorce, and a place to live by herself. She couldn’t go back to that house, obviously. All of this worked out well for her. I think she must have come to our flat in the first place not only out of revulsion at everything to do with her old life but also because my mother’s solitary, cheerful style—frilly aprons and nail polish and lemon-yellow guest towels—had signalled to her, even before the disaster, a vision of possibilities other than the ones she knew. And Mum was honored by Auntie Andy’s choosing us; it seemed a consecration of Mum’s situation as a single woman, managing bravely by herself. Though Andy’s staying was an inconvenience and a strain, too: my mother acquitted herself with exemplary generosity; she really did. And then, within a couple of years, they both found themselves a man, as if that had been the whole point of the enterprise. Andy went to work on the factory floor of the chocolate manufacturers where Uncle Ray was in the accounts office. She made a little face of apology when she told us about the job, as if she knew it was beneath her, the wife of a car salesman. But in fact she enjoyed the company of the women there, though she kept aloof from the roughest of their bantering and kidding. (I knew this, because Ray got me a summer job at the factory when I was sixteen—an awful job, removing the molds from the hot chocolate puddings.) She brought us paper bags of half-priced, imperfect chocolates whenever she visited, violet creams and Crunchies and Turkish Delight, my favorite—I picked off flakes of the chocolate with my teeth and then ate the jelly. Even after she remarried, Andy went on working there. “Carrying on for the moment,” she said suggestively. Her new husband, Phil, was lugubrious, with faded good looks, stick-thin. Not long after their wedding, Andy began hinting with proud smiles that she might be pregnant; she must have been fortyish by then—she was a lot older than my mother. Some of this I picked up at the time, from conversations between Mum and Auntie Jean: their twilight tones alerted me to the fact that they were talking about bodies. Apparently, she suffered from real morning sickness, her stomach swelled, her breasts were sore. (They hardly ever used that word, “breasts.” It was reserved for medical matters, uttered in lowered voices.) But in the end nothing came of it; it was a false alarm. “Doesn’t it just break your heart?” Jean said. Andy never did have another baby, although that pattern of phantom pregnancy repeated itself over and over, well into her fifties, by which time it had become a bit of a joke among the people who knew her, though not an unkind one. To Uncle Phil’s credit, he never showed the least sign of skepticism at her symptoms; he was punctilious in his attentions, urging her to put her feet up, bringing the barley water with soda that she’d “suddenly taken a fancy to.” Andy talked about her “disappointments,” as if they were miscarriages, but Jean didn’t believe that she ever really conceived in her second marriage. My mother said she didn’t know, it wasn’t any of her business. However bitterly these disappointments were felt in private, nothing altered Andy’s queenly kindness and distance. And, as far as I know, these phantoms were the only outward sign of continuing trauma from what had happened. I can’t help feeling, thinking about it now, that there was an element of histrionic performance in them, too, that contrasted with Andy’s usual reserve. Exacting our sympathetic good will, under false pretenses, she claimed some latitude, some indulgence, in return for the magnitude of what she had undergone, and what she had lost, which could never be restored.
Axis Fifty years ago, Grace and Avie were waiting at the university gates, in the freezing cold. A bus would come eventually, and take them north, through the dark, thinly populated countryside, to their homes. Forty miles to go for Avie, maybe twice that for Grace. They were carrying large books with solemn titles: “The Medieval World,” “Montcalm and Wolfe,” “The Jesuit Relations.” This was mostly to establish themselves as serious students, which they were. But once they got home they would probably not have time for such things. They were both farm girls, who knew how to scrub floors and milk cows. Their labor as soon as they entered the house—or the barn—belonged to their families. They weren’t the sort of girls you usually ran into at this university. There was a large School of Business, whose students were nearly all male, and several sororities, whose members studied Secretarial Science and General Arts and were there to meet those men. Grace and Avie had not been approached by sororities—one look at their winter coats was enough to tell you why—but they believed that the men who were not on the lookout for sorority girls were more apt to be intellectuals, and they preferred intellectuals anyway. They were both majoring in history, having won scholarships enabling them to do so. What would they do when they were finished? people asked, and they had to say that they would probably teach high school. They admitted that they would hate that. They understood—everybody understood—that having any sort of job after graduation would be a defeat. Like the sorority girls, they were enrolled here to find somebody to marry. First a boyfriend, then a husband. It wasn’t spoken of in those terms, but there you were. Girl students on scholarships were not usually thought to stand much of a chance, since brains and looks were not believed to go together. Fortunately, Grace and Avie were both attractive. Grace was fair and stately, Avie red-haired, less voluptuous, lively, and challenging. Male members of both their families had joked that they ought to be able to nab somebody. By the time the bus came, they were nearly frozen. They worked their way to the back, so they could smoke what would be their last cigarettes until after the weekend. Their parents would not be suspicious if they smelled it on them. The smell of cigarettes was everywhere in those days. Avie waited until they were comfortable to tell Grace about her dream. “You must never tell anybody,” she said. In the dream, she was married to Hugo, who really was hanging around as if he hoped to marry her, and she had a baby, who cried day and night. It howled, in fact, till she thought she would go crazy. At last she picked up this baby—picked her up, there never was any doubt that it was a girl—and took her down to some dark basement room and shut her in there, where the thick walls insured that she wouldn’t be heard. Then she went away and forgot about her. And it turned out that she had another girl baby anyway, one who was easy and delightful and grew up without any problems. But one day this grown daughter spoke to her mother about her sister hidden in the basement. It turned out that she had known about her all along—the poor warped and discarded one had told her everything—and there was nothing to be done now. “Nothing to be done,” this lovely, kind girl said. The abandoned daughter knew no way of life but the one she had and, anyway, she did not cry anymore; she was used to it. “That’s an awful dream,” Grace said. “Do you hate children?” “Not unreasonably,” Avie said. “What would Freud say? Never mind that, what would Hugo say? Have you told him?” “Good God, no.” “It’s probably not as bad as it seems. You’re probably just worried again about being pregnant.” It had been Avie, really, who had persuaded Hugo that they should sleep together, or have sex, as people would later say. She thought it would make him seem more manly, more assured. He was a nice-looking, eager boy with dark hair flopping over his forehead, and he had a tendency to pick out people he could worship. A professor, a brilliant older student, a girl. Avie. If they slept together, she thought, she might fall in love with him. After all, neither of them had ever had that experience with anybody else. But what sex had led to, chiefly, was fright about certain accidents, worry about late periods, and the monstrous possibility that she might be pregnant. The truth was that she would rather have had Grace’s boyfriend, Royce, who was a veteran of the Second World War. Unlike Avie, Grace was in love. She believed that her virginity and her refusal to let Royce dispose of it—not what he was used to—was a way of keeping him interested. But at times he was ready to give up on her, and to divert him from such bad moods she had learned to distract him with gossip or jokes about people like Hugo, whom he rather despised. In fact, Grace had got into the habit of making up stories about Hugo that weren’t anywhere near true. Both legs in one pant leg, after a session of harried lovemaking—nonsense like that. She hoped that Avie would never find out. In the early summer, Royce got on a bus and went to visit Grace on her parents’ farm. The bus had to pass the town where Avie lived, and by chance from his window he saw Avie, standing on the sidewalk of the main street, talking to somebody. She was full of animation, whipping her hair back when the wind blew it in her face. He remembered that she had quit college just before her exams. Hugo had graduated and got a job teaching high school in some northern town, where she was to join him and marry him. Grace had told Royce that Avie had had a bad scare, and it had caused her to come to this decision. Then it had turned out to be all right—she wasn’t pregnant—but she had decided she might as well go ahead anyway. Avie didn’t look like anybody trapped by a scare. She looked carefree, and in immensely good spirits—prettier, more vivid, than he ever remembered seeing her. He had an urge to get off the bus and not get on again. But, of course, that would land him in more trouble than even he could contemplate. Avie was sashaying across the street in front of the bus now anyway, disappearing into a store. They had waited supper half an hour for him, at Grace’s house, and even at that it was only five-thirty. “The cows are boss around here, I’m afraid,” Grace’s mother said. “I suppose you’re quite a stranger to farm life.” She looked nothing like Grace, or Grace looked nothing like her, thank God. Scrawny, cropped gray hair. She scurried around so, she didn’t ever seem to get a chance to straighten up. A schoolteacher, she had been, and she looked it. A schoolteacher watching out for whatever wrong thing she hasn’t caught you doing yet. The father seemed anxious to get to the cows. The grown son wore a sneer. So did the younger sister, who was supposed to be a genius on the piano. Grace sat mute and shamed, but lovely, flushed from the cooking. What were his plans, the mother wanted to know, his plans now that he had graduated? (Grace must have told them that lie; she must have concealed the fact that he’d walked out on his last exam because the questions were idiotic. Had she thought that mere bravado?) Right now, he said, he was driving a taxi. There was not much to do with a degree in philosophy. “Unless I decide to become a priest.” “You a Catholic?” the father said, so startled he almost choked on his food. “Oh. Do you have to be?” Grace said, “Just kidding.” But she sounded as if all the kidding had gone out of her. “Philosophy,” the mother said. “I didn’t know you could study just that for four years.” “Slow learner,” Royce said. “Now you’re joking.” He and Grace washed the dishes in silence, then went for a walk in the lane. Her face was still rosy from embarrassment or the kitchen heat, and her teasing nature seemed to have turned to lead. “Is there a late bus?” he said. “They’re just nervous,” she said. “It’ll be better tomorrow.” He looked up at some feathery, slightly Oriental-looking trees, and asked her if she knew what they were. “Acacia. Acacia trees. They’re my favorite trees.” Favorite trees. What next? Favorite flower? Favorite star? Favorite windmill? Did she have a favorite fence post? About to inquire, he figured it would hurt her feelings. Instead, he asked what they would be doing the next day. Maybe a picnic in the woods, he hoped. Somewhere he could get her alone. She said that they would be making strawberry jam all day. “You don’t choose here,” she said. “You just deal with what’s ready. Follow the seasons.” He had counted on helping with some farmwork. He was good with machinery, which surprised people, and he had a real interest in how others earned a living, even though he shied away from making a commitment of that kind himself. In fact, it had occurred to him—of all things—that the father might be getting past it and the brother would prove to be some sort of dunce (Grace had spoken of him scornfully) and that he, Royce, right now at loose ends and neither stupid nor lazy, might slip into a bucolic life amid picturesque dumb animals and bursting orchards, with time on his hands all winter to cultivate his mind. Sabine farm. But he could tell that the father and the brother were not going to be keen to have him around. No time for him. And they wouldn’t think of farming, even efficient farming, as a restorative for the soul. He would be stuck with the strawberries. Unless the younger sister, the genius piano player, hauled him in to turn her pages. “All my children have their gifts,” the mother had said to him, as they got up from the table, and the pianist was excused from the dishes. “Ruth has her music, Grace has her history, and Kenny, of course, is the one for agriculture.” In the lane he tried putting his arm around Grace, but the embrace was awkward, with some stumbling in the narrow ruts of the track. “Is this how it’s going to be?” he said. “Never mind,” she said. “I have a plan.” He couldn’t see what that could be. The room where he would sleep was off the kitchen. The window was stuck about a quarter of the way up—it didn’t open far enough for him to sneak out. “Tomorrow we make the jam,” Grace said. “All day, likely. Ruth will be practicing—she’ll drive you crazy, but never mind. Next day, Mother has to take her into town for her examination. Then all the kids who have been examined have to sit and wait till the last one’s done, and that’s when they give out the results to everybody. See?” “I don’t see your mother agreeing to leave us alone,” Royce said. “Or isn’t this the plan I’m thinking it is?” “Someone’s misfiled Harrington.”Buy the print » “It is,” Grace said. “I have to go and see my friend Robina. Robina Shoemaker. I’ll have to go on my bike, so it’ll take a while. She lives on the other side of the highway. We’ve been friends since we were little, and now for two years she’s been crippled. A horse stepped on her foot.” “Good Christ,” he said. “Rural calamities.” “I know,” she said, not seeming to care about matching his tone. “So I am supposed to be going to see her, but I actually won’t be. After Mother and Ruth are gone, I’m turning the bike around and coming back and we’ll have the house to ourselves.” “And this exam is long?” “I promise you. Long. And then they are going to take some strawberries to Grandma, and that always takes at least an hour. Are you following me?” “I hope so.” “Can you be good all day tomorrow? Don’t be sarcastic to Mother.” “Sorry,” he said. “I promise.” But he had to wonder. Why now rather than any of those times last winter when he could easily have got her up to his room and arranged for his room-mate to be out? Or last spring, when she drove him crazy in the dark corners of the park? What about her vaunted virginity? “I have pads,” she said. “How many do you usually need?” To his surprise, he had to say he didn’t know. “Virgins aren’t my cup of tea.” She hugged herself, laughing, the way he was used to her. “I didn’t mean to be funny.” Really he hadn’t. Her mother was sitting on the side steps, but surely she couldn’t have heard. She asked if they’d had a nice walk and said that she herself always looked forward to the cool of the evening. “We’re lucky here—not holed up in the heat like you city folks.” When he woke up in the morning he thought that he had ahead of him one of the longest days of his life, but in fact it went easily. The jugs were lowered in their racks into the bubbling hot water. The strawberries were hulled and heated till they boiled and developed a pink froth like midway candy. The work was organized amiably, with the three of them quick to see when another needed help lifting a pot or coming to another’s aid with a handy movement of the strainer. The kitchen was murderously hot, and first Royce then Grace then Grace’s mother thrust their faces under the cold-water tap and came up dripping. “Why did I never in my life think of that before?” the mother said, standing there with witch tails stuck to her forehead. “It takes a man to think of things that smart, doesn’t it, Grace?” The piano was being played all day long by the child who was to be examined, reminding each of them, in their different ways, of the trials and promises of the day to come. At the end of the afternoon Royce was given the keys to the car and drove five miles to the nearest store, where he bought sliced ham and ice cream and ready-made potato salad for supper. It seemed that potato salad not made at home was something unknown in that house. Warm jam was poured over the ice cream. The mother in her water-spotted dress was fairly giddy with the labor and the achievements of the day. “Royce here is the type to spoil a woman,” she said. “Anybody with him around would be getting the work done whiz-bang and then be enjoying ice cream every day. We’d be spoiled.” The brother said that Grace was spoiled already—she thought she was smart because she had went to college. “Gone,” the mother said. Grace threatened to dump a spoonful of potato salad down his shirt. He grabbed it away and ate it from his fingers. Grace said, “Yuck.” The mother warned them. “Manners.” The next day the father and the brother were stooking early oats in the acres they owned on the other side of the highway. They took lunch with them, and counted on the woman who rented the place to supply them with drinking water. All this Grace had figured out. Ruth was made to stand very still while her mother fixed her hair up with braids and ribbons to set off her doomed expression. She said she couldn’t eat anything. The mother said, “Nerves,” and wrapped up some soda biscuits in waxed paper. Just a few minutes before the car drove away, Grace got on her bicycle and waved goodbye. The mother said to give her love to the girl who was crippled. A jar of the fresh jam was wrapped up to keep it safe in the bicycle’s basket, to provide a treat for her. Royce had been told that he deserved a day off, after yesterday’s work. But the tall brick house, so impressive from the outside, had not a scrap of grace or comfort within. The furniture was simply stuck here and there, as if nobody had ever had time for a plan. The front door was partly blocked by Ruth’s piano. At least there were books to read in the living room. He took “Don Quixote” from a shelf of classics, behind glass, and yelled “Knock ’em dead!” to Ruth, who didn’t answer. His ears followed the car down the lane, then heard it turn toward the highway. He read a few words, letting the house change over, switch itself to his side. The pattern of the oilcloth on the kitchen table seemed to be conspiring, the flypapers were as fresh as Ruth’s curls, the radio turned off, everything waiting. Without any haste, he walked to the room off the kitchen, where he felt it proper to tidy the bed and hang up his few clothes. He pulled the blind down to the sill, took off everything he had on, and got under the quilt. He had not come unequipped, even knowing that his chances might be slim. No lack of readiness now. The hush felt momentous. How far would she think it necessary to go before she turned back? The kitchen clock struck one, the time that Ruth was due at the music teacher’s. Now surely, surely. He heard the bike on the gravel. But the kitchen door did not open as soon as he expected. Then he understood that she was pushing the bike around to the back of the house, to hide it. Good girl. Her footsteps entered, very lightly, as if not to waken anyone sleeping in the house. Then a shy movement of the door, which, as he had already noted, had no locks of any kind. He stayed quite still, his eyes open just a slit. He gave her time. He had thought she might get into bed with her clothes on, but no. She was taking off every stitch in front of him, head bowed, lips pressed together, then moistened with her tongue. Very serious. What a darling. They were far enough advanced not to have heard the car. At first he had made quite an effort to be quiet, not because he believed in any danger but just because he meant to go easy, be very gentle with her. This notion, however, was on the point of being left behind. She didn’t seem to require such care. They were making enough noise themselves not to hear anything outside. They would not have heard the car anyway—it had been left a distance down the driveway. Likewise, the footsteps must have been soft, the kitchen door carefully opened. If they had heard even the kitchen door they might have had a moment to prepare. But as it was the door of the room was flung open, before they could understand that such a thing had happened. And, in fact, it took them a minute to stop and register the mother’s face gaping, somehow huge, right at the foot of the bed. She was not able to speak. She shook. She stuttered. She steadied herself by holding the bed frame. “I cannot,” she said when she could. “Cannot. Cannot. Believe.” “Oh, shut up,” Royce said. “Do you—do you—do you have a mother?” “None of your business,” Royce said. He heaved Grace to one side without looking at her, reached down for his pants on the floor, and worked them on under the quilt before he got out of the bed. His movements kicked Grace away from him. He could not help that, hardly noticed it. She had her head buried in the sheets, her bare buttocks now somehow exposed. “What have you done?” the mother said. “We take you into our family. We make you welcome in our home. Our daughter—” “Your daughter makes up her mind for herself.” “You hear him?” the mother cried at Grace’s buried head, her hands clutching at the dress she had put on specially for the piano examination. There wasn’t anywhere for her to sit down, except for the bed, and she couldn’t sit on that. Royce responded to this by gathering the things that belonged to him, tidied up in Grace’s honor. Once he had to say “Excuse me” to the mother, but his tone was brutal. When Grace heard him zip up his bag she turned over and put her feet on the floor. She was perfectly naked. She said, “Take me. Take me with you.” But he had gone out of the room, out of the house, as if he hadn’t even heard her. He walked out to the road in such a rage that he could not think where to turn for the highway. When he found it, he hardly remembered to keep to the gravel, out of the way of the cars that might come along on the paved road. He knew he’d have to hitch, but for the moment he could not slow down to do it. He didn’t think he’d be able to talk to anybody. He remembered whispering to Grace the day before when they were doing the strawberries, kissing under the rush of cold water when her mother’s back was turned. Her fair hair turning dark in the stream of water. Acting as if he worshipped her. How at certain moments that had been true. The insanity of it, the insanity of letting himself be drawn. That family. That mad mother rolling her eyes to heaven. When he got weary enough and sane enough, he slowed down and put out his thumb for a ride. There was little conviction in the gesture, but a car did stop for him. He continued to be lucky during the day, though most of the rides were fairly short. Farmers wanting a bit of company, on their way to town or their way home. There was general conversation. One farmer at the end of a ride said to him, “Say, can’t you drive?” Royce said sure. “Just recently I’ve been driving taxis.” “Well, aren’t you getting a bit old, then, to be hitching rides? You got through college and all—aren’t you of the opinion that you should be getting a real job?” Royce considered this, as if it were a truly novel idea. He said, “No.” Then he got out, and he saw across the road in the cut of the highway a tower of ancient-looking rock that seemed quite out of place there, even though it was capped with grass and had a small tree growing out of a crack. He was on the edge of the Niagara Escarpment, though he did not know that name or anything about it. But he was captivated. Why had he never been told anything about this? This surprise, this careless challenge in the ordinary landscape. He felt a comic sort of outrage that something made for him to explore had been there all along and nobody had told him. Buy the print » Nevertheless, he knew. Before he got into the next car, he knew that he was going to find out; he was not going to let this go. Geology was what it was called. And all this time he had been fooling around with arguments, with philosophy and political science. It wouldn’t be easy. It would mean saving money, starting again with pimpled brats just out of high school. But that was what he would do. Later, he often told people about the trip, about the sight of the escarpment that had turned his life around. If asked what he’d been doing there, he’d wonder and then remember that he’d gone up there to see a girl. Avie was near campus for one day in the fall, picking up a few books that she had left behind at her former boarding house. She went up to the university to see if she could turn them in at the secondhand bookshop there, but found that she didn’t really want to. She was surprised at first not to meet anyone she knew. Then she ran into a girl who had sat next to her in her Decisive Battles of Europe class. Marsha Kidd. Marsha told her that they had all been shocked that Avie wasn’t coming back. “You and Grace, it’s such a shame,” Marsha said. Avie had written Grace a letter during the summer. Then she’d worried that the letter was somewhat too frank on the subject of her doubts about getting married, and she had written a second letter that was quite witty in denying the doubts of the first. There had been no answer to either one. “I sent her a card,” Marsha said. “I thought maybe she and I could get a room together. When I heard you weren’t going to be around. Not that I ever got any reply.” Avie remembered that she and Grace had made jokes about Marsha, whom they saw as the sort of dim and tiresome girl who would not even mind becoming a high-school teacher and would never have a man after her in her life. “Somebody said she had colitis,” Marsha said. “That’s when you get all swollen, isn’t it? That would be miserable.” Avie went home and wrote thank you notes, which she had been neglecting to do. She mailed the presents that were going to Kenora. Hugo had his first teaching job there, in the high school. He had rented an apartment for them to live in. Perhaps in a year they could get a house. In the summer, when he was working at Labatt, they’d had one of their pregnancy scares, but it had turned out to be all right. So they’d gone camping on Civic Holiday weekend, to celebrate, and for the first time it had seemed that they were truly in love. It was also the first time that they had really got pregnant, and they had announced that they would be getting married in Kenora very soon, before she began to show. They were not unhappy about it. In what was once called the club car, on the train from Toronto to Montreal, Avie is on her way to visit one of her daughters. She and Hugo had six children in the end, all grown now. Hugo has been dead for a year and a half. Except for those couple of years in Kenora, he spent his entire teaching career in Thunder Bay. Avie never had a job, and nobody expected her to have one, with all those children. But she had more spare time than anybody would have thought, and she spent most of it reading. When the great switch came in women’s lives—when wives and mothers who had seemed content suddenly announced that it was not so, when they all started sitting on the floor instead of on sofas, and took university courses and wrote poetry and fell in love with their professors or their psychiatrists or their chiropractors, and began to say “shit” and “fuck” instead of “darn” and “heck”—Avie was never tempted to join in. Maybe she was too fastidious, too proud. Maybe Hugo was just too much of a sitting duck. Maybe she loved him. At any rate, she was as she was, and reading Leonard Cohen wouldn’t be any help to her. Since being widowed, however, she has read less. She has stared out of windows more. Her children say that she is withdrawing into herself. On this train ride she hasn’t bothered much with her book, though it is a good one. The man across from her has glanced at her a couple of times, and is now studying her quite openly. He says, “Avie?” It’s Royce. He doesn’t look so different, after all. Their conversation is easy, covering at first the usual ground. The six children are marvelled at. He says that you’d never know it to look at her. He didn’t remember Hugo’s name but is sorry to hear that he’s dead. He’s surprised at the idea that you can live a whole life in Port Arthur. Or Thunder Bay, as it is now called. They drink gin-and-tonics. She tells him that Hugo had no apprehensions at all. He died sitting in his chair watching the news. Royce has travelled. Lived in various places. He taught geology, though he is now retired. Did he marry? No. Oh, no. And no children that he knows of. He says this with the slight twinkle that usually accompanies this statement, in Avie’s experience. Now he has a peach of a retirement job. The best job ever, except for geology. In eastern Ontario, as it turns out. Where he is heading now. Gananoque. He describes the old fort there, the fort built at the mouth of the St. Lawrence River, to withstand the American invasion that never came. The most important of the chain of forts along the Rideau Canal. It has been preserved intact, not as a replica but as the thing itself. He shows people around, gives them a history lesson. It’s shocking how little people know. Not just the Americans, of whom you expect it. Canadians, too. He has written a little book about the Rideau. It’s for sale in the Gananoque fort. He managed to get a good deal of the geology into it as well as the history. He went into the field a bit late to make his mark. But why not try to tell people about it? Now he is coming home from a trip he made to Toronto, to try to interest some booksellers there. Some of them took a few copies on spec. Avie says that one of her daughters works for a publisher in Toronto. He sighs. “It’s uphill, really,” he says abruptly. “People don’t always see in it what you see yourself. But you’re O.K., I guess. You’ve got your kids.” “Well, after a point,” Avie says, “after a point, you know, they’re just people. I mean, they’re yours, of course. But they’re really—they’re people you know.” God strike me dead, she thinks. “I remember something,” he says, much more cheerfully. “I remember I was on a bus, and I was going through the town where you lived. I don’t know if I knew beforehand that it was where you lived, but there I saw you on the street. I just happened to be on the right side of the bus to see you. I was going further north. I was going to see a girl I knew then.” “Grace.” “That’s right. You were friends with her. Anyway, I saw you there on the sidewalk talking to somebody and I thought you looked just irresistible. You were laughing away. I wanted to get right off the bus and speak to you. Make a date with you, actually. I couldn’t very well not turn up where I was expected but I could meet you on my way back. I thought, That’s what I could do—make a date to meet you on the way back. I actually did know something about you, now that I think of it. I knew that you were going around with somebody, but I thought, Well, make a try for it.” “I never knew,” Avie says. “I never knew you were there.” “And then, as it happened, I didn’t come back the same way, so I wouldn’t have been wherever you were waiting, so it would have been botched all round.” “I never knew.” “Well, if you had known, would you have agreed? If I’d said, ‘Be at such-and-such a place, such-and-such a time,’ would you have been there?” Avie doesn’t hesitate. “Oh, yes,” she says. “With the complications and all?” “Yes.” “So it’s a good thing? That we didn’t make contact?” She does not even try for an answer. He says, “Water under the bridge.” Then he leans back into the headrest and closes his eyes. “Wake me up before we’re into Kingston if I’ve gone to sleep,” he says. “There’s something I want to be sure to show you.” Not so far off from giving her automatic orders, like a husband. He wakens without any prompting from her, if he ever was asleep. They sit in the train at the Kingston station, while people get on and off, and he tells her it’s not yet. When the train starts up again, he explains that all around them are great slabs of limestone packed in order, one on top of the other, like a grand construction. But in one spot this gives way, he says, and you can see something else. It’s what is known as the Frontenac Axis. It is nothing less than an eruption of the vast and crazy old Canadian Shield, all the ancient combustion cutting through the limestone, pouring over, messing up those giant steps. “See! See!” he says, and she does see. Remarkable. “Remember to watch for that if you come through again,” he says. “You can’t really look at it from a car—there’s too much traffic. Why I take the train.” “Thank you,” she says. He doesn’t answer but turns away, nods a little with what seems to be important assent. “Thank you,” she says again. “I’ll remember.” Nods once more, doesn’t look at her. Enough. When that first pregnancy was well advanced, around Christmastime, Avie had received a brief letter from Grace. “I hear you are married and expecting. You may not have heard I have dropped out of college, due to some troubles I have had with my health and my nerves. I often think of our talks and particularly the dream you told me about. It still scares the daylights out of me. Love, Grace.” Avie remembered then the conversation with Marsha. The colitis. The tone of Grace’s letter seemed off kilter, with some pleading note in it that made her put off answering. She herself was feeling quite happy at the time, full of practical concerns, light-years away from whatever stuff they had talked about in college. She didn’t know if she could ever find her way back there or find a way to talk to Grace as she was now. And later, of course, she got too busy. She asks Royce if he heard anything from Grace, ever. “No. No. Why should I?” “I just thought.” “No.” “I thought you might have looked her up later on.” “Not a good idea.” She has disappointed him. Prying. Trying to get at some spot of live regret right under the ribs. A woman.
Naima My mother did not like the heat. I never saw her in a swimsuit or in sudden surrender closing her eyes at the sun. The arrival of spring in Cairo would set her off planning our summer getaways. Once we spent the holidays high up in the Swiss Alps, where my body stiffened at the sight of deep hollow chasms emptied out of the rocky earth. Another time she took us to Nordland, in northern Norway, where the splintered peaks of austere black mountains were reflected sharply in the unmoving waters. We stayed in a wooden cabin that stood alone by the shore and was painted the brown of withered leaves. Around its roof hung a gutter as wide as a human thigh. Here whatever fell from the sky fell in abundance. There was no other man-made structure in sight. Some afternoons, Mother disappeared and I would not let on to Father that my heart was thumping at the base of my ears. I would keep to my room until I heard footsteps on the deck, the kitchen door sliding open. Once I found Mother there with hands stained black-red, a rough globe dyed into the front of her jumper. With eyes as clean as glass, wide, satisfied, she held out a handful of wild berries. They tasted of a ripe sweetness I found hard to attribute to that landscape. One night, fog gathered thickly, abstracting the licks and sighs of the northern lights. You need adulthood to appreciate such horror. An anxious heat entered my eight-year-old mind and I curled up in bed, hoping Mother would pay me one of her night visits, kiss my forehead, lie beside me. I woke up several times believing that Naima was there. She was our maid, and had been since before I was born, before my parents left our country and moved to Egypt. In winter, when the sky got dark early and Mother worried about her making the long commute home, Naima would sleep on my bedroom floor. I would watch her lying on her side, facing the skirting board, her leg bent with the tight determination of a tree branch. Her devotion had always seemed muscular, too intense, but now I yearned for it; I wished that she had come with us, or even that I had been left behind with her in Cairo. In the morning the still world returned: the innocent waters, the ferocious mountains, the pale sky dotted with small, newborn clouds. I found Mother in the kitchen, warming milk, a glass of water on the white marble counter beside her. Not juice, tea, or coffee but water was her morning drink. She took a sip and with her usual insistence on quiet muffled the impact of the glass on the marble with the soft tip of her little finger. Any sudden sound unsettled her. She could conduct an entire day’s chores in near-silence. It should not have been difficult for me to speak, to say the usual “Good morning, Mama,” but at times she seemed impenetrable, as if contained within an invisible structure. I sat at the table, where, when the three of us gathered at mealtimes, Mother would occasionally glance at the fourth, empty chair as if it signalled an absence, something lost. She poured the hot milk into a cup for me. A sliver of steam brushed the air then disappeared beside her neck. “Nuri, habibi,” she said, speaking my name the way she often did, with careful affection, “why the long face?” She took me out onto the deck that stretched above the lake. The air was so brisk it stung my throat. I remembered what she had said to Father in the car when the naked mountains of Nordland first came into view: “Here God decided to be a sculptor; everywhere else he holds back.” “Holds back?” Father had echoed. “You talk about him as if he’s a friend of yours.” In those days Father did not believe in God. He often greeted Mother’s references to the divine with irritated sarcasm. Perhaps I should not have been surprised when, after Mother died, he now and again voiced a prayer; sarcasm, more often than not, hides a secret fascination. Was it the romance of wood fires, the discretion of heavy coats that attracted my mother to the northern and unpeopled places of Europe? Or was it the impeccable stillness of a fortnight spent mostly sheltered indoors with the only two people she could lay claim to? I have come to think of all those holidays, no matter where they were, as having taken place in a single country—her country—and of the silences that marked them as her melancholy. There were moments when her unhappiness seemed as elemental as clear water. After she died, it soon became obvious that what Father had always wanted to do in the two weeks off that he allowed himself every summer was to lie in the sun all day. So the Magda Marina, a small hotel in Agamy Beach, near Alexandria, became the place where he and I spent that fortnight. He seemed to have lost his way with me; widowhood had dispossessed him of any ease that he had once had around his only child. When we sat down to eat he either read the paper or gazed into the distance. Whenever he noticed me looking at him he would fidget or check his watch. As soon as he finished eating, he would light a cigarette and snap his fingers for the bill, not bothering to check whether I had finished, too. “See you back in the room.” He never did that when Mother was alive. Instead, when the three of us went to a restaurant, they would sit side by side facing me. If we were all engaged in a conversation, she would direct most of her contributions toward me, as if I were the front wall of a squash court. And when his unease led him to play the entertainer she would monitor, in that discreet way of hers, my reactions to his forced cheerfulness or, if he could bear it no longer, to his silences. With Mother’s eyes on me I would watch him observe the other patrons or stare out at the view, which was often of some unremarkable street or square, no doubt daydreaming or plotting his next move in the secret work I never once heard him talk about. At these moments it felt as if he were the boy obliged to share a meal with adults, as if he were the son and I the father. After Mother passed away, he and I came to resemble two flat-sharing bachelors held together by circumstance or obligation. But then, at the most unexpected moments, a tenderhearted sympathy, raw and sudden, would rise in him, and he would plunge his face into my neck, sniff deeply and kiss, tickling me with his mustache. It would set us off laughing as though everything were all right. At the Magda Marina, he spent his time sunbathing and reading fat books: one on the Suez Crisis, one a biography of our late king, with his portrait on the cover. Whenever Father acquired a new book on our country—the country my parents had fled, the country I had never seen, yet continued to think of as my own—he would immediately finger the index pages. “Baba, who are you looking for?” I once asked. He shook his head and said, “No one.” But later I, too, searched the indexes. It felt like pure imitation. It was not until I encountered my father’s name—Kamal Pasha el-Alfi—that I realized what I was looking for. Kamal Pasha, those books said, had been a close adviser to the king and one of the few men who could walk into the royal office without an appointment. Whenever the young monarch was in one of his anxious moods—perhaps suspecting his end to be near—it was Kamal Pasha el-Alfi who was called to ease his fears. In these books my father was also described as an aristocrat who, having been forced into exile by the revolution, had moved “gradually but with radical effect” to the left. I read these things about my father before I could understand what they meant. And if I came to him with my questions he would smoothly deflect them: “It was all so long ago.” I rarely persisted, because I knew that he was being true to Mother’s wishes. “Don’t transfer the weight of the past onto your son,” she once told him. “You can’t live outside history,” he argued. “We have nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary.” After a long pause she responded, “Who said anything about shame? It’s longing that I want to spare him. Longing and the burden of your hopes.” I recall how sometimes, during the edgeless hours of the afternoon, I would use Mother’s hip for a pillow. I would listen to the steady rhythm of her breath, the pages of her book turning. If I fell asleep, the sound would become a lazy breeze rustling a tree, or a broom brushing the earth. I hold the memory of her collarbone. I used to reach for it the way a rock climber would a sturdy ledge. I recall also her hair, strands as thick as strings. I would stretch one across my forehead, or on my tongue, and feel it tighten like a blade. None of this would distract her from her reading. I would watch the wide blossom of her eyes scanning the lines, those same eyes which grew keen whenever I caught her standing behind a heavy curtain in a game of hide-and-seek or when I revealed to her a luminous butterfly I had captured. How quickly her cheeks would redden then. She would speak, a warm whisper, before laughter flexed her throat. She was as close as I ever came to having a sister. And then there were those cruel, sudden gaps, the clearings where she stood alone, not knowing how to return. How her eyes would wilt, looking at me as if acknowledging someone she half knew. Sometimes at night I would wake up and find her there, studying my face. She would force a smile and depart, quietly closing the door behind her, as if I were not hers. Other times she would lie beside me, our two heads sharing one pillow. Her pale thin fingers, which never seemed to match her strength, were like frozen twigs. She would tuck them between my knees or, if I was lying on my back, slide them behind my lower back, the place that is still hers. But if I was ill it was Naima who would not leave my bedside. Mother would occasionally come in and stand at the foot of the bed, clearly concerned but awkward, as if she were intruding on a private moment. Once I confronted her about this. I babbled and stuttered, and she held me and said, “I know, it breaks my heart, too. But we mustn’t see it this way. We are all lucky. We must count ourselves lucky.” In her last year, her silences grew deeper and more frequent. Some days she did not leave her room. When she called, she called only for Naima, who also called her Mama. “Of course, Mama”; “Straightaway, Mama.” Naima would often be sent to the pharmacy for aspirin, sleeping pills, painkillers. So old and persistent did Mother’s unhappiness seem that I had never stopped to ask its cause. Nothing is more acceptable than what we are born into. I remember the last night. It was late evening. Naima had already changed out of her house galabia and into the hard fabric of her black dress, a veil wrapped tightly around her head, revealing the delicate shape of her skull. The familiar carrier bag hung on her wrist, containing one or two but never more than three pieces of fruit, the round forms pressing against the plastic. At Mother’s instruction, every evening Naima had to go to the large fruit bowl that sat at the center of the long dining table and take home those guavas, apricots, or apples which had passed their prime. Naima resisted and would often argue that the fruit was still good. Her resistance baffled me because I knew that on her birthdays Naima’s parents were able to give her only an apple or a handful of mulberries. Now she stood there, silent and hesitant, at Mother’s door. She brought her hand up but did not knock. “When she wakes up,” she whispered, “tell her I went home. See you tomorrow.” She must have detected that I did not want her to go, because she stopped and asked, “Did you brush your teeth?” When I looked up from the sink I saw her in the mirror, standing outside the bathroom, her hands clasped against her waist, like a person in prayer. Her Nubian face looked even darker than usual. I followed her to the door and stood barefoot on the cold marble. She studied her foggy reflection in the long, narrow glass window in the lift door and with nervous hands tucked away stray hairs. She never stopped dreading the long journey home. On the occasions when she spent the night with us, she would carry out her tasks in the house with renewed enthusiasm, insisting on dusting the bookshelves again, cleaning the bathrooms one more time, all the while cracking jokes at which no one laughed. The silences that followed these jokes always turned her cheeks a deep shade of purple. “Go on now, you will catch a cold.” But I did not move until the lift arrived because, regardless of her words, I knew she welcomed my attachment. There was always some elusive way in which Naima showed that she needed confirmation not so much of my attention as of my loyalty, as if she feared I might, one day, betray her. “Remember, it’s not enough to say what’s great about mac ’n’ cheese. We’ve got to go negative on tuna noodle casserole.”Buy the print » I waited for Father and only once dared walk into their room. Mother lay on her side and did not move when I touched her ear. I went to my room and stood on my desk chair facing a photograph that Mother had recently taken of herself. She was the one who had had it framed and had hung it there. Her eyes stared out unflinchingly, but her jawbones were slightly out of focus, as if she was emerging from a cloud. I liked it because her face was nearly life-size. I did not know then why Mother looked better in photographs taken before I was born. I do not mean simply younger but altogether brighter, as if she had just stepped off a carrousel: her hair settling, her eyes anticipating more joy. And in those photographs you could almost hear a kind of joyful music in the background. Then, after I arrived, it all changed. For a long time, before I knew the truth, I thought it was the physical assault of pregnancy that had claimed her cheery disposition. Occasionally it would reëmerge, this happy outlook, awakened by a memory from the past, as when she told the story of Father slipping and landing on his bottom on one of the steep alleyways in Geneva’s Old Town. “His back white with snow,” she said, barely able to speak because of her laughing. “Calling my name as he nearly tripped up the Christmas shoppers.” Father’s face changed, a solemn expression suggesting that he might be taking offense, which of course made the whole thing funnier. “I nearly broke my neck,” he finally said. “Yes, but your father has always been an excellent navigator,” she said, and they both exploded into laughter. I do not recall ever being so happy. I woke up to Father repeating, “Saviour, Saviour,” and the sound of his reaching, anxious steps. I stood in the doorway of my bedroom, my eyes weak against the blazing chandelier in the hall. Other people were there, two men in white. They held the front door open as Father rushed toward them, Mother slack in his arms. Her long, dishevelled hair trembled with every step he took. One of her dangling feet seemed to swing more rapidly than the other. I ran after him, down the stairs. I remembered him once daring me to a race down those stairs, saying that he could descend the three flights faster than it would take me to go down in the lift. When the lift landed on the ground floor, he had pulled the door open, trying not to let his breathlessness show, his eyes sparkling with satisfaction. But now, when he saw me following, he stopped. “Nuri.” His eyes were red. Mother lay silent in his arms, her eyelids hard as shells. I paused for a moment, and the two men in white overtook me. “Nuri,” he shouted, and the two men looked at me. The expressions on their faces are still a source of horror. I climbed back up, stopping at every landing, looking down the stairwell. Then I stood on our balcony, my hands gripping the cold metal balustrade above my head. I watched him carry her to the ambulance. One of her breasts was almost out of the gray satin nightdress. When the men in white tried to take her, Father shook his head and shouted something. He laid her on the stretcher, straightened and covered her body, caught the fall of her hair, wrapped it like a belt around his fist, and then tucked the bundle beneath her neck. A siren started up. Father walked back into the building, past the still figures of Amm Samir, the building’s porter, and his sons. Early light was just breaking, and they, too, must have been startled out of sleep. Somehow they did not seem surprised, as if they expected such a calamity to befall “the Arab family on the third floor.” The Nile flowed by strong and indifferent. There was hardly a wind to flutter the bamboo grasses that covered its banks. The leaves of the banana trees hung low, and the heads of the palms seemed as heavy as velvet. I heard the door of the apartment slam shut. “Where are they taking her?” He kneeled before me so his face was level with mine. “She needs to rest. For a while . . . in hospital,” he said, and stopped as if to stifle a cough. “Why? We can take care of her here. Naima and I can take care of her. Why did you let them take her?” “She will be back soon.” He smelled of cigarettes, of other people. He looked as if he had not slept at all. I followed him into their room. Her form was still stamped into the mattress. Father’s side was undisturbed. The room had the air of a place that had witnessed a terrible confrontation, a battle lost. Father spent most of the subsequent days at the hospital. Never having had to look after me, he was now continuously asking Naima whether his son had eaten or if it was bedtime yet. “Has he bathed? Make sure he brushes his teeth.” I was suddenly spoken of in the third person. I had become a series of tasks. I could tell that Father was irritated by having to bear such domestic responsibility. And every time I cried for the mother from whom I had never before been separated, he looked at once fearful and impatient. “Naima,” he would call, louder than necessary. I asked to be taken to the hospital. “The doctors are doing everything they can. There is nothing more any of us can do.” “Then why do you spend the whole day there?” I watched his anxious eyes. Two days later, he took us to visit Mother. At a set of traffic lights, a boy, possibly my age, although his thinness made him look younger, tapped on my window. Around his arm hung necklaces of jasmine. He was wearing a red patterned T-shirt that reminded me of one I used to wear. Rigid with shyness, Naima asked, “Could we buy some? Madam loves jasmine.” Although Naima did not address Father directly, the question was clearly intended for him. She was often wary around him. She would usually send me to ask whether it was coffee or tea that he wanted, if he was expecting anyone for lunch, or if there was anything else he needed before she left. Father rolled down his window, and the thick heat of the day spilled in. The boy ran to him. Father bought the whole bunch, his eyes lingering on the boy’s T-shirt. He handed the jasmines to Naima and rolled up his window. His eyes now were on the rearview mirror, trying to catch a last glimpse of the boy. Naima fingered the necklaces in her lap. “You will get them knotted doing that,” I said, and immediately regretted it as she looked nervously at the rearview mirror. “Aren’t those the clothes we gave Ibn Ali?” Father asked. Relieved, Naima looked back. We watched the boy run between the cars and vanish. “Yes, Pasha,” she said. “It looks like the same T-shirt.” Ibn Ali was one of the orphanages Father visited, often taking Naima and me with him, to deliver food or clothes or make a donation. There was also Abd al-Muttalib and Al Sayeda Aisha and Al Ridha. “Don’t let it upset you,” Naima told him. “No matter what you do, you can’t stop them working.” “But so young,” he said. “Not much younger than I was,” she said softly, and after too long a delay. Naima gripped my hand tightly as we went deeper into the maze of neon-lit corridors. The jasmines were slung neatly around her other arm. The odor of the hospital was so unforgiving that every so often she would bring the cloud of white flowers to her nose. I tugged, and she let me do the same. Father was already a few metres ahead. With every step he took, the leather heels of his shoes were striped by the neon light. We found Mother lying under a cold blue lamp. The bedcovers were folded beneath her arms, one wrist was encircled by a yellow plastic bracelet, and a constant bleeping hammered the silence. Naima placed the jasmines at the foot of the bed and covered her face. “Did I not tell you . . .” Father said, pulling her out of the room. I was alone with Mother. I wanted to lift the flattened pillows, puff them up. Her skin had turned ashen. Her eyes were shut with an outrageous finality, a moistness lingering where the eyelids met. I thought of touching her, and the impossibility of it frightened me. My mind returned to a distant memory. I was four or maybe five. She was getting ready for a party. I was crouched beneath the chiffonier, beside her feet: black high heels, stockings a color that made her skin look powdered. A thin fluorescent line hovered above where the black suède of the shoe met the stockings. An optical illusion. I traced it, erasing and redrawing the light with my finger. Then she moved. I looked up, smiling, thinking I had tickled her, but she was only leaning closer to the mirror in order to scrutinize the exactness of her lipstick line. Father was right: there was nothing any of us could do here. A few days later Father came home from the hospital earlier than usual. He went straight to his room. I stood outside his door for a minute or two, then knocked. “Not now, Nuri,” he said, his voice uneven. After a few minutes, I heard the sound of running water in his bathroom. I remembered what Mother used to tell him whenever she found him in a bad mood: “Take a cold shower. It’s what the Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, used to do whenever he received bad news.” And I remembered Father shaking his head. But that was when he was in no need of God. When he got out of the shower he called for Naima. “Shut the door behind you. Where is Nuri?” “Ustaz Nuri is in his room,” she said, even though she saw me standing outside the door and forced a smile before walking in. He began whispering. A few seconds later I heard her give a short scream. Had he placed a hand on her mouth? For the rest of that day Naima’s fingers trembled. Her eyes filled with tears when I asked, “Are you all right? Are you ill? Shall I pour you a glass of cola?” Every hour or so she would come to ask, “Has your father spoken to you yet?” Father stayed in his room, talking on the telephone. At sunset he called me in. “Sit down. Let me see your hand.” After a few seconds he said my name, then the words “Mama will not be coming home.” After another pause he spoke again. “She will never be coming back.” I pulled my hand away. I did not believe him. I insisted that he take me to the hospital. “She is no longer there.” He restrained me, carried me to my room, and locked the door behind us. Outside, Naima cried, begging to be let in. Father opened the door and with astonishing tenderness pulled her to his chest and kissed her head. He held me, too, and began muttering that from here on life was never going to be the same, that God had felled his only tree and shelter. I searched but could not find a tear in either of his eyes. This should not have surprised me, for I had never seen Father cry. The following day, seventy-five wooden chairs, the sort most commonly found in Egyptian cafés, with a profile of Nefertiti printed on the seat, arrived. The porter, Amm Samir, and his silent children carried two huge speakers up the stairs. They slid off their slippers at the door, and, their stiff bodies swaying momentarily beneath the weight, placed the speakers, each taller than Father, in the middle of the hall. The angle at which they were left facing each other suggested a quarrel. Then the porter and his children carried every piece of furniture that was in the reception hall into the dining room. Armchairs were capsized over the dining table, and their cushions stuffed beneath. I watched Amm Samir’s dark, hard feet sink into the rug. Each toenail curved forward into the thick wool. Each joint was crowned with a little gray stone of skin, and each heel was like the battered end of a club. At what point, I wondered, will his sons’ feet look like this? Noticing me, Amm Samir placed a heavy hand on my head and, after a second’s hesitation, kneeled down and kissed my forehead. He looked at Father. And Father, choosing to give Amm Samir the approval he requested, said, “Thank you.” With lowered heads, the sons followed Amm Samir out. Urgency and grief had rendered Father, Naima, and me nearly equal. Together we arranged the chairs. And at one point Father asked Naima her opinion. “Where shall we put the speakers?” “By the entrance,” she said, embarrassed, and when he hesitated she pressed on. “But that is where they are always placed, Pasha.” “Perhaps in your district,” he said. The possibility of a smile brushed both of their faces. “But it’s people’s duty to attend, Pasha. It wasn’t I who set the custom.” “Enough. Lift,” he said, and together they carried the speakers to where she had suggested, placing one at either side of the entrance. We pushed the chairs against the walls in conspiratorial silence. When we were done, we stood in the middle of the room, and I hoped that there would be something else for us to do, but then Father disappeared into his room, and Naima returned to the kitchen. The front door was left open. The reception hall began to resemble a waiting room. Not knowing where to go, I sat and counted the chairs, which now stood in a rectangle. The first time I came up with seventy-four. On the second attempt I had seventy-seven. Only the fourth or fifth time around did I get seventy-five. Then I saw our next-door neighbor walk out of the lift. He did a double take. The Koran was not playing yet, so he may have thought we were preparing for a party. But something about me must have suggested bad news. I went to Naima in the kitchen, and the man followed behind me. “Greetings, Ustaz Midhaat.” “What happened?” “Madam passed away,” Naima told him, and, just as she did, tears appeared in her eyes. Ustaz Midhaat looked at me now with eyes as wide as coffee cups. I moved behind Naima. A few minutes later he returned with his whole family. Father came out dressed in a white galabia. He wore a galabia only to bed, and so he looked as if he had wandered out from a dream. He sat beside our neighbor, saying almost nothing, his cheeks covered in stubble. Naima served them unsweetened black coffee and asked me to pass around a plate of almonds. Then Father waved to me to come. “The Koran, turn on the Koran,” he whispered. By the afternoon more neighbors had arrived, people we hardly knew, and by nightfall the place was packed with silent mourners. I had never seen our house so full yet so quiet. Naima was joined by an army of servants, lent by neighbors, whom she managed with a new authority. “The only thing we didn’t plan on was falling in love.”Buy the print » I took the lift up to the roof to escape. The city stretched in all directions. It hummed and clanked like an engine in the night. The streets coiled into knots here and there. Not even the Nile tempered it. If I could I would have erased it, wiped it clean. I have never before or since experienced such a careless desire for violence. Then I felt a presence behind me. Naima, even with her endless duties, had noticed my absence. In the morning my mother’s three siblings, Aunt Souad, Aunt Salwa, and Uncle Fadhil, arrived from our country. I had never met them before, but recognized them from photographs. My aunts kept remarking how brave I was and how unusually long my eyelashes were, and teased me about my Cairene accent, my skin. They said that because I was darker than Father and Mother I was really the son of my great-grandfather, who was, by all accounts, nearly as dark as I am. They tickled my toes, hugged me when I laughed, dug their faces into my neck and inhaled deeply before kissing. At night, they took turns lying beside me, telling stories that usually included a mention of the waterfalls or pomegranates or palm trees of our country. If in the night I went to get a drink of water, one of them would appear behind me, asking whether I was all right. They sweetened my name to Abu el-Noor, calling it out whenever they saw me daydreaming. The slightest hint of contemplation worried them. If I was in the bathroom for a little longer than usual, I would hear one of my aunts whisper, “Abu el-Noor, habibi, are you all right?” Father let his beard grow. It surprised me how heavily streaked with gray it was; he was only thirty-nine and the hair on his head was completely black. Once, Uncle Fadhil embraced him, speaking solemnly and with a hint of urgency. Father eventually began nodding in a resigned sort of way, his eyes still on the ground. Another time the door of his bedroom was ajar, and I saw him cornered by my two aunts. “He is unusually aloof for a boy his age,” Aunt Salwa was saying. “Let us take him back. He will grow up among his cousins,” Aunt Souad added. “We will bring him up as our own,” Aunt Salwa said. “This way, when the country comes back to us, he can play a role.” After a long pause Father spoke. “I could not do that to Naima. She would never forgive me.” Long ago, when Naima was ill with bilharzia, Father, at Mother’s insistence, brought me to visit her. It took about an hour to reach the maze of her neighborhood by car. But, as our driver, Abdu, was keen to tell Father, the journey on public transport took at least an hour and a half. “Three hours’ round trip, Pasha.” Father did not react. Every time Abdu rolled down his window to ask someone for directions, the pedestrian would lean down and study our faces. Eventually we found Naima’s street. It was so narrow that the car could barely fit through. “Careful,” Father said in a near-whisper, while holding on to the handle above his window. “Don’t worry, Pasha,” Abdu replied, also in a whisper. Raw sewage meandered down the middle of the road, passing between the wheels. Father asked Abdu to roll up his window, but by then the stench had already entered the car. Above us clotheslines sagged under the weight of laundry and veiled most of the sky. Every so often Abdu had to press the horn, which sounded like an explosion in the narrow street. People had to find doorways to stand in, and even then we had to pass ever so slowly, almost brushing against their bodies. I watched a buckle, a detail of fabric, the occasional child’s face. These people who lined the road stood still and kept their arms by their sides. I was sure that from that angle they could see my bare knees on the beige leather upholstery. Naima, her seven siblings, and her parents lived in a two-bedroom apartment in a four-story building that was covered in flaking red paint with the words “Coca-Cola” repeated across it. Abdu waited with the car. Children preceded Father and me up the stairs, announcing our arrival and occasionally stopping to look back, giggle, and elbow one another before running up again. On each landing small paper bags sat bulging with rubbish, many of them punctured or torn. Flies the size of bees weaved lazily around them. “Don’t touch,” Father said, and I immediately pulled my hand off the railing and placed it in his open palm. He did not let go until we were at the door of the apartment. Naima’s father, who was a security guard at one of the museums, met us on the landing in his uniform. He looked worried. The mother cried when she saw Father, then was ordered by her husband to go and make tea. There was hardly any furniture in the living room. One carpet, the size of a prayer rug, lay in the center of the tiled floor as if concealing an imperfection or some secret passage. Naima lay on a mattress in a corner. I sat beside her. She took hold of my hand. My skin burned in her grip. She neither smiled nor cried, but stared at me with a peculiar gentleness, as if I were a kind of nourishment. “Nothing, really,” the father said. “Her mother spoils her. She’s just after attention.” Turning toward Naima, he asked loudly, “Aren’t you?” She did not respond. “She will be up in no time,” he told Father, anxiety making him blink his eyes. “She should take as long as she needs,” Father told him. “We only came to wish her well.” The mother returned with a plate and placed it on the rug: crumbled feta and sliced tomato submerged in the pee yellow of cotton oil. She stopped for a moment and looked at Naima and me. “Isn’t that right, Umm Naima?” the father said. “You spoil your daughter.” She waited a few seconds before speaking. “She loves him like a son,” she said to Father. “Yes,” he told her. Although Naima would not let her eyes leave my face, she had taken note of this exchange. I squeezed her hand. I thought of saying something. Instead, I placed my palm on her cheek. She held it there. I thought perhaps the relative coolness of my skin was a comfort to her. But then tears welled in her eyes. “Come, girl, don’t be afraid,” her father said, fear detectable in his voice. And just as suddenly Naima’s tears vanished. The parents insisted that we eat. Father shook his head. I wished he were better able to conceal the frown on his face. Naima’s father handed us loaves of bread. Mine was hard and speckled with flour stones. The mother poured a thick black liquid, and when I asked what it was the father said, “Tea, of course,” and I was convinced I had offended him. About two centimetres of the powdered leaf sat in the base of the glass. Father kneeled down, broke a small piece off his loaf, and dipped it in the solitary dish on the floor. “There, thanks very much.” I bowed all the way down, feeling the blood gather in my head, and kissed Naima’s hot forehead. Uncle Fadhil seemed to have come to Cairo mainly to accompany the women. As a man, he faced the greatest risk of retaliation for visiting his “backward, traitor” relatives. He mostly sat smoking. Whenever I sat next to him he would squeeze my skinny upper arms and say, “Flex.” Three days after they arrived, he told my aunts it was time to go. “Just in case the authorities think we are enjoying ourselves,” he said, weariness curling his eyebrows. Naima and I stood watching Amm Samir and his eldest son, Gamaal, fasten the luggage on the roof rack. We waved when the car pulled away, then went back upstairs. When I was in my room, surrounded by the smell of my aunts, I wept. Our apartment struggled to resume its original character. Naima moved soundlessly, cleaning the indifferent surfaces, preparing our joyless meals. I felt a tremor whenever I heard the clang of pots in Mother’s kitchen. Father seemed awkward and nervous around me. The beard was gone, and now he spent most of his time out or in his room. Naima no longer slept at her home but on the floor in my bedroom. There was an abstract urgency in the air. The arrival of Hydar and Taleb, old friends of Father’s who, after the revolution, had settled in Paris, rescued us. Hydar brought his wife, Nafisa, who raised her voice every time she addressed me. Father gave up his room to Hydar and Nafisa. When they resisted, he said, “Listen, ask Nuri, I hardly sleep there. I prefer the couch. Honestly.” Then he insisted that Taleb take my bed. “This man knew you before you were born.” Taleb blushed, nodding. I slept on the floor, in Naima’s place, and she slept in the kitchen. Mother had not liked having guests, particularly these guests, and this had been a recurring source of disagreement between my parents. But now Father and his friends could stay up drinking whiskey until the early hours. I would hear Taleb getting into bed. I think if he had not tried so hard to be quiet he might have made less noise. His breath would quickly fill the room with the chemical smell of alcohol. I could not help but feel that Mother’s coldness toward Father’s old Parisian friends was somehow part of a general unease that marked my parents’ relationship to Paris. They almost never talked about their time in that city. And on the rare occasion that Mother did speak about how I came to be born there she would always begin by telling me how Naima came to work for the family. I did not then understand how this detail mattered at all to the story. She told me how she and Father had gone to Cairo expressly to employ a maid. And how, on the two-day drive back to our country, thirteen-year-old Naima had hardly stopped crying. But every time they had tried to turn back she objected. “At one point, she began begging us to go on, so we continued.” Perhaps mistaking my silence for disapproval at the maid’s young age, Mother said, “I wanted someone young, to get used to our ways, to be like a daughter.” Then she stopped and looked at her fingers, and only when she glanced up again did I realize that tears had been gathering in her eyes. Eighteen months after my parents employed Naima, our king was dragged to the courtyard of the palace and shot in the head. Father was a government minister by this stage and, instead of risking ill treatment, detention, or even death, he decided to flee to France. Naima was the last to step onto the boat, right behind my parents, pulled on board by Abdu the driver. They all stood watching the coast drift away, the smoke rise. When the boat arrived in Marseilles, Taleb was standing at the dock waiting for them. Was he smiling, was he sucking at the end of a cigarette, did he wave? Mother did not like to talk about Taleb. “Why? Is he a bad person?” “No, not at all.” It never seemed like anger that she felt toward him. More like shame. And I think she thought of Paris and the time in Paris in the same way. So I was eager to ask Taleb, to find out what had happened after they arrived. “Poor Naima could hardly stand,” he said. “She had been throwing up the whole way. But your mother was determined. She didn’t want to stay in Marseilles. I never understood that. She didn’t even want to rest the night. She insisted we go directly to the train station and get on the first train for Paris.” I pictured her marching ahead and imagined Father behind her, glad for her stubbornness, glad that someone at least knew what to do next. “And how was she on the train?” “Who? Your mother? Like the Sphinx. I told jokes, but they were obviously bad ones.” “And Naima and Abdu? Did they go back to Egypt?” Here Taleb looked at me as if I were suddenly standing a long way away. He seemed to consider the distance and whether it was wise to cross it. “Abdu went back from time to time, but Naima didn’t, of course.” “Where did they stay?” “In Paris.” He seemed to have lost interest in the conversation. I thought of how to bring him back. “Uncle Taleb?” “Yes.” “How long have you lived in Paris?” “Since university. Too long.” “Do you like it?” “What does it matter? It seems to like me.” “Did Mama and Baba stay with you?” “No, I found them an apartment in the Marais. Not ideal, but close to the hospital. A nice place, but a big step down from what they were used to.” “Not a hotel?” “Six months is too long for a hotel. And in the end they stayed a year.” “Really?” I said. “I always thought they were there only a couple of months.” “You breathed Parisian air for the first eight months of your life. You will be ruined forever.” I liked Taleb. Unlike Nafisa’s, his sympathy was not patronizing. He took me to places I had never been. One afternoon, as I followed him through the arches of Ibn Tulun Mosque, I asked him, “Uncle Taleb?” “Yes.” “What did my mother die of?” He stopped and looked at me in that way again but said nothing. Late one night, he on the bed, I on the floor, the room as black as a well and filling up with the smell of whiskey, Taleb suddenly spoke. “Some things are hard to swallow,” he said. I recalled a dog in our street that had choked on a chicken bone. It wheezed and coughed and then eventually lay on its side and surrendered, blinking at me. “You must know, regardless of anything, about her great humanity,” he said, the word utterly new to me. I repeated it in my mind—humanity, humanity—so that I could look it up later. “She never ceased to be tender with Naima, who was innocent, of course. Ultimately, everyone is innocent, including your father.” After a long silence, just when I suspected he had fallen asleep, Taleb spoke again. “You have no idea what he was back home. It’s difficult, looking at him now, to believe that he is the same person and that the world is the same world. And he wanted someone to inherit it all.” The following day Taleb, Hydar, and Nafisa flew back to Paris. And although Naima changed the bedsheets, I could still smell Taleb’s head on my pillow. I asked Naima to replace it. “Why?” she said, and pressed the pillow against her face. “It’s perfectly clean.”
The King of Norway On our kibbutz, Kibbutz Yekhat, there lived a man, Zvi Provizor, a short fifty-five-year-old bachelor who was given to blinking. He loved to convey bad news: earthquakes, plane crashes, buildings collapsing on their occupants, fires, and floods. He read the papers and listened to all the news broadcasts very early in the morning, so that at the entrance to the dining room he could astound us with the story of two hundred and fifty coal miners hopelessly trapped in China or six hundred passengers drowned when a ferry capsized in a storm in the Caribbean. He also memorized obituaries. He knew before anyone else which famous people had died, and would inform the entire kibbutz. One morning, he stopped me on the path by the clinic. “Ever hear of a writer named Wislavsky?” “Yes. Why?” “He died.” “Sorry to hear it.” “Writers die, too.” Another time he caught me when I was working a dining-room shift. “I saw in the obituaries that your grandfather died.” “Yes.” “And three years ago your other grandfather died.” “Yes.” “So this one was the last.” Zvi Provizor was the kibbutz gardener. He would go out at five every morning to reposition the sprinklers, till the soil in the flower beds, plant and prune and water, mow the lawns with the noisy mower, spray against aphids, and spread organic and chemical fertilizer. Attached to his belt was a small transistor radio that provided him with a constant stream of disastrous news. “Did you hear? There was a huge massacre in Angola.” Or: “The Minister of Religious Affairs died. They just announced it ten minutes ago.” The other kibbutz members avoided him. In the dining room, they rarely joined him at his table. On summer evenings, he would sit alone on the green bench at the foot of the large lawn in front of the dining room and watch the children playing on the grass. The breeze billowed his shirt, drying his sweat. A hot summer moon shone red as it rose above the tall cypress trees. One evening, Zvi Provizor greeted a woman named Luna Blank, who was sitting alone on an adjacent bench, saying to her sadly, “Did you hear? In Spain, an orphanage burned down and eighty orphans died of smoke inhalation.” Luna, a forty-five-year-old widowed teacher, wiped the perspiration from her brow with a handkerchief and said, “That’s horrible.” Zvi said, “Only three survivors were rescued, and they’re in critical condition.” We all respected his dedication to his work: never, in the twenty-two years that he’d lived on the kibbutz, had a single sick day been noted on his work sheet. Thanks to him, the kibbutz bloomed. Every unused strip of land was planted with seasonal flowers. Here and there, he had put in rock gardens where he planted a variety of cacti. He had built wooden trellises for the grapevines. In front of the dining room, he had installed a burbling fountain filled with goldfish and aquatic plants. He had a good aesthetic sense, and everyone appreciated it. But behind his back we called him the Angel of Death and gossiped about him, saying that he didn’t have, and had never had, an interest in women. Or in men, for that matter. One young fellow, Roni Shindlin, did a marvellous imitation of Zvi that made us roar with laughter. In the afternoon, when all the kibbutz members sat on their porches and drank coffee or played with their children on the small lawns in front of their houses, Zvi Provizor would go to the clubhouse to read the newspapers in the company of five or six solitary men like him, ardent readers and debaters, aging bachelors, widowers, or divorcés. From his corner, Reuvkeh Roth, a small bald man with large, batlike ears, would mumble that retaliatory raids only accelerated the circle of violence, because revenge begets revenge and retaliation begets retaliation. The others would immediately attack him: “What are you talking about? We can’t let them get away with it!” “Restraint and appeasement only make the Arabs more brazen.” Zvi Provizor would blink and say, “In the end, it’ll turn into a war. It can only cause a terrible war.” And Emanuel Glozman, the stutterer, would say excitedly, “W-w-w-ar. Very g-g-good. We’ll w-w-w-win and t-t-take their l-l-land all the w-w-way to the J-J-Jordan.” Reuvkeh Roth would think out loud: “Ben Gurion is a great chess player. He always sees five moves ahead. Except that everything with him is always by force.” On that subject, Zvi Provizor would prophesy sadly, “If we lose, the Arabs will come and wipe us out. If we win, the Russians will come and blow us up.” Emanuel Glozman would plead, “E-e-enough, friends, qu-qu-quiet. Let m-m-e read the p-p-papers in p-p-peace.” And Zvi, after a few moments’ silence, would say, “Did you hear? It says here that the King of Norway has liver cancer. And the head of our regional council has cancer, too.” Whenever Roni Shindlin, the comedian, saw Zvi at the shoemaker’s or by the clothing storeroom, he would ask him mockingly, “So, Angel of Death, what airplane crashed today?” Zvi Provizor and Luna Blank fell into a routine: they spoke every evening. He would sit on the right-hand edge of the left bench at the foot of the lawn and she would sit near him, on the left-hand edge of the right bench. He would blink as he spoke to her, and she, wearing a pretty sleeveless sundress, would crumple her handkerchief between her fingers. Praising the kibbutz gardens, the fruits of his labor, she said that, thanks to him, they lived in a green meadow, in the shade of blossoming orchards, among blooming flower beds. She had a proclivity for using fancy words. She was a third-grade teacher and made excellent delicate pencil drawings that hung on the walls of several of our small apartments. Her face was round and smiling and her eyelashes long, though her neck was a bit wrinkled and she had very thin legs and almost no breasts. Her husband had been killed several years earlier while doing reserve duty on the Gaza border and they’d had no children. The kibbutz members considered her an admirable figure, a woman who had overcome tragedy and poured her entire soul into her teaching. Zvi talked to her about the different species of roses and she nodded eagerly, as if agreeing with every word. Then he gave her a detailed description of the horrors of the locust epidemic that was devastating Sudan. Luna said, “You are a very sensitive person.” Zvi blinked and said, “Sudan doesn’t have much greenery as it is.” Luna said, “Why do you take all the sorrow of the world on your shoulders?” And Zvi replied, “Closing your eyes to the cruelty of life is, in my opinion, both stupid and sinful. There’s very little we can do about it. So we have to at least acknowledge it.” One summer evening, Luna Blank invited Zvi to her place for coffee. He came in his after-work clothes, long khaki pants and a short-sleeved light-blue shirt. His radio was attached to his belt, and at eight o’clock he excused himself to listen to the news. Hanging on the walls of Luna’s room were several of her pencil drawings in simple frames, drawings of dreamy young girls and landscapes, rocky hills and olive trees. Beneath the window was a double bed with embroidered Oriental pillows. A row of books on the white night table were arranged by height, from tall folios of paintings by van Gogh, Cézanne, and Gauguin to shorter volumes of the Cassuto Bible and, finally, a series of novels published by Hasifria Le’Am. In the middle of the room was a round coffee table with two plain armchairs beside it. The table was covered with an embroidered tablecloth and set with cups and plates for coffee and cookies. Zvi Provizor said, “Your room is very nice,” and added, “Clean. Neat.” Embarrassed, Luna Blank said, “Thank you. I’m glad.” But there was no gladness in her voice, only an awkward tension. Then they drank coffee and ate cookies and spoke of ornamental and fruit trees, of the discipline problems at school these days, when everything is permitted, of bird migration. Zvi blinked and said, “I read in the newspaper that in Hiroshima, ten years after the bomb, there are still no birds.” Luna told him again, “You take all the sorrow of the world on your shoulders.” She also said, “The day before yesterday I saw a hoopoe on a low branch outside my window.” “For the most dangerous game, that was awfully easy.”Buy the print » And so they began to meet regularly in the early-evening hours, on a bench in the garden in the shade of a dense bougainvillea, or over coffee in Luna’s room. Zvi would come home from work at four, shower, comb his hair in front of the mirror, change into his ironed khaki pants and light-blue shirt, and go to join her. Sometimes he’d bring seedlings of annual flowers for her to plant in her small garden. Once, he brought her a volume of Yaakov Fichman’s poems. She gave him poppy-seed cookies in a bag and a pencil drawing of two cypress trees and a bench. But at eight or eight-thirty they’d say good night and Zvi would return to his monastic room, where the smell of bachelorhood hung heavily in the air. Roni Shindlin said in the dining room that the Angel of Death had spread his wings over the Black Widow. In the clubhouse in the afternoon, Reuvkeh Roth teased Zvi affectionately: “So the hand has found a glove, eh?” But Zvi and Luna were not upset by the gossip and the sarcasm. The connection between them seemed to grow stronger every day. He told her that in his free time he was translating a novel by the Polish writer Iwaszkiewicz into Hebrew. The book was full of gentleness and suffering. Iwaszkiewicz believed that the human condition was absurd but touching. Luna listened, her head slightly tilted, her lips parted, as she poured hot coffee into his cup, as if the coffee were a kind of compensation for Iwaszkiewicz’s sorrow as well as for his own. She felt that their relationship was precious and she appreciated the way it filled her days, which until then had been so flat and monotonous. One night, she dreamed that they were riding a horse together, her breasts pressed up against his back and her arms around his waist, in a valley between high hills where a frothing river twisted and turned. She decided not to tell Zvi about this dream, even though she had spoken to him in detail about others. Zvi, for his part, told her that as a child in the Polish town of Yanov he had dreamed of being a student. But instead he had been drawn into the newly formed chalutz youth movement and had given up his plans to study. Even so, he had never stopped learning. Carefully gathering the crumbs from the tablecloth, Luna said, “You were a very shy young man. You’re a bit shy now, too.” Zvi said, “You don’t really know me.” Luna said, “Tell me. I’m listening.” And Zvi said, “Tonight I heard on the radio that a volcano erupted in Chile. Four villages were totally destroyed by the lava flow. Most of the people there didn’t stand a chance.” One evening, as he regaled her with an affecting description of the starvation in Somalia, compassion for him so overwhelmed her that she suddenly took his hand and held it to her breast. Zvi trembled and pulled it back quickly, with a gesture that was almost violent. His eyes blinked frantically. He had never in his adult life intentionally touched another person and he stiffened whenever he was touched. He loved the feel of loose earth and the softness of young stems, but the touch of other people, men or women, caused his entire body to contract as if he’d been burned. He always tried to avoid handshakes, pats on the back, or the accidental rubbing of elbows at the dining table. A short time later, he stood up and left. He didn’t go to see Luna the next day. He had begun to feel that their relationship was heading toward a disastrous place he did not want to go to, a place that repulsed him. Luna, with her usual tact, guessed that she had somehow offended him. She decided to apologize, though she didn’t know what for. Had she asked a question she shouldn’t have asked? Or had she perhaps failed to grasp some important meaning concealed in his words? Two days later, when he wasn’t in his room, she slipped a note under his door: “I’m sorry if I upset you. Can we talk?” Zvi responded with a note of his own: “It’d be better if we didn’t. It’d only end badly.” Still, she waited for him after supper at the foot of the margosa tree near the dining-room door and said shyly, “Tell me what I did.” “Nothing.” “So why are you avoiding me?” “Try to understand—it’s . . . pointless.” They never met on purpose again, and if they happened to pass each other on a path or in the small supply room they would exchange nods, hesitate for a moment, then go on their way. At lunch, Roni Shindlin told his tablemates that the Angel of Death had cut his honeymoon short and, from now on, they were all in danger again. And, in fact, that afternoon Zvi informed the bachelors in the clubhouse that a large bridge in Turkey had collapsed, and at the height of rush hour to boot. Two or three months later, we noticed that Luna Blank had stopped coming to the classical-music group and had even been absent from several teachers’ meetings. She dyed her hair a coppery red and began to wear bright lipstick. She occasionally skipped supper. On the Sukkoth holiday, she stayed in the city for a few days and came back wearing a dress that we thought was a bit daring, with a long slit up the side. In early autumn, we saw her a few times sitting on the bench by the large lawn with the basketball coach, a man ten years younger than she was, who came to the kibbutz twice a week. Roni Shindlin said that she was probably learning to dribble at night. Two or three weeks later, she had dropped the basketball coach and was seen in the company of the commander of the kibbutz unit of the Fighting Pioneer Youth, a man of twenty-two. There was no way that this could be ignored, and the Education Committee met discreetly to discuss the professional implications. Every evening, Zvi Provizor would sit alone, utterly still, on the bench next to the decorative fountain that he had installed with his own hands and watch the children playing on the lawn. If you passed by and said good evening, he would return the greeting and tell you sadly about the floods in southeastern China. Late that fall, without warning and without the permission of the kibbutz secretariat, Luna Blank left for America to visit her sister, who had sent her a plane ticket. She was seen one morning at the bus stop wearing the daring dress and a bright-colored scarf, teetering in high heels and lugging a large suitcase. “Already dressed for Hollywood,” Roni Shindlin said. “The Black Widow is fleeing the Angel of Death.” The secretariat decided to suspend her membership in the kibbutz pending further investigation. Meanwhile, Luna Blank’s room remained locked and dark, even though there was a housing shortage and some members of the Housing Committee had their eye on it. Five or six ordinary houseplants—philodendrons, geraniums, cacti—had been left on the small porch, and Zvi Provizor would occasionally go by to water and tend to them. Then came winter. Low clouds lay on top of the ornamental trees. Thick mud lined the fields and orchards, and the fruit pickers and field hands went to work in the factory. Gray rain fell endlessly. At night, the gutters shook noisily and a cold wind seeped in through cracks in the shutters. Zvi Provizor sat up every night listening to the news broadcasts, and, in the breaks between them, he’d bend over his table in the light of his gooseneck lamp and translate into Hebrew a few lines of Iwaszkiewicz’s anguish-filled novel. The pencil drawing that Luna had given him—of two cypress trees and a bench—hung above his bed. The trees looked melancholy and the bench was empty. At ten-thirty, he’d wrap something around himself and go out to the porch to look at the clouds and the deserted concrete paths, their wetness glistening in the yellow light of the streetlight. If there was a pause between downpours, he would take a brief nocturnal stroll to see how the plants on Luna’s porch were doing. Falling leaves had already covered the steps, and Zvi thought that he could detect the light scent of soap or shampoo drifting from inside the locked room. He would wander along the empty paths for a while, rain dripping from the tree branches onto his uncovered head, then go back to his room and listen in darkness, his eyes open, to the final news reports of the day. Early one morning, when everything was still blanketed in wet, frozen darkness, he stopped a dairy worker who was on his way to milk the cows and informed him sadly, “Did you hear? The King of Norway died last night. Cancer. Of the liver.”
The Years of My Birth The nurse had wrapped my brother in a blue flannel blanket and was just about to hand him to his mother when she whispered, “Oh, God, there’s another one,” and out I slid, half dead. I then proceeded to die in earnest, going from slightly pink to a dull gray-blue, at which point the nurse tried to scoop me into a bed warmed by lights. She was stopped by the doctor, who pointed out my head and legs. Stepping between me and the mother, the doctor addressed her. “Mrs. Lasher, I have something important to say. Your other child has a congenital deformity and may die. Shall we use extraordinary means to salvage it?” She looked at the doctor with utter incomprehension at first, then cried, “No!” While the doctor’s back was turned, the nurse cleared my mouth with her finger, shook me upside down, and swaddled me tightly in another blanket, pink. I took a blazing breath. “Nurse,” the doctor said. “Too late,” she answered. I was left in the nursery with a bottle strapped to my face while the county tried to decide what to do with me. I was too young to be admitted to any state-run institution, and Mr. and Mrs. George Lasher refused to have me in their house, which was at the edge of a nearby town, where Mr. Lasher owned and ran a farm-implements dealership. The night janitor at the hospital, a woman from the reservation named Betty Wishkob, asked the head maternity nurse for permission to hold me on her break. While cradling me, with her back to the observation window, Betty also nursed me—she was still nursing her youngest child at home. As she fed me, she molded and rounded my skull with her powerful hand. Nobody in the hospital knew that she was feeding me at night, or that she was doctoring me and had made up her mind to keep me. This was five decades ago. When Betty asked if she could take me home, there was relief and not a lot of paperwork involved, at least in the beginning. So I was saved, and grew up with the Wishkobs. I lived on the reservation and eventually was educated as my Chippewa siblings were—first at a school run by the Catholic mission and later at one run by the government. Around the age of two, I was taken away for the first time and placed alone in a room. I remember the smell of disinfectant and what I would now call despair. Into this disinfected despair, there came a presence, someone or something, who grieved with me and held my hand. That presence would come to me again at other moments in my life. Its return is partly what this story is about. The second time that an officious welfare officer decided to find a more suitable home for me, I was four. As Betty argued with her in the dust of our yard, the matted hackles on the dog’s back rose. I stood beside Betty and held her skirt—green cotton. I pressed the fine weave between my fingers and hid my face in its scent of heated cloth. Then I was in the back seat of a car that sped soundlessly in some infinite direction. I slept. I woke alone in another white room. My bed was narrow, and the sheets were tucked tightly down, so that I had to struggle to get out. I sat on the edge of the bed for what seemed like a long time, waiting. When you are little, you do not always know when you are screaming or crying—your feelings and the sound that comes out of you are all one thing. I remember that I opened my mouth, that is all, and that I did not shut it until I was back with Betty. Every morning until I was about eleven, Betty and her husband, Albert, tried to straighten me by stretching out my legs. They woke me before the other children and brought me into the kitchen. I drank a glass of thin, blue milk by the woodstove. Then Betty sat in a kitchen chair and put me in her lap. Albert sat across from us in another chair. “Put your feet out, Tuffy,” he said. I put my feet in Albert’s hands, and he pulled me one way while Betty pulled the other. Slowly, as I grew, my legs untwisted, though one was always a little shorter than the other. I was the youngest of their four children—it was Sheryl whom Betty had been nursing when she cared for me in the hospital. Their older son, Cedric, gave me the name Tuffy because he knew that once I went to school I would get a nickname anyway. He didn’t want it to be one that mocked my rolling walk or my head. My head—so misshapen when I was born that the doctor had diagnosed a birth defect—was still a bit flat on one side, where I had been crushed in the womb by my twin. But it had been shaped enough by Betty’s squeezing and kneading that by the time I was old enough to look in a mirror I thought I was pretty. Neither Betty nor Albert ever told me I was wrong; it was Sheryl who gave me the news. “Tuffy, you are so ugly you’re cute,” she said. I looked in the mirror the next chance I got and realized that she was telling the truth. The house we lived in had a smell that permeates it still—old wood, onions, fried coot, the salty outdoors scent of children. Betty was always trying to keep us clean, and Albert was always getting us dirty. He took us into the woods and showed us how to spot a rabbit run and set a snare. We yanked gophers from their holes with loops of string and picked pail after pail of berries. We rode a mean little bucking pony, fished perch from a nearby lake, dug potatoes every year to make money for school clothes. Betty’s job at the hospital had not lasted. Albert sold firewood, corn, squash. We never went hungry. Not long ago, I read a memoir by a man named Peter Razor, who was abandoned like me, only he ended up in an institution. He wrote of the one time that he remembered being held, and said that it remained one of the strangest and happiest moments of his life. I don’t remember being held as something special. Which tells me that I must have been held so often that the sensation became a part of me, inseparable from my memory of the world. I know that I was loved, because it was a complicated matter for Betty and Albert to claim me from the welfare system, though I had aided their efforts with my endless scream. A full adoption involved hiring a lawyer, which they didn’t have the money to do. I was afflicted with nightmares of being chased down and captured, and many nights I scrambled into the warm cleft of mattress between them, then held my breath and lay perfectly still until they had rolled over and gone back to sleep. When I knew that I was safe, I opened my eyes and looked into the darkness, which was never entirely black but alive with shifting green panels and tiny zigzags of fractured light. Then I’d feel myself sliding down into a safe, warm sleep, their slow and even breathing like a gentle rope, keeping me from slipping too far. All of which is not to say that they were perfect. Albert drank from time to time and passed out on the floor. Betty’s temper was explosive. She never hit, but she yelled and raved. She could say awful things. Once, Sheryl was twirling around in the house. There was a shelf set snugly in the corner of the living room, and on that shelf there was a cut-glass vase that was very precious to Betty. When we brought her wildflower bouquets, she’d put them in that vase. I’d seen her washing the vase with soap and polishing it with an old pillowcase. Sheryl’s arm knocked the vase off the shelf, and it struck the floor with a bright sound and shattered into splinters. Betty was working at the stove. She spun around, threw her hands out, and stared. “Damn you, Sheryl,” she said. “That was the only beautiful thing I ever had.” “Tuffy broke it!” Sheryl said, and bolted out the door. I stood mute and too frozen to speak. Betty began to cry, harshly, wiping her face with her forearm. I moved to sweep up the pieces for her, but she said to leave them, in such a heartsick voice that I went to find Sheryl, who was hiding in her usual place on the far side of the henhouse. When I asked her why she’d blamed me, she gave me a glaring, hateful look and said, “Because you’re white.” Children can be brutal when it comes to gaining the attention and favor of their parents. I didn’t hold anything Sheryl did or said against her, and we became close later on. I am very glad for that, as I have never married, and I needed to confide in someone when, six months ago, I was contacted by my birth mother. Until Betty and Albert died, I lived in an addition tacked onto the tiny house where all of us grew up. They died one right after the other, in the space of a few months, as the long-married sometimes do. By then, the other children had either moved off reservation or built new houses closer to town. I stayed on. Even now that Betty and Albert were gone and I had the whole house, I spent most of my time in my room. One difference was that I let the dog, a descendant of the one that had growled at the welfare lady, live inside with me. Betty had believed in outside dogs, but I petted and pampered this one. I’d had a fireplace installed, with a glass front and fans that threw the heat into a cozy circle in front of it, and there I’d sit every evening, with the dog at my feet, reading or crocheting while I listened to music. Then one night the telephone rang. I answered it with a simple hello. There was a pause. A woman asked if this was Linda Wishkob speaking. “It is,” I said, and then I experienced a skip of apprehension. “This is Nancy Lasher.” The voice was tight and nervous. “I am your mother.” I took a breath, let it out. I said nothing but simply set the phone back in the cradle. Later, that moment struck me as funny. It was a kind of replay of my birth. I’d done it over. But this time I had instinctively rejected my mother, left her in the cradle just as she’d left me. I work in the reservation post office. I am a government employee. At any time, I could have found out my birth parents’ address. I could have called them up or, had I been another sort of person, got drunk and stood in their yard and railed at them. But not only did I not care—I actively did not want to know where they lived. Why would I? Everything I did know about them was painful, and I have always tried to avoid pain—which is perhaps why I’ve never married or had children. That night, after I’d hung up the phone, I made a cup of tea and busied myself with crossword puzzles. One stumped me. The clue was “double-goer,” twelve spaces, and it took me the longest time and a dictionary to come up with the word “doppelganger.” Growing up in the midst of a large family, I had never registered the visitations from my presence, at those rare moments when I was alone, as something strange. The first time I was aware of it was when I was taken from Betty and put in a white room. After that, I occasionally had the sensation that there was someone walking beside me or sitting behind me, always just beyond my peripheral vision. One of the reasons I let the dog live inside was that it kept away this presence, which over the years had grown to seem anxious, needy, helpless in some way I could not define. I had never before thought of the presence in relation to my twin, who’d grown up not an hour’s drive away from me, but that night the combination of the phone call out of the blue and the twelve-letter word in my puzzle set my thoughts flowing. “Our nation hasn’t been been to war in a hundred years. Where the hell did we get all these medals?”Buy the print » Betty had told me all she knew of the circumstances of my birth. She was never one to keep things from people for their own good. She always let you have the truth square. But as I’d never thought to ask her about my brother she hadn’t talked about him. Nor had any of my siblings—mainly because I don’t think they really cared. Perhaps they didn’t even associate me with the Lashers. I searched my memory and could not pull out much, except that my twin had been a boy, born first. I had no idea what the Lashers had named him. Of course, we were fraternal twins and supposedly no more alike than any other brother and sister. So I was free, that night, to actually hate and resent him. I’d heard my birth mother’s voice for the first time. He’d heard it all his life. She had called herself, simply, my mother. Not my birth mother—that careful, distancing term—but my mother. It could have been plain arrogance, but then there had also been distress in her tone. My brain had taped the eight words she’d said. All that night and the next morning, too, they played on a loop. By the end of the second day, however, the intonation grew fainter, and I was relieved that on the third day it stopped. On the fourth day, she called again. She began by apologizing: “I am sorry to bother you.” She went on to say that she had always wanted to meet me but had been afraid to find out where I was. She said that George, my father, was dead and she lived alone and that my twin brother was a postal worker in Bismarck. It was then that I couldn’t help myself. I had to ask his name. “Linden,” she told me. “It’s an old family name.” “Was mine an old family name as well?” I asked. “No,” she said, “but it matched your brother’s name.” She told me that George had written my name down on the birth certificate, but that they had never seen me. She told me that he had died of a heart attack, and she had nearly moved down to Bismarck to be near Linden, but she couldn’t sell her home. She said that she hadn’t known I lived so close by or she would have called me long before. Her light, conversational chatter must have caused a dreamlike amnesia to come over me, because when she asked if we could meet, if she could take me out to dinner at Vert’s Supper Club, the only place in the area that served full dinners with drinks, I said yes and agreed on a day. When I finally hung up the phone, I stared for a long time at the little log fire in my fireplace. I’d laid the fire before the call and had been looking forward to popping some corn. Whenever I did, I threw kernels high in the air for the dog to catch. Now I was gripped by something new—a dreadful array of feelings. Which should I choose to succumb to first? I couldn’t decide. The dog came and put his head in my lap, and we sat there until I realized that one of the reactions I could have was numbness. Relieved, feeling nothing, I let the dog out, let him in, and went to bed. She was shorter than me. And so ordinary. I was sure that I must have seen her in the street, or at the grocery, or in the bank, perhaps. It would have been hard not to have crossed paths with her at some point around here. But I would not have suspected her of being my mother. I could detect nothing familiar or like myself about her. We did not shake hands or hug. We sat across from each other in a leatherette booth. “You aren’t . . .” “Retarded? Lame?” She composed herself. “You got your coloring from your father,” she said. “George had dark hair.” Nancy Lasher had red-rimmed blue eyes behind bifocals, a sharp nose, a tiny, lipless bow of a mouth. Her hair was typical for a woman of seventy-seven—tightly permanented, gray-white. At one time, she had been a handsome woman, I thought, with strong features. Now she wore stained dentures, big earrings made of cultured pearls, a pale-blue pants suit. Walking in, I’d noticed her square-toed lace-up therapy shoes. There wasn’t anything about her that called to me. She was just any little old lady you wouldn’t want to approach. People on the reservation didn’t go near women who looked like her—I can’t say why. A mutual instinct for avoidance, perhaps. “Would you like to order?” she asked, touching the menu. “Have anything you like—it’s all on me.” “No, thank you, we will split the check,” I answered. I’d thought about this in advance and concluded that, if she wanted to assuage her guilt in some way, taking me out to dinner was far too cheap. So we ordered and ate and drank our glasses of sour white wine. As we did so, she talked. She asked me about myself. She drew me out, as they might say in a novel. She made sounds of interest and surprise and sympathy. She said that she admired me. We got through the dinner of walleye and pilaf. Tears came into her eyes over a bowl of chocolate ice cream. “I wish I’d known you were going to be so normal. I wish I hadn’t ever given you up,” she said. I was alarmed at the effect that these words had on me, and quickly asked, “How’s Linden?” Her tears dried up and her face became sharp and direct. “He’s very sick,” she said. “He’s got kidney failure and is on dialysis. He’s waiting for a kidney. I’d give him one of mine, but I’m a bad match and my kidney is old. George is dead. You are your brother’s only hope.” I put my napkin to my lips and felt myself floating up off my chair. Someone floated with me, just barely with me, and I could feel his anxious breathing there. Now would be the time to call Sheryl, I thought. I should have called her before. She won’t believe this. It seemed best to me, too, not to believe what I had just heard and felt. I had a twenty-dollar bill with me, and I put that money on the table and walked out the door. I got to my car, but before I could get in I had to run to the scarp of grass and weed that surrounded the parking lot. I was heaving and crying when I felt Nancy Lasher’s hand stroking my back. It was the first time my birth mother had ever touched me, and although I quieted beneath her hand, I could detect a stupid triumph in her murmuring voice. She’d known where I lived all along, of course. I pushed her away, repelled by hatred, like an animal sprung from a trap. “What should I do?” I asked Sheryl. “I’m calling Cedric.” He lived in Bismarck. “Listen here, Tuffy. I’ll get Cedric to go to the hospital and pull the plug on this Linden, and you can forget this crap.” That was Sheryl—who else could have made me laugh under the circumstances? It was the morning after the dinner, and I was still in bed. I’d called in sick for the first time in years. “You’re not seriously even considering it,” Sheryl said. Then, when I didn’t answer, “Are you?” “I don’t know.” “Then I really am calling Cedric up. Those people ditched you. They turned their backs on you. They would have left you in the street to die. You’re my sister. I don’t want you to share your kidneys. Hey, what if I need one of your kidneys someday? Did you ever think of that? Save your damn kidney for me!” “O.K.,” I said. “I love you,” she said, and I said it back. “Tuffy, don’t you do it,” she warned, but her voice was suddenly small, vulnerable. After she hung up, I called the numbers on the card my mother had given me and made appointments for the tests. While I was down in Bismarck, I stayed with Cedric and his wife, whose name is Cheryl with a “C.” She’s a quiet person, but she put out little towels for me that she had appliquéd with the shapes of wild animals. And tiny motel soaps she’d swiped. She made my bed. She tried to show me that she approved of what I was doing, although the others in my family did not. She is very Christian. But this was not a do-unto-others sort of thing for me. I’ve already said that I don’t seek pain, and I would not have contemplated going through with it unless I found the alternative unbearable. All my life, knowing without knowing it, I had waited for this to happen. My twin had been the one beside me, just out of sight. He did not know that he had been there, I was sure. He did not know that when I was stolen from Betty and alone in the whiteness he had held my hand, sat with me, and grieved. And now that I’d met his mother I understood something more. In a small town people knew everything; they knew what she had done by abandoning me. She’d have had to turn her fury with herself, her shame, on someone else—the child she’d chosen. She’d have blamed Linden. I had felt the contempt and the triumph in her touch. I was grateful now for the way things had turned out. Before we were born, my twin had had the compassion to crush me, to improve me by deforming me: I was the one who was spared. “I’ll tell you what,” the doctor, a woman, who gave me the results of the tests and conducted the interview said. “You are a match, but I know your story. And I think it only fair that you know that Linden Lasher’s kidney failure is his own fault. He has issues. He tried to commit suicide with a massive dose of acetaminophen, aspirin, and alcohol. That’s why he is on dialysis. I think you should take that into account when making your decision.” Later that day, I sat with Linden, who said, “You don’t have to do this. You don’t have to be a Jesus.” “I know what you did,” I said. “I’m not religious.” “Interesting,” Linden said. He stared at me. “We sure don’t look alike.” I realized that this was not a compliment, because he was nice-looking. He’d got the best of his mother’s features. But there was something else, too—his eyes shifted around the room. He kept biting his lip, whistling, rolling his blanket between his fingers. “Are you a mail carrier?” he asked. “I work behind the counter, mostly.” “I’ve got a good route,” he said, yawning. “A regular route—I could do it in my sleep. Every Christmas, my people leave me cards, money, cookies, that sort of thing.” “Did you ever think,” I said, “that there was someone walking your route just beside you or just behind you? Someone there when you closed your eyes, gone when you opened them?” “No,” he said. “Are you crazy?” “That was me,” I said. I picked up his hand, and he let it go limp. We sat there together, silent. After a while, he pulled his hand out of mine and massaged it as though my grip had hurt. “I don’t like you,” he said. “This was my mother’s idea. I don’t want your kidney. I don’t want a piece of you inside me. I’d rather get on a list. Frankly, you’re kind of a disgusting woman. I mean, I’m sorry, but you’ve probably heard this before.” “No,” I said. “Nobody’s ever told me that.” “You probably have a dog,” he said. “Dogs love whoever feeds them. I doubt you could get a husband, or whatever, unless you put a bag over your head. And even then it would have to come off at night.” “Are you saying this to drive me away?” My throat clamped down on my voice. I swallowed, drew a deep breath to stop the shakes that had started in my body. “You want to die. You don’t want to be saved, right? I’m not saving you for any reason. You won’t owe me anything.” “Owe you?” He seemed genuinely surprised. His teeth were so straight that I was sure he’d had orthodontic work done when he was young. He started laughing now, showing all those beautiful teeth. He shook his head, wagged his finger at me, laughing so hard he seemed overcome. When I bent down awkwardly to pick up my purse, he was infected by such a bout of hilarity that he nearly choked. I tried to get away from him, to get to the door, but instead I backed up against the wall and was stuck there in that white, white room.
Getting Closer He’s nine going on ten, skinny-tall, shoulder blades pushing out like things inside a paper bag, new blue bathing suit too tight here, too loose there, but what’s all that got to do with anything? What’s important is that he’s here, standing by the picnic table, the sun shining on the river, the smell of pine needles and river water sharp in the air, somewhere a shout, laughter, music from a radio. His father’s cleaning ashes out of the grill, his mother and sister are laying down blankets on the sunny grass not far from the table, Grandma’s carrying one of the aluminum folding chairs toward the high pine near the edge of the drop to the river, and he’s doing what he likes to do best, what he’s really good at: standing around doing nothing. Everyone’s forgotten about him for a few seconds, the way it happens sometimes. You try not to remind anybody you’re there. He loves this place. On the table’s the fat thermos jug with the white spout near the bottom. After his swim he’ll push the button on the spout and fill up a paper cup with pink lemonade. It’s a good sound: fsshh, psshh. In the picnic basket he can see two packages of hot dogs, jars of relish and mustard, some bun ends showing, a box of Oreo cookies, a bag of marshmallows which are marshmellows so why the “a,” paper plates sticking up sideways, a brown folded-over paper bag of maybe cherries. All week long he’s looked forward to this day. Nothing’s better than setting off on an all-day outing, in summer, to the park by the river—the familiar houses and vacant lots no longer sitting there with nothing to do but drifting toward you through the car window, the heat of the sun-warmed seat burning you through your jeans, the bottoms of your feet already feeling the pebbly ground pushing up on them as you walk from the parking lot to the picnic grounds above the riverbank. But now he’s here, right here, his jeans tossed in the back seat of the car and his T-shirt stuffed into his mother’s straw bag, the sun on one edge of the table and the piney shade covering the rest of it, Grandma already setting up the chair. And so the day’s about to get going at last, the day he’s been looking forward to in the hot nights while watching bars of light slide across his wall from passing cars, he’s here, he’s arrived, he’s ready to begin. Though who’s to say when anything begins really? You could say the day began when they passed the wooden sign with the words “INDIAN COVE” and the outline of a tomahawk, on a curve of road with a double yellow line down the middle and brown wooden posts with red reflectors. Or maybe it all started when the car backed up the slope of the driveway and the tires bumped over the sidewalk between the knee-high pricker hedges. Or what if it happened before that, when he woke up in the morning and saw the day stretching out before him like a whole summer of blue afternoons? But he’s only playing, just fooling around, because he knows exactly when it all begins: it begins when he enters the water. That’s the agreement he’s made with himself, summer after summer. That’s just how it is. The day begins in the river, and everything else leads up to it. Not that he’s all that eager to rush into things. Now that he’s here, now that the waiting’s practically over, he enjoys prolonging the excitement of moving toward the moment he’s been waiting for. It isn’t the swimming itself he looks forward to. He doesn’t even swim. He hangs on to the inner tube and kicks his legs. He likes it, it’s fine, he can take it or leave it. No, what he cares about, what thrills him every time, is knowing that this is it, the beginning of the long-awaited day at the river, as agreed to by himself in advance. Everything’s been leading up to it and, in the way of things that lead up to other things, there’s an electric charge, a hum. He can feel it all over his body. The closer you get, the more it’s there. Julia, thirteen, isn’t like him in that way. Soon as she’s finished laying out the three blankets, she’ll run over to the edge of the drop, scamper down, and cross the short stretch of ground to the river. She’s always been like that, throwing herself into things—piano lessons, blueberrying, hiking a trail, the bumper cars at Pleasure Beach. She thinks he’s cautious, too held back, timid even, and it’s probably true, but it’s also something else: he likes things to build up slowly, because when it happens that way everything feels important. Does this mean there’s something un-grown-up about him, something that’ll go away one day, like his stick-out shoulder blades and his knobby anklebones? “Come on, give us a hand, Cap’n,” Julia says. He’s not invisible anymore. Julia doesn’t like people standing around doing nothing. He takes a blanket corner and before he knows it she’s off around the table toward the pine where Grandma’s sitting, she’s scrambling down the drop and out of sight. A second later her head appears, then she’s all there except for her feet, then she’s got heels, toes. She doesn’t stop, goes right in past her knees, bends to splash water on her arms. He can see the reflections of her red suit broken up in the water. The river has little ripply waves, maybe from a speedboat out beyond the white barrels. His father once told him the Housatonic’s a tidal river. He remembers the word: tidal. Could that be the tide he’s looking at, those ripples? The Housatonic. He likes saying it, likes leaning into that “oooo” sound, which reminds him of a train coming around a bend at night in an old movie. Julia throws herself in, begins swimming out to the barrels. “You run along now, Jimmy,” his mother says. “I’ll be fine here.” He knows it’s time to get started, you can’t delay things forever. He goes over to the sunny inner tubes, lifts up the one lying on a slant against the other, squeezes the warm dusty rubber to make sure it’s tight. Then he begins rolling it bumpily over the grass around the end of the picnic table toward the pine where Grandma’s sitting. It’s a short walk, in deep shade broken by spots of sun. He’s stepping on soft-crackly pine needles and spongy pinecones, which press up into the soles of his feet as though he’s walking on rolled-up-sock balls. The earth feels bouncy and hard at the same time. Grandma’s sitting next to a high pine that’s leaning a little forward, as if one day it started to fall then changed its mind. To the left there’s another pine, also leaning forward, and the two trunks form a kind of frame around the sunny river and the wooded hills on the far side. Everything’s alive with interest: that big pinecone in dark shade with one end glowing in sunlight, that cherry-stained Popsicle stick lying next to a bumpy root. Grandma’s chair isn’t the heavy long one from the porch, with adjustable positions, no, she’s got the small one with a straight back that unfolds with one easy pull. She’s wearing her dark-blue bathing suit and a pair of straw sandals, toenails polish-pink, her thick hair a strange sort of whitish yellowish orange. She’s always laughing about her trouble with hair dyes. She’s sitting in the shade near the edge of the drop, legs in sunlight, book in her lap. Her fingers are bent at the knuckles. She likes holding them up and showing them to him. See: arthritis. The crisscross strips in the chair are white and lime green. As he comes up to her, she turns her head, places a hand in her open book to keep it from closing. Buy the print » “So, my good man, you’re going in? Look at Julia out there.” He brings this out in people, who knows why: Cap’n, my good man. It’s something about him. His sister’s by the barrels now, swimming on her back, kicking her feet, sweeping up both arms. “That’s right, my good woman,” he says, and Grandma does what he wants her to do, gives a deep-down scratchy laugh, a laugh with approval in it. It’s a witty family, you have to be on your toes. If he gets up late in the morning his father says things like “Out drinking again last night, eh, Jim?” or “Behold, the son is risen.” Standing beside Grandma, balancing his inner tube with his fingertips, he takes it all in: the two bracelets on Grandma’s wrist, one turquoise and one silver, her fingers puffy, her knuckles bumpy, the clumps of hot-looking droopy grass on the few feet of ground that go past the chair to the edge of the drop, the thick pine root twisting out of the slope. A piece of white string hangs over the root. These are good things to look at, but sometimes you don’t see them. You see them when they’re leading up to something. He takes a few steps to the edge of the drop, the edge of the world. Behind him’s Grandma in her chair, the floor of pine needles, the picnic table. Behind that, the sunny blankets, a field—but why stop there? Connecticut’s stretching away at his back, the monkey cage in the Beardsley Park Zoo, the Merritt Parkway with its stone bridges, then comes Grandma’s apartment on West 110th Street, and, if you keep going, the Mississippi River, Pikes Peak, California. This is fun. You can do it in both directions. In front of him the slope, the sandy-earthy place at the river’s edge, Julia on her back. Then the white barrels, the wooded hills on the far bank of the river, and beyond the hills the other side of Connecticut, the trip to the whaling ship at Mystic Seaport, somewhere out there Cape Cod, the Atlantic Ocean, Africa. He likes standing here, thinking these things. He likes the picture of himself in his own mind as he stares out sternly over the river, frowning in sunlight, his fingertips resting on top of the inner tube, his other hand on his hip, Huck Finn on the shore of the Mississippi, an Indian brave with a quiver of arrows on his back, getting ready to go down to the canoes. But he can’t stand there all day. Julia’s looking at him from where she’s resting against a barrel. She’s shading her eyes with one hand and waving him on with the other. Come on, Cap’n! Grandma’s looking up from her book to watch him. And, besides, he wants the day at Indian Cove to begin, he really does, even if all he’s been trying to do since he got here is hold it back for as long as possible. There’re two ways down to the river: the hard dirt path on the other side of the pine, where the grownups go, or straight down the soft, crumbly slope. Gripping the inner tube under his arm, he steps over the edge and half slides half stumbles down, feeling the warm sandy earth spilling over the tops of his feet. It reminds him of salt sprinkled into his hand. He’s there; he’s made it; he’s standing on the patch of orangey sandy dirt that’s too small to be a beach. The beach they go to has real sand, lots of it, with blankets and beach umbrellas, salt water, a refreshment stand, seagulls, dead crabs, sandbars, waves. This is the shore of the river, and it’s different in different places: here the sandy orange earth, farther down some boulders and cattails, elsewhere trees and grass right at the water’s edge. This no-name place is gentler than a beach, more quiet, more shut away, with the slope behind him, the green-brown water in front of him, the white barrels moving up and down a little, as if the water’s breathing. He starts forward, rolling his inner tube. Nine or ten steps and he’ll be at the water’s edge. He can see ripples there, like very small waves: a tidal river. If he didn’t know it was a river, he’d think he was standing by a lake. Tree branches bending down to the water hide the turn of the river on both sides, and what you see is a lake with wooded hills, a few little houses on the far shore, a pier with a tiny man fishing. He rolls his tube over the warm sand-dirt. There’re pebbles here, but no rubbery piles of seaweed, no purple-black mussel shells. A green Coke bottle, empty, stands upright and looks out of place. It belongs on the beach, tilted in the sand next to a blanket. It’s got a green shadow. Blurred footprints, a smooth flat stone good for skimming. The excitement’s building; he’s almost there. At the water’s edge he stops. He makes sure the little waves pull back before they can touch his toes. Through the water he can see ripply sun-designs on the river bottom. They look like a chain-link fence made of light. The river is it, the beginning of his adventure, and here at the final place he stops for the last time. Everything has led up to this moment. No, wrong, he isn’t there yet. The moment’s just ahead of him. This is the time before the waiting stops and he crosses over into what he’s been waiting for. He inhales the river smell, takes it deep into his nostrils. He’s been moving toward the moment that’s about to happen ever since he woke up this morning, ever since last week, when his father came home from work and with his briefcase still in his hand said they’d be going to Indian Cove on Saturday if the weather held. Every day he could feel it coming closer. It was like waiting for the trip to the amusement park, like waiting for the circus tents to rise out of the fields the next town over. In another second the waiting will end. The day will officially begin. It’s what he’s been hoping for, but here at the edge of the river he doesn’t want to let the waiting go. He wants to hang on with all his might. He’s standing on the shore of the river, the brown-green ripples are breaking at his toes. The sun is shining, Julia’s waving him on, the white barrels are rising and falling gently, and what he wants is to go back to the wooden sign with the tomahawk and start waiting for the shore of the river. What’s wrong with him? Why can’t he be like Julia? He loves this day, doesn’t he? Any second now he’ll be standing in the water up to his knees, swishing his hands around. He’ll go in up to his bathing suit. He’ll wet his chest and shoulders, hop on the tube and paddle out to Julia. He’ll laugh in the sun. Later he’ll throw himself on his blanket, feel the sun drying out his wet suit. He’ll eat a hot dog in a bun, drink pink lemonade from the jug. He’ll be sluggish with sun and happiness. At the end of the day he’ll change out of his suit in the creaking wooden bathhouse, he’ll fall asleep in the car on the way home, under the street lights. But now, as he stands at the end of waiting, something is wrong. He’s shaken deep down, as though he’ll lose something if the day begins. If he goes into the river he’ll lose the excitement, the feeling that everything matters because he’s getting closer and closer to the moment he’s been waiting for. When you have that feeling, everything’s full of life, every leaf, every pebble. But when you begin you’re using things up. The day starts slipping away behind you. He wants to stay on this side of things, to hold it right here. A nervousness comes over him, a chilliness in the sun. In a moment the day will begin to end. Things will rush away behind him. The day he’s been waiting for is practically over. He sees it now, he sees it: ending is everywhere. It’s right there in the beginning. They don’t tell you about it. It’s hidden away in things. Under the shining skin of the world, everything’s dead and gone. The sun is setting. The day is dying. Grandma’s lying in her coffin. Her crooked hands are crossed on her chest. His pretty mother’s growing old. Her fingers are thick and bent. Her brown hair is stringy white. No one can stop it. Julia’s dying, his father’s dying, the Coke bottle’s crumbling away to green dust. Everything’s nothing. If he stands still, if he doesn’t move a muscle, maybe he can keep it from happening. Things will stop and no one will ever die. His body’s shaking, he can’t breathe, here at the water’s edge he’s at the end of everything. You can’t live unless there’s a way to hold on to things. He can’t go back because he’s already used it up, he can’t go forward because then it all begins to end, he’s stuck in this place where nothing means anything, it’s streaming in on him like a darkness, like a sickness, he’s seen something he isn’t supposed to see, only grownups are allowed to see it, it’s making him old, it’s ruining everything, his temples are pounding, his eyes are pounding, he feels a scream rising in his chest, he’s going to fall down onto the sandy orange earth, “Ahoy, matey!” shouts Julia, and with a wild cry that tears through his throat he steps over the line and begins his day.
Escape from Spiderhead “Drip on?” Abnesti said over the P.A. “What’s in it?” I said. “Hilarious,” he said. “Acknowledge,” I said. Abnesti used his remote. My MobiPak™ whirred. Soon the Interior Garden looked really nice. Everything seemed super-clear. I said out loud, as I was supposed to, what I was feeling. “Garden looks nice,” I said. “Super-clear.” Abnesti said, “Jeff, how about we pep up those language centers?” “Sure,” I said. “Drip on?” he said. “Acknowledge,” I said. He added some Verbaluce™ to the drip, and soon I was feeling the same things but saying them better. The garden still looked nice. It was like the bushes were so tight-seeming and the sun made everything stand out? It was like any moment you expected some Victorians to wander in with their cups of tea. It was as if the garden had become a sort of embodiment of the domestic dreams forever intrinsic to human consciousness. It was as if I could suddenly discern, in this contemporary vignette, the ancient corollary through which Plato and some of his contemporaries might have strolled; to wit, I was sensing the eternal in the ephemeral. I sat, pleasantly engaged in these thoughts, until the Verbaluce™ began to wane. At which point the garden just looked nice again. It was something about the bushes and whatnot? It made you just want to lay out there and catch rays and think your happy thoughts. If you get what I mean. Then whatever else was in the drip wore off, and I didn’t feel much about the garden one way or the other. My mouth was dry, though, and my gut had that post-Verbaluce™ feel to it. “What’s going to be cool about that one?” Abnesti said. “Is, say a guy has to stay up late guarding a perimeter. Or is at school waiting for his kid and gets bored. But there’s some nature nearby? Or say a park ranger has to work a double shift?” “That will be cool,” I said. “That’s ED763,” he said. “We’re thinking of calling it NatuGlide. Or maybe ErthAdmire.” “Those are both good,” I said. “Thanks for your help, Jeff,” he said. Which was what he always said. “Only a million years to go,” I said. Which was what I always said. Then he said, “Exit the Interior Garden now, Jeff, head over to Small Workroom 2.” II Into Small Workroom 2 they sent this pale tall girl. “What do you think?” Abnesti said over the P.A. “Me?” I said. “Or her?” “Both,” Abnesti said. “Pretty good,” I said. “Fine, you know,” she said. “Normal.” Abnesti asked us to rate each other more quantifiably, as per pretty, as per sexy. It appeared we liked each other about average, i.e., no big attraction or revulsion either way. Abnesti said, “Jeff, drip on?” “Acknowledge,” I said. “Heather, drip on?” he said. “Acknowledge,” Heather said. Then we looked at each other like, What happens next? What happened next was, Heather soon looked super-good. And I could tell she thought the same of me. It came on so sudden we were like laughing. How could we not have seen it, how cute the other one was? Luckily there was a couch in the Workroom. It felt like our drip had, in addition to whatever they were testing, some ED556 in it, which lowers your shame level to like nil. Because soon, there on the couch, off we went. It was super-hot between us. And not merely in a horndog way. Hot, yes, but also just right. Like if you’d dreamed of a certain girl all your life and all of a sudden there she was, in your Domain. “Jeff,” Abnesti said. “I’d like your permission to pep up your language centers.” “Go for it,” I said, under her now. “Drip on?” he said. “Acknowledge,” I said. “Me, too?” Heather said. “You got it,” Abnesti said, with a laugh. “Drip on?” “Acknowledge,” she said, all breathless. Soon, experiencing the benefits of the flowing Verbaluce™ in our drips, we were not only fucking really well but also talking pretty great. Like, instead of just saying the sex-type things we had been saying (such as “wow” and “oh God” and “hell yes” and so forth), we now began freestyling re our sensations and thoughts, in elevated diction, with eighty-per-cent increased vocab, our well-articulated thoughts being recorded for later analysis. For me, the feeling was, approximately: Astonishment at the dawning realization that this woman was being created in real time, directly from my own mind, per my deepest longings. Finally, after all these years (was my thought), I had found the precise arrangement of body/face/mind that personified all that was desirable. The taste of her mouth, the look of that halo of blondish hair spread out around her cherubic yet naughty-looking face (she was beneath me now, legs way up), even (not to be crude or dishonor the exalted feelings I was experiencing) the sensations her vagina was producing along the length of my thrusting penis were precisely those I had always hungered for, though I had never, before this instant, realized that I so ardently hungered for them. That is to say: a desire would arise and, concurrently, the satisfaction of that desire would also arise. It was as if (a) I longed for a certain (heretofore untasted) taste until (b) said longing became nearly unbearable, at which time (c) I found a morsel of food with that exact taste already in my mouth, perfectly satisfying my longing. Every utterance, every adjustment of posture bespoke the same thing: we had known each other forever, were soul mates, had met and loved in numerous preceding lifetimes, and would meet and love in many subsequent lifetimes, always with the same transcendently stupefying results. Then there came a hard-to-describe but very real drifting-off into a number of sequential reveries that might best be described as a type of nonnarrative mind scenery, i.e., a series of vague mental images of places I had never been (a certain pine-packed valley in high white mountains, a chalet-type house in a cul-de-sac, the yard of which was overgrown with wide, stunted Seussian trees), each of which triggered a deep sentimental longing, longings that coalesced into, and were soon reduced to, one central longing, i.e., an intense longing for Heather and Heather alone. This mind-scenery phenomenon was strongest during our third (!) bout of lovemaking. (Apparently, Abnesti had included some Vivistif™ in my drip.) Afterward, our protestations of love poured forth simultaneously, linguistically complex and metaphorically rich: I daresay we had become poets. We were allowed to lie there, limbs intermingled, for nearly an hour. It was bliss. It was perfection. It was that impossible thing: happiness that does not wilt to reveal the thin shoots of some new desire rising from within it. We cuddled with a fierceness/focus that rivalled the fierceness/focus with which we had fucked. There was nothing less about cuddling vis-à-vis fucking, is what I mean to say. We were all over each other in the super-friendly way of puppies, or spouses meeting for the first time after one of them has undergone a close brush with death. Everything seemed moist, permeable, sayable. Then something in the drip began to wane. I think Abnesti had shut off the Verbaluce™? Also the shame reducer? Basically, everything began to dwindle. Suddenly we felt shy. But still loving. We began the process of trying to talk après Verbaluce™: always awkward. Yet I could see in her eyes that she was still feeling love for me. And I was definitely still feeling love for her. Well, why not? We had just fucked three times! Why do you think they call it “making love”? That was what we had just made three times: love. Then Abnesti said, “Drip on?” We had kind of forgotten he was even there, behind his one-way mirror. I said, “Do we have to? We are really liking this right now.” “We’re just going to try to get you guys back to baseline,” he said. “We’ve got more to do today.” “Shit,” I said. “Rats,” she said. “Drip on?” he said. “Acknowledge,” we said. Soon something began to change. I mean, she was fine. A handsome pale girl. But nothing special. And I could see that she felt the same re me, i.e., what had all that fuss been about just now? Why weren’t we dressed? We real quick got dressed. Kind of embarrassing. Did I love her? Did she love me? Ha. No. Then it was time for her to go. We shook hands. Out she went. Lunch came in. On a tray. Spaghetti with chicken chunks. Man, was I hungry. I spent all lunchtime thinking. It was weird. I had the memory of fucking Heather, the memory of having felt the things I’d felt for her, the memory of having said the things I’d said to her. My throat was like raw from how much I’d said and how fast I’d felt compelled to say it. But in terms of feelings? I basically had nada left. Just a hot face and some shame re having fucked three times in front of Abnesti. III After lunch in came another girl. About equally so-so. Dark hair. Average build. Nothing special, just like, upon first entry, Heather had been nothing special. “This is Rachel,” Abnesti said on the P.A. “This is Jeff.” “Hi, Rachel,” I said. “Hi, Jeff,” she said. “Drip on?” Abnesti said. We Acknowledged. Something seemed very familiar about the way I now began feeling. Suddenly Rachel looked super-good. Abnesti requested permission to pep up our language centers via Verbaluce™. We Acknowledged. Soon we, too, were fucking like bunnies. Soon we, too, were talking like articulate maniacs re our love. Once again certain sensations were arising to meet my concurrently arising desperate hunger for just those sensations. Soon my memory of the perfect taste of Heather’s mouth was being overwritten by the current taste of Rachel’s mouth, so much more the taste I now desired. I was feeling unprecedented emotions, even though those unprecedented emotions were (I discerned somewhere in my consciousness) exactly the same emotions I had felt earlier, for that now unworthy-seeming vessel Heather. Rachel was, I mean to say, it. Her lithe waist, her voice, her hungry mouth/hands/loins—they were all it. I just loved Rachel so much. Then came the sequential geographic reveries (see above): same pine-packed valley, same chalet-looking house, accompanied by that same longing-for-place transmuting into a longing for (this time) Rachel. While continuing to enact a level of sexual strenuousness that caused what I would describe as a gradually tightening, chest-located, sweetness rubber band to both connect us and compel us onward, we whispered feverishly (precisely, poetically) about how long we felt we had known each other, i.e., forever. Again the total number of times we made love was three. Then, like before, came the dwindling. Our talking became less excellent. Words were fewer, our sentences shorter. Still, I loved her. Loved Rachel. Everything about her just seemed perfect: her cheek mole, her black hair, the little butt-squirm she did now and then, as if to say, Mmm-mmm, was that ever good. “Drip on?” Abnesti said. “We are going to try to get you both back to baseline.” “Acknowledge,” she said. “Well, hold on,” I said. “Jeff,” Abnesti said, irritated, as if trying to remind me that I was here not by choice but because I had done my crime and was in the process of doing my time. “Acknowledge,” I said. And gave Rachel one last look of love, knowing (as she did not yet know) that this would be the last look of love I would be giving her. Soon she was merely fine to me, and I merely fine to her. She looked, as had Heather, embarrassed, as in, What was up with that just now? Why did I just go so overboard with Mr. Average here? Did I love her? Or her me? No. When it was time for her to go, we shook hands. The place where my MobiPak™ was surgically joined to my lower back was sore from all our positional changes. Plus I was way tired. Plus I was feeling so sad. Why sad? Was I not a dude? Had I not just fucked two different girls, for a total of six times, in one day? Still, honestly, I felt sadder than sad. I guess I was sad that love was not real? Or not all that real, anyway? I guess I was sad that love could feel so real and the next minute be gone, and all because of something Abnesti was doing. IV After Snack Abnesti called me into Control. Control being like the head of a spider. With its various legs being our Workrooms. Sometimes we were called upon to work alongside Abnesti in the head of the spider. Or, as we termed it: the Spiderhead. “Sit,” he said. “Look into Large Workroom 1.” In Large Workroom 1 were Heather and Rachel, side by side. “Recognize them?” he said. “Ha,” I said. “Now,” Abnesti said. “I’m going to present you with a choice, Jeff. This is what we’re playing at here. See this remote? Let’s say you can hit this button and Rachel gets some Darkenfloxx™. Or you can hit this button and Heather gets the Darkenfloxx™. See? You choose.” “They’ve got Darkenfloxx™ in their MobiPaks™?” I said. “You’ve all got have Darkenfloxx™ in your MobiPaks™, dummy,” Abnesti said affectionately. “Verlaine put it there Wednesday. In anticipation of this very study.” Well, that made me nervous. Imagine the worst you have ever felt, times ten. That does not even come close to how bad you feel on Darkenfloxx™. The time it was administered to us in Orientation, briefly, for demo purposes, at one-third the dose now selected on Abnesti’s remote? I have never felt so terrible. All of us were just moaning, heads down, like, How could we ever have felt life was worth living? I do not even like to think about that time. “What’s your decision, Jeff?” Abnesti said. “Is Rachel getting the Darkenfloxx™? Or Heather?” “I can’t say,” I said. “You have to,” he said. “I can’t,” I said. “It would be like random.” “You feel your decision would be random,” he said. “Yes,” I said. And that was true. I really didn’t care. It was like if I put you in the Spiderhead and gave you the choice: which of these two strangers would you like to send into the shadow of the valley of death? “Ten seconds,” Abnesti said. “What we’re testing for here is any residual fondness.” It wasn’t that I liked them both. I honestly felt completely neutral toward both. It was exactly as if I had never seen, much less fucked, either one. (They had really succeeded in taking me back to baseline, I guess I am saying.) But, having once been Darkenfloxxed™, I just didn’t want to do that to anyone. Even if I didn’t like the person very much, even if I hated the person, I still wouldn’t want to do it. “Five seconds,” Abnesti said. “I can’t decide,” I said. “It’s random.” “Truly random?” he said. “O.K. I’m giving the Darkenfloxx™ to Heather.” I just sat there. “No, actually,” he said. “I’m giving it to Rachel.” Just sat there. “Always wondered what happened if you tried to drive through without a card.”Buy the print » “Jeff,” he said. “You have convinced me. It would, to you, be random. You truly have no preference. I can see that. And therefore I don’t have to do it. See what we just did? With your help? For the first time? Via the ED289/290 suite? Which is what we’ve been testing today? You have to admit it: you were in love. Twice. Right?” “Yes,” I said. “Very much in love,” he said. “Twice.” “I said yes,” I said. “But you just now expressed no preference,” he said. “Ergo, no trace of either of those great loves remains. You are totally cleansed. We brought you high, laid you low, and now here you sit, the same emotionwise as before our testing even began. That is powerful. That is killer. We have unlocked a mysterious eternal secret. What a fantastic game-changer! Say someone can’t love? Now he or she can. We can make him. Say someone loves too much? Or loves someone deemed unsuitable by his or her caregiver? We can tone that shit right down. Say someone is blue, because of true love? We step in, or his or her caregiver does: blue no more. No longer, in terms of emotional controllability, are we ships adrift. No one is. We see a ship adrift, we climb aboard, install a rudder. Guide him/her toward love. Or away from it. You say, ‘All you need is love’? Look, here comes ED289/290. Can we stop war? We can sure as heck slow it down! Suddenly the soldiers on both sides start fucking. Or, at low dosage, feeling super-fond. Or say we have two rival dictators in a death grudge. Assuming ED289/290 develops nicely in pill form, allow me to slip each dictator a mickey. Soon their tongues are down each other’s throats and doves of peace are pooping on their epaulets. Or, depending on the dosage, they may just be hugging. And who helped us do that? You did.” All this time, Rachel and Heather had just been sitting there in Large Workroom 1. “That’s it, gals, thanks,” Abnesti said on the P.A. And they left, neither knowing how close they had come to getting Darkenfloxxed™ out their wing-wangs. Verlaine took them out the back way, i.e., not through the Spiderhead but via the Back Alley. Which is not really an alley, just a carpeted hallway leading back to our Domain Cluster. “Think, Jeff,” Abnesti said. “Think if you’d had the benefit of ED289/290 on your fateful night.” Tell the truth, I was getting kind of sick of him always talking about my fateful night. I’d been sorry about it right away and had got sorrier about it ever since, and was now so sorry about it that him rubbing it in my face did not make me one bit sorrier, it just made me think of him as being kind of a dick. “Can I go to bed now?” I said. “Not yet,” Abnesti said. “It is hours to go before you sleep.” Then he sent me into Small Workroom 3, where some dude I didn’t know was sitting. V “Rogan,” the dude said. “Jeff,” I said. “What’s up?” he said. “Not much,” I said. We sat tensely for a long time, not talking. Maybe ten minutes passed. We got some rough customers in here. I noted that Rogan had a tattoo of a rat on his neck, a rat that had just been knifed and was crying. But even through its tears it was knifing a smaller rat, who just looked surprised. Finally Abnesti came on the P.A. “That’s it, guys, thanks,” he said. “What the fuck was that about?” Rogan said. Good question, Rogan, I thought. Why had we been left just sitting there? In the same manner that Heather and Rachel had been left just sitting there? Then I had a hunch. To test my hunch, I did a sudden lurch into the Spiderhead. Which Abnesti always made a point of not keeping locked, to show how much he trusted and was unafraid of us. And guess who was in there? “Hey, Jeff,” Heather said. “Jeff, get out,” Abnesti said. “Heather, did Mr. Abnesti just now make you decide which of us, me or Rogan, to give some Darkenfloxx™ to?” I said. “Yes,” Heather said. She must have been on some VeriTalk™, because she spoke the truth in spite of Abnesti’s withering silencing glance. “Did you recently fuck Rogan, Heather?” I said. “In addition to me? And also fall in love with him, as you did with me?” “Yes,” she said. “Heather, honestly,” Abnesti said. “Put a sock in it.” Heather looked around for a sock, VeriTalk™ making one quite literal. Back in my Domain, I did the math: Heather had fucked me three times. Heather had probably also fucked Rogan three times, since, in the name of design consistency, Abnesti would have given Rogan and me equal relative doses of Vivistif™. And yet, speaking of design consistency, there was still one shoe to drop, if I knew Abnesti, always a stickler in terms of data symmetry, which was: wouldn’t Abnesti also need Rachel to decide who to Darkenfloxx™, i.e., me or Rogan? After a short break, my suspicions were confirmed: I found myself again sitting in Small Workroom 3 with Rogan! Again we sat not talking for a long time. Mostly he picked at the smaller rat and I tried to watch without him seeing. Then, like before, Abnesti came on the P.A. and said, “That’s it, guys, thanks.” “Let me guess,” I said. “Rachel’s in there with you.” “Jeff, if you don’t stop doing that, I swear,” Abnesti said. “And she just declined to Darkenfloxx™ either me or Rogan?” I said. “Hi, Jeff!” Rachel said. “Hi, Rogan!” “Rogan,” I said. “Did you by any chance fuck Rachel earlier today?” “Pretty much,” Rogan said. My mind was like reeling. Rachel had fucked me plus Rogan? Heather had fucked me plus Rogan? And everyone who had fucked anyone had fallen in love with that person, then out of it? What kind of crazy-ass Project Team was this? I mean, I had been on some crazy-ass Project Teams in my time, such as one where the drip had something in it that made hearing music exquisite, and hence when some Shostakovich was piped in actual bats seemed to circle my Domain, or the one where my legs became totally numb and yet I found I could still stand fifteen straight hours at a fake cash register, miraculously suddenly able to do extremely hard long-division problems in my mind. But of all my crazy-ass Project Teams this was by far the most crazy-assed. I could not help but wonder what tomorrow would bring. VI Except today wasn’t even over. I was again called into Small Workroom 3. And was sitting there when this unfamiliar guy came in. “I’m Keith!” he said, rushing over to shake my hand. He was a tall Southern drink of water, all teeth and wavy hair. “Jeff,” I said. “Really nice meeting you!” he said. Then we sat there not talking. Whenever I looked over at Keith, he would gleam his teeth at me and shake his head all wry, as if to say, “Odd job of work, isn’t it?” “Keith,” I said. “Do you by any chance know two chicks named Rachel and Heather?” “I sure as heck do,” Keith said. And suddenly his teeth had a leering quality to them. “Did you by any chance have sex with both Rachel and Heather earlier today, three times each?” I said. “What are you, man, a dang psychic?” Keith said. “You’re blowing my mind, I itmit it!” “Jeff, you’re totally doinking with our experimental design integrity,” Abnesti said. “So either Rachel or Heather is sitting in the Spiderhead right now,” I said. “Trying to decide.” “Decide what?” Keith said. “Which of us to Darkenfloxx™,” I said. “Eek,” Keith said. And now his teeth looked scared. “Don’t worry,” I said. “She won’t do it.” “Who won’t?” Keith said. “Whoever’s in there,” I said. “That’s it, guys, thanks,” Abnesti said. Then, after a short break, Keith and I were once again brought into Small Workroom 3, where once again we waited as, this time, Heather declined to Darkenfloxx™ either one of us. Back in my Domain, I constructed a who-had-fucked-whom chart, which went like this: Abnesti came in. “Despite all your shenanigans,” he said, “Rogan and Keith had exactly the same reaction as you did. And as Rachel and Heather did. None of you, at the critical moment, could decide whom to Darkenfloxx™. Which is super. What does that mean? Why is it super? It means that ED289/290 is the real deal. It can make love, it can take love away. I’m almost inclined to start the naming process.” “Those girls did it nine times each today?” I said. “Peace4All,” he said. “LuvInclyned. You seem pissy. Are you pissy?” “Well, I feel a little jerked around,” I said. “Do you feel jerked around because you still have feelings of love for one of the girls?” he said. “That would need to be noted. Anger? Possessiveness? Residual sexual longing?” “No,” I said. “You honestly don’t feel miffed that a girl for whom you felt love was then funked by two other guys, and, not only that, she then felt exactly the same quality/quantity of love for those guys as she had felt for you, or, in the case of Rachel, was about to feel for you, at the time that she funked Rogan? I think it was Rogan. She may have funked Keith first. Then you, penultimately. I’m vague on the order of operations. I could look it up. But think deeply on this.” I thought deeply on it. “Nothing,” I said. “Well, it’s a lot to sort through,” he said. “Luckily it’s night. Our day is done. Anything else you want to talk about? Anything else you’re feeling?” “My penis is sore,” I said. “Well, no surprise there,” he said. “Think how those girls must feel. I’ll send Verlaine in with some cream.” Soon Verlaine came in with some cream. “Hi, Verlaine,” I said. “Hi, Jeff,” he said. “You want to put this on yourself or want me to do it?” “I’ll do it,” I said. “Cool,” he said. And I could tell he meant it. “Looks painful,” he said. “It really is,” I said. “Must have felt pretty good at the time, though?” he said. His words seemed to be saying he was envious, but I could see in his eyes, as they looked at my penis, that he wasn’t envious at all. Then I slept the sleep of the dead. As they say. VII Next morning I was still asleep when Abnesti came on the P.A. “Do you remember yesterday?” he said. “Yes,” I said. “When I asked which gal you’d like to see on the Darkenfloxx™?” he said. “And you said neither?” “Yes,” I said. “Well, that was good enough for me,” he said. “But apparently not good enough for the Protocol Committee. Not good enough for the Three Horsemen of Anality. Come in here. Let’s get started—we’re going to need to do a kind of Confirmation Trial. Oh, this is going to stink.” I entered the Spiderhead. Sitting in Small Workroom 2 was Heather. “So this time,” Abnesti said, “per the Protocol Committee, instead of me asking you which girl to give the Darkenfloxx™ to, which the ProtComm felt was too subjective, we’re going to give this girl the Darkenfloxx™ no matter what you say. Then see what you say. Like yesterday, we’re going to put you on a drip of—Verlaine? Verlaine? Where are you? Are you there? What is it again? Do you have the project order?” “Verbaluce™, VeriTalk™, ChatEase™,” Verlaine said over the P.A. “Right,” Abnesti said. “And did you refresh his MobiPak™? Are his quantities good?” “I did it,” Verlaine said. “I did it while he was sleeping. Plus I already told you I already did it.” “What about her?” Abnesti said. “Did you refresh her MobiPak™? Are her quantities good?” “You stood right there and watched me, Ray,” Verlaine said. “Jeff, sorry,” Abnesti said to me. “We’re having a little tension in here today. Not an easy day ahead.” “I don’t want you to Darkenfloxx™ Heather,” I said. “Interesting,” he said. “Is that because you love her?” “No,” I said. “I don’t want you to Darkenfloxx™ anybody.” “I know what you mean,” he said. “That is so sweet. Then again: is this Confirmation Trial about what you want? Not so much. What it’s about is us recording what you say as you observe Heather getting Darkenfloxxed™. For five minutes. Five-minute trial. Here we go. Drip on?” I did not say “Acknowledge.” “You should feel flattered,” Abnesti said. “Did we choose Rogan? Keith? No. We deemed your level of speaking more commensurate with our data needs.” I did not say “Acknowledge.” “Why so protective of Heather?” Abnesti said. “One would almost think you loved her.” “No,” I said. “Do you even know her story?” he said. “You don’t. You legally can’t. Does it involve whiskey, gangs, infanticide? I can’t say. Can I imply, somewhat peripherally, that her past, violent and sordid, did not exactly include a dog named Lassie and a lot of family talks about the Bible while Grammy sat doing macramé, adjusting her posture because the quaint fireplace was so sizzling? Can I suggest that, if you knew what I know about Heather’s past, making Heather briefly sad, nauseous, and/or horrified might not seem like the worst idea in the world? No, I can’t.” “All right, all right,” I said. “You know me,” he said. “How many kids do I have?” “Five,” I said. “What are their names?” he said. “Mick, Todd, Karen, Lisa, Phoebe,” I said. “Am I a monster?” he said. “Do I remember birthdays around here? When a certain individual got athlete’s foot on his groin on a Sunday, did a certain other individual drive over to Rexall and pick up a prescription, paying for it with his own personal money?” That was a nice thing he’d done, but it seemed kind of unprofessional to bring it up now. “Jeff,” Abnesti said. “What do you want me to say here? Do you want me to say that your Fridays are at risk? I can easily say that.” Which was cheap. My Fridays meant a lot to me, and he knew that. Fridays I got to Skype Mom. “How long do we give you?” Abnesti said. “Five minutes,” I said. “How about we make it ten?” Abnesti said. Mom always looked heartsick when our time was up. It had almost killed her when they arrested me. The trial had almost killed her. She’d spent her savings to get me out of real jail and in here. When I was a kid, she had long brown hair, past her waist. During the trial she cut it. Then it went gray. Now it was just a white poof about the size of a cap. “Drip on?” Abnesti said. “Acknowledge,” I said. “O.K. to pep up your language centers?” he said. “Fine,” I said. “Heather, hello?” he said. “Good morning!” Heather said. “Drip on?” he said. “Acknowledge,” Heather said. Abnesti used his remote. The Darkenfloxx™ started flowing. Soon Heather was softly crying. Then was up and pacing. Then jaggedly crying. A little hysterical, even. “I don’t like this,” she said, in a quaking voice. Then she threw up in the trash can. “Speak, Jeff,” Abnesti said to me. “Speak a lot, speak in detail. Let’s make something useful of this, shall we?” “Honey, let me call you back—I’m bored.”Buy the print » Everything in my drip felt Grade A. Suddenly I was waxing poetic. I was waxing poetic re what Heather was doing, and waxing poetic re my feelings about what Heather was doing. Basically, what I was feeling was: Every human is born of man and woman. Every human, at birth, is, or at least has the potential to be, beloved of his/her mother/father. Thus every human is worthy of love. As I watched Heather suffer, a great tenderness suffused my body, a tenderness hard to distinguish from a sort of vast existential nausea; to wit, why are such beautiful beloved vessels made slaves to so much pain? Heather presented as a bundle of pain receptors. Heather’s mind was fluid and could be ruined (by pain, by sadness). Why? Why was she made this way? Why so fragile? Poor child, I was thinking, poor girl. Who loved you? Who loves you? “Hang in there, Jeff,” Abnesti said. “Verlaine! What do you think? Any vestige of romantic love in Jeff’s Verbal Commentary?” “I’d say no,” Verlaine said over the P.A. “That’s all just pretty much basic human feeling right there.” “Excellent,” Abnesti said. “Time remaining?” “Two minutes,” Verlaine said. I found what happened next very hard to watch. Under the influence of the Verbaluce™, the VeriTalk™, and the ChatEase™, I also found it impossible not to narrate. In each Workroom was a couch, a desk, and a chair, all, by design, impossible to disassemble. Heather now began disassembling her impossible-to-disassemble chair. Her face was a mask of rage. She drove her head into the wall. Like a wrathful prodigy, Heather, beloved of someone, managed, in her great sadness-fuelled rage, to disassemble the chair while continuing to drive her head into the wall. “Jesus,” Verlaine said. “Verlaine, buck up,” Abnesti said. “Jeff, stop crying. Contrary to what you might think, there’s not much data in crying. Use your words. Don’t make this in vain.” I used my words. I spoke volumes, was precise. I described and redescribed what I was feeling as I watched Heather do what she now began doing, intently, almost beautifully, to her face/head with one of the chair legs. In his defense, Abnesti was not in such great shape himself: breathing hard, cheeks candy-red, as he tapped the screen of his iMac non-stop with a pen, something he did when stressed. “Time,” he finally said, and cut the Darkenfloxx™ off with his remote. “Fuck. Get in there, Verlaine. Hustle it.” Verlaine hustled into Small Workroom 2. “Talk to me, Sammy,” Abnesti said. Verlaine felt for Heather’s pulse, then raised his hands, palms up, so that he looked like Jesus, except shocked instead of beatific, and also he had his glasses up on top of his head. “Are you kidding me?” Abnesti said. “What now?” Verlaine said. “What do I—” “Are you fricking kidding me?” Abnesti said. Abnesti burst out of his chair, shoved me out of the way, and flew through the door into Small Workroom 2. VIII I returned to my Domain. At three, Verlaine came on the P.A. “Jeff,” he said. “Please return to the Spiderhead.” I returned to the Spiderhead. “We’re sorry you had to see that, Jeff,” Abnesti said. “That was unexpected,” Verlaine said. “Unexpected plus unfortunate,” Abnesti said. “And sorry I shoved you.” “Is she dead?” I said. “Well, she’s not the best,” Verlaine said. “Look, Jeff, these things happen,” Abnesti said. “This is science. In science we explore the unknown. It was unknown what five minutes on Darkenfloxx™ would do to Heather. Now we know. The other thing we know, per Verlaine’s assessment of your commentary, is that you really, for sure, do not harbor any residual romantic feelings for Heather. That’s a big deal, Jeff. A beacon of hope at a sad time for all. Even as Heather was, so to speak, going down to the sea in her ship, you remained totally unwavering in terms of continuing to not romantically love her. My guess is ProtComm’s going to be like, ‘Wow, Utica’s really leading the pack in terms of providing some mind-blowing new data on ED289/290.’ ” It was quiet in the Spiderhead. “Verlaine, go out,” Abnesti said. “Go do your bit. Make things ready.” Verlaine went out. “Do you think I liked that?” Abnesti said. “You didn’t seem to,” I said. “Well, I didn’t,” Abnesti said. “I hated it. I’m a person. I have feelings. Still, personal sadness aside, that was good. You did terrific over all. We all did terrific. Heather especially did terrific. I honor her. Let’s just—let’s see this thing through, shall we? Let’s complete it. Complete the next portion of our Confirmation Trial.” Into Small Workroom 4 came Rachel. IX “Are we going to Darkenfloxx™ Rachel now?” I said. “Think, Jeff,” Abnesti said. “How can we know that you love neither Rachel nor Heather if we only have data regarding your reaction to what just now happened to Heather? Use your noggin. You are not a scientist, but Lord knows you work around scientists all day. Drip on?” I did not say “Acknowledge.” “What’s the problem, Jeff?” Abnesti said. “I don’t want to kill Rachel,” I said. “Well, who does?” Abnesti said. “Do I? Do you, Verlaine?” “No,” Verlaine said over the P.A. “Jeff, maybe you’re overthinking this,” Abnesti said. “Is it possible the Darkenfloxx™ will kill Rachel? Sure. We have the Heather precedent. On the other hand, Rachel may be stronger. She seems a little larger.” “She’s actually a little smaller,” Verlaine said. “Well, maybe she’s tougher,” Abnesti said. “We’re going to weight-adjust her dosage,” Verlaine said. “So.” “Thanks, Verlaine,” Abnesti said. “Thanks for clearing that up.” “Maybe show him the file,” Verlaine said. Abnesti handed me Rachel’s file. Verlaine came back in. “Read it and weep,” he said. Per Rachel’s file, she had stolen jewelry from her mother, a car from her father, cash from her sister, statues from their church. She’d gone to jail for drugs. After four times in jail for drugs, she’d gone to rehab for drugs, then to rehab for prostitution, then to what they call rehab-refresh, for people who’ve been in rehab so many times they are basically immune. But she must have been immune to the rehab-refresh, too, because after that came her biggie: a triple murder—her dealer, the dealer’s sister, the dealer’s sister’s boyfriend. Reading that made me feel a little funny that we’d fucked and I’d loved her. But I still didn’t want to kill her. “Jeff,” Abnesti said. “I know you’ve done a lot of work on this with Mrs. Lacey. On killing and so forth. But this is not you. This is us.” “It’s not even us,” Verlaine said. “It’s science.” “The mandates of science,” Abnesti said. “Plus the dictates.” “Sometimes science sucks,” Verlaine said. “On the one hand, Jeff,” Abnesti said, “a few minutes of unpleasantness for Heather—” “Rachel,” Verlaine said. “A few minutes of unpleasantness for Rachel,” Abnesti said, “years of relief for literally tens of thousands of underloving or overloving folks.” “Do the math, Jeff,” Verlaine said. “Being good in small ways is easy,” Abnesti said. “Doing the huge good things, that’s harder.” “Drip on?” Verlaine said. “Jeff?” I did not say “Acknowledge.” “Fuck it, enough,” Abnesti said. “Verlaine, what’s the name of that one? The one where I give him an order and he obeys it?” “Docilryde™,” Verlaine said. “Is there Docilryde™ in his MobiPak™?” Abnesti said. “There’s Docilryde™ in every MobiPak™,” Verlaine said. “Does he need to say ‘Acknowledge’?” Abnesti said. “Docilryde™’s a Class C, so—” Verlaine said. “See, that, to me, makes zero sense,” Abnesti said. “What good’s an obedience drug if we need his permission to use it?” “We just need a waiver,” Verlaine said. “How long does that shit take?” Abnesti said. “We fax Albany, they fax us back,” Verlaine said. “Come on, come on, make haste,” Abnesti said, and they went out, leaving me alone in the Spiderhead. X It was sad. It gave me a sad, defeated feeling to think that soon they’d be back and would Docilryde™ me, and I’d say “Acknowledge,” smiling agreeably the way a person smiles on Docilryde™, and then the Darkenfloxx™ would flow, into Rachel, and I would begin describing, in that rapid, robotic way one describes on Verbaluce™/VeriTalk™/ChatEase™, the things Rachel would, at that time, begin doing to herself. It was like all I had to do to be a killer again was sit there and wait. Which was a hard pill to swallow, after my work with Mrs. Lacey. “Violence finished, anger no more,” she’d make me say, over and over. Then she’d have me do a Detailed Remembering re my fateful night. I was nineteen. Mike Appel was seventeen. We were both wasto. All night he’d been giving me grief. He was smaller, younger, less popular. Then we were out front of Frizzy’s, rolling around on the ground. He was quick. He was mean. I was losing. I couldn’t believe it. I was bigger, older, yet losing? Around us, watching, was basically everybody we knew. Then he had me on my back. Someone laughed. Someone said, “Shit, poor Jeff.” Nearby was a brick. I grabbed it, glanced Mike in the head with it. Then was on top of him. Mike gave. That is, there on his back, scalp bleeding, he gave, by shooting me a certain look, like, Dude, come on, we’re not all that serious about this, are we? We were. I was. I don’t even know why I did it. It was like, with the drinking and the being a kid and the nearly losing, I’d been put on a drip called, like, TemperBerst or something. InstaRaje. LifeRooner. “Hey, guys, hello!” Rachel said. “What are we up to today?” There was her fragile head, her undamaged face, one arm lifting a hand to scratch a cheek, legs bouncing with nerves, peasant skirt bouncing, too, clogged feet crossed under the hem. Soon all that would be just a lump on the floor. I had to think. Why were they going to Darkenfloxx™ Rachel? So they could hear me describe it. If I wasn’t here to describe it, they wouldn’t do it. How could I make it so I wouldn’t be here? I could leave. How could I leave? There was only one door out of the Spiderhead, which was autolocked, and on the other side was either Barry or Hans, with that electric wand called the DisciStick™. Could I wait until Abnesti came in, wonk him, try to race past Barry or Hans, make a break for the Main Door? Any weapons in the Spiderhead? No, just Abnesti’s birthday mug, a pair of running shoes, a roll of breath mints, his remote. His remote? What a dope. That was supposed to be on his belt at all times. Otherwise one of us might help ourselves to whatever we found, via Inventory Directory, in our MobiPaks™: some Bonviv™, maybe, some BlissTyme™, some SpeedErUp™. Some Darkenfloxx™. Jesus. That was one way to leave. Scary, though. Just then, in Small Workroom 4, Rachel, I guess thinking the Spiderhead empty, got up and did this happy little shuffle, like she was some cheerful farmer chick who’d just stepped outside to find the hick she was in love with coming up the road with a calf under his arm or whatever. Why was she dancing? No reason. Just alive, I guess. Time was short. The remote was well labelled. Good old Verlaine. I used it, dropped it down the heat vent, in case I changed my mind, then stood there like, I can’t believe I just did that. My MobiPak™ whirred. The Darkenfloxx™ flowed. Then came the horror: worse than I’d ever imagined. Soon my arm was about a mile down the heat vent. Then I was staggering around the Spiderhead, looking for something, anything. In the end, here’s how bad it got: I used a corner of the desk. What’s death like? You’re briefly unlimited. I sailed right out through the roof. And hovered above it, looking down. Here was Rogan, checking his neck in the mirror. Here was Keith, squat-thrusting in his underwear. Here was Ned Riley, here was B. Troper, here was Gail Orley, Stefan DeWitt, killers all, all bad, I guess, although, in that instant, I saw it differently. At birth, they’d been charged by God with the responsibility of growing into total fuck-ups. Had they chosen this? Was it their fault, as they tumbled out of the womb? Had they aspired, covered in placental blood, to grow into harmers, dark forces, life-enders? In that first holy instant of breath/awareness (tiny hands clutching and unclutching), had it been their fondest hope to render (via gun, knife, or brick) some innocent family bereft? No; and yet their crooked destinies had lain dormant within them, seeds awaiting water and light to bring forth the most violent, life-poisoning flowers, said water/light actually being the requisite combination of neurological tendency and environmental activation that would transform them (transform us!) into earth’s offal, murderers, and foul us with the ultimate, unwashable transgression. Wow, I thought, was there some Verbaluce™ in that drip or what? But no. This was all me now. I got snagged, found myself stuck on a facility gutter, and squatted there like an airy gargoyle. I was there but was also everywhere. I could see it all: a clump of leaves in the gutter beneath my see-through foot; Mom, poor Mom, at home in Rochester, scrubbing the shower, trying to cheer herself via thin hopeful humming; a deer near the dumpster, suddenly alert to my spectral presence; Mike Appel’s mom, also in Rochester, a bony, distraught checkmark occupying a slender strip of Mike’s bed; Rachel below in Small Workroom 4, drawn to the one-way mirror by the sounds of my death; Abnesti and Verlaine rushing into the Spiderhead; Verlaine kneeling to begin CPR. Night was falling. Birds were singing. Birds were, it occurred to me to say, enacting a frantic celebration of day’s end. They were manifesting as the earth’s bright-colored nerve endings, the sun’s descent urging them into activity, filling them individually with life-nectar, the life-nectar then being passed into the world, out of each beak, in the form of that bird’s distinctive song, which was, in turn, an accident of beak shape, throat shape, breast configuration, brain chemistry: some birds blessed in voice, others cursed; some squawking, others rapturous. From somewhere, something kind asked, Would you like to go back? It’s completely up to you. Your body appears salvageable. No, I thought, no, thanks, I’ve had enough. My only regret was Mom. I hoped someday, in some better place, I’d get a chance to explain it to her, and maybe she’d be proud of me, one last time, after all these years. From across the woods, as if by common accord, birds left their trees and darted upward. I joined them, flew among them, they did not recognize me as something apart from them, and I was happy, so happy, because for the first time in years, and forevermore, I had not killed, and never would.
Youngthing A Yankee cap- and Ray-Ban-wearing boy of indeterminate age gets out of a car that has just stopped. He climbs out gingerly, one foot at a time, like a spider creeping up a crevice. Then he retrieves a carryall from the trunk of the car without help from the two men sitting in the front. The men are old army hands, and although they haven’t said anything to him, he knows that they do not think highly of his lot, the new conscripts drafted into the Shabaab-led insurgency. He slings the carryall over his shoulder, nodding his thanks to the men in the vehicle. They look away with obvious disdain; they do not wish to acknowledge his gratitude. He smiles with youthful bravura, betraying none of his trepidation. He does not want to fail; he cannot afford to fail. He is aware of the huge difference between martyring oneself and making a blunder of things and getting oneself killed. Of course, he does not wish to die, not unless he has fulfilled his dream. He is small in stature, large in ambition. On his first day as a draftee into Shabaab, the instructor, upset with him, had pulled him up by the scruff of his neck, shouting in Somali “Waxyahow yar!”—“You young thing!” The sobriquet stuck, and he answers to it now. He has had no education to speak of, yet he feels he is rich in heavenly vision. The car reverses and he moves forward on the dirt road, his breathing heavy under the load he carries. It is hot, and just before noon he meets a woman in a body tent going in the opposite direction. The woman takes an interest in him: a small-boned, four-and-a-half-foot-tall figure—a dwarf, she thinks at first—hoisting a carryall bigger and heavier than he is. She watches him in silence as he puts the carryall down on the ground and sighs with relief. She waits for him to remove his Ray-Bans and reveal his hard eyes before she will consider peeling off her face veil or entertaining any question from him. “My name is Cambara,” she says. “What’s yours?” “They call me YoungThing,” he says. Then, with a slight stutter, he asks her to tell him “the way to the Qiblah.” She takes her time. He must be mistaking the Qiblah—the Arabic term for the direction that a praying Muslim faces—for north, she thinks. She wonders if he is a grown man with the voice of a boy, or a boy in the body of a man. They stand on the dirt road, in East Wardhiigley, a run-down district of Mogadishu, sizing each other up. Cambara is on her way to the Bakaaraha Market, and as she studies YoungThing she wonders whether he is passing himself off as someone he is not, just as she puts on the body tent before she leaves the house as part of her disguise, like a theatre prop. Somali women, who never used to wear veils, resorted to them when the strife began, in 1991. They felt safer from sexual harassment by armed youths. But lately, ever since the Islamic Courts Union took control of Mogadishu, expanding their rule of Sharia law, veiling has become de rigueur. Women are punished if they put on trousers or the less restrictive dresses that were common before the civil war. His hair is the color of ash and is cursed with kinks that no comb can smooth out. From the little she has heard so far, his voice has not broken. Yet his face crawls with the deep furrows she associates with the hardened features of a herdsman from the central region, where all of Somalia’s recent political instabilities have originated. Shabaab, the military wing of the Islamic Courts Union, has been trying to terrorize the residents of the city into submission, and it appears to have succeeded to a degree. She assumes that he is one of the Shabaab conscripts and suspects that he has been charged with “consecrating”—or, rather, “confiscating”—a house in the neighborhood from which he and his colleagues will launch their attacks on their enemy targets. Cambara points south, sending him in the wrong direction, well away from the northeast, where she lives. YoungThing lifts his carryall and walks in the direction the woman has showed him. He shifts the position of his load from one shoulder to another, breathing loudly through his nose, and occasionally taking a break. He plays at being tougher than he is; he tries to tread lightly, even if it is obvious that his attempt is a sham—he can’t take two steps without faltering. Hampered by the weight he has to bear, he can no longer remember the details of the instructions he was given. No doubt he feels lucky to have been chosen for this delicate assignment cloaked in secrecy, his first mission. He will do anything to impress the commanders of the cell of which he is now a bona-fide member. This brings a smile to his face, and briefly injects a fresh energy in his gait. He loses his balance as he recalls picking up the carryall earlier that day. He had been sent to see a heavily bearded man known by the nom de guerre Garweyne—BigBeard. BigBeard manages one of the largest computer shops in the Bakaaraha Market, the epicenter of the resistance—a sanctuary from within whose labyrinthine warrens the insurrectionists initiate frequent offensives. The market complex confuses anyone unfamiliar with its numerous dead ends bounded by shacks and stalls that take half a day to construct and only a couple of hours to dismantle. In the carryall, BigBeard has put roadside mines, grenades, and other explosive devices—small arms meant to make holes in airplane fuselages in the event of an Ethiopian raid, YoungThing assumes. In truth, BigBeard shared little intelligence with him directly, and YoungThing knows that it is not his place to ask questions. He can’t give in to curiosity, since any departure from his mandate will earn him severe punishment. YoungThing understands this much: he is the advance member of a commando unit preparing the ground so that Shabaab can respond immediately to an Ethiopian invasion of Mogadishu. He is an explosives trainee, but his job today is to consecrate a safe house. The contingent to whom he belongs is composed of a select coterie of fighters sharing a central command, which consists of two men. One has the nom de guerre Dableh—FootSoldier. Feared by those who know him, the soft-spoken FootSoldier was a colonel in the defunct National Army. In 1991, he was the commander of the largest weapons stockpile in the country, a position to which the former dictator had appointed him. After the civil war began, the colonel changed sides and gave the warlord StrongmanSouth unfettered access to the arms cache, thus arming his ragtag clan militia and enabling them to run the head of state out of the city. When StrongmanSouth died, the colonel switched his allegiance to the Courts, aiding in their final triumph over the warlords, in 2006. Now, a few months on, he is contributing his military expertise to the plan to invade Baidoa, the seat of the weak Transitional Federal Government, and preparing for a possible Ethiopian attack in support of the government. The second man in the command structure bears the nom de guerre Al-Xaqq, meaning the Truth, a term with divine attributes, as it is one of Allah’s ninety-nine names. A modest man, Al-Xaqq gives a more temporal meaning to his name and prefers to be addressed as TruthTeller. He is not only an explosives genius but also a member of the high order of the Courts, a most learned man, with expertise in man management. He takes pride in his formidable ability to identify possible suicide bombers, with whom he works very closely. He sleeps and eats with them to create intimacy before they carry out a mission, and subjects them to unpleasant ordeals to test their perseverance. At times, he is the only one privy to the details of a sortie, because he designs them to suit the martyr he has handpicked. A few months ago, after YoungThing failed to make the grade as a suicide bomber, TruthTeller suggested he train in the explosives trade and seconded him to FootSoldier’s unit. YoungThing knows the protocol: BigBeard will have sent a text message to both FootSoldier and TruthTeller, confirming that YoungThing has picked up the carryall. Special events require special rituals, which are repeated many times over—each time an insurgent receives a cache of arms or a wad of cash from the men leading the insurrection. Exhausted from lugging the carryall, YoungThing takes a long break, doubtful that he is on course. According to his driver, it should have been no distance at all to the house. But either he has been going round and round in circles or he was misled by the woman in the body tent. He senses that he won’t be on schedule. He quickens his pace, turns left, then right, and then right again. He happens upon two men conversing, and believes that they must be the two men sympathetic to Shabaab who are supposed to give him further directions. The men do not pay him any mind at first, even though he stands close by. It seems to YoungThing that they cannot decide what to make of him. Then he remembers the agreed-upon code. In the rehearsed voice of an actor reciting his lines, he asks, “Will one of you please tell me which way is north?” That the two men do not exactly match the descriptions given to him by his instructors does not seem to worry YoungThing. Hungry, he is lackadaisical about the details to which he should attend. The older of the men is slim, very dark, and handsome, with intelligent eyes; he is in a sarong. His younger, stockier companion is in Bedouin livery. The liveried man, his teeth stained brown, is the first to speak. He turns to his companion, and, with the characteristic flourish with which a highly literate man talks down to the untaught, says, “This young thing wants to know the way north.” The older man replies, “What makes you think that he wants to know which way is north when what he wants to know is the direction of the Qiblah?” YoungThing can no longer remember which stranger, or on what street corner, he was supposed to ask for directions, using the code word Qiblah. From the tone of the older man’s voice, he suspects they are leading him on. A longer look at them throws him into a further muddle. The liveried man is behaving curiously, as if he wanted to reach out and open the carryall. Then, as if to prove his superior knowledge to the older man, he creates more uncertainty in YoungThing’s mind. He says, “Does the young man think that the way north always points the way to the Qiblah?” Now doubts stir in the older man’s eyes, and his gaze, too, focusses on the carryall. He tells YoungThing to go back the way he came until he finds a big house with a green gate bearing the freshly painted inscription Allahu Akbar in blood red. YoungThing is not sure if the description of the house with a green gate fits the instructions he has received. He does not recall anyone mentioning an inscription of Allahu Akbar in red paint. “How far is the house with the inscription?” The older man replies, “It is a hundred and fifty paces to the four-way road. Then you turn right, and right again. That’s the way north, toward the Qiblah, toward Mecca, the correct way. You can’t miss the green gate or the inscription in blood red. That’s the house you want.” YoungThing is barely out of earshot when the liveried man bursts into derisory laughter, amused at the thought that they have sent the boy to the wrong property, which belongs to a business adversary of the older man’s. He is out of the country and has been renting it to a family with a questionable political history, who hail from a rival clan to the liveried man’s. “Two birds with one stone,” he says. As YoungThing searches for the house with the green gate and the inscription, he blames the frailty of his memory on the fact that he has eaten no breakfast and that a young thing like him can’t comprehend the intricate political games adults play. He suspects that he is being used. Everything is a muddle. All at once, though, he finds the front gate with the inscription and he forgets his doubts. He walks past it and then takes a left turn. He wants the back gate, as per the directive. Here is a high fence, which he must scale. His heartbeat quickening, he sends a one-word text message informing his minder that he is at the back gate, and he receives a reply encouraging him to gain entry right away. He opens the carryall and takes out a light machine gun and a belt strung with bullets. He slings the collapsible gun over his shoulder, girdles the belt around his waist, and throws the carryall over a low part of the fence, then waits for a few minutes. YoungThing wishes himself good luck. As light-footed as a young dik-dik, he runs at the fence, and shimmies up and over. He drops down on the other side with a quiet thud and remains in a crouch for a minute or so, his gun poised the way he has seen it done in movies. An untended garden stretches before him, the shrubs low and scraggly, the trees stunted, and the wall of the house crawling with vines. He moves stealthily forward, as silent as the leopards in stories he has heard. He is certain his instructors at the madrassa would be pleased with him, content that his brief training has turned him into a cadet ready to martyr himself in the service of the insurgency. He pauses for a startled fraction of a second when he picks out the sound of movement somewhere nearby. With purposeful speed, he retrieves the carryall and stands firm and unafraid behind the low shrubs—there are benefits to being of small size, after all, he thinks. But now he comes upon a shorter fence, of which no one has spoken. It goes to show, he tells himself, that even Shabaab’s intelligence gatherers are fallible. Still, he doesn’t look back, thinking that that is the way of doom. Besides, there is no place for fear in a martyr. He’ll use the gun, shoot and kill, if there is need. He backs up three paces, breathing in and out quickly until he feels a burning sensation in his lungs. Having omitted mention of the second fence, the men may have missed something of a trickier nature; he must be ready for all eventualities. Unless, of course, the omission was deliberate, meant to test his mettle. He remembers his minder impressing on him the importance of not using his weapon unless it is imperative or in self-defense; and of using the silencer if he does have to shoot. One nervous move follows another. He throws the carryall over the fence. He waits for a few minutes, then runs at it, vaults over, and, landing, gathers himself into a tight ball—he’s learned this from watching videos on a jihadi Web site. In one video, the instructors encouraged young jihadis to retain the scalps of high-profile targets as trophies. YoungThing is uncertain that he will ever want to hang on to the head of a man he has killed. In fact, there is no chance in hell that he will want to do so, and, in any case, he has no place to conceal a dead head; he has no home he can call his own. Now he happens upon a second discrepancy in the directives given to him: he finds a half-open window, but it appears to lead not into a bathroom, as noted, but into what looks like a kitchen. He hides behind a huge tree with a trunk as big as a baobab’s. He is as still as a worshipper waiting for the imam to resume his prostrations. Then, committing himself fully to every move he makes, like a jihadi leading the onslaught on the enemy from the front, he gains the back porch in two swift, long strides. He scans the area for evidence of habitation: the telltale presence of a wicker chair someone has brought out to sit in; a cat curled up in purring slumber; clothes drying on a washing line. He enters the property by the kitchen window, squeezing himself through—thank God he is small and as agile as a cat on the prowl. Of course, no instructions can prepare one for every contingency. There are decisions one must make on the job, without help. As far as he can tell, all is quiet inside. He walks about the house a little, feeling triumphant, then comes out to retrieve the carryall and take it back indoors. He makes a phone call to tell his minder that he is in the house and that it is safe. His minder asks him to describe the outside of the house he has “consecrated.” In fact, he asks him several times to repeat how he got there. At first, YoungThing puts this down to a bad telephone connection. Then he begins to doubt whether he has gone to the right property. He ends the call and embarks on a thorough reconnoitring, something he should have done first. He walks up the stairs, and goes into the bedrooms. To his dismay, there is evidence of life. The rooms feel lived-in: drawers ajar from recent use, socks black with dirt, a pair of underwear still damp from wear. He is in the wrong house, he thinks again. But what can he do about it? The refrigerator in the kitchen is buzzing with life. He opens it and, seeing plastic containers full of last night’s leftovers, he feels hungry and angry, too. On the one hand, he hasn’t had his fill of meat for a long time and is tempted to stuff himself with good food, as if it were his last meal; on the other, he wishes he hadn’t already made the phone call. Dhoorre, wearing a dressing gown and, under it, a pair of pajamas and slippers, wakes from an uncomfortable sleep on a garden bench. It takes him a while to remember that he came out to the porch to have a closer look at a gorgeous bird, with an immense beak and a mixture of colorful plumes. Then a gust of wind shut the door and he couldn’t get back in. The bird gone, he walked around the unkempt garden where the trees, their bark like peeling-off skin, are emaciated from neglect. He feared that he might come up against city riffraff camping there, or someone fleeing the fighting, which has been ferocious lately. Property, after all, does not mean what it used to mean. He knows what he is talking about. He lived in this city, and owned several houses, some for rent. He was once an important man in Mogadishu. Today he is a man without property, living in a house that his son is renting. With no book to read and no one to talk to, he fell asleep on the garden bench. Now his bones are sore and the sciatica in his legs is extreme. He remembers he was having a sweet dream, in which he and a childhood friend were watching one of his favorite Italian movies, Vittorio De Sica’s “Shoeshine.” He recalls the mesmerizing beauty of the camerawork as it captured the two boys riding a horse through Rome. Two boys who had been living in innocence until tragedy struck. There is no innocence in this city. After all, every resident of this city is guilty, even if no one admits to being a culprit. He gets up to his full height, yawns leisurely, stretching first his arms, then his legs until he feels he has overdone the stretching. For a man his age, he is blessed with a sharp mind, but he boasts a body as bent as the young branch of a eucalyptus tree. He feels the belt of his dressing gown loosening; in an instant, he’ll be almost naked. Not that it matters—he presumes he is alone and his son, his daughter-in-law, his brood of grandchildren, and the maid are all out. It will amuse them to find him in the garden, unshaven, unwashed, in his pajamas and his dressing gown. Buy the print » Suddenly his heart beats faster; he hears sounds from inside the house and realizes that this can only mean danger. He debates what he should do. He is on the verge of walking around the house to find out if there is a way of entering through a back window, when the front door opens. Out comes a young thing bearing a gun bigger than himself. The old man and the boy with the gun size each other up. Dhoorre thinks, What if he reacts as if the boy were holding a toy gun? What if he tells himself, even though this may not be the case, that the young thing does not know how to shoot and can’t pose much of a threat? He asks, “What have you been doing inside?” He speaks the way one might to a mischievous grandchild. The boy says, “What are you doing outside?” Looking at the two of them and listening to them, you would not be able to tell who is the guest and who the host—the boy standing guard at the entrance to the house or the old man, befuddled and amused. Befuddled, because he can’t figure out what to do; amused, because he can’t imagine such a young thing frightening him. However, there is uncertainty in Dhoorre’s demeanor when the boy says, “Answer my question.” Dhoorre tells himself that the boy is putting on a brave face, because he has a gun and this endows him with the hollow bravado of a coward. Is the boy the type who will beg for mercy when things turn nasty? Hardness enters the boy’s voice. “Answer before I lose my patience, old man. What are you doing outside, in near rags, in the garden?” Dhoorre replies, “The wind locked me out, pushing the door shut behind me when I came out to enjoy a bit of fresh air outside, in the garden, and I couldn’t get back in, so I napped on the bench. There.” He points at the bench, his voice laced with a genuine tremor. The boy is thinking, What if he is wrong about the old man, whom he first imagined to be a drifter with nothing more than the rags he has been lent by a kinsman? A typical tramp, come off the streets without his begging bowl, maneuvering his way in. “The wind, eh?” “That’s right, the wind.” The boy is not convinced. “And your clothes, where are your clothes?” “Inside.” YoungThing considers his next move, and the implications if it does turn out that the old man lives in the house. He stares at the man, wondering how he can make him disappear before the advance team arrives. He could act like a trained insurgent—shoot first and explain later that he found this worthless hobo in the garden, insisting that he lived here. But the option of shooting the old man does not appeal to the boy. Yet how will he explain himself to the leader of the cell when he shows up? The old man is saying, “My name is Dhoorre,” and his outstretched hand waits, ready to shake the boy’s. When the boy doesn’t react, Dhoorre says, “At least tell me your name.” Then he takes one speedy step closer toward the boy and another step closer to the door. The muscles of the boy’s neck stiffen, his jaw goes taut, his whole attitude becomes more threatening. He raises his gas-operated AK-47 and presses a selector switch in the weapon, turning it fully automatic. This action gives him the composure of a boxer who has just won a K.O. in the second round. “I wouldn’t act the fool if I were you,” the boy says. “It is at your peril that you take me for a lamebrain. You make one foolish move, you are dead.” Fresh worries congregate in Dhoorre’s head, where they huddle together, like a clutch of poorly clad men suddenly exposed to unseasonable frost. This is the closest Dhoorre has been to danger in his seventy-eight years. His hand runs over his head, smoothing what hair there is, a head as bereft of hair as it is of new ideas. How can he bring his peacemaking pleas to bear on a young mind that has known only violence? He moves nearer to the boy, no longer afraid. “Go ahead,” he says. “See if I care. Shoot.” “I won’t shoot unless I have to,” the boy says. They embark on a choreographed lurching dance. “What’s the matter?” Dhoorre challenges. “One wrong move and you’re dead.” In their gyrations for more favorable positions, Dhoorre now has his back to the door. All he has to do is move a step back and he’ll be inside the house, the boy outside. But to what end? “Why are you here, armed?” “I am not authorized to tell you.” The word “authorized” coming out of such a small thing gives Dhoorre a jolt. Perhaps this is one of the boys he’s heard about—the new order of youths trained for a higher cause, who, even though they receive their instructions from earthlings, ascribe their actions to divine inspiration. He has read about boys such as this, whom Shabaab has kidnapped and then trained as suicide bombers, boys and a few girls who see themselves as martyrs beholden to high-principled ideals. But what can this boy want? Or, rather, what can his superiors want? And why here and why him and his family? He must disabuse the boy of the notion that he, Dhoorre, harbors any resentment toward his Islamist ideals; it is only that he privileges dialogue, prioritizes peace. “I am not an enemy to your cause,” Dhoorre says. Their eyes meet, the boy’s glance anxious in its desire to make sense of the old man’s sudden friendliness. Dhoorre’s gaze takes on a more incisive shrewdness, his bearing grows more sanguine. He adds, “Tell me what you want done and I will do it.” “Just relax,” the boy says. “That’s all.” Dhoorre asks, “How can I relax when you haven’t told me why you are here in our house, with a gun, threatening to shoot me, an old man, of the same age as your grandfather, if you have one?” “You say our house? How many of you live here?” “My son, his family, and I.” The exchange is interrupted by YoungThing’s cell phone. He is aghast. Perhaps the advance team from the command center is already at the gate, waiting to be let in. His voice breaking, he says, “Yes, Sheikh,” several times, bowing in deference to his absent commander. Dhoorre can sense an abrupt change in the boy’s body language, as though he had just realized that he has made a major gaffe, maybe even disobeyed a command. From the little he can gather, the boy is being told off by the man he addresses as Sheikh. When the call finally ends, the boy seems more agitated than before and barks orders to Dhoorre. “Follow me into the house.” When they are past the threshold, the boy says, “Go into the bathroom and bolt the door from inside. Be quick about it. And make no sound.” “What’s happening?” Dhoorre asks. “I’ll do all I can do to spare your life,” the boy says. Three men—BigBeard, FootSoldier, and TruthTeller—approach the house from different vantage points at the same time. BigBeard wraps his purple kaffiyeh around his waist, tucks in a revolver, just in case, and scales the back wall. FootSoldier, a black kaffiyeh around his neck, accesses the compound from a neighboring garden. At the wheel of a pickup truck parked to the left of the front gate, TruthTeller, wearing a red kaffiyeh, waits until the other men confirm that they are both in and it is safe for him to join them. He starts the pickup and waits for one of his mates to open the gate; then he maneuvers the truck in with caution, pulling a wheeled vehicle on which guns and other weapons are mounted, hidden under tarpaulin. The front gate securely fastened, the men assemble in the house to set up their operation center. BigBeard calls YoungThing over and without any warning punches him so hard in the face that he collapses in a heap on the floor. Everything is still for a while. The two other men watch as YoungThing pulls himself up, half kneeling, his cheek swollen, his lower lip bleeding. When YoungThing has recovered his balance and stands at attention, BigBeard says to him, “Do you realize that your negligence had the potential to cause the movement unnecessary loss of life?” TruthTeller goes on, “We wouldn’t be here if one of our sympathizers had not, by chance, informed our intelligence of your presence in the neighborhood.” “Imagine what would’ve happened if we had not been alerted to your grievous error,” FootSoldier adds. BigBeard, still angry, says, “Go. Off with you.” Then TruthTeller instructs him to stand guard at the gate while they have their initial meeting. With YoungThing gone, BigBeard assigns to FootSoldier the task of liaison duty to link the cell they are now forming to the principal cell in Wardhiigley District, where the Presidential villa is situated. He charges TruthTeller with the responsibility of bringing in the gun parts. With FootSoldier on the phone to the command center, BigBeard starts to assemble the weapons. Dhoorre, who is in the bathroom with the door bolted, eavesdrops on their conversation. When he hears all three men leave the house, he takes the gentlest of showers, letting the water drip into his cupped hands to perform the minimum in the way of ablution. He looks at his face in the mirror and observes that he badly needs a shave—it’s a pity that the blade is dull and he has no replacements. Just then there is a sudden escalation of noise as TruthTeller returns, grumbling about the weight of the machine-gun and bazooka parts. Dhoorre hears weaponry being dropped near the door of the bathroom. It won’t be long before one of the men invades the space where he is confined, Dhoorre realizes. Then he hears the sound of chairs being pulled back from the table and the men sit down. Straining his ears, he can make out the odd word. The arrival of these men, and their continued presence in the house, can mean only one thing: trouble. He surrenders to the wish to know more, if only to prepare for what is bound to come: death. He kneels down directly behind the keyhole, through which he can glimpse the faces of the men, discern their movements. BigBeard, as the others call the one with the purple kaffiyeh, is in his thirties, prodigiously built, hirsute, with a husky desert voice; his face muscles knotted, forehead furrowed, he listens to his mates, now encouraging one of the men to speak, now dismissing another’s comments. Dhoorre assumes that he is the leader of the group. BigBeard’s purple kaffiyeh is folded almost in quarters, and wound around his forehead. His hand keeps coming into contact with the fold, caressing and readjusting it in a way that reminds Dhoorre of a vain young woman, just returned from her hairdresser, whose hand keeps straying to her expensive hairdo. Dhoorre does not need to be told that kaffiyehs have lately become fashionable among Mogadishu’s Islamist élite. He remembers watching Peter O’Toole wear one as Lawrence of Arabia, and in recent years how Arafat turned it into a symbol of Palestinian nationhood. But Dhoorre can’t tell if the color of the kaffiyehs that these men wear points to their membership in a given cell. BigBeard addresses a question to the wearer of the red kaffiyeh—TruthTeller—a man with a big nose; he teasingly inquires, “What is bothering FootSoldier? Why is he pacing back and forth, rubbing his thighs together, his whole body tense?” TruthTeller replies, “He badly needs the bathroom. Can’t you see him trying to get the door open?” BigBeard asks, “Has YoungThing come back without our permission?” FootSoldier assures BigBeard that YoungThing is outside. “In fact, I can see him standing by the gate and saying his Rosary, as a good Muslim must.” BigBeard now looks troubled. “Why won’t the bathroom door open if we are the only people in the house?” TruthTeller goes over to check if there is a key in the door. He pushes the door, kicks at it, and then puts his shoulder to it and shoves. But the door does not give. He says to BigBeard, “It’s locked from the inside, I think.” FootSoldier asks, “Who is inside, then?” BigBeard is growing impatient. He slaps FootSoldier, shouting, “What kind of a man are you that you can’t hold your pee?” He turns to TruthTeller and orders him to call YoungThing in. TruthTeller knocks into the furniture as he goes, kicking at chairs. From the door, he shouts to YoungThing. He asks, “Is someone in the bathroom?” Dhoorre does not know what to do. He checks his face in the mirror—even a dying man wants to look comparatively clean. He realizes with concern that it’ll be the end of the boy. One moment, he has a good mind to open the door and be done with it; the next moment, he feels inadequate to the task. He is dizzy, gulping air into his lungs, fearing that he will faint before he can open the door. Then he hears the boy say, “Old man, open the door.” He unlocks the door and steps out. FootSoldier can’t wait any longer and hurriedly pushes past him. Meanwhile, TruthTeller and YoungThing step out of Dhoorre’s way and keep their distance. BigBeard asks Dhoorre to come closer to him; his eyes penetrate deep into Dhoorre’s fear. The old man thinks of “Psycho,” sensing that BigBeard has something of an actor about him. In a film, he would be the one who pulls the trigger, a hard man with not one iota of gentleness. Dhoorre thinks that with such a man you can never work out the cut and thrust of his intentions. BigBeard asks, “Why are you here?” “Because I live here,” Dhoorre says. FootSoldier comes out in time to hear this. The eyes of all three kaffiyeh-wearing men converge on YoungThing. TruthTeller asks the boy if this is true. YoungThing says, “He is a hobo squatting here.” FootSoldier, who is angry because he had to wait until he almost wet his robes, smacks Dhoorre in the face. “Tell us the truth.” A sudden upswelling of pain overwhelms Dhoorre. “I am telling the truth,” he replies. TruthTeller, for his part, hits YoungThing, the strike splitting the boy’s lower lip and making it bleed again. He asks, “Is he a hobo squatting here or does he live here?” When the boy touches his bloody lip, as if to wipe it dry, TruthTeller hits him two more times. BigBeard tells TruthTeller to stop pummelling the boy in front of strangers. He adds, “Can’t you see I am talking to the old man?” Dhoorre says, “I am a guest, not a drifter.” “So who lives here?” “My son,” he replies, “whom I am visiting.” “What is your son’s name?” Dhoorre now realizes that he has inadvertently brought his son into focus. All that remains is for him to say his son’s name. Dhoorre has two sons and neither is in the good books of Shabaab. One of his sons, based in Baidoa, is a minister in the Transitional Federal Government, with which Shabaab is at war; the other son, who served in the National Army, is also a known foe of Shabaab, for he has declared himself a secularist and has often militated against the group in radio interviews. It is the latter, an American citizen who lives in Virginia and has been visiting Mogadishu with his family, who is hosting Dhoorre in this rented house. Too late to invent a false identity, Dhoorre gives his son’s name. BigBeard’s expression is fluid, like dirty water going down a gutter, habitually moving in a downward direction. Dhoorre is aware that Shabaab would be only too pleased to grace either of his sons with immediate beheading and that he is not likely to be spared, either. Even though he is not sure that it will do the young thing any good, Dhoorre hopes that his statement will have in it the vigor of settling a matter in dispute. He says, pointing at YoungThing, “Let me say, for what it is worth, that this young fellow meant no ill to you or your cause. I would appeal to you to spare him. Islam is peace, the promise of justice. Because I may have misled him. Please.” Dhoorre discerns movement behind him, and from a corner of his eye he spots TruthTeller with his weapon poised, but not yet ready to shoot. He pushes Dhoorre down with the butt of the firearm. Sitting on a chair, the old man feels the harsh metallic coldness of the weapon against his nape. FootSoldier says to YoungThing, “You’ve proven delinquent in your behavior. By lying, do you realize that you’ve risked your life and the lives of your fellow-fighters? Why?” YoungThing says, “I won’t do it again.” BigBeard orders YoungThing to get his gun from the carryall. YoungThing does as ordered, without fear or sentiment. As he waits for instructions, he does not plead with any of the men to spare his life or that of the old man. BigBeard says, “Shoot him.” Dhoorre says, “Please.” YoungThing can’t determine if the old man is pleading with him not to shoot, or if he is saying, “Go ahead and shoot.” He looks toward BigBeard, who is fingering his long, bushy beard, twisting it with the concentration of a philosopher deep in thought. Dhoorre thinks that it is in such a scene, where violence gains the upper hand, that one can bear testimony to tragedy in all its registers: a country held to ransom, a people subjected to daily humiliation, a nation sadly put to the sword. FootSoldier says, “What are you waiting for? Time passes, as slow as death. TruthTeller shouts, “Shoot!” YoungThing might as well just pull the trigger and be done with it, he thinks, without a flinch or immediate regret, although he is aware, despite his young age, that his action will ricochet about in his brain and keep him awake at night, disturbed and jittery. He knows, too, that he is only postponing his own death; no sooner will he shoot the old man than one of the kaffiyehs will make him pay for the crime of not wasting Dhoorre right away. He wishes he had listened to his older sister, who had offered him financial help if he agreed not to join Shabaab and to go to school instead, or to his older brother, who tried, without success, to recruit him as a pirate. YoungThing shoots, using the silencer. As the bullet strikes Dhoorre in the forehead, YoungThing is certain that he hears a seabird cawing, only he cannot interpret what it is saying, or whether it is foretelling his own imminent death. Dhoorre falls off his chair, dropping to the floor in an uncoördinated heap of self-reproach; he is sad that he has had no time to alert his son, his daughter-in-law, and his grandchildren of the ambush that awaits them. His silence preserves the memory of his last words with them, as one treasures a memento mori. From his posture alone, YoungThing can’t tell if the old man is dead. He lies on his back, head to one side, eyes not wholly closed, his position suggesting sleep. The kaffiyeh-wearing men sit in the eerie silence that follows the shooting, each an island of disturbed tranquillity. The ringing of a cell phone startles them out of their immobility. They exchange bothered looks. YoungThing glances around, as though trying to calculate not if but how soon one of the men will shoot him. The realization that he might die in a matter of minutes concentrates his mind, and he resolves not to be afraid. He walks over to where the old man lies sprawled, his legs splayed, his neck crooked, his hands spread out by his side, his nakedness embarrassing. As a token of his fearlessness, YoungThing straightens the man’s legs and places his hands together across his chest, in the gesture of a man praying. He moves back a pace, and looks at what he has done, pleased that he has made the old man as comfortable in death as he can be. Then he waits. BigBeard has anger etched into his features. Impatient, he is looking from FootSoldier to TruthTeller, as though wondering why they have not yet acted on his rage; then, even more furious, he watches YoungThing, as if he were expecting the boy to fall to his knees in terror. He says to YoungThing, “Have you anything to say before you die?” YoungThing is defiantly silent. He glances from BigBeard to FootSoldier and then focusses his unrelenting stare on TruthTeller. BigBeard says to TruthTeller, “Will you do us the favor of ridding us of this thing, this vermin?” FootSoldier says, “I was hoping you’d ask me.” BigBeard says, “Fear not. You’ll have your turn. But this is TruthTeller’s turn. I’ve never seen him kill a thing before.” TruthTeller closes his eyes, winces like a child taking bitter medicine, and shoots YoungThing right between the eyes. Then he unscrews the silencer from his gun.
Costello Costello sees a lizard at the bottom of the pool. The sucker is dead, dead. Full fathom five, as they say. This lizard situation, on a Saturday, presents a major hassle. Costello stands barefoot on the diving board, bouncing a little, with an unlit Tareyton between his lips. Saturday, an extra layer of brightness, Saturday brightness, like God opening a window in the sky. The back yard needs work. Weeds flaming up from cracks in the concrete, all the flowerpots empty, the patio cover rotten with termites. Costello pops a net onto the aluminum pole and stands at the edge of the deep end. His wife wanted the deep end extra deep, so that the girls could dive. The water is green, the lizard caught in silhouette, its tail wedged underneath the filter cover. Costello scoops up a flotilla of dead June bugs, dumps them in the planter, and then goes deeper, making a play for the lizard. Next door, Jesse Rocha starts up his hedge trimmer. He’s the same age as Costello, but semi-retired. By some dull, suburban coincidence, Rocha, like Costello, is a plumbing lifer, but on the skilled side of things—repairs and remodels, three trucks and a shop. Last year, finessing his way out of a workman’s-comp lawsuit, he changed the company name from Rocha Plumbing to Advanced Plumbing Specialists. “This is the great state of California,” he said. “Sunshine and litigation.” Rocha pokes his bald head over the brown cinder-block wall, the same crumbling wall that squares off every yard in this section of Anaheim. He turns off the trimmer. “Hey, Marty,” he says. “I saw that thing in The Pipeline. Congratulations.” It came yesterday, the new issue of The Pipeline, quarterly organ of the West Coast Plumbing Association. Twelve pages, two staples. Martin Costello, a nominee for sales rep of the year. “I’m working on my acceptance speech,” Costello says. Rocha laughs. He and Connie are nice enough, always helpful. A common-law thing, no kids. Hedging their bets for twenty years. “You should hire our pool guy,” Rocha says. “I don’t mind doing it.” “Your water looks a little green.” “I’ll blow it up with chemicals,” Costello says. “Nagasaki the shit out of it.” Points to the deep end. “There’s a lizard down there. At the bottom.” “I thought lizards could swim.” “I’m not sure.” “Crocodiles can swim,” Rocha says. “A crocodile is just a big lizard.” “I know salamanders can swim.” “That’s true.” “They’re amphibious,” Costello says. “My grandma used to keep axolotls.” Rocha spells the word for him. “Mexican salamanders,” he explains. “Milky white, with golden eyes. They’d freak you out.” “Golden eyes? Holy shit.” Nods, silence. A meeting of the minds. Two medieval doctors. “You’re not swimming, are you?” Rocha asks. “The water’s a little green.” “I’m just gonna float around on the raft.” The trimmer snaps on, the noise making a million tiny cracks in the afternoon. Costello is shirtless, his belly soft and pink. Still wearing his old Dodger cap. He hasn’t combed his hair on a Saturday in thirty years, not since before the girls were born. He flips the cap around so he can see what he’s doing. The long pole rests against his shoulder; he pushes the rim of the net under the lizard, but the poor sucker won’t budge. Costello gives up. His sacraments wait for him by the shallow-end steps. Sports page, crossword puzzle, and felt-tip pen, the Tareytons, three left, and a Zippo flashing in the sun. And the new issue of The Pipeline. A bit of vanity. He climbs carefully onto the plastic raft and pushes off the side, off the tile that she chose—orange and purple, a floral mosaic, Spanish. A nice day, warm and clear. What they call an azure sky. On the wooden telephone pole in the corner of the yard a single crow keeps vigil. The telephone wires run parallel to everything. The sky divided by clean horizontal lines: the roof, the wall, the wires. This is what he paid for. Peaceful ranch-house living. Sea-green stucco and a sliding glass door. Three mortgages, babe, each one more magnificent than the last. Costello is looking at himself. Page 3 of The Pipeline, a feature article about the company he works for, Ajax Plumbing Sales, of Compton. Special notices to Jack Isahakian, the owner, who is nominated for manager of the year, and to him, Martin Costello, the top outside guy. The supreme council of elders will announce the awards this Friday, after the annual W.C.P.A. Best Ball Extravaganza. Every contractor, rep, and wholesaler in SoCal descending on whatever shitball municipal golf course the council has managed to rent out. The hackfest of all hackfests. Costello is pictured merrily athwart a brand-new Ultima 900, the elongated vacuum-assist two-piece toilet from Brentford that he specified onto every job done last year in the high desert by Lamrock Plumbing Inc. The defective ball cocks on the Ultimas are still causing problems—a nightmare sorting out the warranty situation with the factory—but the article doesn’t mention that. A nice fluff piece. Jack, in his humility, made the photographer put the entire Ajax crew in the picture, everybody hanging off forklifts and pallets in the sunny pipe yard. They’re all squinting, faces bright, Linda—pronounced Leenda—in her wheelchair, waving to the camera. The article extolls Ajax’s transformation after the brutalities of the last housing crash, 1990-95, the trifecta-mortgage years. Jack, quoted at length: “We got fat on new construction like everybody else, but when reality set in we had to change things, think smaller, master the nickel-and-dime stuff with our wholesalers.” All the news that’s fit to print. Rocha finishes whacking his bottlebrush plant, turns the trimmer off. Costello, drifting in the deep end, sees a cloud of red needles floating over the wall. “We’re turning on the barbecue tonight,” Rocha says. “Feel free to come by.” A year of warm regards and kind invitations. A year of telling lies to avoid them. “I’m meeting the girls for dinner,” Costello says. “Thanks, though.” Rocha salutes and leaves the wall. A moment later, the sound of his diving board, then a splash of impressive magnitude. Jesse Rocha, a virtuoso of the cannonball. Costello lights up. Tareyton, the taste we’re fighting for. No more sneaking them behind her back. Now he can kill himself out in the open, under a blue sky. Costello floats for a few minutes, blowing smoke rings, idly snapping the Zippo. Nice and quiet. A dragonfly hovers over the water, touching down smooth and fast, then gone, zigzagging up and over the wall, a dustoff. The telephone pole in the corner of the yard, like the mainmast of a ship. Galleons and caravels. Sailors in the crosstrees on lookout. Magellan and his crew, drifting on the equator, praying for wind. He starts the crossword, but can’t concentrate. An uneasy feeling clutches his stomach. The lizard directly below, full fathom five. He pushes off toward the shallow end and disembarks, his feet slipping into the slimy water. Evening comes. The house is dark. Costello drives his Pontiac Grand Am one block, parks in a cul-de-sac, and walks back to the house, slipping in through the side gate. Smoke and mirrors, to make the Rochas think he’s out with the girls. Later, in his recliner, in the dark, with the curtains drawn and the air-conditioning blasting, he turns on the game. The voice of Vin Scully, soothing and omniscient, the God voice of SoCal. Costello gets nervous during games. He paces the green shag in the family room, looking for distractions. The upper shelves of the wall unit are full of pictures: the girls as kids, in various stages of toothlessness and rec-league glory. Then the encyclopedias, Funk & Wagnalls, A through Z, one a month at Safeway for more than two years. There’s a copy of “Moby-Dick.” Some other random books of nautical lore. Krakens, mermaids, the Fata Morgana. Costello finds the book of explorers, turns to his favorite passage. Magellan’s crew, lost in the doldrums of the Pacific, slowly starving to death. Costello, laughing, reads his favorite quote: “. . . and when they ran out of rats, they chewed the bark off the mainmast.” In the kitchen, by the light of the refrigerator, Costello takes out a giant bag of hot dogs. Then a giant tub of mustard, then a giant tub of mayonnaise. Smart & Final, apocalypse shopping. He puts dogs on a paper plate, shoves them in the microwave. Waiting, he sets up four buns, slapping on mustard and mayonnaise. He takes a fifth bun, balls it up, dips it in the mayonnaise, swallows it whole. The dogs pop and hiss. He pours Pepsi from a two-litre bottle into a clean glass just out of the dishwasher. A bit of decorum. The television lights the family room, with waves of blue aquarium light. Costello, leaning forward in his recliner, a dish towel over his knees, eyes focussed on the game, mayonnaise punctuating both sides of his mouth—this is how he eats. The girls want to get him out of the house more. It’s been over a year, they say, you need to get out there, you need to do something, go somewhere. Go where? In the bottom of the ninth a pinch-hitter stares innocently at strike three. Costello throws his cap at the television, stomps down the dark hall. For a while, he plays hearts on the computer, sipping his Pepsi, trying to calm down. His animated opponents are a bear, an alien, and some kind of go-go dancer. At ten o’clock, hearing the Disneyland fireworks, he can’t help himself. He goes out through the garage, scales the side gate onto the roof, and walks barefoot across the asphalt shingles. An old summer ritual, watching fireworks on the roof, his pool and Rocha’s sparkling in the darkness, the girls tossing their Popsicle sticks down the chimney. He lights up, snaps the Zippo. Down below, he sees Rocha and Connie in their yard, holding beers, watching the sky. They hear something, start looking around. Connie, ten years younger than Rocha, firm as all hell, what they call a biker babe. Thou shalt not covet. Soon they’ll notice the man lurking above them. They will ask legitimate questions and listen generously to his implausible answers. This is bad form, weird and selfish behavior, blowing them off to watch the game alone. They are nice enough people. Costello, on tiptoe, moves toward the chimney, the only hiding place, but he trips on one of the support wires that hold up the old TV aerial. He rolls down the slant, but the chimney catches him before he can plunge into the dead rosebushes. Cursing silently to himself, he hears Rocha. “Marty? Is that you?” “Marty, are you O.K.?” Connie calls in her raspy voice. Costello crouches behind the chimney. A night ambush. The sky cracking, turning colors. Surrender. “Yeah,” he says, standing up, faking laughter. “I tripped.” “Don’t fall off the roof, man,” Rocha says. “Look,” Costello says, pointing in the general direction of the Matterhorn. “Here comes the grand finale.” Greens and blues and reds, whirling and cracking. Connie claps when it’s over. “I’ll see you Friday, Marty,” Rocha says, squeezing Connie’s ass. “You will?” “The W.C.P.A. tourney,” Rocha reminds him. “Right,” Costello says. “Ajax is sponsoring a hole. Stop by if you want.” An hour later, with his bloody foot wrapped in toilet paper, he watches the local news, waiting for sports and weather. Sunday, Costello arrives late to evening Mass, sits in the back, falls asleep during the homily, then slips out right after Communion, still chewing the wafer as he hurries across the parking lot. Francine, the parish retard, accosts him. Forty going on ten. Not enough oxygen to the brain at birth. Acne, hairy upper lip, one of God’s defectives. Lives in a halfway house down the street. She rides around on a beach cruiser, greeting people, keeping track of who goes to Mass, spreading her tragic brand of glee. His wife was friends with Francine, or put up with her, at least, let her stop by the house, let her ramble on and on. For a while, afterward, Francine kept coming by to visit Costello. He’d hold the door half closed, smile, feign sleep, illness, never letting her in. A responder to subtle hints Francine is not. She rolls toward him on her bike. “Hi, Marty!” “Hey there, Francine,” Costello says, swallowing the consecrated host. “Shouldn’t you be wearing a helmet?” Keys, door, faster. A fucking zombie attack. “Bye, Marty!” On Monday morning, Costello neatly arranges his hair crosswise over his skull, using a comb, a blow dryer, and an aerosol beauty product called the Dry Look. Pleated khakis, beige golf shirt with Ajax logo, brown Member’s Only jacket. Everything you own is brown, she used to say. He clicks his Nextel into his belt holster and leaves the house at six o’clock. Anaheim is beautiful. Supremo freeway access in all directions. All that concrete crisscrossing in the air, north and south, east and west, a compass rose. He takes the 91, the Artesia Freeway, east toward the Ajax warehouse in Compton. Dick Dale on cassette, black coffee from McDonald’s, a trunkful of defective ball cocks. He checks the odometer: 237,000 and counting. He averages fifty thousand miles a year, vast territories, circles of latitude, Inglewood to Barstow, sailing across SoCal, all day, every day. Thirty-five years, carry the one, that’s a couple million miles. Circumnavigation. Begin where you end, end where you begin. Sailors crossing the equator, initiated into the ancient mysteries of the deep. Getting laid in the watery parts of the world. In Hong Kong, R. & R., the house on the hill, his first and only piece before her. Fifty thousand miles a year. Let them bury Martin Costello on the freeway. Let them throw his body over the side of a transition loop, commending his soul to Trafficus rex. He exits the 91, cruises down Avalon Boulevard, turns left into an industrial cul-de-sac. Pigeons and graffiti and concertina wire. Costello parks next to Jack Isahakian’s Mercury Grand Marquis. Luis, the Lord of Will Call, walks out of the warehouse, on his way to get breakfast at the roach coach, which has entered the cul-de-sac, horn blaring. The sun is coming up. An exchange of que pasos, and then Costello asks, “You ever see an axolotl?” Luis, eyes still bloodshot from his festival weekend in Zacatecas, shakes his head. “It’s a Mexican salamander,” Costello explains. “I saw a Gila monster,” Luis says. “I’ve seen pictures of those things,” Costello says. “Ugly suckers.” “The thing about them,” Luis says, “is they don’t have . . . they can’t ever . . .” “They can’t ever what?” “The tail just gets bigger,” Luis says. “It fills up. Their whole life.” “What, with shit?” Costello readies a Tareyton. “Are you telling me Gila monsters don’t have assholes?” “It just fills up.” “That’s not healthy. Shit is toxic.” Costello considers a burrito. It will destroy him, but what the hell. He and Luis load up on chorizo and enter the pipe yard. Sunlight playing through a pyramid of bell-ended sixteen-inch PVC. The warehouse is twenty thousand square feet. Smells sweetly of diesel exhaust. Costello walks up the ramp that Jack installed for Linda and enters the dark and empty office. He passes through the catalogue library and into Jack’s wood-panelled war room. Jack is a giant eyebrow with a man attached. He’s already on the phone with one of the factories. On his desk a double frame with pictures of his wife and kids. Fluorescent light and the smell of a million burned coffees. “Hold on,” Jack says, and puts his hand over the mouthpiece. “Listen, comrade. I’m sending out an e-mail. I’m outlawing consignments. Anything we ship from here we expect to be paid for. That’s my new business philosophy. I’m speaking, what do you call it? Ex cathedra? You guys have too many funky arrangements going, and I’m too stupid to keep track. If you want, do sixty-day billing and address the receivable with Linda, but after that point we expect to be paid. That’s what I’m going to say in the e-mail.” “Gila monsters don’t have assholes,” Costello says, sitting down. “Can I call you back?” Jack hangs up the phone. “Is that true?” “The tail just gets bigger. The shit stores up in there and that’s why they’re poisonous.” “That makes sense from an evolution standpoint.” “Good thing humans don’t work like that,” Costello says. “That would be a major blow to our industry.” “Beautiful.” Jack massages his eyebrow. “Listen. You need to talk to somebody at Bromberg. We need to get this ball-cock thing taken care of once and for all.” “It’s taken care of,” Costello says. “That’s all I’ve been doing. Lamrock was merciful. He signed off on everything.” “I’m still getting calls from everybody at Bromberg.” “One defective part, and the whole universe unravels.” “I’m tired of the calls. I can’t deal with those fucking people.” “I’m going out there on Thursday,” Costello says. “I’ll take care of it.” “Great,” Jack says. “How’s everything else?” “Have you ever seen an axolotl? It’s a lizard with golden eyes.” “Have you been reading or something?” Costello shrugs. Jack sips from a plastic-foam cup. This is the best part of the morning, bullshitting with Jack. Another lifer. Costello met him in 1972, back when he was with Henderson Sales of Gardena, his first real gig. Started three weeks after his discharge. In the interview, all they really wanted to know was whether he played softball. They needed a shortstop. Destiny. Two years on the order desk, then inside sales, enjoying the air-conditioning. Then outside sales, flying around the country, a briefcase man, calling on big accounts in Kalamazoo, Adamsville, Port Arthur, and other cosmopolitan places. Phoning her every night from those ratty motel rooms. They once sent him to New York, his first and only time. He had visions of marble and light, a weekend full of banter, highballs, limousines, just like in the movies. But he was there for only twelve hours, taking a cab from J.F.K. directly to a national distro center in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He did his presentation for all the managers and purchasing agents, and on the way out he met a valves rep coming through the door, Jack Isahakian, of the Glendale Isahakians, also on the East Coast for one day. An hour later, in the rain, they shared a cab back to J.F.K., neither of them so much as glimpsing the Manhattan skyline. It always turns out like that. Bummers and letdowns. Henderson eventually went under, and Costello joined Sepulveda Sales, which was basically just Henderson reconstituted without the baneful influence of Bob Henderson, the price-fixing asshole who drove all their customers away and died of a heart attack in the men’s room of the Los Angeles Convention Center, thus securing his place in industry lore. Isahakian switched firms a couple of times, too. The years passing, they saw each other here and there—conventions, golf tournaments. Jack a diehard Dodgers fan. They always got along. Costello remembers telling him, at a counter day in Riverside in 1985, that he was putting in a pool. The last time Costello had money in the bank. Then 1990, the plague. Sepulveda went under. Costello was forty-five years old, hustling for a job, any job, making calls, pulling the girls out of Catholic school, sending them to the neighbors’ for breakfast. Her minivan repossessed. Credit-card shell games. She started up an unlicensed day-care service—cash under the table, grocery money, a parade of little monsters splashing in the pool. She screamed at him at night, the girls awake across the hall. You fucking bitch, I never took a day off in my life. Not one day. But never out loud. Too scared of her. Just lay there, taking the blame. At one point, he stopped by Home Depot and filled out an application to be a cashier. Worst day of his life. Then the call. Jack Isahakian, of the Glendale Isahakians, saying that he had nothing, absolutely nothing, because everyone was fucked at the moment, but, if Costello could stand to go back to where he’d started, he could work the order desk and maybe some days do outside stuff, straight commission work on all the dogshit wholesalers, and see what happened after that, but everyone was fucked, so no promises. Jack was a loudmouth, but a grinder, the real deal. What luck to know a good and honest man. “Did you get The Pipeline?” Jack says, holding up his copy. “They cut half my quotes.” “It’s still a nice little article.” “I heard from Lamrock’s guy. W.C.P.A. is going all out for the banquet this year. Prime rib, champagne, napkins.” “The decadence of Rome.” “When I win, they’ll probably give me five minutes to make a speech. I’m using that Gila-monster thing. It’s beautiful.” Lights blaze in the outer office, marking the arrival of inside sales. Costello loads up on coffee and catalogues. Going west on 91, against traffic. Costello, the driving virtuoso. Warehouses crowding both sides of the freeway. On each rooftop a row of turbine vents. Spinning silver flowers. Costello sails over the bright and hostile neighborhoods of North Long Beach, scene of his wasted youth. The pool hall on Cherry Avenue. During the plague, everything falling apart, he hid out there again, a grown man, pretending he still had a job. Nineball at two in the afternoon. A vacation in hell. Smoke and mirrors for two months. Putting everything on the credit card. She said he looked gray, his skin was gray, and when he told her, finally, a moment of pure relief, she was there, touching his gray hand, bringing his color back. Costello spends Monday night sitting in his chair, watching reruns of “Law & Order.” The phone rings. He never gets there in time, picks it up right when the machine turns on, creating stress and chaos for everyone involved. Gone more than a year, and she’s still on the outgoing message. Talking over her voice, the machine beeping, his daughter on the other end, annoyed. “Dad?” one of the girls says. He can’t tell their voices apart. “Hello, hello!” “It’s Katie.” “Katie!” “Watching the game?” “It’s a travel day. How’s summer school?” She has to teach it for extra money. Teaching at a Catholic high school, a vow of poverty. “Meg and I want to take you out Saturday.” “Don’t go to any trouble,” Costello says. “I want you guys to enjoy your weekend.” “I’ll call you Saturday.” “O.K. Well, I’ll let you go.” “I don’t need to be let go. I’m talking to you. We’re talking.” “O.K.” “How’s business?” she asks. He tells her everything he knows about Gila monsters and their lack of assholes. “I’m pretty sure that’s not true,” she says. At lunch on Tuesday it’s Costello vs. Luis. The warehouse crew gathering around the Ping-Pong table, eating pizza. Even after a few beers, Luis is nimble and cunning. A bottle of Advil rattles ceremoniously in his back pocket each time he lunges for a ball. “Marty gets cute with the backspin,” Jack warns, beer in hand. Next to him is Dave Mumbry, who covers the San Fernando Valley, one of the younger salesmen, handling all the dogshit accounts. “How’d you get so good at Ping-Pong?” he asks. “The Army,” Costello says. “The least selective fraternity in the world.” He hears someone calling his name. Lilac perfume mingling with diesel exhaust. He turns to where Linda used to be, and then down to where she is. Linda, twenty-four years old, with a bullet in her spine. Caught in the crossfire waiting for a bus on Redondo Beach Boulevard. “Five Star Pipe & Supply,” she says. “Is that your guy?” “Yeah, that’s my guy.” “They ordered some brass but didn’t give me a P.O. number.” “Ron gave me a verbal,” Costello says. “I gave them ninety-day billing.” “Ninety days!” Jack shouts. “What is that, philanthropy?” Costello follows Linda up the ramp. Doesn’t know whether to help push her. “I’ll put him on a payment schedule for that stuff,” she says. “But nothing else leaves the warehouse until I see some money.” “I’ll take care of it,” Costello says. Later that night, Costello pulls into his driveway. There’s Rocha, revving up his Harley. And Connie running out the front door, encased in denim. Matching black helmets. Down to Chili’s, for a delightful evening of pillage and rape. She waves to Marty and off they go, her legs squeezing tight. The house is dark and quiet. For a couple of hours, Costello sits at the dining-room table, paying the bills. Still paying off the plague. Fifteen years without a vacation. Never taking her out to dinner, not once. A million Ragú dinners. But at least they never ran out of rats. He turns on the TV. The Dodgers on the first night of their home stand. Down two runs in the eighth. Costello, anxious, muttering to himself, drinking straight from the two-litre bottle of Pepsi. He wanders over to the glass door and looks out on the darkness. He turns on the pool light. A pretty shade of green and the lizard down below. Wednesday afternoon, up in Baldwin Park, a forsaken road winding past broken cinder block, a driveway with no address, a dungeon of a warehouse, and Ron Ciavacco, proprietor of Five Star Pipe & Supply. Sitting at the counter, marking up a racing form, as Valerie, his sister and only employee, smokes and watches “Dr. Phil” on a small black-and-white. They’ve been going out of business for twenty-five years. “The wolf is at the door, my friend,” Costello says, and gently explains the situation. The concept of paying for goods and services. Ron, a beggar and a chooser, asks for better pricing on globe valves. They shake hands. Ron wishes him luck at the W.C.P.A. awards banquet. “I don’t care about stats,” Costello says. “Just as long as we win!” At dusk, he hides from the eastbound traffic. Drives down Cherry Avenue to the beach. Or what’s left of it. The strand is dull and gray. Nobody goes in the water. He walks along the bluffs, smoking, counting the tankers in the harbor, a habit since childhood. Catalina Island, a distant mirage. Sixty years in SoCal and he’s never taken the boat to Catalina. Listening to the Dodger game on the way home. Our man from Santo Domingo dealing a shutout into the seventh inning. Gets home just in time. Big bowl of vanilla ice cream, the last two innings, and then the news. Absolutely beautiful. There’s a knock at the door. “Hi, Marty!” Francine in her bike helmet. “Now’s not a good time.” She puts one foot inside, and Costello has no choice but to let her in. Be thankful for small mercies, Francine. The Nazis would’ve thrown you in a lime pit. Francine stares at the pictures on the bookcase, ignoring the travesty taking place right now in the top of the eighth. The manager, in his wisdom, pulling the young lefty after he gives up a walk. Let him work out of trouble, for Chrissakes. Only way to become a pitcher. “She said I could have her jewelry,” Francine says. “What?” Francine walking down the hall, turning on the lights, like she owns the place. There’s no jewelry, no real jewelry, except her wedding ring. Katie has that. Francine in their bedroom, holding the rosewood jewelry box in her stubby hands. “It’s all cheap crap,” Costello says. “You won’t impress anyone, if that’s what you’re going for.” The box tucked under her arm. “Fine. It’s all yours, then. Come on.” Back down the hall, turning off the lights. Francine is going out the front door. She doesn’t say goodbye. A Bedouin in the night. The Dodgers closer gets lit up and they lose in extra innings. At eleven o’clock, Costello turns on the news. And then Megan calls, just to say hi. He asks her about her junior-college classes and she rants and raves about the stupidity of her fellow-students. She hates Orange County. Fascist this, soulless that. She wants to travel. See the watery parts of the world. She talks through the weather and into the next commercial. Sports is next. Costello starts leaning toward the side table, getting ready to hang up the phone at his first opportunity. When he sees the Dodger highlights coming on, he says, “Well, I’ll let you go.” “What are you watching?” Megan asks. “What? Nothing.” She laughs at him. “We’re taking you out Saturday, whether you like it or not.” On Thursday afternoon, he drives east into the Inland Empire, alighting upon a paved, semi-incorporated nowhere called Mira Loma. Bromberg Enterprises, the Death Star of the industrial-plumbing universe, sitting in a ring of smog on the edge of the freeway, five hundred thousand square feet of blazing white concrete. Costello parks at the edge of a vast parking lot and walks a half mile through warm, gusty winds that play havoc with his hair. Through the dark maw of loading dock No. 53 and into the maze. Towering rows of everything. Hundreds of warehouse crew, pushing gleaming silver hand trucks and hydraulic pallet jacks. It smells clean in here, no diesel exhaust, all the forklifts fancy and electric. A “No Smoking” sign every ten feet. It’s only a matter of time before Bromberg swallows up Ajax and every other rep in SoCal. Eliminate the middleman. At the far end, a metal staircase leads to the offices of young men with business degrees from accredited universities. Chris Easton, a bureaucrat with class and breeding, sits Costello down, offers him coffee, soda, popcorn, hot dogs. They’ve got a whole circus up here. Costello breaks down the ball-cock situation. Five hundred serial numbers for five hundred faulty units, written down by hand, his own, on a yellow legal pad, plus a flowchart of rebate and compensation. The factory rep running interference for the contractor, on behalf of the contractor’s wholesaler, so neither has to face the wrath of the builder. The gallant factory rep, doing his duty, meeting his challenger. Pistols at dawn. “It’s ridiculous how complicated this is,” Easton says, flipping the chart upside down. Buy the print » “It’s what they call a byzantine arrangement. But I’ve already been out on all the job sites and squared things with Lamrock. We’re switching out the defectives ourselves. All you need to do is sign off on the replacements so my contractor can pull from your shelves A.S.A.P. The purchase-order numbers are already plugged in and you get the percentage on everything. You really don’t have to do a goddam thing.” Calm down, calm down. “I’m just saying . . . I’m just showing you what I did so I don’t have to answer questions later. It’s pretty much a done deal. Our long national nightmare is over.” “Lamrock O.K.’d this?” “Ex cathedra.” “What?” “Lamrock O.K.’d it.” “Can you send this to me as an Excel sheet? I can’t show this mess to my boss.” “You bet. There’s a gal in our office. She’s dynamite with computers.” Easton laughs like he just heard a joke, and gives back the legal pad. A new bag of Pings in the corner, a framed photograph of Easton standing next to Tiger Woods. “Are you going to the W.C.P.A. tourney?” Costello asks. “Harbor Municipal,” he says, tentatively. “That’s a pretty ghetto course.” “Not for us hacks.” Costello looks at his watch. “Maybe we could go down and double-check your stock.” “I can punch it up for you right now.” “I’d rather go down myself.” “It’s all right here,” he says, tapping his laptop screen. “Everything that comes in and out of this place is all right here.” “I know. I just want to see it.” “Actually,” Easton says, “I’m not allowed down there at the moment.” “Why not?” “Long story.” “Oh, yeah?” Costello crosses his legs, getting comfortable, expecting a story. This is the job. This is the beauty of every job. Listening to stories. “I don’t have time to go into it. Just e-mail me that sheet.” “Tell me the general area where I need to look. I’ll use my Spidey sense.” “You’ll get lost. I’ll call somebody.” The liaison, a snaggletoothed black kid, arrives at the bottom of the stairs, driving an electric cart. Zipping down aisle 97B, a gob of tobacco under his lip. “How come Easton stays up there?” “Who?” “Easton. He works upstairs.” The kid stops the cart and looks around. “A couple weeks ago, a dude got stabbed over by Will Call.” Points ominously to a distant vector of the warehouse. “No one upstairs is allowed downstairs until the investigation is over. That side’s run by Flora Street. Northside Kings are up here, running all the trim. Most of the foremen are Northside, so that’s where the problem starts.” “Are you in a gang?” “No.” “Well, Christ, be careful.” “The best part is that the guy who did it already got fired for something else.” “Does Easton know that?” Clever of young Easton, sending the old factory rep into the kill zone. “No. We’re all getting longer lunches while they do the investigation. Don’t say nothing.” “I won’t.” The kid gets him a mobile-stair unit with suction stops. Costello spends an hour aloft, counting boxes, one by one, then has a cigarette on the edge of the loading dock. Later, driving back to Anaheim, against traffic, he pulls off to get some In-N-Out. Orders the Double-Double, with grilled onions and extra dressing. Outside on the stone benches, a warm night, the sky gray and pink. Katie worked here for a couple of summers. Good money for fast food, but it gave her acne. Or maybe it was Megan. Cute round face, both of them, like their mother. Would be nice if they could come to the W.C.P.A. banquet, be there when the awards are announced. But what a bummer for them, hanging around with a bunch of plumbers and toilet salesmen on a Friday night. He stops at Home Depot and buys shock treatment for the pool. He waits at the register as the girl tries to change the receipt paper, looking flustered. Could’ve been him. In the fading light Costello stands at the edge of the deep end. The lizard is barely visible at the bottom. He dumps in two bags of calcium hypochlorite. Burns the nose. White cleansing death. A year of radiation. A year of bedpans and vomit bowls. Gray wispy hair like cobwebs on her head. All so that we could have our long, precious goodbye. Pointless. It wasn’t for you. I knew the young and dancing you. Disintegrating every day, pale, nauseated, dementia, that wasn’t you. A thing died in our bed—it wasn’t you. I should’ve slit your throat, babe, while you were still you. On Friday afternoon, before leaving the office for the tournament, Costello stops by Linda’s desk and asks for help. He holds up the yellow legal pad containing all his ball-cock calculations. “Do you know how to put this in Excel?” “Just put it there,” she says, pointing to an empty spot on her desk. “It doesn’t have to be anything fancy.” She explains that she can e-mail it to the guy at Bromberg as soon as it’s done. “Great!” Costello says. “Saves me the hassle!” “You’re late for the tournament,” she says, shooing him away. Harbor Municipal. Par-3 wonderland. The parking lot full of plumbing trucks. One of them just a filthy old milk truck with no windows or decals. Instead, someone has traced “Kelly Plumbing” in the dust, along with a phone number. Blessed are the plumbers. Old guys in coveralls dragging their bags and beer coolers. Young vato plumbers in their Dickies, swinging wedges and putters. Costello walks up the ninth hole. Jack and Mumbry, totally blasted, are taking practice tee shots, trying to hit a foursome who are putting on the green. “Fuck off,” one of them yells back across the fairway, his voice muffled by the sound of the 405 freeway, which is hidden behind a line of eucalyptus trees. Jack gives the guy the finger, takes a long pull on his Tecate. Mumbry points to the sand trap by the green, where a solitary figure is sprawled face down. “That guy passed out down there about an hour ago.” “A hundred dollars if anybody tags him from here,” Jack offers. “Maybe he’s dead,” Costello says. “A couple guys from Dinoffria Plumbing reported back,” Mumbry says. “He’s breathing.” Ajax has a tent set up. Glorious standards flapping in the wind. A few plumbers stand around, drinking, looking through catalogues, playing with the new faucet models. Mumbry has orange chicken-wing sauce all around his mouth. “You just missed the Hooters girls, Marty. They got hot wings inside these heat packs that keep them hot.” Jack puts an arm around Mumbry. “Collectively, the girls opted not to fuck Dave.” “I’m a married man,” Mumbry says. “So am I,” Jack says. “It’s a common condition.” “When does the Best Ball start?” Costello asks. “It got cancelled,” Mumbry says. “There’s some disorganization going on.” “Then fuck it. I’m having a whack.” Costello with a 9-iron. Bend the knees, let it rip. Losing the ball in the white sky, then the silence of a distant landing, four feet in front of the sand trap. Costello grabs a wedge and a putter. “If I don’t return,” he says, “avenge me.” The grass is summer brown. Hot winds whirling down from the freeway. Sirocco, an old crossword word. A ball whizzes past Costello’s head. “Incoming!” Jack’s voice louder than the wind. Friendly fire. The drunk in the sand trap rolls over. Lying there, quite peaceful, with an empty bottle of peppermint schnapps next to his head, is the man himself, Lamrock, patron saint of plumbing contractors throughout Christendom. Costello pitches his ball over the trap, over the corpus of Lamrock. The ball rolls onto the green. The flag, at first, is nowhere to be found. But then he sees it floating in the water hazard, along with several empty beer cans. Costello drops his putt, saving par. A golf cart crests the hill, plumbers dangling out the sides, wielding golf clubs and forty-ounce bottles of beer. A blond Hooters girl driving, swerving, laughing. She skids onto the green and someone yells, “Marty!” Rocha, riding shotgun, has his arm over her shoulder. “Marty, man, are you loaded or what?” “I’m just trying to get in a few whacks.” Rocha introduces his fellow-technicians from Advanced Plumbing Specialists, and his young cousin, an apprentice. He introduces Mandy. “This is crazy,” she tells Costello. “Most of the shit they send us to is so boring.” “Yeah, we have a lot of fun out here,” Costello says, a little too brightly, his voice cracking like a thirteen-year-old’s. Christ, the goofiness, it never goes away. “Marty’s a nominee for sales rep of the year,” Rocha says, drunk, grinning ear to ear, nudging Mandy with his shoulder. “Wow!” Mandy says, with big mocking eyes. Just once a piece like her, just once, but never. A bit trashy, but still, there’s a time and a place for everything. “We’re speed-golfing,” Rocha says. “You have to hit the ball from the cart while it’s moving. It’s like polo.” “The sport of kings,” Costello says. A cart marked “Ranger” comes over the hill. A man armed with a bullhorn, yelling at everybody to go home. The W.C.P.A. Best Ball Extravaganza is drifting into chaos. “Fascist motherfucker,” Rocha’s little cousin says. Costello and Rocha extract Lamrock. His face plastered with drool and sand. They pour some water on him. “It’s prime-rib time,” Rocha says, nudging Mandy once more. “You like meat, right?” A frozen smile. She looks trapped all of a sudden. Waiting for them to go away. They load Lamrock into the cart and drive up the fairway. Jack sees Lamrock and laughs. “That was you down there? You fucking lightweight!” “I think I got dehydrated,” Lamrock says. The Ajax standards are coming down. In carts and on foot, plumbing contractors sweep across the steppes of the municipal course. The Mongol hordes. Costello helps carry the faucet displays back to the clubhouse, which is now off limits. Through the windows, the silver vats of prime rib. The wait staff taking it all back to the kitchen. Security pushing plumbers away from the door. “Somebody tell somebody that Jack Isahakian wants to eat,” Jack says. A forty-ounce shatters on the pavement. Pushing and shoving. Security guards on their walkie-talkies, calling in an air strike. Night falling on Harbor Municipal. “I don’t think they’ll let us back next year,” Mumbry says. In the end, the banquet is held in the parking lot. The W.C.P.A. supreme council gathers everyone up and, just like that, the awards ceremony is over. Jack wins manager of the year. Mike Melendez, of Southwestern Sales, gets rep of the year. Costello congratulates Mike, who says, “That ball-cock thing fucked you up.” Mike takes his plaque and leaves. Most of the guys head out, a cavalcade of plumbing trucks. Lamrock pouring shots into Dixie cups for everyone who sticks around. The lifers. The heavies. In the amber darkness, Jack mounts the hood of his Grand Marquis, holding up his plaque in triumph. “Hey, listen up. I’m not leaving here without a speech. Somebody introduce me. No, fuck it. I’ll do it myself. I’m Jack Isahakian. Some of you are lucky enough to know me.” A chorus of “fuck you”s. “Yeah, well, I’m a lucky man myself. I work with a lot of highly competent professionals. Solid people top to bottom. Warehouse, inside, outside. I can point to anyone at Ajax, man or woman, and say, ‘That guy right there, he’s a fucking pro.’ Let me give you an example. I have five minutes, right? Most of you know Marty Costello. He’s what we call a salesman. What he does is make sales calls. A couple months ago, on a rainy day, he walks in the door at Munson Pipe & Supply in Hawthorne.” Some whooping and hollering from the Munson contingent. “That’s what salesmen do. They show up and they walk through the door. On this day, it turns out that our competition, who shall remain nameless. . . . It’s Gary Yeager from Carlton-Hill Sales. Is he here? I don’t want to throw Gary under the bus or anything, but on this day he excused himself from walking in the door because it was raining outside. He actually called up Munson and said that. I admire his honesty, but if I felt I couldn’t work because it was raining outside I wouldn’t admit it to anybody. I’d go home and shoot myself. Anyway, our friends at Munson also thought it was funny, and since Marty the Brentford toilet rep was there instead of Gary the Kenner toilet rep, they thought, Why not have Marty take a look at our inventory and see what’s what? Forty items and ten categories later, Marty walks out of there with the biggest order of the year. And all he did was show up for work.” Jack drops his plaque. It hits the bumper on the way down and thuds on the pavement. “I had this thing planned about Gila monsters, but it’s getting late, comrades, and I’ve had a lot to drink.” A smattering of applause. Rocha and Mumbry laughing, shaking Costello’s hand. The guys from Munson shaking his hand. Other wholesalers, plumbers, Lamrock. “Somebody call Jack a cab,” Costello says. Saturday afternoon. The girls on their way. Costello has shocked them with an actual plan: dinner in Catalina. But first a bit of sun. The pool turquoise. The glass door sliding. The roof, the wall, the wires. This house is his. Or the bank’s, but he still lives here. Costello hops on the raft, pushes off, lights up. The telephone pole in the corner of the yard, like the mainmast of a ship. He rolls off the raft and into the pure blue water. Down he goes to the bottom of the deep end. His eyes open, burning. The lizard pale from the chemicals. She never complained, not once, her hair falling out, the hideousness of her round beautiful face. That final moment, her green eyes popping open, and all the bile spilling out of her. A goddam captain, going down with the ship. Back on the raft, the lizard in his hand, pale and soggy, tiny black eyes and tiny white feet. Costello throws it over the wall and hears it splash in his neighbor’s pool.
The Yellow With his mother and father out of town for the weekend, Roy was left to forage for food in their nearly empty refrigerator. Was he physically or mentally unable to go grocery shopping? To order takeout from a restaurant? No, he wasn’t. Roy nibbled on a raw-onion-and-Cheddar sandwich, but the rattling house unnerved him and the sandwich was too strong. He felt exposed in the kitchen. What made a house rattle? He couldn’t say. He abandoned his meal on the countertop and switched on the living-room TV. He sat through the evening sitcoms, the late news, the late shows, and the start of a movie he’d not seen since 1985, telling himself that the noises he’d heard were cable wires scraping against the siding in the wind. Even if they weren’t. At forty-two, he was living in his parents’ house again, eating their food, driving their car from job interview to job interview. “A pity,” his grandmother had decided. Near two in the morning, sick from so much TV, his grandmother’s pronouncement in his head, Roy riled himself into a fury of determined self-improvement. He spent the early-morning hours in his bedroom tearing down homemade Bevis Frond posters and a paper chain he’d fashioned from gum wrappers. He moved all the furniture—except his bed and his dresser—up to the attic. In the basement, Roy found a half-full can of paint his father had used to mark the curb out front as a no-parking zone. Roy carefully began to paint his walls bright yellow. He went without sleep. What was sleep to him? And by eleven the next morning his work was done. He sat cross-legged on the floor inhaling heady fumes. Yellow was everywhere. Yellow and calm. Fear and confusion left. Possibility and sunshine became his friends. In the yellow, he felt himself the newborn child of Patti Smith and Jacques Cousteau. Roy rolled a cigarette and visualized foreign, gentler lands: India, Morocco, Florida. Eventually, late Sunday evening, his parents returned. His father, registering the new color of the walls, asked, “Son, did you turn faggot over the weekend?” Roy offered no comeback. He held on to the color. He picked a flake of tobacco from his tongue and admired his father’s use of the verb “turn.” Turn was precisely what Roy had done after three days of ripening in silence. He’d turned. He’d fermented into something wonderful and open, something porous and bright yellow. Susanne’s turning, on the other hand, had been far more subtle. Perhaps she didn’t even realize she had turned, or maybe turning comes easier to women, acclimated as they are to miracles and pregnancies. Of which, by the age of thirty-nine, she’d had three. Roy walked out on his father without answering. He grabbed the car keys from the kitchen table. He drove. And while he drove he tangled with the scan button on the car radio. “Don’t Do Me Like That.” “Don’t Bring Me Down.” “Love Is a Rose.” “Straight Tequila Night.” He liked all those songs, but that didn’t stop him from continuing to seek. There had to be something more—his itchy finger was sure. And there was. “Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain.” The song made him forget that his much younger sister would be getting married next month. He drove, open, porous, and yellow, his tires floating above the asphalt. He drove, threading together seams and streets, all his ideas, until, quite suddenly, the night became rigid. In one moment, there was nothing—no music, no thoughts, just a pure electric shock of adrenaline. Something black and furry had darted out into the road, frozen in Roy’s headlights, and tumbled out of view. Squeals, brakes, and wrong-sounding mechanical thumpings followed. He had hit a dog. Roy had hit someone’s dog. Pulling off onto the soft shoulder, he felt a certain resistance from the undercarriage. The vehicle and the animal had been joined in a terrible union. He sat without moving. Perhaps it wasn’t a dog. Perhaps it was some other creature, a beast unnamed and unknown. The thought gave him pause. It had been a strange weekend. He sat. Not long but long enough to know that whatever it was was truly dead. There’d be no awful scenes. No watching it limp away into the dark night, no gnashing teeth. He would not have to back the car up and over the creature in an attempt to kill it a second time. Eventually Roy got out and the night stayed silent. He circled the vehicle two, three times. There was nothing to be seen. Overhead, black branches cut their silhouettes on the navy sky. Roy crouched and there it was. Just a dog. Simple. Its body had been wedged behind a back wheel. Roy grabbed its tail and yanked the broken thing out from under. Something tore like fabric. The neck was soft and floppy, like a harshly used work shirt. The dog was dead for certain. Roy hoisted the animal into his arms and set out for the nearest driveway. He could see it up ahead. An outdoor floodlight spilled onto the road in a narrow swath, most of the light getting trapped in the yard by a line of tall maples. The dog’s body, not yet cold, warmed Roy and kept his arms from shaking. Roy rang the bell, but Susanne was vacuuming. He carried the dog around to the side door. Front doors are for holidays. The dog’s brown eye caught the light. It was no holiday. As Roy waited on the stoop, Susanne, with a vacuum hose in hand—her exhausted life—came into view. His knocking grew more desperate. He couldn’t very well leave the carcass on her doorstep. He’d be forced to carry the dog from house to house until someone was courageous enough to claim it. She started when she saw Roy. It wasn’t a busy street but, rather, the sort where too much wealth kept neighbors from dropping by unannounced. Earlier, Susanne’s husband had detected a certain ticking in her, a bomb. He’d packed their children into the car and set out for a night of pizza and a double feature at the second-run movie theatre, leaving her alone to explode, splattering the house with a combination of things she’d ingested as a teen-ager, certain films and punk-rock records that confirmed what she’d guessed: one dies alone. Best to have her family out of the way. Best to have them hidden in a dark cinema when the desire to chop her hair roughly and live on cigarettes surged. These bursts of freedom, while infrequent, were dangerous. Their self-indulgence could tear holes in evenings, marriages, families. She’d been lost in the roar of the vacuum—a device that had the power to put her under a spell, into a trancelike state from which she could most easily contemplate the nature of the universe, the purpose of love, the purpose of death, and a fantasy she sometimes had of being bound nude to a parking meter in the city. It was then that she saw Roy. What was he holding? She shut off her vacuum by yanking the plug from the wall. She opened the door. “Hello.” “Hello.” “I’m afraid I’ve killed someone’s dog.” “Yes,” she confirmed. “That’s Curtains. He belongs to my children.” “Curtains?” “It’s an old story.” And then, looking at the animal again, “Oh, dear.” She reached out and took the dog’s body from Roy and, for one moment, like an uninspired actor in the uninspired film her husband and children were just then watching, she brushed the skin of Roy’s forearm. She held his eyes, trying to remember if they’d met before. “Poor Curtains.” They had never met. Roy hoped. Maybe she’d wanted the dog dead for some reason. Maybe she’d grown tired of feeding him or accidentally petting those tumorous lumps that old dogs get. “I’m sorry.” Roy shook his chin. “He appeared out of nowhere. I didn’t even have an instant to brake. I’m sorry. Let me give you some money for a new dog.” He reached for his wallet. He was broke. “What does a dog cost?” There was sixteen bucks in his wallet. “Two hundred and fifty dollars,” Susanne said. She carried the dog into the living room. “Oh.” He fumbled and followed her. Two hundred and fifty seemed like robbery. “Can I write you a check?” He had two hundred and sixty-seven dollars in his bank account. If he wanted, he could go to an A.T.M. tonight and withdraw it all, long before she could cash his check. Susanne covered Curtains with an afghan that had been draped across the couch. She crouched in front of the dog, shielding her pet from Roy. Death really was mortifying. What a thing for her dog to do—run out in front of a stranger’s car and open himself up. What desperation. He should have come to her, she thought foolishly. There was blood on Roy’s jacket. Blood on her arm, in her hair. Curtains’s insides made pornographically public. “A check is fine. Make it out to Susanne Martin.” “Susanne Martin. Certainly.” He found a seat and began to write. One surprisingly rigid paw stuck out from beneath the blanket. She knew the paw well, dipped in white fur, claws that alternated black, ivory, black, ivory. A piano on her dog’s foot. She felt the dog lose his heat. She felt his body go cold. As Susanne bent to hold his paw to her cheek, Roy saw that she loved the dog and he knew he wouldn’t go to the A.T.M. “Oh,” Roy said. “Oh, no. I’m so sorry.” When nervous, he adopted an inflection that was not his own. His voice ratcheted up into a phony British accent, as if British accents were so appropriate, so authoritative that they could make any American dog be not dead. “I’m dreadfully sorry.” There it was. London, England, done very poorly. He joined her on the floor, wrapping a stiff arm around her shoulders. He stowed the check away in his jacket pocket. “Sh-h-h. There, now. There, now.” Roy and Susanne sat by the rigid dog. She whimpered. She sounded like a tiny door creaking open. She wept and sniffled, wept and sniffled. Roy studied the wall’s molding, the wall itself, a trace of dust along the molding’s shaped ridge, an electrical outlet. What had he been thinking before the accident? He tapped his free hand against his temple and drew a blank. Underneath his hand her shoulder felt cushioned in a way that his wasn’t. There was her skin. There was her muscle. There was her bone, her blood and all the blood’s attendant particles keeping her alive, particles whose names he’d never know. They were total strangers except for this dead dog. He thought of the yellow and turned toward Susanne, locating her lips with his own—some way of knowing her. Susanne did not flinch and, after a few slow moments with his mouth resting motionless on hers, he inserted a pointed tongue. She accepted it. Roy and Susanne lay back on the rug beside the dog’s carcass, beside the coffee table. Beneath the burned odor left by the vacuum, he could smell the dust still in the rug—salt and sand and dried skin from her kids, her husband, her now dead dog. Roy inhaled. And they stayed there locked in a silent trade. It wasn’t a kiss, exactly, but something equally spectacular. The night, for all the species of insects alive in it, barely noticed. Eventually, time passed and he buried his fingers in the hair at the nape of her neck. He pulled her closer. His other arm found the small of her back and used this time-tested handle to unlock some ancient pattern; their bodies began to move. My dog died for this bit of living, Susanne thought. She did not consider her husband. She brokered no possible connection between her husband and lying on the floor with a stranger. Roy’s hands moved to unfasten, unhook, undress their bodies, conducting an urgently time-sensitive experiment. Her face was still damp from crying. In the shock of this unexpected coupling, he pinned her to the floor and she was a bird. He found his way inside and Susanne filled the room with sound, incantations that started with the routine “Oh, yes. God, yes,” and morphed into the unfamiliar “Take it. Take it all,” before winding up at the unnatural “Paint your landscape. Storm. Storm. Storm.” Not sexy, just peculiar. Pleasure remained a far-off cousin to whatever exchange they were having. At last, his muscles and eyes trembled. A transfer was completed and the charge between them dimmed. A film of sweat developed some guilt, some old wonder. Both Roy and Susanne began to chill. He didn’t look at her. He was unsure what he’d got in the trade, though he knew that it wasn’t inconsequential. Good for him. I should remove myself, he thought, and was about to when he felt something rough and warm, damp and thick. Curtains was licking the sweat from his scapula. With a scream, both man and woman recoiled. He rolled, boot-camp style, a protected ball, in the shelter of a baby grand, from which he eyed the dog with dread. She jumped to her feet and onto the frantic couch. Curtains had come back from the dead. The dog raised his brow, wondering why these humans should act so foolishly. Susanne lifted her hands in surrender. “The dog was dead.” “The dog was dead,” Roy confirmed. And it was true. They’d seen it and felt it. The dog, moments ago, had been ruined, limp, no more. “How, Anne?” He used only half her name. Their new physical intimacy had shaved away the Sus. He cradled and rocked himself, a squatting troll: a head, a rounded back, and two feet sticking out from his torso. He looked grotesque underneath the piano. Curtains licked the thin, pale fur between his legs. “My dog is alive.” “But why? Why is your dog alive?” Susanne scratched her left buttock. “You must have only knocked Curtains unconscious.” Roy looked from the dog to Susanne. “Then how come you don’t want to touch him, either?” “Nonsense,” Susanne said, readjusting her position of retreat. “Come here, boy. Here, Curtains.” The dog looked up from his lick and made his way over to the waiting hand. Susanne held her arm as far out from her body as possible. Curtains rubbed against it and Susanne immediately snapped her hand to her chest as if burned. She covered herself with a fleece blanket. “Back,” she told the confused dog. “Back.” Curtains, as dumb and happy as any non-dead dog, cocked his head and studied the hunkering humans before meandering into the kitchen to see if, in the time he’d been dead, someone had refilled his dish with kibble. Quickly, Roy crawled out from underneath the piano. “What should we do?” Susanne nodded. She stood, distancing herself from him. They were not a we. She dressed swiftly. Nodding, nodding, nodding. She tightened a belt around her sweater. “So,” she said, looking into the kitchen where Curtains had gone. “You’ll have to kill it. Again.” Roy drew his eyes wide and wider. “What? It?” “We’ve opened some sort of door here.” She knelt in front of Roy, resting her hands on his knees as if they really were lovers. “It can’t stay open. I have a good life.” She pinched the meat of Roy’s thighs. “You have to kill the dog.” He closed his eyes. Reasons and excuses assembled themselves. He was dealing with an unhinged person. He’d stumbled into a TV show. The dog had simply been knocked out. Roy opened his eyes. “It won’t work. That’s like stuffing a baby back inside its mother. You think I’ll just forget? I won’t forget.” “Yes,” Susanne said. “You will forget.” Once, as a girl, Susanne, alone in her grandmother’s empty barn, had heard a voice speaking to her. The voice had said, “Bow at the river,” or, maybe, “Cows at the river.” It didn’t matter what the voice had said, because Susanne, terrorized and unwilling to confront the unexplainable, had suppressed any memory of it. “You’ll forget.” He put his head in his hands. “You’ll find some way to explain it. You’ll call me a witch or a crazy person. Turn it into a dream. You’ll forget.” She stood and, searching Roy’s coat, found the check, folded it, and put it in her pocket. “You have to kill him and then you have to leave.” Roy pulled his fingers through his hair, like a child having a tantrum. “But I don’t believe in magic.” He barely believed in God. He barely believed in chiropractors. She kept her voice calm. “That’s like not believing in car accidents. Just because you don’t want them to happen doesn’t mean they don’t.” She clucked at him, scolding. “It’s not belief. It’s whether or not you’re going to let magic ruin your life. People pretend the world is ordinary every day.” She held her hips. “Because they have to.” “Why don’t you kill him?” “Come on,” she tsk-tsked. “You started this. You kissed me.” “It wasn’t really a kiss,” Roy said. All he’d done was paint his walls yellow. “And I definitely didn’t raise your dog from the dead.” “Yeah?” She was leaving the room, matter settled. “Then what did?” “I don’t know,” he told her, but Susanne, having plugged the vacuum back in, was no longer listening. From the dark behind her house, he saw the warm glow of her windows, her family returning. He leaned on the shovel. “Out! Out!” she had said. Once for Roy, once for Curtains. “There’s a shovel in the shed.” Roy stood in the night undetected, looking in. Her children and her husband gathered around her, relaying the very thin but fantastically absurd plots of the Hollywood movies they’d seen. A bank heist and a clean getaway. A love that conquers all. A dog that comes back to life. Her young son’s hands shook, his feet stomped, recalling the wonders. How true they’d been. Her daughter’s head spun. Each world had been real enough to betray her by ending neatly after an hour and a half. Susanne retracted the vacuum’s cord. Tethered again. And in the dark Roy understood her family’s pact. Work and school, laundry, dinner, the things that happened in their lives were not part of the brightness that she and Roy had glimpsed but were, rather, dull, quite expected, and entirely unastonishing. Nothing strange ever really happened. No, it didn’t. The weight of the shovel made Roy’s arms burn. He needed to sit down. He needed to get back in his car, start the engine, drive away from here with his finger on the radio’s scan button, looking for the right song, one that might erase Susanne, the dog, and the shovel she’d wanted him to use to brain and bury Curtains in her back yard. The dog looked up at him, tilting its head a bit to one side, waiting for the blow of the shovel’s blade. “No,” Roy told him. He would leave soon. He’d drive through the night listening as each song began hot with promise. “More Than a Feeling.” “Don’t Stop Believing.” “Time After Time.” Fine songs. He knew them well. He’d heard them all hundreds of times, as if he’d been driving the Earth forever, killing any and all things that got in the way. None of the songs would ever make him forget and he told Curtains so. “Scram,” he yelled. “Get out of here!” Curtains turned and wandered off to pee on some rhododendrons, not at all like an animal running for its life. The dog would be waiting on her doorstep tomorrow morning, gentle, stupid, still undead, still looking for something to eat. In front of her children she’d pretend to forget. She’d hold out her hand to pet the dog’s head and in a while, perhaps a few days or a week, the head would begin to feel like the head of any dog. In the dark it was clear. Susanne sat on the couch, surrounded by her family, while out in the night, partner to the extraordinary, Roy held the shovel.
Assimilation Where Ramon worked washing dishes, the owner called him in one day and said that he was raising him to busboy. Ramon would wear the short red jacket and black trousers. Ramon’s hands were cracked and peeling from the hot water, but he was wary of the promotion because the owner was selling it to him like there was a catch. They were all foreigners—the owner, the owner’s wife, and the people who came there to eat. Big people with loud voices and bad manners. You are in the waiting pool now, my friend, and on a good night your share could be thirty, forty dollars, under the table. On Sunday morning, Ramon took the bus upstate to see Leon. They talked through the phones. I don’t know why he wants to see my certificate, Ramon said. What certificate? Of my birth. He wants to make sure you’re an American, Leon said. So I can? Why not? Figure they’re illegals—maybe not the owner, because he has a business that requires a license, but a lot of them. Born here is a commodity, it has a value, so see what the deal is. When Ramon presented his birth certificate, they sat down with him in the back after the restaurant was closed for the night—Borislav, the owner, his wife, she of the squinting eyes, and another man, who was fat, like Borislav, but older and with a briefcase in his lap. He was the one who asked the questions. After Ramon gave his answers, they talked among themselves. He heard harsh mouthfuls of words with deep notes—it was not a mellifluous language like the bright bubbling of water over rocks of his language. And then, with a flourish, the owner placed on the table a photograph. Look, my friend, he said. The photograph was of a girl, a blonde with sunglasses propped in her hair. Her hand gripping the strap of her shoulder bag was closed like a fist. She wore jeans. She wore a blouse revealing the shoulders. Behind her was a narrow street with an array of motorcycles and mopeds parked front wheels to the curb. She was half sitting sideways on a motorcycle seat, her legs straight out and her feet in their sandals planted on the paving stones. She was smiling. How much? Leon said. A thousand. Plus air and hotel expenses. They are messing with you. This is good for three thousand, minimum. And then? Why not? It will pay for filmmaker’s school. Isn’t that what you want? I don’t know. It’s selling yourself. And it’s a defilement of sacred matters. You still have it for Edita? No, eso es cuento viejo. Then what’s the problem? You sell yourself washing dishes, little bro. This is the country of selling yourself. And what sacred matter do you mean, which this scam bears no resemblance to, if you think about it? When the plane landed, Ramon crossed himself. He took the bus to the city. It was already late afternoon and the city was under the heavy dark clouds he had flown through. Packs of motorcycles and mopeds kept pace with the bus and then shot past. Linked streetcars ground around corners and disappeared as if swallowed. It was an old European city of unlighted streets and stone buildings with shuttered windows. He had the address of the tourist hotel on a piece of paper. There was just time to change into the suit and they were calling from downstairs. The girl from the picture gave him a quick glance of appraisal and nodded. No smile this time. And her hair was different—pulled tight and bound at the neck. She was dressed for the occasion in a white suit jacket with a matching short skirt and white shoes with heels that made her taller than Ramon. She seemed fearful. A bearded heavyset fellow held her elbow. They all rode in a taxi to a photographer’s studio. The photographer stood Ramon and the girl in an alcove with potted palms on either side of them and a plastic stained-glass window lit from behind by a floodlamp. They faced a lectern. When Ramon’s shoulder accidentally brushed hers, the girl jumped as if from an electric shock. Some sort of city functionary married them. He mumbled and his eyes widened as if he were having trouble focussing. He was drunk. When the photographer’s flash went off behind him he lost his place in his book and had to start again. He swayed, and nearly knocked over the lectern. He clearly didn’t understand the situation because when he pronounced them man and wife he urged them to kiss. The girl laughed as she turned away and ran to the heavyset fellow and kissed him. The photographer placed a bouquet of flowers in the girl’s arms and posed her with Ramon for the formal wedding picture. And that was that. Ramon was dropped off at the hotel and the next day he flew home. He learned the girl’s name when the lawyer with the briefcase put in front of him the petition to bring her to the States: Jelena. It attests that she is your lawful spouse and you are in hardship without her presence beside you, the lawyer said. Jelena, Ramon said, to hear the sound of it. He had not heard it properly, as uttered by the drunken fool who married them. Jelena. Yes. This is all here, everything, marriage certificate, copy of birth certificate, passport, and here is the wedding picture. It couldn’t hurt for you and bride to smile, but O.K. The lawyer slapped a pen down on the table. The John Hancock, he said. Ramon folded his arms across his chest. The figure was three thousand, he said. I have seen only one thousand. Don’t worry, that is to come. Ramon nodded. O.K., when it comes, then I will sign. The lawyer pressed his hand to his forehead. Borislav, he called to the owner. Borislav! And then for an hour the owner and the lawyer threatened and appealed and threatened again. The owner’s wife came over. She said to Ramon, Who are you to have three thousands of dollars! She turned to her husband. I told you he was no good, the mestizo, I warned you. Borislav raised his hand. Please, Anya, he said, you are not helping. Ramon, he said. This is family, the daughter of my late uncle. I have entrusted you. We are trying to give her a life here where there is hope. Jelena is to pay you the remainder from her wages. You did not tell me that when I agreed, Ramon said. I promise you. She will work beside you as a waitress. And I am raising you to full-time waiter. You hear me? Wages and tips, wages and tips equal to all the staff. You will see, so do this. And while Ramon sat thinking the lawyer said to him, This is a fraud that you have committed, you know that? There is a law—to marry only so that the girl can have a legal residency is to break that law. She is over there, so they cannot touch her. But you! I have just to call them. You know what you get for bringing someone here by pretending love? Five years, my friend. Five years and monetary penalties of an amount you cannot dream. And all I have to do is tell them. So tell them, Ramon said. And I will tell them that you wrote the letter for me to sign. And I will tell them that Jelena is of the family of Borislav, the man who employs me. So let’s all tell them. You are not to call me Borislav, the owner muttered. That is for friends and family, not for one who works for my wages. I checked it out, Leon said through the glass. It’s bullshit. The C.I.S. can’t keep up with the traffic. The risk is small, Ramon. If they do call you in, you say you love the girl. They know you’re lying—but she will back you up, naturally, since it is in her interest. But just to have some insurance you should learn a few things about her. What things? You know, she watches what TV shows, if she has a birthmark, where it is located. Things. She brought her boyfriend to the wedding, Ramon said. Of course. I didn’t like that. It was unnecessary. In two years, once she has her green card without conditions, she will divorce you and bring him here in turn. And they will marry and be Americans. Maybe. Maybe the lovers will not be able to wait that long. He will come for a visit and I will kill him. Yes, of course, Leon said, smiling. Listen, Ramon, she is just a dumb Hunky. No class, from the sound of it. She is still my wife, Ramon said. “Damn, Rocky, you don’t make it easy.”Buy the print » I say split the difference with them. Sign the paper and you’re good for two years. You wait tables and make some decent money. She gets the card with no strings, and you go on to be a famous movie director. He did know a thing about her, that she had English as a schoolgirl because she spoke it well enough. And that she wore a navel ring, a silver bar with three teardrop crystals hanging from it. But, of course, everyone knew about her navel because Jelena made sure that they did. She was the one waitress at Borislav’s and so her red jacket was cut for the female figure and between it and the short black skirt a flat band of flesh was visible, the teardrops dangling from her navel and sometimes catching the light as she walked with the tray held high and balanced on her palm. Of course the patrons ogled her and the regulars asked for her tables, but that was all right—her tips went into the pool. Ramon himself had picked up the waiter’s craft quite easily, after all his time busing, and he discovered that his formality and careful, quiet demeanor and efficient service had the effect sometimes of raising the manners and lowering the voices of the boors he served. Jelena smoked. She would take a drag in the kitchen and leave the cigarette burning in a dish as she went out through the doors, and it would be there smoldering until she came back in for another order and another hit. She did not match the photograph of the smiling blonde with the sunglasses in her hair. She was, instead, an ordinary working girl with a life of serious plans and no time to pose for a picture, with her long legs in the sun and a European city behind her. He wanted to learn everything about her, maybe for insurance, as Leon advised, but more because he felt he had rights as her legal husband. It was Jelena’s habit, when she had a moment, to step into the alley to use her cell phone. He saw her cast in a red glow from Borislav’s electric sign. He listened at the slightly opened door, hearing her voice despite the kitchen shouts and the clatter rushing past his ears. She spoke loudly as if to cover the great distance to her boyfriend in Europe. Of course it was her boyfriend, that heavy fellow with the sloping shoulders who had been at the wedding. Who else in Europe would she be calling at night? With the time difference, she had to have awakened him, or maybe he had not yet been to sleep. Perhaps she was making sure that he was not with someone else, because sometimes she seemed about to cry—this could be inferred from the tone of voice, never mind the language. Jelena lived in Borislav’s house, a few blocks from the restaurant. I’ll walk you home, Ramon would say at the end of a night’s work. Good night, Ramon, Jelena would say, but made no further effort to stop him as he walked beside her. On these occasions, he would ask her about her family, if her parents were alive, what her father did, did she have brothers and sisters, where she went to school. She would not answer. It is not wise for you to keep things from your husband, Jelena. Ramon, you are a pestilence, you know that? Not a pestilence, Jelena, you mean a pest. Nevertheless, the time may come in front of the authorities when I need to know these things, for your sake, not for mine. And when that time is here I will tell you. He would wait in the street while she climbed the steps and entered the house and wait some more until the light went on in her room on the top floor. Then he would continue on to his own room, several blocks away. He thought in the moonlight of the things he knew about her: the jewelled navel, the thin face and high cheekbones, the gray eyes that slanted upward at the corners, and her long stride for a girl. In the fall, Leon was sprung and called Ramon to invite him to a party. It was to be on a Monday night. Borislav’s was closed on Mondays, so Ramon could go. He insisted that Jelena go with him. She needs to know about me, he said to Borislav, just as I need to know about her. She will meet my family and have some idea in the event that we are ever questioned by the authorities. Borislav nodded and informed Jelena. She was furious. Don’t talk to me of government, Uncle! Why did I come here and risk losing everything, if not to have an end to government in my life? What is the everything you risk losing? Ramon said. Oh, shut up, you—going to Borislav like a child. When Monday came, Ramon picked her up in a car supplied by Leon. She was clearly taken aback by this luxury—a town car with a driver in a black suit—but she pretended to be unimpressed, just as he’d expected she would. It was a warm night and she wore her white jacket from the wedding, but with pale-olive slacks and a flower-patterned blouse, with an Orthodox cross hanging in her cleavage. Ramon supposed that the cross and the pendant on her navel were in a direct line. She saw him looking and grabbed his tie and pulled him toward her. Listen, Mr. Ramon pest, you can wrap Borislav around your finger, but I know what is in that mind of yours and I’m telling you it will never happen, you understand? Never! Is that clear to you, my husband? Never! And she let go and sat back in the car. Ramon adjusted his tie. He said, I don’t like you, either, Jelena, but if you required me to perform the conjugal duties of a husband I would comply, if only to honor our sacred bond. The party was in Leon’s loft and it was filled with glamorous people, sinuous and of high fashion, all of them dancing intensely. A d.j. was running the show. Music throbbed up from the floor and colored lights rotated slowly over the dancers, as if examining them. Jelena shook her head and he got her to say something. She said that the lights reminded her of her childhood, when searchlights had moved over the rooftops at night. Ramon found a place for them among glass tables for two in a far corner of the loft, where on wheeled carts food was set out for the taking: platters of shrimp, sushi, slices of roast beef, a sculpted pyramid of caviar on a salver with points of toast, diced onion, sour cream, capers, and lemon in attendance. Jelena’s eyes widened. She sipped her Coca-Cola. She moved her chair closer to Ramon’s. Let me ask you something that I don’t understand, she said. This is your brother, a very rich man, I guess, to have all this. I see his place with its paintings and big windows overlooking the river and all his friends of every color, who are what is called beautiful people, yes? But Ramon the brother waits tables in Brooklyn. How is this explained? Ramon said, I love my brother, but I do not share his life’s values. Saying this, he looked over the crowd and recognized several of Leon’s men. Two had been at the door as he came in. For a moment, he’d seen a question in their eyes, perhaps because of Jelena, but a moment later Leon was there and the brothers hugged and Ramon said, Leon, this is my wife, Jelena. Leon saw them now and came over. Why aren’t you dancing? he said to Ramon. She chooses not to. Come, Leon said, and without giving Jelena a choice in the matter he took her by the hand and led her to the dance floor. Ramon watched them, Leon flushed with exuberance, with freedom, a graceful dancer with creative moves, and Jelena clearly feeling out of her element, seeing around her the young women in all the fashions of planned carelessness and comparing herself badly, a provincial, maybe smart enough in the cafés of Eastern Europe, and a star at Borislav’s, but here a poor relative. Ramon felt sorry for her. Leon had kept himself fit in prison. His short-sleeved jersey showed his biceps. His head was shaved and he wore stylish black-rimmed glasses. He was elegant and had a self-assurance that Ramon could imitate only in moments of conscious effort. When the party went into its loose-limbed, heedless phase, loud with stoned laughter and drunken appreciations, the music pulsing through the acrid atmosphere, Ramon decided that it was time to leave Jelena was already out the door when Leon said, Ramon, if you want to, my sense is that it is possible. Why? She told me that you never smile. So how does that mean anything? It means that she observes you. I told her that she should give you something to smile about. That is very unlikely. I told her how smart you are, how you could read at the age of four. “Prozac? All right! Kickin’ it old school.”Buy the print » Oh, sure, that will certainly help. She is indebted to me for a thousand dollars. I haven’t seen any of it. Leon laughed and gave Ramon a big hug. Ah, my brother, maybe you are not so smart after all. After the night at Leon’s, Borislav’s restaurant with its dark furniture and thick carpets and red velvet drapes and amateur paintings seemed to Ramon unforgivably tacky. Yet working the same room with Jelena, doing the same thing at the same time, gave him a feeling of being home. And now he regretted bragging to her about what an independent person he was, with his uncompromising values. The truth was that Leon had seen him through four years at City College. And neither did this life he had drifted into have anything to do with values. He had felt restless, with only a vague ambition to make films, and gripped with a kind of wanderlust, though he had not wandered farther than Brooklyn. He’d got off the El one day when the sun shone in the window. It seemed to him a different light here than you had in Manhattan. He walked around and found sand in the streets and here and there a trace of a trolley track in the worn-out concrete. By and by, he came to the beachfront. The air was fresh, gulls rode the breezes, and Ramon felt unaccustomedly at peace in the wind-buffered sun with the blue seawater in his eyes. This feeling stayed with him as he wandered back into a local business district and saw the sign in Borislav’s window: “Dishwash Is Wanted.” He liked that locution, suggestive of a foreign tongue, and so he walked in and became a dishwash, only to rise to busboy, waiter, and married man. Then came the night that Borislav closed the restaurant to the public. Tables were pushed together, new linen was laid out, as well as cut-crystal glasses that Ramon had not seen before. A strange man arrived and strode into the kitchen. Jelena looked at Ramon in surprise, though Borislav, as well as his shrew of a wife, in a fancy dress and with her face made up, were clearly expecting this. He is the chef of this evening, Mrs. Borislav said. Ramon saw the chef’s imperious glance as he looked over the kitchen and the help, including the cooks. The chef shook his head in disapproval, then turned to Borislav and began giving orders. The dinner party for which the entire restaurant had been reserved turned out to have just fourteen guests, all men. Apparently they liked a quiet room. Borislav had excused the staff for the evening, except for Ramon and Jelena. When Ramon began his service, with bottles of sparkling water, conversation stopped and a man at the head of the table looked at him. Ramon felt Borislav’s hand on his shoulder and heard his somewhat deferential voice saying, in its mouthful language, that the boy was O.K. because he was just a mestizo who didn’t understand a word—which Ramon, of course, understood, because the look he’d got from the head man and the jovially responsive voice of Borislav provided all the understanding necessary. In the kitchen, Jelena was nervous. Before the guests had arrived she’d gone to the alley with her cell phone and a man standing there had told her to go back inside. Ramon, you know what they are? she whispered. Do you realize? She held out her hands and they were shaking. Ramon fingered her wedding ring. When had she got it? He couldn’t keep from smiling. You’ve been cleared for the evening, Jelena. You are family. Just don’t look at them. Keep your eyes down and be your efficient self and everything will be all right. How do you know to be so calm? Jelena said. I am familiar with the species. When the dinner of the fourteen was over and the limos had driven off and the doors were closed for the night, Borislav and his wife poured themselves glasses of blackberry brandy and sat down in the back. A while later, the old lawyer was admitted and the three of them chatted softly, as if Ramon might overhear them. Jelena had gone home and Ramon was about to leave when Borislav called him to the table. You did well, Ramon. Thank you. Sit, sit. The counsellor wants to speak with you. The lawyer said, April 15th, as you know, is for paying taxes. As I suspect, your income is the poverty level? Even counting tips, Ramon said. You see how ungrateful? Mrs. Borislav said. The lawyer continued, We assume the Immigration does not want Jelena, your wife, to be a ward of the state—this is their main concern for the green card, and so we are signing on Borislav, who is a man of substance, to be a co-sponsor of her. Borislav nodded in solemn acknowledgment of his substance. In that way, the Immigration is assured that Jelena does not apply for Welfare, though her husband is in the poverty class. And the arrangement is affirmed by Jelena living in the Borislav residence. O.K. with me, Ramon said, rising. One moment. Since as marriage partners you are to file a joint tax return, you and Jelena together, for this is what married people do, we find it necessary that you live with Borislav as well, in his house, and therefore with the same address on the tax return. Is it not my house also? Anya Borislav said to the lawyer. Of course, the lawyer said. My apologies. So let him be grateful to me as well. That we are giving the mestizo everything, including a roof over his head. But I tell you, she said to Ramon, this is not a hotel and I am not a maid. You understand? Your bed you will make yourself, your room you will clean, and your wash you will take to the laundromat, and your food you will eat elsewhere. Ramon ignored her. I have conditions, he said to the lawyer. What conditions? That the money I am owed is paid to me now. Jelena has not been paying you? Borislav said. No, nor have I asked her. She is my wife. Since we are married and filing a joint tax return it is not income if it is passed from one of us to the other. So I will need from you the money I’m owed before I consent to live in your house and suffer the insults of Mrs. Borislav. At this the woman rose from the table and began to scream and curse in her native tongue. Spittle flew from her lips. Borislav stood and tried to calm her, but she pushed his arm away and screamed at him. Anya, he said, please, please. We know what we are doing! It was that remark that Ramon remembered later. Borislav and the lawyer had agreed to pay him the money. But what was it, exactly, that they knew they were doing? Borislav’s house was of red brick with a roof of green tile. It stood out in this neighborhood of small two-family homes on small lots. The inside reflected the same taste—probably Mrs. Borislav’s—as the restaurant: heavy, dark furniture, thick rugs, lamps with tasselled shades, and toylike things on every surface, things of glass, things of silver, things of ceramic, dancing ladies in swirling skirts, horses pulling sleighs. Only when Ramon had climbed the stairs to the third floor did he find a window that was not heavily curtained. His room was across the hall from Jelena’s. It was small with a narrow bed and a chest of drawers, but its window was covered with only a pull shade, and when that was rolled up the seaside morning light streamed in so that he awoke with the sun on his face. In secret, of course, he was excited to be living so close to Jelena. When it came time to walk home after work, they had the same destination. He opened the door with her key and walked behind her up the stairs and said good night only when they stood at their doors. There was a bathroom, too, that they shared and so he got to know the products she used for her hair, her skin, her eyes. Her potions, creams, sprays, and soaps gave him a behind-the-scenes look at how she took care of herself. With respect, he always put the seat down. And so he felt in this illusion of their intimacy something more like the married state. “God, I hate theme dinners.”Buy the print » What puzzled him was her reaction to this closeness. He had expected her to object to having him as a housemate and to be even angrier and more remote than before. But she was not. She was formal, perhaps, but no longer offhand in her treatment of him. She regarded him judiciously as he spoke to her. And when it became apparent that Mrs. Borislav regularly checked his room and went through the entire house to see if he had stolen anything, Jelena told him this would be unforgivable if the woman were sane. Anya Borislav, Jelena confided, is not a little crazy. I don’t know how Borislav endures her. One Monday morning, Jelena said, I’m going to the beach. Would you like to come with me? And so there he was applying sunblock to her thin back, while the gulls wheeled about and the little birds with stick legs went running along in the wet sand, just out of reach of the incoming tide. Jelena’s bathing suit hardly deserved the name, some bits of cloth and a strap or two. Ramon did not own a suit. He’d removed his shirt and rolled up his trousers. There were very few bathers this workday morning, but the beach was embellished with the refuse of the weekend past—hunks of charred firewood, beer bottles, McDonald’s wrappers, plastic bags, balls of aluminum foil, wet newspapers, and the occasional used condom. But they had found a reasonably clean spot, where Ramon had only to dispose of a few pieces of broken glass, and so here they were in the sun with the hushing waves rolling in and the gulls crying and Jelena’s vertebrae easily countable as she bent forward and he rubbed the sunblock over her back. Afterward, they sat side by side on their towels and watched the waves. Ramon, would you like to hit me? No. Of course not. Jelena, what a strange thing to say. Why? I have been rude to you when you have done something only for my sake. I would deserve it. No, I understand your mind, Jelena. Nothing is settled for you. You are new in another country. You are loosely attached. My mother, just before she died, told me that she had never really got used to the States, though she’d lived most of her life here. Of course, everyone is different, but it takes time to make yourself American. Well, if not you then someone will have to hit me. Maybe Alexander. He knows to do it. Who hits you? Alexander? Is that your boyfriend? Yes. In a way of speaking. But it is best if you hit me, Ramon. She turned to him, removed her sunglasses, and he saw that she was crying. Forgive me, she said, I am the worst of people. I don’t know anymore what I am doing. Ramon’s heart beat faster. Is Alexander coming here? He says. But he speaks through Borislav. I am of no importance. Oh, I am so wretched, she said. And she got up and walked to the surf and stood there as, even in his misgiving, he recorded her lovely figure, the long legs, the small, firm haunches, the huddled shoulders as she stood at the water’s edge hugging herself. Leon said, Ramon, you should talk to me first. You have made a mistake. You know those people? Of course. It is my business to know. When they came into his restaurant Borislav’s stature should have risen in your estimation to the level of the totally untrustworthy. I am in love with Jelena. It can be felt as love when you want to fuck someone and can’t. We are man and wife. In my love for Jelena, I will fuck her. You would have been better off still walking her to the door and leaving. Now you are in there with all of them and you are vulnerable. What can they do? They will speed things up. And you could be out on your ass with no job and a court appearance. And I am a busy man, Ramon. I don’t need this thing of my brother for our lawyers to divert themselves and the P.D. to smirk at. I will not touch her. They don’t need you to. You’re in the house, the husband, you’re right there—what is it your movie people say—on location? You’re on location, Ramon! It is a federal law—they made it to punish domestic violence against women. She gets hit and she gets the divorce right now, and the whole thing is done not in two years but in two weeks. And here is this Alexander flying in on her green card to be married. She would have to bring charges against me. Jelena would not do that. Oh, please, Ramon. What am I dealing with here? So they give her a couple of black eyes, a broken nose—you think she would like more of the same if she refused to bring charges? None of this will happen, Leon. So, as I understand it, it’s not for Jelena, the daughter of Borislav’s late uncle, to make a better life for herself in America? We’re still looking into that. It may be no more than what it seems. There are other ways to have got him in, long before this. So if they’ve taken these pains, and it is not what it seems, we have something to learn. He hasn’t been a faithful boyfriend, we know that. Listen, Ramon, in the meantime just get out of there. Leave your clothes like you’re coming back. They’ll wait. They need you around to make the strongest case. You’ve got your cash. Let them look for you if they want to set you up. They took their lunch to have on the beach. But it began to rain—a misty rain with the combers rolling in, and everything was gray, the sky, the seawater, and there was no line at the horizon. They sat on the boardwalk with their bags of sandwiches and drinks on the bench between them. Jelena had pulled up the hood of her sweater. He could not see her face. I love you, Jelena. I know. You are reliable, Ramon. As a husband should be. You’re making fun. No. I have come to respect you. I find myself thinking about you without meaning to. You are very odd. I made a decision to love you when Borislav showed me your picture and sent me to marry you. A decision. Yes, this was an arranged marriage, and they are the best, when the decision is to love someone you don’t know. Those have always been the most sacred, the marriages arranged before there is love and by other people. The old way, from long ago, yes, and there is a good reason that it was given up. Well, I know that my mother and father’s marriage was arranged by their parents. The two young people sat there in embarrassment while their families negotiated. They had not met before. My mother told me that. And she and my father were together for forty years. And when he died she wept, how she wept. Neither my brother nor I could console her. Well, Ramon, that may be, but you and I have not sat in embarrassment while our parents negotiated. So where were the parents? It is a written green-card marriage, yours and mine. But it is still a sacred bond. Whether the marriage is arranged by one’s parents or by a drunken idiot, with the bride kissing the wrong man, and all for the wrong reasons—it is the same. Whether through one’s family or out of a desire to go to another country, it is the same mysterious thing going on underneath, doing its work in the manner of fate. And once it is done there can have been no other thing. That is very philosophical, Ramon. Your brother told me you are a graduate from college. And there is the sea in front of us, Jelena, that you have come over, to be in this country. And so that’s the way it is. Ramon carefully slipped her hood back and touched her cheek and she turned to face him. He leaned forward and kissed her lips. Here is what we will do now, Jelena. We will find a taxicab and leave. Just the way we are. We will buy what we need in the city. I have money. Ramon— It is no longer safe for you here. Or for me. Come. Anyway, it is too cold here in the rain. Take the sandwiches. Aren’t you hungry? I am. We will eat on the way. When Leon came in that evening, he found Ramon and Jelena standing at the window looking at the lights of the city. They were holding hands. Leon coughed to get their attention. They were flustered, as if they’d been caught doing something forbidden. Leon shook his head and smiled. Is this the lovely Jelena? So it is! Snatched from under their foreign eyes. Ah, my brother, he said, I should have known. I should have known. Leon went behind the bar and brought out a bottle of champagne. Come, we’ll drink to it. He set out the glasses and popped the cork. Let the war begin, he said.
The Trojan Prince It’s an April morning and a young man waits at a black-painted front door on a decent street in Tynemouth. It’s a much more decent street than the one where his home is. Both streets are terraced, but here the scale’s quite different. A curving flight of stone steps climbs to the door, flanked by railings that are also painted black. Dropped behind more railings, there’s a basement area, and rising from down there are the sounds of pans clashing and women’s voices and the steam of cooking—but he’s determinedly not looking down. He fixes his attention on the front door as if willing it to open—he has tugged at the bellpull and heard a distant jangling inside, but doesn’t know if he’ll have the nerve to pull it twice. The year is 1920. This young man has missed the World War; he has closed his mind now even to the thought of the war, which, it seems to him, has devoured everyone’s pity and imagination for too long. The street is quiet. It’s past the hour when the kind of men who live in these houses leave for their offices and boardrooms. He has chosen the time intentionally, so as to avoid them. But he’s hoping that it’s still early enough for the women to be at home. He has only a vague idea how the women who live here pass their days. The wind is tearing scraps of cloud in a fitfully gleaming sky, and combing through the twigs of the hornbeam trees (the trees are another difference between this street and his), setting them springing and dancing like whips. Last night it rained heavily—he lay awake listening to it in the bed that he shares with his brother—and the stone walls are still dark with wet, though the wind has dried the pavements. Beside the door, an iron implement like the upside-down end of a hoe is set into the stone step; too late, just as the door swings back, he realizes that it must be for scraping the mud off your boots before you go inside the house. He has walked or run down this street a hundred times before and never noticed the boot scrapers or given any thought to their function, because then he was a boy with no interest in going inside. There’s no time now to check whether his boots are dirty. A maid has opened the door—he knew that would happen and worried that she might be a girl he’d known at school. But she’s a stranger, tall and big-boned, with a smut on her cheek, so he’s able to push past her into the hall, doffing his cap. It’s only as the still atmosphere of the house envelops him that he’s aware of the particular weather of the morning he’s left behind—its touch on his face and its tug at his coat, the urgings of the onset of spring, the twigs glowing russet, swelling into bud. “Can I speak to Miss Ellen, please?” he says, with the aplomb he has rehearsed at home. The cessation of the wind is so abrupt that he feels for a moment as if he were deaf; it must be the quiet that makes this house seem so different from his own, because the smells are familiar enough—furniture polish, scalded dishrags, boiling cabbage. The maid is frowning at him sulkily, not knowing if she should have let him in. He guesses that she spends her life afraid of trouble from one side or another. “Don’t know if she’s at home.” “I should think she’d like to see me. She’ll be sorry if she misses me. I’m her cousin. I’m going away to sea.” The maid dithers fatalistically. “I’ll go and tell Missus. What’s your name?” “McIlvanney,” he says. “Tell her it’s James McIlvanney.” “Do you want to wait here, then?” “Here’s all right.” She puts out her hand to him and he waits a moment too long, not knowing what she wants. Then, blushing, he gives her his cap and sees a little light of contempt come into her eyes, which are round and hard and wet like pebbles—but it doesn’t matter, he’s got this far. Going up the stairs, she makes a show of stamping her feet heavily, as if she’s actually too weary to climb to the first floor. He’s only sixteen, despite the man’s overcoat and the new tweed cap. His hair is jet-black and very straight, and his face is composed of strong fine lines, clean and clear and exquisite like his pink-and-white skin; his eyebrows are as well-shaped as a woman’s, his curved lips pressed shut as if he were holding in important news. The jut of his cheekbones and jaw is masculine enough—strained and resilient. His expression is keenly alive with self-interest, which makes him appear blind and alert at the same time. The air in the hall is thick and dim and greenish, because the blinds are all drawn down—as they are in the parlor at home—to keep the light from fading the furniture. It makes him remember floating underwater once, when he dived into the canal and hit his head on an old bedstead someone had dumped there. A clock ticking in the hall is like his own pulse urging him on. He can hear the maid’s voice upstairs, other voices responding, impatient, querulous—he has dropped an interruption into the smooth unfurling of the women’s morning. Without warning, he experiences a slight nausea and dizziness. He holds his head back warily, defiantly, on his shoulders, so that the furnishings in this house won’t get the better of him: the dado with its raised pattern of diamonds under thick brown paint, the polished wood of the hall stand, the yellow gleams of brass among the shadows—the face of the clock, a rack for letters, a little gong hanging in a frame with a suède-covered mallet balanced across two hooks, a tall pot to hold umbrellas. He doesn’t look down at the pattern of blue and cream tiles underfoot in case he has trodden mud on them. Through an open door he glimpses low chairs fat with stuffing, crouched on a sea of flower-patterned rug. The smell of brushed carpet tickles in his nose. Everything in this house is slick with prosperity, with the labor of servants. In his own home, there’s only a girl who comes in two mornings a week to help his mother with the heavy work. What James McIlvanney thinks is: I’ll have all this one day. He doesn’t particularly like it, but he wants it. He stores it up, so that he knows what to want. He has no definite plan for how to get it. It wasn’t a plan that brought him here today. Ellen Pearson really is his cousin—second cousin, at least. She belongs to the branch of his family who have done well for themselves; his mother’s uncle, Ellen’s grandfather, made money in India, then came home to set up a company importing jute. Ellen’s mother is related to the Fenwicks, who own a department store in Newcastle. Ellen’s a pale blond girl whom James has seen on a few family occasions but never spoken to, attractive in a sickly kind of way, and shy, though the truth is that when he last saw her, at a family party, he didn’t bother to notice whether she was attractive or not, because he was only a boy, chafing in a prickly wool suit, consumed by the idea of escaping to his cronies out on the street, whose adventures at that point in his life absorbed him wholly. But, since leaving school and getting a proper job, he has begun to open his eyes to the world from this altered perspective, and has found himself interested in Ellen, attributing a kind of mystery to her and her blond languor, to the life he imagines she leads as a privileged only child. He hasn’t said a word to his mother about coming here. All he has in mind is that Ellen would be a useful friend to have. He hasn’t followed this through to any idea of paying court to her, or advancing himself in the world that way; he doesn’t like to think about courtship or marrying at all—and he really may be going away to sea at some point soon. His mother wanted him to settle in his job in the office at a local boatyard, where they make the pleasure boats that run up and down the coast. But he has persuaded her to let him sign up for an indentured apprenticeship with the Prince Line, which runs cargoes across the Atlantic to South America—coal out, grain home—and up the western seaboard of America and Canada. He had to borrow money from his grandmother, for the fifty-pound deposit. There’s someone coming downstairs now. It’s not the maid—he can still hear her yapping. And he knows that it’s not Mrs. Pearson, either, because women that age move noisily, rustling their skirts or clearing their throats. James has his back to the stairs; he’s gazing at the hall stand. He refuses to look around. His neck is stiff with the awareness of subtle, furtive movements behind him—a slithering, a creaking. He thinks it must be Ellen, creeping down to take a look at who he is. Let her look, he thinks. It isn’t a bad feeling. He gives himself up to her looking, with straight shoulders. “Jimmy Mac,” someone says in a teasing, gloating voice. “What are you doing here?” Caught out, he spins around to confront whoever it is. It’s a girl—not Ellen, too dark and too small. She’s grinning, peering out at him from between the bannisters, sitting on the stairs as if she’d come shuffling down them on her backside. It’s Connie Chappell. Because he can see only one narrow stripe of her face, it has taken him a moment to recognize her—and also because she’s changed. She’s had her hair chopped off and waved. She seems to be wearing some kind of pink silky pajamas—the last thing he would have expected in this house, and halfway through the morning, too. He is washed through with disapproval, like strong, tarry medicine, furious that Connie has got here before him, spoiling things. He remembers now hearing that Ellen had taken a shine to Connie, that there was talk of Connie moving in with the Pearsons as some kind of companion to their daughter. He must have disregarded this, because he couldn’t take seriously anything to do with Connie. She isn’t even properly related to Ellen—only through his own family, on his father’s side. Connie is four years older than James, though she doesn’t look it. When he was a baby, apparently, she used to wheel him in a pram. He believes he can dimly remember being pushed across rough grass, standing up at the front of the pram, holding on to the hood with both hands. Didn’t he go flying out when they hit a rock or something? Anyway, he can’t bear to think about it now, at this moment in the Pearsons’ hall. There had been something consecrated about his mission to this house, as if it might mark a kind of turning point for him—but Connie’s presence has punctured that mystery. “I came to see Ellen,” he says. “Did you, now? And what’s all this about you going away to sea?” She is laughing at him, as if she didn’t believe him. When she stands up, hanging on to the bannister rail, she stretches one leg out along it like a dancer, pointing her toes and yawning. He sees that the soles of her bare feet are dirty. She’s like a cat, James thinks. A sloppy little cat. Under the neat-fitting cap of her new hair, her face is intensely familiar—small and precise like a muzzle, freckled and snub-nosed, the brows exclamation points, always slightly raised. “Come on then,” she says. “If you want to see her. Ellen and me are getting dressed upstairs.” “Where’s Mrs. Pearson?” “Oh, somewhere about, I expect.” Connie is casually indifferent. “You can help us decide what to put on. I know—we’ll blindfold you. We’ll blindfold you with a stocking. Then we’re going out to walk around the shops. You can come out with us. Why aren’t you at work? Are you on holiday? Did you take a holiday just to come and see Ellen?” James hates the feeling that she knows everything about him. The lace curtains thickly shrouding the window on the stairs suddenly seem stifling—he wants to fight through them, to get to air. He has sisters, but they are older than he is and both married now. Even when they were at home, they would never have been idling around in their nightclothes at eleven in the morning; they would have been at work for hours already, in the kitchen or turning out the lodgers’ rooms, with their sleeves rolled up and coarse aprons tied over their clothes. He has never been anywhere like Ellen Pearson’s bedroom before. Heavy curtains are still pulled across the windows, and the beds aren’t made. The air is musky, as if the girls have been spraying scent, and there’s a stuffy smell, too, of crumpled sheets and bodies hot from sleep. The water in the basin is scummed with soap. Ellen is standing to look at her reflection where one curtain has been dragged back to let the light in, mirror held up in one hand and a swansdown puff in the other. Motes of her face powder spin in a yellow beam of sunshine. She cries out when James steps into the room, letting the mirror fall onto the thick Turkish carpet, where it doesn’t break. There’s another mirror set in the door of a massive wardrobe, its bevelled edge reflecting darts of light around the papered walls. Ellen is taller and heavier than he remembered, though she is only seventeen, not as old as Connie. Her apricot-colored wrap is trimmed with lace flounces. As James takes her in, the beam of light is extinguished abruptly, and a squall of rain blows against the windowpane. He would never have come up if he’d known it was their bedroom. He was thinking Connie was going to show him into some sort of upstairs drawing room: who knew how they arranged the rooms in a house like this, with so many to spare? “Jimmy called to see you,” Connie says, coming in behind him. Ellen is blushing. She pleads with Connie, “But we’re not ready!” “I only came to say goodbye,” he says. In his big boots, he’s afraid of stepping on one of the silky scarves and dresses and undergarments that are lying around as if the girls had dropped them wherever they took them off. There was something significant and teasing in the way that Connie announced him. He wasn’t confident, waiting downstairs, that Ellen would remember who he was. Now the intimation flies at him, as true as an arrow: she not only remembers him; she likes him. She could not have been expecting him to call—and yet he feels now that he has come because the girls conjured him up, talking about him. He’s certain that they’ve talked about him. “Ready for what?” Connie says. “Anyway, I said we’d blindfold him. That way everything’s decent—he can’t see, he can only guess.” “Goodbye?” Ellen says anxiously. “Why, where are you going?” It’s the same each time: although the visits to the Pearson house are his own idea, he feels the girls are drawing him there, as though he were under their spell. After that first time, they insist that he come again, whenever he can—on his afternoons off from work, and on Sundays. When he isn’t with them, he can’t help remembering, though it makes him ashamed, how he sat with his back to the girls in the bedroom while they dressed, sweating in his thick suit, Connie’s white stocking wrapped twice around his eyes and tied behind his head. Ellen hadn’t wanted to agree to the game; it was typical of Connie and her mischief. He could taste the stale-sweetish trace of her foot’s perspiration in the stocking. Connie reminds him of the girls at school who fussed over him and derided him when he was a pretty child—girls with hard hands and mocking raucous voices, fat floppy bows in their hair. He prefers to think about his growing familiarity with the heavy furniture in the Pearson house, setting him apart from the other boys in the boatyard, as if it already belonged to him. When, on Sundays, James sometimes crosses paths in the house with Ellen’s father, he’s surprised for a moment, as if Mr. Pearson were the usurper in his domain. Mr. Pearson—stooped, unsmiling, his face gray with ulcer pain—always stops to ask after James’s mother. He probably thinks that James is coming there for Connie. Ellen is better-looking than Connie, really—statuesque and slow and kind. Some days her skin looks doughy, with dimples like dirty fingerprints, but on other days James appreciates the golden ringlets against her white shoulders, the poignant shadows at the neckline of her blouse. She looks like a girl leaning on a classical pillar in a soap advertisement. Beside her, Connie is a little scamp, with her cropped hair and no figure to speak of. Connie wants Ellen to cut her hair, too, and they discuss it for hours. Ellen daren’t—she’s too afraid of her father. (James learns that Mrs. Pearson is nothing to be afraid of; she’s nervous, with puffy pink skin, and reads novels in her room. As long as Mr. Pearson is out of the house the girls have a free hand.) James weighs in against Ellen’s cutting her hair. He’s full of scorn for Connie’s cheap and showy gesture. A woman should have reserves of hair, he thinks, to uncoil at some important moment—although, if he tries to imagine the uncoiling, he shudders and feels clammy. But he admires Ellen’s qualities, her low voice, her clear pronunciation, her skills at the piano, playing selections from light opera. Not that he knows anything about opera. He tells his mother that he has called to see Ellen Pearson. “You never did.” “Guess who I met there?” He realizes that he has raised the subject just so that he can use Connie’s name in his mouth and spit it out. She is his enemy, he thinks. “What’s the takeaway on all this?”Buy the print » “It was good of the Pearsons to take her in,” his mother says. “Poor motherless kid.” Connie’s mother was James’s dad’s cousin Rose; she died of a growth inside her, after nine children. James can remember his Auntie Rose smoking while she made bread, the long ash on the end of her cigarette falling into the dough. She was small and skinny like Connie, but very strong—she could knead enough dough at one time to bake eight loaves. “Gives the bread a bit of a flavor,” she said to him, as if everything were a joke. The whole tribe of McIlvanneys are feckless, his mother says. The two girls pet James and tease him, as if he were a pretty, comical doll. When he takes them out on the street, one on each arm, done up in their bell dresses and tunic suits, their tam-o’-shanters pulled at jaunty angles, everyone looks at them. Sometimes they catch the electric train into Newcastle to walk around. They talk across him, discussing clothes—“a blouse of violet georgette with beadwork . . . a sand-colored cashmere frock with a tiered chiffon collar . . . a three-piece outfit in rose-and-blue tricot silk.” It’s like listening to the sailors gibbering in their foreign languages. James has to keep squinting and staring ahead—looking out for where they’re going, dodging the trams and broken pavings and bicycles and horse muck—so as not to be drawn into the talk and made ridiculous. He imagines that the girls are water swirling around him while he tries to stand up straight. There’s a delay with his travelling down to Dartmouth to take up his apprenticeship. He needs another fifty pounds to buy his seagoing outfit. Connie says that she doesn’t believe he’s actually going, but he doesn’t deign to show her his signed papers. He sees that Ellen suffers when he talks about how he wants to get away from England and see the world. They take a picnic to Heaton Park and she brings a hamper with compartments for all the food and utensils, blue leather straps with little buckles holding the cups and forks and bottle opener in place. James carries it along proudly. The earth under the trees is springy leaf mold, and flowers seem to hover like a blue mist at the level of his calves. He’s giddy for a moment, wading into the blue, treading down the fleshy stems of the flowers under his boots. The girls can’t believe that he hasn’t heard of bluebells or ever noticed them before. James is teetotal, but the girls drink wine and he’s aware of their two personalities changing and loosening under its influence. They laugh and squeal more loudly, showing off. Connie likes to remind him that she’s a grownup woman and he’s only a boy; she exchanges sly glances with Ellen and claims that there are things he doesn’t understand. They pretend that they’re tired—they make him lie down, then they rest their heads against his jacket, one on either side. While they close their eyes, he keeps very still, watching the sky above the treetops, the clouds drifting past. Ellen’s hair seems to give off a faint smell that he doesn’t like—it’s naphthalene from mothballs. He can tell that she’s not really asleep by the way she holds her head so tense and awkward against his ribs. Connie is mumbling and nuzzling into his breast, dribbling, until he pushes her off and she rolls over with her back to him, in a knot with her knees drawn up. At his Auntie Rose’s, when they were kids, he and his brothers were put to sleep in Connie’s bedroom once or twice. He remembers Connie in her vest and knickers, her skinny knees making a tent under the sheet, remembers her getting out of bed to use the shared chamber pot. He shores up these memories against her now. Something about the sight of the treetops brings back, like a strong stimulus rushing along his veins, things he has put out of his mind—adventures with his gang of mates, yelling and fighting and running, crashing through brambles, pushing on until his heart beat as if it were bursting out of his chest. Now he mustn’t move, with Ellen’s head against him. After a while, Ellen sits up, relieved, and she and James have a cigarette. She finds it funny, the way he smokes, nursing the cigarette with the tip in his palm, the end between his thumb and forefinger, drawing the smoke through his fist like the men on the docks. For once, James isn’t afraid that Ellen thinks he’s common. At this moment in the park, for some reason, the docks are something to impress her with—he doesn’t even remind her that he’s not one of those men, that he works in an office. “You’re smoking it down to the nub,” he explains. “So’s not to waste any, and so the foreman can’t see.” Ellen tries it. It makes him laugh to see her bending her blond head over the cigarette, coughing when the smoke goes up her nose. Then James pretends to smoke the way she does, waving the cigarette about with his little finger crooked. He wants to tell her all about himself, his future. He feels how fascinating he is to her—it’s as if she were attached to him by some glistening thread, which he can tug this way and that, and she’ll turn her head, with its coil of heavy hair, to attend to whatever he shows her. He’s aware of his own body, slim and hard beneath the dense cloth of his dark suit. It begins to fascinate him, too, this power that belongs to his looks, to his nature. But just then Connie wakes up. There are bits of leaf mold pressed into her cheek. She’s groggy and bleary. She lies looking up at them balefully, as if she’d caught them out. Her mouth is twisted into an expression like a disgusted cat’s. Her teeth are blue from the wine. He can’t talk properly to Ellen while Connie’s looking. He’s glad afterward that he didn’t talk about his father. He could have made a fool of himself: his brother Arthur says that Pa got the story out of a book. Connie probably thinks that, too. But James has loved the story since he was a little boy. His pa was missing at sea before the war, and when he came back he said he’d been captured by natives in Madagascar, and that they’d made a god of him, dressing him in animal skins and drumming and dancing around him, sacrificing to him. When he escaped, he got away with only a monkey and a pocket full of precious stones—their mother has a ruby made into a ring, with a claw setting. His story got into the papers, with a photograph of him with the monkey (which he sold later) on his shoulder. James’s mother still keeps those papers in a drawer, though after he came back Pa wasn’t often in the house. She’d had to take in lodgers when they thought he was drowned, so there wasn’t room. No one even told James till weeks afterward that his father had died—of t.b. in the poor hospital—so he missed the funeral. Arthur and his mother and sisters knew about it; they didn’t go because they didn’t want to. “Why would anyone make a god of him?” Arthur says with contempt. “What about the rubies?” “It’s not a ruby, it’s a garnet. One garnet. I expect he won it cheating at cards. Or stole it.” Arthur’s the clever one, apprenticed to a draftsman. James keeps his mouth shut; he never wants to appear a fool in front of Arthur. But, stubbornly, he persists in believing that such transformations as happened to his father are possible somewhere. Once he’s out of his apprenticeship, he’ll present himself for examination at the Nellist Nautical Academy, in Newcastle. He wants to become a master mariner, and have a ship of his own. (His timing’s bad. By the time he does get his master’s certificate, trade for the Merchant Navy will have slumped, and English rivers will be choked with tramp steamers requiring long-term berths.) In the summer, the girls go to Whitley Bay for a week, and James joins them there on his day off. He takes tea with them at the Park Hotel, where they have rooms, paid for by Mr. Pearson; the ices are served in silver-plate dishes at a glass-topped table in the conservatory, while a trio plays music. Connie spoons hers up demurely, looking as though she’d been doing this all her life. She uses the tongs to pick out sugar lumps for James, as if he were a kid on holiday, until he tells her to leave off. Afterward, they all go up to Ellen’s room because Ellen wants to show James some souvenirs of a couple of pals of hers who were killed in the war. The room is crowded and snug, with an armchair covered in pink silk, a pink silk eiderdown, fringed lampshades. Ellen brings out the friends’ photographs and the postcards they wrote, blacked out with ink where they were censored. She even has a lock of hair from one of them, Bunny, which she keeps in a book of poetry he gave her. Ellen’s eyes well up with tears—real tears, so that her nose gets red and her mouth twists into an ugly shape. She has had her hair cut now, and the new style doesn’t suit her head the way it suits Connie’s. James pretends to be angry that he was too young to fight and do his bit, but really the faces in those photographs are too quenched and completed—he’s tired of them. Arthur tried to enlist, but they turned him down because of his varicose veins. Two of Connie’s brothers were with the Tyneside Irish at the Somme, but she never cared for them much; she only wrinkles her nose when Ellen kindly tries to include them in her sorrowing. Anyway, they both came back, and they’ve been boozing and fighting their way around the docks ever since. “Let’s go for a swim,” Connie says. “Let’s walk down in our swimsuits.” “You can’t do that,” James says. “We’ve done it every day. No one cares.” “It is Sunday,” Ellen says warily. The idea of the two of them flaunting themselves in the public street fills James with a boiling rage that somehow has to do with the dead soldiers. He thinks that Connie is unpatriotic, shameless. “I wouldn’t allow any wife of mine to go parading around with nothing on in front of everybody,” he says hotly. Connie is delighted. “ ‘Allow,’ Jimmy Mac? You won’t ‘allow’ it? Who d’you think you are, King of the Hottentots or something?” The weather’s changing anyway, and Ellen decides that it’s too chilly for the swimsuits. They go and walk on the front and have their photograph taken sitting on an upturned boat, then struggle across the pebbles in the sea wind, the girls clinging to James, Ellen’s beret blowing away and bowling off down the beach, James running like mad after it. He feels excitedly that they’re all on the brink of something new, an entirely new way of living, apart from their parents. Anything could happen. They’re all three laughing, Ellen, too; she has forgotten to be mournful and dreamy, despite her dead friends. When he snatches up her beret, she comes running after him, full tilt into him, almost knocking him over, so that he has to catch her to save her from falling. For a moment they’re staggering together; she’s warm in his arms, thanking him in breathless, gasping sentences, admiring how fast he runs. He doesn’t let go. He kisses her beside her ear, a sort of kiss, though he hasn’t kissed anyone since he was a baby. He can smell whatever it is that she puts on her hair. Over her shoulder he can see Connie pretending not to see them, crouching down to poke at something she’s found among the pebbles. To his surprise, in the evening Connie comes back with him on the train to Newcastle. She says she has to visit her dad, who isn’t well. (“Lungs,” she says shortly when he asks what’s wrong.) The two of them mostly sit in silence. Their mood is flat; the sea air has taken it out of them. Without Ellen, they are returned to all the ordinary things they know of each other. When Connie closes her eyes, the purplish-red lids seem unnaturally large below her neat, definite eyebrows; her face is more naked than when her eyes are open and vigilant. She asks about his work at the boatyard, and he makes it sound more important than it is. He says he’s responsible for ordering the timbers and fittings, whereas in reality he’s just answering the telephone and running errands. “Ellen likes you,” Connie says. “You could get a job with her dad’s firm.” James frowns suspiciously, but he doesn’t think she’s teasing. He reminds her that he’s going away. “Oh, you and your old running away to sea. I don’t know why your heart’s so set on getting yourself drowned.” It’s true that James was taken aback by the sight of the churning, pounding sea on the beach this afternoon, as if he’d somehow left it out of his calculations. He sees the sea in the docks every day, but that’s different—still and filthy. “I won’t drown,” he says sturdily. “I’m lucky.” “Ellen’s a nice girl. You could have a good life here.” But he’s only just seventeen—it’s too soon for him to think of marriage. Girls are always wanting to talk about weddings. There’s no one else in their compartment; the little train dawdles through the evening rain. “Look what I found on the beach,” Connie says, fishing in the little purse she carries. “Close your eyes. Open your hand.” She used to give him sweets like this when they were children. He closes his fingers around it. It’s nothing much—just a bit of sea-washed glass, smooth to the touch, a frosted blue. She tells him to keep it safe when he goes away, says that it’s her luck added onto his. The Trojan Prince, carrying a general cargo of manufactured goods and foodstuffs, goes aground on rocks off the west coast of Canada, one evening of storm and fog in February, 1923. Two men row heroically to shore, running a line from the davits of the trapped lifeboat, making it fast around a tree when they reach land. One by one, the crew crosses to safety, the Captain last, hand over hand along the rope. Clinging to that rope, sometimes the men are dangling fifteen feet above the waves; sometimes they’re plunged fifteen feet deep beneath. The wind screams. Black walls of water pick up a ghostly illumination from the swirling snowflakes. When it’s his turn, apprentice James McIlvanney can’t get rid of the idea that everything is happening in a story—to someone else whose role he seems to be carrying off convincingly. To his relief, it turns out that this someone is not a coward: he’s resourceful and determined and strong enough. Here he is, swinging above the terrible sucking water, above certain death if he falls in. There’s a rhythm to it—if you let the rhythm take you, then you know how to let go of the soaking slippery rope with one hand, twisting and lunging your body forward in midair, then clapping your hand on the rope again, farther along. He learned this when he was a boy climbing trees with his mates. He’s hanging on for dear life. There ought to be somebody to see it. Then he’s plunged under the water and his lungs are bursting. He loses his left plimsoll in the crossing, also the bit of blue glass that Connie Chappell gave him. Somehow they all hang on. It’s a wonder that there is no loss of life among the forty-two crewmen. But the ship can’t be saved—it breaks up on the rocks over the next few days while they wait for rescue. Where they have got ashore is an uninhabited outcrop west of Vancouver Island, covered in scrub and stunted trees. They make a fire and boil hot water to drink by melting the snow. The wireless operator didn’t manage to signal their position before the wreck, and they can’t find anywhere now to launch a distress rocket. The next day, when the storm subsides, the men go back on board to rescue what supplies and foodstuffs they can—mostly canned fruit. James finds a spare black boot among the clothes they bring. Some of the men break into the bonded store, to get at the spirits. The Captain sits apart from the rest of them, inconsolable at the loss of his ship. No one takes any notice of the four apprentice boys. James has time to think about the enormity of the task he has undertaken: acquiring the necessary knowledge to navigate the ocean using the stars. He makes up his mind to draft a table of all the subjects he needs to know, setting out the period of time he will dedicate to each. He resolves to adhere to this timetable even while he’s in port, instead of going ashore with his shipmates. James imagines telling all this to Connie when he gets home. He’s sorry that he lost the little token she gave him, which he kept in his pocket through all the first hard months of his apprenticeship at Dartmouth, but it doesn’t matter. She won’t care—it was only a bit of glass. On the third day they’re spotted by Japanese fishermen, who alert the Bamfield lifeboat. Then they’re taken by cutter to Seattle, and after that across Canada by train to St. John, in New Brunswick. From St. John, James sends a postcard to Connie, telling her that he’s all right. On board the Royal Mail steamer that takes them home, the officers and apprentices travel first class; the shipwreck has made them famous. Lady Furness, who is a patron of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, helps James read the menu, which is written in French, and organizes the apprentices in a tableau—“Survivors”—to entertain the other passengers. They sing “Eternal Father Strong to Save.” When they dock at Liverpool, Connie is waiting for him. He knows he ought to marry Ellen Pearson and get a house full of furniture. But he can’t. He won’t.
Boys Town Here’s the story of my life: whatever I did wasn’t good enough, anything I figured out I figured out too late, and whenever I tried to help I made things worse. That’s what it’s been like for me as far back as I can remember. Whenever I was about to get somewhere, something would step in and block me. Whenever I was about to finally have something, something would happen to take it away. “The story of your life is that you’re not to blame for anything,” my mother always said when I told her that. “Out of everybody on earth, you’re the only one who never did anything wrong. Whatever happens, it’s always somebody else’s fault.” “It is always somebody else’s fault,” I told her. “Poor you,” she always said back. “Screwed by the world.” “Hey, Dr. Jägermeister’s calling,” I used to tell her. “Bottoms up.” And she’d just go back to whatever she was watching. “So what’s the deal with dinner?” sometimes I’d say. “You have a busy day?” “Go to Pizza Hunt,” she’d tell me. “That’s Hut, you fucking idiot,” I’d tell her back. And then she’d say something else wrong the next time, just to frost my ass. I was thirty-nine years old and living with my mother. I hadn’t had a good year. “What was your last good year?” my friend Owen asked me. “1992?” He wasn’t doing too well himself, but he managed to come over once or twice a week to eat whatever we had lying around. I made some comment about whatever it was we were watching and he said, “What do you like? Do you like anything?” “He likes to complain,” my mother told him. “He likes to make trouble.” I liked to complain. I almost choked. What did I like? I liked my dog. I liked hunting in the woods. I liked target shooting. I liked my kid, when I was first getting to know him. I liked women who weren’t all about money or what I planned to do with my future. “It’d be different with you if you ever got laid,” Owen said during a commercial. My mother snorted. “Hey, you’re the one with the hand in your pants,” I said. “Now he’s going to tell us about Stacey,” my mother told him. But I didn’t say a word. My kid was down there in Stacey’s house a thousand miles away. I was supposed to send checks but otherwise not come around more than once or twice a year. I mean, try to cram a whole year’s worth of family time into one week. Maybe it’d work for you, but it didn’t for me. Stacey said the kid was asking where his dad was, and that if I wanted to see him I had to send money. It got so I let my mother answer when she called. They’d stay on the phone telling each other stories about me. “You think that’s bad,” my mother would say. A guy in basic told me that girls who weren’t good-looking were the smart move because they were more grateful and weren’t as likely to run off with somebody, and that made sense to me. I met Stacey at Fort Sill and liked her family better than her. I was a 71 Golf, which is like a clerk, hospital stuff, administrative. She was, too. I’d be dropping off discharge batches and she kept her head down when I teased her, but I could see her smile. We went out for a year and five months and then we got married and had a kid. She was always saying she was going to move out, but she finally did the deed when I pushed her down the stairs. She was all like “You coulda killed me,” and I was like “Hey, you shoved me first, and there was a railing, and there was carpet.” She said, “You don’t shove somebody at the top of the stairs,” and I said, “Well, what did you do to me?” And the cop who showed up was a guy who had had a crush on her in high school and he was all “You can’t be with this person. You want to press charges?” He’s standing over her while she’s crying at the kitchen table and I’m in the den thinking, Why don’t you rub her fucking back. And she was all Miss Generous: “No, just get him out of here. I don’t feel safe.” Out here in the fucking sticks, you don’t meet anybody. I went to this singles social in the basement rec room of the church. You had to fill out forms so they could match people up. These two women were running the thing. They asked if I could read and write. When they saw my face, they said it was just a question on the form. But then I always reminded myself I didn’t have it so bad. Our next-door neighbor’s nineteen-year-old had some kind of thing, muscular dystrophy maybe, and they told her that kids like him only lived to be about twenty-one. When she came over for coffee with my mother, she told us to pray that his heart muscle stopped before his lungs, because that’d be a less horrible way to go. I had all kinds of jobs. If it was some fucking thing no one else wanted to do, I did it. I worked in a hospital laundry. I washed pots and pans. I separated metals in a scrap yard. I drove a shuttle. That job had a little pin that came with it that said “Martin, for Comfort Inn.” Whenever I said stuff to my mother like I could see why my dad walked out, she’d go, “Where’s your pin? Don’t lose your pin.” I started thinking I should just go off the grid. You know: if I wasn’t using anything or spending anything, I didn’t need to make anything. I’d grow my own garden and shit. In the winter there’d still be rabbits and deer. I’d work out. Read a book. Improve my mind, unlike the other fucking imbeciles around here. “Who says you’re not using anything or spending anything?” my mother said when I told her. “Somebody’s cleaning out the refrigerator every two days.” “That’d be your friend Owen,” I said. “Your TV pal.” “My friend Owen?” she said. “He doesn’t come over to see me.” “Well, I never asked him to come over and see me,” I told her. “So why’s he come?” my mother said. “Because he’s a fucking bum, like me,” I told her. “ ’Cause he’s got nothing else to do with himself.” “All right, all right,” she said. “Don’t get excited.” “Don’t get excited,” I said. “Don’t get excited,” she said. “Put that down.” The Comfort Inn was my last job. I took two days off to go to my grandmother’s funeral and they never let me forget it. The week I was back, even when I did a good job on something, all I heard was “You never told anybody you weren’t coming in, you didn’t let us know we were supposed to cover for you, you left us holding the bag.” I’m working and the supervisor’s just standing there running me down instead of doing his job. I finally told him that kind of horseshit was all well and good but, you know, it was pretty unprofessional. You get lonely, is what it is. A person’s not supposed to go through life with absolutely nobody. It’s not normal. The longer you go by yourself the weirder you get, and the weirder you get the longer you go by yourself. It’s a loop and you gotta do something to get out of it. There was this girl Janice who I saw a lot at the store. I started talking to her, because it seemed like she was always out, and I was always out. I’d go to the library, or the store, and I’d see her. She seemed like a good person, and when I was with her I found myself thinking maybe I could do this or maybe that. Sit down at a restaurant with someone and eat like a human being. Take her back to my place and maybe watch a movie or something, if my mother would ever leave the house. Naturally, this Janice had an ex-husband who was a cop. But as far as I could tell she didn’t see too much of him. I didn’t need to be near any cops. The last thing I needed was somebody running a check on me. My mother and Owen didn’t know about Janice. They didn’t know that I had a plan all worked out, that asshole here hadn’t completely given up. One of the times I saw her in the library, she was taking out like three DVDs about Milo and Otis. I said to her, “So you like dogs, huh?” and she said she did. I asked if she had one and she said yes to that, too. I told her I had one and she asked what kind and I told her. She said when she was leaving that maybe she’d see me walking it and I told her that maybe she would. I went over there twice with my dog and couldn’t get myself to go up to the front door either time. The second time, I was talking to myself and it still didn’t work. And while I was standing there my dog took a dump on her sidewalk. I walked the woods for however many years and know the whole area better than anybody. Down the end of the logging road where people went to park, on the edge of the state forest, I hid a bag, a big duffel, that had a sleeping bag and two knives and one of my rifles in it. One of the knives was really more like a machete and axe combined. I had some bug spray in there, too. I thought it would be like a survival bag, if it came to that. I had it all in a big plastic garbage bag to keep it dry. Then somebody stole the whole thing. I got everything in Wichita Falls at a gun-and-knife show after I got out of the military. I still had the .308 and a .357 Desert Eagle and a lot of ammo, so I started another bag. This one I made sure I hid better. Fifth grade, we used to play this capture-the-flag game where anybody who got touched had to go stand on the base and there’d be fewer and fewer kids left after one side started winning. Fifth grade for some reason everybody decided it was boys against girls, and they’d pick out who they wanted to get caught by. You had to use two hands to touch and I would always tear free and so I’d be one of the last ones running around. This horrible cold day, the girls were looking at their first win if they could just get me. Four or five of them boxed me in and everybody on both sides was going crazy. This girl named Katie Kiely was right in front of me and all she had to do was step forward. I remember not being able to stop myself from grinning. And her expression changed when she saw my teeth, and she couldn’t make that last move. The other girls were shouting at her and then it was like they caught what she had and they couldn’t step forward, either. It was like I was a hair in their food. The teacher rang the recess bell and we all just stood there looking at each other. Then she rang it again and we all went inside. My dad left the year before, or the year before that. I was in either third or fourth grade. Apparently, when he and my mother could still joke around it was always about me coming to a bad end. At least, that’s what she said later. Like anybody could tell anything about anybody when they were nine years old. One Christmas, she said that as part of the joke he gave her a VHS of “Boys Town,” the movie where Spencer Tracy’s the priest and Mickey Rooney’s the tough kid who goes straight because he gets a new baseball glove or smells some home-cooked bread or some fucking thing. She watched it every year around Christmas. I think it might’ve been the only thing he gave her that she didn’t throw out after he took off. She’d always go, “Your movie’s on,” after she put it in the machine, but she always ended up watching it by herself. There was one scene in it I liked, where a kid at one of the big lunch tables at the home tells Mickey Rooney how easygoing the place is, and how if he wants he can go on being Catholic or Protestant or whatever. And Rooney tells him, “Well, I’m nothin’.” And the kid says back, “Then you can go right on bein’ nothin’. And nobody cares.” And one of the other kids showing him around says that on a clear day you can see Omaha from there. And Rooney goes, “Yeah? Then what’ve you got?” I didn’t think I’d seen the movie that often, but I got it in my head, so I must’ve watched it a lot. There’s this other scene where they’re about to strap a guy who didn’t pan out into the electric chair. And the guy goes to Spencer Tracy, “How much time have I got, Father?” And Tracy goes, “Eternity begins in forty-five minutes, Dan.” And the guy asks him, “What happens then?” And Tracy goes, “Oh, a bad minute or two.” And the guy’s like “Yeah, I know. After that?” And Tracy tells him, “Dan, that’s been a mystery for a million years. You can’t expect to crack that in a few seconds.” There were a lot of things I wanted to do about my appearance, but only so much could get accomplished until I got certain things squared away. I recognized that. I had a lot of stress. That’s what nobody understood. I was in the military and after that I was working two jobs and trying to raise a family, and it seemed like even so, living at home and doing nothing, I had more stress than I had back then. Back then I never complained about it, I just did it, but people didn’t realize that I was doing whatever the average person did times two. I took whatever shit the average person took times four. And I never said anything. I did my job and worked my eighty-hour weeks and knew as sure as shit that whatever I wanted was going to get taken away from me. And the kind of thoughts I started to have people had all the time. But it was like everybody said: thinking and doing were two different things. After my dog took the dump on her sidewalk, I didn’t see Janice around for like three weeks. I thought maybe she was avoiding me. Or maybe she’d gone to Florida. Or maybe she was dead. I wrote a note, finally, and stuck it in her screen door: “ARE YOU STILL INTERESTED IN DOG WALKING?” And then when I got home I remembered I hadn’t put my number on it. And then I remembered I hadn’t put my name on it. That third week my dog finally flushed a turkey in the state forest and I blew its wing off. I took it home to my mother and she said, “I’m not cleaning that fucking thing.” And I said, “I bring you a whole turkey and you act like all I’m doing is making work for you?” And she said, “I’m not gonna start up with you,” and went back to her show. So I threw the turkey in our dumpster. Then when I was walking the woods I thought that was stupid, so I hiked all the way back and pulled it out. I’d give it to some charity or church so some poor kid could have some decent meat. So somebody could get something good out of it. The guy who sold me my Desert Eagle told me that it was the last of the Israeli ones and that no more were going to be imported. Somebody else told me later that that was bullshit. I got all the extras at the same time and taught myself how to change the barrel length, so the version I had in my new bag had the ten-inch barrel instead of the six. The guy at Gilbert’s Gun & Sportsman kept telling me he wanted to see it again. He called it the Hand Cannon. I joined an Owners’ Forum on one of the USA Carry Web sites for a little while to get some tips and just talk to somebody. My user name was MrNoTrouble and somebody trying to be funny asked if that was the name my mother gave me and I said yeah. I met some guys online who seemed O.K. and some of them said they knew what I was going through. One guy, triplenutz, didn’t live too far away and said we should meet up and go hunting together, but we never did. Another guy talked about taking his old toilet out back and letting fly at it with his Eagle from eighty yards. He recommended the experience for all Eagle owners. He said a piece of the flush tank broke the garage window behind him. I got my dog from the stray facility at Fort Sill when I was leaving. I saw his photo on the Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Web site. The poor little fuck was just sitting there behind the chain-link looking at his paws. The adoption fee was fifty-two dollars, but that came with rabies and distemper-parvo shots, plus deworming and the heartworm test. I stayed away a couple of days after the turkey incident and when I got back I sat on the porch and cleaned my rifle in the cold. After a while, the porch light went on and finally the door opened and my mother asked me to take her shopping. She had the door open only a little, to keep the heat in. “I need some things,” she said after I didn’t answer, like she was explaining. “Why didn’t you have Owen take you?” I said. She’d had trouble driving since she hurt her back. It didn’t bother her to ride, though. “He hasn’t been around since you left,” she said. “So you gonna take me or what?” We went to the Price Chopper and the state package store. “It’s not for me,” she said when she told me about the second stop. “I’m getting stocking stuffers for Daryl.” I went up and down the AM dial while she was in there. Every single song I heard was what my father used to call a complete and utter piece of shit. “Don’t ask me who Daryl is,” I said to her when she finally came out. “You know who Daryl is,” she said. She dumped the bags on the seat between us. “Remember, ‘accounting’ and ‘accountability’: nothing in common.”Buy the print » “I thought this wasn’t for you,” I said, looking at the Jägermeister. “I was here, I figured I might as well get something for myself,” she said. The other bag was filled with little travel bottles of liquor. “I got an assortment,” she said. “He likes those and peppermint patties.” “I think you got that thing they talk about on the news,” she said when we were halfway home. “P.T.S.D. Is that what it is? I think you need to talk to somebody.” “P.M.S.,” I told her. “I think you need to talk to somebody,” she said. “I talk to somebody every day,” I told her. “Believe me, it’s no fucking picnic.” “Owen said you could file a claim,” she said. “Everyone gets something from the government except my kid.” “That’s because your kid’s an imbecile,” I told her. “We already know that.” “All I’m saying is I think you need to talk to somebody,” she said. “And now I’m gonna drop the subject.” When we got home, the poor fucking dog had wrapped himself around the tree with his chain. I don’t know why we left him outside, anyway. “You’re not gonna help me carry stuff in?” my mother said when I left her in the car. She showed up at the door to my room a few hours later, after I was in bed. “There’s phone numbers and stuff you can find,” she said. “Owen told me.” “So have Owen call them, then,” I said. “Owen doesn’t need them,” she said. “You got enough money,” I told her. “And I been through worse shit in this house than I been through out of it.” And that shut her up for like three days. When she was finally ready to talk, I went back to the woods. I took the dog, but of course he ran away. I only found him again when I got back to the house. People like to talk about cancer or strokes, but if I was going to get something I’d want to get cholera. I came across it on the Plagues & Epidemics Web site and somewhere else it said that cholera killed thirty-eight million people in India in less than a hundred years. It even sounds like nothing you want to fuck with: cholera. After basic at Fort Sill, I was in for four and a half active and then four in the reserves. In the reserves I trained to be a 91 Bravo, which was a field medic, but I washed out. When they gave me the news, they said not to worry, they’d still find me something to do. I ended up working out at the Casualty and Mortuary Affairs Operations Center. “What’d you do there?” my mother wanted to know when I got back. “Oh, you know, a little bit of this, little bit of that,” I told her. I think she was watching “The Farmer’s Daughter.” Even Owen had to laugh. You want to talk about sad: even after all I been through, one of the saddest things I ever saw was a year after I got home, when my mother pulled over at a stop sign, it must’ve been ten below, and she’s got the window down and she’s scooping snow from the side mirror and trying to throw it on her windshield to clean it. We’d gone about three blocks and couldn’t see a thing before she finally pulled over. I’m sitting there watching while she leans forward and tosses snow around onto the outside of the glass. Then every so often she hits the wipers. She did this for like five minutes. We’re pulled over next to a Stewart’s. They got wiper fluid on sale in the window twenty-five feet away. She doesn’t go get some. She doesn’t ask me to help. She doesn’t even get out of the car to try and do it herself. My hair started falling out. I found it on my comb in the mornings. I could see where it was coming from. Not that anybody gives a shit, but you put that together with the teeth and you have quite the package. I came in from thirty minutes of sliding slush off the porch and there was my kid’s voice on the machine. My mother was playing it over again and turned it off when I got inside. She went back to whatever she was doing at the sink. “Were you gonna tell me he called?” I asked. “You cleaned up all that ice already?” she asked me back. “I didn’t do the ice. I did the slush,” I told her. “What am I supposed to do about the ice?” she wanted to know. I left her and went into the living room. She said, “There’s a message from his mother, too. She says she’s gonna get a lawyer to hop your ass unless you start sending some money. And somebody else called,” she added once she was back with me in front of the TV. I went out to the kitchen and played the machine. There was only one message and it was from the kid, saying he wanted to wish me a happy holiday. He said, “There was a thing about your unit in the paper, so I sent it up to you.” I could hear a little buzzing, maybe something in our phone, maybe something in his. “Let me know if you get it,” he said after a minute, like he was waiting for someone to answer. I’d been getting a headache that felt like lights going on and off and trying to crack my skull. “Who else called?” I asked. I was still standing at the machine. The water from my boots was black from all the shit in the snow. “How would I know?” my mother called from the living room. “She didn’t leave a name.” “It was a woman?” I asked. “She wanted me? Was her name Janice?” “I just said she didn’t leave a name,” she said. When I went back to the living room and stood in front of her, she said, “I can’t see,” meaning the television. “You got in here fast,” she added, after I sat on the sofa. “What do you got, a girlfriend?” I kept thinking this was my one chance, and then about how Janice could’ve found my number. Maybe she asked someone at the library? “You’re not answering me now?” my mother said. “I’m trying to think here,” I told her. She shut up for a while. Then she finally said, “I don’t know why anybody would want to give you the time of day.” I was thinking I should get the dog and go over to Janice’s house, but it was sleeting. I figured I’d do it when it got better out. But I couldn’t sit still, and my mother finally said, “You’re shaking the whole floor,” meaning with my leg, so I went up to my room. The dog came up to check on me and took one look and went downstairs again. Then it got so bad I had to go out anyway, so I hiked down to the creek and checked some of my traps. I was wearing my field jacket with the hood, but I still got soaked. Two of the traps I couldn’t find and there was nothing in the third, because I don’t even know if I’m setting them right, but a month ago I found one snapped shut with some blood around it in the snow. When I got back, there were police cars all around my house. I hid in the sandpit a few houses down and watched until they went away. What is this what is this what is this? I was thinking. I was surprised how much it freaked me out. I had some tricks I’d come up with over the years to keep from losing it, and I used them all. I waited half an hour after the cop cars left and lay there banging my chin on my gloves. Who else did I know who’d be in a sandpit in the snow outside somebody else’s house? The sleet changed to rain. It was so cold my head was rattling. One of the medics supposedly training me in the reserves used to call me T.B.I., for Traumatic Brain Injury. The first time he called me that, I told him I hadn’t had any brain injuries, and he said, “Well, maybe it happened when you were a baby.” Finally, I stood up and came down the hill and circled my house on the outside. The back yard was like a lake. The light was on in my mother’s bedroom and I went up to the window. On the dresser under the lamp there was a pamphlet that said “Your Service Member Is Home!” The TV was going in the living room, but maybe she was in the cellar. I waited until she came up the stairs and then pushed through the back door. “They’re looking for you, boy,” she said when she saw me. Not “You must be fucking freezing.” Not “How about a warm shower?” “What’d they want?” I asked. “They said they had a number of things they wanted to talk to you about,” she said. “They wanted to look in your room and I said, ‘You got a warrant?’ I told them you’d be back tonight.” “What’d you say that for?” I asked. “What was I supposed to tell them?” she said. “That you were out looking for a job?” I went up to my room to think. There were some issues about prescriptions at the local pharmacy. Some bad checks back in Wichita Falls. There was a girl I’d scared by not letting her past me when we ran into each other in the woods. She’d torn her sleeve when she finally got away. It could’ve been a lot of things. “I gotta go,” I said when I came back downstairs. “I’m gonna do some camping for a while.” “Camping,” she said. “In this.” She put her hand out to the window. “Don’t tell them where I went,” I said. “Far as you know, I never came home.” “I should be so lucky,” she said. I changed into dry clothes and put on like twelve layers and got together a rain fly and a cooking stove and a tent and a big pack full of cans of food and other shit and got out of there. “You taking your dog?” she called, but I never heard what she said after that. It took me an hour to get to the end of the logging road, because I was covering my tracks with a pine branch as I went, and then another hour to find the duffelbag in the snow, and from there I followed a creek uphill way into the forest. I found a spot I already knew that had good cover and visibility and got everything set up and then started going through what I had and just what it was I thought I was going to do. There was a trail fifty yards below that did a hairpin, and snowmobilers used it and cross-country skiers. Farther down was a waterfall and swimming hole and I remembered a notice on the library’s Christian Outings bulletin board about a faith hike for teens called the Polar Bear Mixer. I figured, well, if I’m going to jail I might as well get something to eat first, so I made some stew. And while I was eating I started thinking that once the cops had me one thing would lead to another and I knew what went on in jail, I’d heard stories. So I emptied the duffel in the tent and got all geared up. I had stuff I didn’t even know I had. A bipod mount for the rifle and a winter-camo wrap for the stock and barrel and scope. Even winter-camo field bandages. When I was finished, I felt like this way I was at least ready for whatever. But nobody came down the trail. It got dark. I got some sleep. Nobody came the next day, either. I had little meatballs for breakfast and sat around and waited and finally went out looking for rabbits, but the snow was too deep, so I had to come back. I’d stepped in the creek and even with three layers of socks my feet were freezing. In the credits part of “Boys Town” right at the beginning there was a kid in an alley warming his hands over a fire in a bucket. I’d forgotten that. The guy that gets electrocuted is the one who gives Spencer Tracy the idea for the orphans’ home in the first place. When they’re getting ready to take the guy to the chair, the governor tells him he owes a debt to the state, and the guy goes nuts on them. He asks where the state was when he was a little kid crying himself to sleep in a flophouse with drunks and hoboes. He says if he had one friend when he was twelve he wouldn’t be standing here like this. Then he throws everybody but Tracy out of his cell. I spent the afternoon keeping the stove going and sitting on a tarp and squeezing my head with my hands. The difference between where I was and my mother’s house was that where I was I didn’t have to listen to TV. I had everything I needed in front of me and I still couldn’t let well enough alone. That night, it sleeted again and the next morning my stove was covered with ice. I washed my face and changed my socks and got my Desert Eagle and hiked back down to the road and through the woods to the culvert that led the back way into town. It was sunny and I was sweating like a pig by the time I climbed out of the culvert at the turnaround at the end of Janice’s street, but I didn’t want to hang around for too long, so I stood there for a few minutes with my field jacket open, flapping it to dry myself off, and then went up to her house and rang the bell. The Eagle hung in the big inside pocket like a tire iron and I thought, I don’t know what you brought that for. A guy swung the door open like he’d been waiting for me. He had to be the ex-husband. He looked me up and down and said, “What can I help you with?” But I let it go and just said, “Is Janice here?” And he gave me another look and I remembered how sweaty I was and that I was wearing four shirts under my field jacket. Collars were sticking up all over the place. He said, “Yeah, she’s in the back. What can we help you with?” I stood there bouncing my leg for a second and reached under my coat like my Eagle might’ve fallen out. Then Janice came up behind him and I saw her get a good look at me. And I just said, “Nothing. I’ll come back,” and I left. “Hey,” the guy called from behind me, and I heard Janice laugh. Halfway down the block, I cut through somebody’s yard into the culvert. My heart was going so fast I was sure I was having a heart attack. She was probably still laughing. He was laughing with her. It was a comedy. I crouched at the bottom of the culvert and stepped around like a midget taking a walk. Even my outside shirts were soaked. I can never believe how fast I sweat through my clothes at times like that. I worked my way up the culvert to Janice’s back yard and then ran up to their window but it was too high to see in so I just reached up as far as I could and squeezed off four rounds. From that angle, I probably just hit the ceiling. The Eagle’s so loud that at first your ears can’t believe it. After the second round, somebody yelled something but I couldn’t tell what. After the last one, I was booking back through the yard for the culvert. I could hear somebody whooping from the next house over. They probably thought it was fireworks. And while I was hauling down the culvert to my path through the woods I got to hear sirens from every cop car in upstate New York. The whole way back through the woods and up into the hills, I thought, You’re going to be hard to track. I mean, the snow was three feet deep. Even the town cops weren’t going to be able to screw this up. I had to rest on the logging road and again along the creek but finally got back to the tent. I pulled out my sleeping bag and threw my rifle and the Eagle and all the rounds I had on top of it. I could hear guys on the logging road already, the sound carried that far. People talk about, Oh, this kid’s sick and that kid’s bipolar and this and that and I always say, Well, does he piss all over himself? And the answer’s always no. That’s because he chooses to go to the bathroom. Because he knows better. He controls himself. People control what they do. Most people don’t know what it’s like to look down the road and see there’s nothing there. You try to tell somebody that, but they just look at you. I don’t know why people need to hear the same thing ten thousand times, but they do. Guys are breaking through the brush down below to my left and right, which tells me they’re not only coming but they’re coming in numbers. I can start to see them even through the trees. I haven’t cleaned the rifle. Mr. Logistical Planning. Even when I try to make lists for myself I can’t follow the lists. At least I tried, though. I tried harder than most people think. But what I did was, in life you’re supposed to leave yourself an out, and I didn’t. I can hear even more sirens, way off in the distance. The cops down below have stopped short of the hairpin. They’re keeping their voices low. They might be starting to catch on. I shove my elbows deeper into the snow, wipe my eyes, and put my face back to the scope, sighting back and forth. I don’t even know if I’ll open fire. I never know what I’m going to do next. They’ll probably just come up here and pull me to my feet and push me all the way down the hill. Another scene that always got me in that movie was when the kids were waiting for Spencer Tracy to bring something home for Christmas. Of course, he didn’t have any money, so all he can pull out and show them is a package of cornmeal mush. And this one little kid just stares at him. And then the kid finally says, like he wants to kill somebody, “What else you got in that bag?” And when Tracy has to tell him that he doesn’t have anything else, the kid goes, “I thought you said that if we were good, somebody would help us.”
Blue Roses A few months ago, I asked my daughter if she would invite my good friend Wang Peisan over for Christmas dinner. Wang Peisan’s husband, Hong Wenfu, died last year, and the only family she had was a daughter who had gone away on a Caribbean cruise without her. It’s true that my friend has a way of irritating everyone around her. She has a piercing nasal voice and believes that she sounds like one of those ladies from the Beijing opera. Her large head tilts and sways as she speaks, her fingers curving through the air like birds. But, in spite of her many delusions, she is my friend, and I didn’t want her to spend the holidays alone. “Mom,” my daughter said in her childish singsong way. “I’m not really friends with Mrs. Hong.” I am used to my children thinking only of themselves. I didn’t push the matter. Everything would have been fine, except that my daughter called me back later that evening. “Mom,” she said, “I feel bad about not inviting Mrs. Hong over for dinner.” “It’s O.K.,” I said. “You don’t have to feel bad.” My daughter hesitated. “Conrad says that if you want to invite her maybe you should have the dinner.” “I should have the dinner?” “If you want to invite her.” “You want me to host the dinner?” “It was just a suggestion.” “Eileen, how old are you?” “You know how old I am.” “Well, I’ve waited your whole life for you to invite me to dinner. Now you want to take it back?” “Mom—” I hung up the phone. It was really too much. The more I thought about it the worse I felt. It was a small thing, but what had my children ever done for me? When they were babies, I chewed their food before putting it in their mouths. I held my daughters’ skirts high above dirty public toilets. When my children asked me for anything, I looked in my purse and found what they wanted. I gave them tissues to dry their eyes, cough drops to soothe their throats, napkins to dispose of their gum. I wasn’t a magician—my purse must have weighed twenty pounds! But if I wasn’t prepared I was found lacking. Eileen called me the next day to ask whether I would babysit her children on New Year’s Eve. She is so naïve! She didn’t realize that anything had happened between us. I told her that the Zhous had invited us for a poker party that night. Also, that I wouldn’t be going to her house for Christmas dinner. Then I set the phone down. Of my three children, Eileen is the sensible one, capable and even-tempered, my husband’s favorite. She is what we wanted her to be: a doctor. Elizabeth, our second daughter, is the one who picks fights and criticizes us. Andrew, our last, is careless and without ambition. I gave birth to him when I was forty years old and I have had high blood pressure ever since. When he doesn’t do what I ask, I tell him he comes from a rotten egg. Eileen doesn’t usually fight with any of us and she stays neutral when we fight with one another. Like me, she is efficient and no-nonsense, although she does have a sentimental streak about family and home. Every year she sends out fancy Christmas cards, with her two beautiful, exquisitely dressed children pictured on the front. From her serene manner, you’d think she was above petty human emotions. But I remember when she was a two-year-old in pigtails—how she shrieked when I brought her sister home from the hospital, how she jumped up and down when she saw me feeding Elizabeth with her bottle. From then on, she refused to take a bottle, drinking like an adult from a regular cup. She slapped Elizabeth’s face, and even tried to throw her out of the crib. I had to spank her for the first time in her life. She howled, a little animal in pain, holding on to my skirt and following me from room to room, even though I wanted to be left alone. I was afraid that her ill will toward Elizabeth would be permanent, but eventually she forgot her resentment. She grew older, more distant and polite. Now she is a picture of calm, my daughter, with her flat chest and dry, rough hair. The only hint of inner turmoil is the way she erupts in pimples every few months, a sign that her hormones are out of whack. The phone began to ring again. I knew it was her and I didn’t pick up. My blood pressure was rising, and I had to lie down. The world seemed to wobble and shake, and I felt as though a pinball were bouncing around inside my head. My husband walked in, saw me lying on the couch, and picked up the phone. I closed my eyes, listening. “Don’t worry. I’ll talk to her,” he said to Eileen before hanging up. I looked at him. “The last time I babysat their children, Conrad came home early,” I said. “And do you know what he said to me? ‘I don’t know what you and Eileen arranged, but you can leave if you want.’ He said this like I was nothing but a servant! I wanted to say, ‘You know, I don’t need your permission to leave. You aren’t paying me, are you?’ And then do you know what happened? I opened the refrigerator to get my leftovers, and do you know what he said to me? ‘What are you looking for? Stealing more of our lasagna?’ ” “He was making a joke.” “I said, ‘This bag of food is my own.’ I wanted to remind him how many times we had treated him to dinner. When his relatives came to town, we treated them as well—do you remember how his brother ordered two entrées? When is Conrad ever going to reach into that pocket of his and treat me, huh? Whenever we go out to a restaurant and the bill comes, he just sits there, smiling like a dummy.” My husband went to the closet and took out his coat. He draped it over his arm, waiting for me to finish. “I’ve taken care of their children all this time, and I ask them a simple favor: Please invite my friend over for Christmas dinner. ‘No,’ they say. ‘She is not our friend. We don’t feel comfortable.’ O.K., fine. But then you know what they say? ‘Why don’t you host the dinner instead?’ It makes me feel so bad. I wish I’d never had children.” “Lin Fanghui, don’t think like that,” my husband said. “That’s how it is. You do a lot for your children, but you can’t expect them to do the same for you.” “Well, I don’t want to talk about this anymore. I am very upset.” “I’m going to get the car fixed. Do you need anything?” “No.” He left. I was angry and took two tranquillizers. Wang Peisan called to remind me that I had promised to take her to the grocery store. She used to pay a driver to take her, but he had quit the week before. My friendship with Wang Peisan is strange, I know. She makes everyone around her crazy. Ever since she was a child, she has been indulged, her life as delicate as a teacup. She had weak lungs, and her parents didn’t expect her to live. They bought her larger and larger coffins as she grew. In one of her dreams, Wang Peisan wanders lost in a museum, room after room filled with coffins no bigger than a tissue box. She opens one after another—like Goldilocks, she says—and it exasperates her that she won’t be able to fit into any of them. What can you do with a person who has dreams like this? When I first met Wang Peisan, almost two years ago, she and her husband had arrived late to a banquet hosted by our alumnae association. She had the straight, sexless body of a ten-year-old girl, yet she was the most striking old lady in the room, dressed in a cream brocade suit with intricate gold buttons. (You can always tell if a suit is expensive by looking at the buttons.) A tiny woman, with a disproportionately large head, she was as skinny as a toothpick. It was a shock to see her walk, as if someone else were controlling her limbs. The only two empty seats were at our table, and Wang Peisan and her husband, after some hesitation, sat down next to us. One dish followed another—ham and dates on steamed buns, roasted duck, scallops and shrimp in bird’s nest, steamed flounder—but Wang Peisan refused to eat anything. The only thing she put on her plate was a single crayfish, which she did not touch, as if it were something to look at rather than to eat. We had paid fifty dollars a seat, and here was Wang Peisan perversely fasting and not getting her money’s worth. She made us feel that beneath our fine clothes we were nothing but animals. I regretted the folds of fat showing through my dress. There was a time when I weighed a hundred and five pounds! Now, when I see old friends, the first thing they say to me is “Lin Fanghui, how fat you are! You used to be so thin!” But although I’m fat, at least I look young for my age. My hair has red and gold highlights because I dye it with henna. I take estrogen and use a retinoid cream for my skin. When I asked Wang Peisan why she wasn’t eating, she said that it was hard for her to find food she liked. “I’m not such a picky eater,” I told her. “My husband isn’t, either.” She looked over at him as he heaped a second helping of whole crispy prawns, still in their shells, onto his plate. “It’s a good thing, too. If he began having strong opinions, we’d be a two-headed monster.” “We’d have to separate,” her husband said cheerfully, as he decapitated a shrimp with his chopstick. Wang Peisan rested her cheek against her shoulder and asked, “So, in your marriage, who is harsh to whom?” Before I could say anything, my husband broke in. “I let her do what she wants!” he exclaimed. “You know why? Because I married a goose who lays golden eggs!” He began boasting about my high-ranking job at C.S.I.S., which I had retired from two years before, and I had to pinch his leg sharply under the table. My husband always feels a need to impress people who are richer and more cultured than he is. He doesn’t realize that bragging is the surest way to reveal your low origins. “If you’re involved in international relations, then you must be a realist,” Wang Peisan said. “You know what I studied? English lit-er-a-ture! I wrote my master’s thesis on fairy tales. Give me dreams over reality!” When dessert came around, a cold sweet soup with peanuts, she examined her bowl with suspicion. “Well, I’ll just try a bite,” she said, hesitating as she lifted the spoon to her lips. She swallowed it hastily, and, to my surprise, ate the entire bowl with relish. “Do you want some more?” I asked when I caught her staring at my half-finished bowl. “That is not necessary,” she replied with dignity. “The soup is too sweet for my taste.” At the end of the evening, we exchanged phone numbers, but I didn’t expect to hear from her. It often happens that you meet someone and have a nice conversation, you promise to call, but as time passes it no longer seems worth the effort. It’s hard enough to pick up the phone to call old friends, much less people you barely know. So I was surprised when Wang Peisan called me a month later, and, in truth, I slightly regretted having answered. I had a feeling that a friendship with Wang Peisan would be more trouble than it was worth. “Lin Fanghui,” she said. “I was looking through the yearbooks of Chengchi University, because I wanted to find your photograph.” When she said this, I felt sure it was because she’d wanted to check my background. “Well, did you find it?” I asked, unable to keep a note of sarcasm out of my voice. “Yes. You wore too much eyeliner, but you were so pretty!” “When I was young, no one ever said I was pretty. Only now they tell me. You know why? Because they see this old face! Young to them is pretty.” At Wang Peisan’s invitation, my husband and I met her and her husband for lunch at their favorite restaurant. Afterward, we went to their house for tea and cake. My husband and I were impressed by the modern, pristine rooms, the lack of dust and clutter. In the bathroom, there were little white soaps that smelled like almonds. Very little of Wang Peisan and her husband was revealed by the house, a pale and airy shell, devoid of memories. They talked about their daughter, an attorney who worked in D.C., but I saw no photographs of her or of her two children anywhere in the house. Wang Peisan had an incurable sweet tooth. She had barely eaten at the restaurant, but her eyes glowed now as she nibbled on yellow cake soaked in the blood of strawberries. Her eyes were murky gray, the color of oysters, with the kind of opaqueness you see in the elderly or the blind. When she was excited, they came to life like dull stones immersed in water. Wang Peisan told us the story of how she and her husband met. “He chased me for two years,” she said. “Every week, he visited me at my parents’ house and brought me curious gifts. One time, he brought me a watermelon from his mother’s garden, another time a little box filled with magnolia buds. I left the box open on my bureau, and my room smelled sweet for days! He even gave me a poem he had written. His poetry was so-so, not a horse and not a tiger. But somehow his kindness and sincerity touched me. Before we married, he promised he would do whatever I asked of him. And he has been a very good husband to me. When my parents died, he invested the money I inherited, and all I had to do was sit back and watch it grow.” The curled tip of her tongue poked out, touching her upper lip. “But, you see, I never wanted to be married. I wanted other things from life. I didn’t want a husband. Or children.” “Well, what did you want?” I asked. “I wanted to write about other worlds—my own fairy tales! But I haven’t written even one. It’s too late to begin now. I’ve become stupid, doing nothing with my life. Just sitting on top of my money like a cold, fat snake.” “Lady White Snake,” her husband said, and we all laughed. Wang Peisan gave a discreet smile. She was no doubt pleased by the allusion to the old fairy tale of a snake who wants to experience human love and takes on the shape of a beautiful woman. Perhaps she imagined she belonged in such romantic tales. Her husband didn’t seem to mind the way Wang Peisan complained about being unfulfilled in life. Probably he had heard it all before. He was an amiable man, a bit plump, with thick square glasses. He looked as soft as a sponge. If you squeezed him, the moment you let go he would return to his original shape. Of the two, he seemed much the healthier person. How could any of us have known that he’d be dead before the winter was over? One evening, as he lay on the couch reading The Economist, his heart stopped. Only a few days before, he’d had a premonition of death. Looking at Wang Peisan, he had said with a slight smile, “If I die, I don’t expect you to live too long after me.” It wasn’t a curse, Wang Peisan told me. He was merely stating what was obvious to both of them. And in fact less than a year later Wang Peisan’s lungs were no longer clear. But I am getting ahead of myself. Wang Peisan asked me to take her to the grocery store, because she couldn’t drive. I assumed that she was too small or weak to manipulate a car. Her feet might not reach the pedals, or she might have difficulty seeing over the steering wheel. I made her brown tea eggs and a sour-cream coffee cake to satisfy her sweet tooth. When I arrived at her house, she seemed quite pleased with my offerings. “You made this yourself?” she asked. “I got the recipe from the Internet. The cake has a lot of butter in it.” “It looks so tempting. I almost want to eat a piece right now.” “Well, why don’t you?” “I’d have to brush and floss,” she said. “I don’t feel comfortable unless my teeth are clean. I often have nightmares about my teeth. I’m chewing on a caramel and my molars get stuck together. I can barely open my mouth. Or my teeth become sharp and pointed—like I’ve turned into a vampire!” She opened the closet and took out a lint roller, applying it to her clothes even though they didn’t have the slightest speck on them. “Do you have recurring dreams like that?” “I don’t remember my dreams.” This was not entirely true. I often dream of going shopping and being frustrated by my purchases. But this type of dream did not seem profound. “You don’t remember?” As if to console me, she gently moved the lint roller up and down my sleeve. I brushed her off, shooing her out the door. I made her sit in the back seat of my car. “But I want to sit up front so I can talk to you.” She frowned as she struggled to put on her seat belt. “You’re too small,” I said, leaning over and snapping her in. “What if I hit something and the air bag inflates? You’d be killed instantly.” She nodded slowly. “You think of everything.” At the superstore, I pushed the shopping cart and followed Wang Peisan up and down the aisles. She wanted to buy artificial tears because her eyes were dry, but she couldn’t decide which size to get. When I told her it was more economical to buy the larger bottle, she wondered if it would go to waste. To put an end to her agonizing, I dropped the smaller bottle into the cart, and she nodded bravely, but before we moved on she plucked it out and exchanged it for the larger one. She worried and debated over every item on her list. She deplored the colors of nail polish and disapproved of the cost of toothpaste. With stiff, cunning fingers, she broke open plastic seals, unscrewed jars of ointment, squirted dollops of lotion into her palms. This one was too greasy. That one too watery. She sniffed, making a face. Who wants to smell like baby powder? She had to be careful. The last lotion she’d purchased had given her a rash. There was one she’d bought two or maybe three years ago that had been just right. Why didn’t they sell it anymore? At any moment, I expected the manager to come and throw us out of the store. Wang Peisan ended up buying no lotion at all. At produce, we came to a halt over a bag of lettuce. She searched through the bags, complaining that none of them looked fresh. I felt cold and light-headed under the fluorescent glare. Every now and then, the vegetables were automatically misted. Finally, I couldn’t take it anymore. “You are a very picky person!” I snapped. “If you want a bag of lettuce, choose one. If not, let’s go!” I began to walk away with the cart. “Wait just one moment—” “This one looks fine.” I grabbed the closest bag and threw it into the cart. “But that one has carrots,” she said, following me reluctantly. “I don’t like carrots.” In the car, she took out her cell phone, and I heard the slow, painstaking push of each button. “Hello, Ermei, how are you?” She spoke in impeccable English, haughtily enunciating each word. “No, I’m not feeling better. I don’t think I’ll live for too much longer now that your father is gone. I wanted to tell you that you don’t have to take me grocery shopping. Yes, that’s right. My close friend Lin Fanghui took me today. She is very good to me. I could not have asked for a kinder friend.” When she hung up, our eyes met in the rearview mirror. “I realize I must have been difficult,” she said after a pause. Before I could stop myself, I apologized as well. “I have a short temper. I’m not as patient as I could be.” “That’s true,” she said. “My husband was a very patient person. I realize no one can be as patient with me as he was.” She sighed, looking out the window. “He hasn’t been dead for a year and already my daughter is taking advantage. She can’t wait to get her hands on my money. Just last week, she and her husband forced me to hand over ten thousand dollars to avoid the inheritance tax. They’re so tactless—already planning my death!” I felt sympathy when I heard this complaint. Nonetheless, I resolved never to take Wang Peisan shopping again. I am sixty-one years old and I have to take medication to control my blood pressure. Though Wang Peisan was a small woman, I could not handle her. A few days before Christmas, my husband and I drove to the airport to pick up Elizabeth and Andrew, who both live in San Francisco. On the way home, they made fun of me for getting my eyebrows tattooed. When I was young, I made the mistake of plucking my eyebrows to a pencil-thin line. That was the fashion then. But, after years of ruthless plucking, the hair did not grow back, and I had to draw my eyebrows on instead. Then a friend told me that I could have them tattooed on. “But why did you do it?” Elizabeth asked. “It’s so unnatural!” “If I didn’t, I’d have to draw them on every day, so what’s the difference?” “Doesn’t it bother you that it’s permanent?” “No. I like it.” “Mom,” Andrew said, “you look scary.” “It’s too dark,” Elizabeth agreed. “You’re like that woman from ‘Mommie Dearest.’ ” Both of them laughed, and I looked over at my husband, who was smiling slightly. I flipped down the car’s visor and examined myself in the mirror. My eyebrows were thin, not thick like Joan Crawford’s. “It looks good,” I said. “Anyway, I don’t care what you think.” That night, Elizabeth knocked on my bedroom door to harass me about not going to Eileen’s house for Christmas dinner. I told her my side, but she continued to pester me with endless questions. She should have been an F.B.I. agent. “You’re ruining Christmas for everyone,” she declared. “You’re welcome to go to Eileen’s house for dinner,” I said. “I’m not forcing you to do anything against your will, am I?” “It’s such a small thing that Eileen did,” my daughter said. “I don’t understand why you’re so mad at her.” “It seems a small thing to you. But not to me.” “Don’t you think you’re blowing this out of proportion? Eileen would have invited your friend if she knew you’d react like this. She just didn’t think it was a big deal.” “That’s what upsets me!” “What?” “She never thinks how I feel. No big deal, right?” Elizabeth gave an exasperated sigh. “What I’d like to know is what nice thing has she done for me lately?” Elizabeth reflected. “What about that sweater she gave you for your birthday?” “I can always buy myself a sweater,” I said. “Why can’t she think bigger?” “You mean something more expensive?” “Your cousin doesn’t have money like Eileen, but she and her husband bought her father a used Mercedes. Your father and I were impressed. When have our children given us a gift like that? It’s not that I expect a used Mercedes from you. In fact, don’t ever give me a car that is used, O.K.? I’m just saying that there are some gifts that involve sacrifice, you see what I mean?” Elizabeth brooded on this. “If we don’t give you extravagant gifts, it’s because we know you can always buy something better for yourself. So what’s the point?” “I’m just saying the gesture would be nice. After all we’ve done for you kids. Do you have to pay back any student loans, like your friends? Do you see any other parents still paying their daughters’ rent?” Elizabeth pressed her lips together, her face darkening. “What I hate is that you all suffer from amnesia. If I give you a loan, you don’t pay it back. I have to remind you. It’s not that I care about the money. It’s the principle. Whenever I want something, I have to tell you. I’m sick of it. None of my children ever think or remember.” My daughter made a sour face and left the room. I could hear her slamming her bedroom door. She is twenty-seven years old and still has her own bedroom in this house. Of my three children, she gave me the most trouble. She was always angry for no reason. When she was four, we took her and Eileen to Florida, and in the car she wouldn’t stop crying. There was no pleasing her. Finally, I turned around and said that if she wasn’t quiet we would abandon her on the highway. This made her scream even louder. I told my husband to pull over to the side of the road and yanked her out of the car. She struggled and kicked as I dragged her to the weeds at the road’s edge, where the woods began. If she didn’t stop, I said, I’d leave her there. How would she like that? She’d become a homeless orphan, lost in the forest, no one to feed her, no more pretty dresses. She slipped out of my grasp and dashed back into the car, reaching over to lock her door. As I approached, she panted and glared at me from her window, her eyes glinting when I tried to open my door. She’d locked that as well, and my husband had to lean over to let me in. “We’ve been standing here talking about how to pitch to the batter for way too long, haven’t we?”Buy the print » In the middle of the night, my husband woke me up. “Lin Fanghui, I want to tell you something. I think I stepped on a black spider. Already I took one Benadryl. Maybe I should take two. Please check on me later to see if I’m still alive.” I turned on my side. “Do you have the spider? We can see if it’s poisonous.” “No. I flushed it down the toilet.” “Stupid! You should always keep the body for evidence.” “Well, maybe I threw it in the trash.” “Do you remember whether you flushed it down the toilet or not?” “I don’t remember.” There was a pause, and then my husband burst out in a piteous voice, “Why am I so unfortunate? Usually I wear my slippers.” “Are you sure you got bitten by a spider?” “Yes. I have a funny tingling sensation in my foot.” “Turn on the light.” He did, and I squinted, shading my eyes. He was leaning forward in bed, holding his ankle and rubbing the spot. “It burns. Maybe if I put some ice on it.” I was thinking that if this spider was poisonous ice was not going to save him. But I dragged myself out of bed and went downstairs to fetch it. My son’s light was still on, and I knocked on his door. “What?” he said. “Go to sleep,” I said through the door. He said nothing, and I didn’t move, trying to hear what he was doing. “Mom?” he said after a moment. “What?” “Stop spying on me.” He thinks I am a spy ever since I asked to be his friend on Facebook. I returned to my bedroom and found my husband in the bathroom looking through the trash can, sifting through crumpled tissues, a discarded newspaper, nail clippings, and matted clumps of hair. He couldn’t find the spider. I gave my husband the ice. We went back to bed and turned off the light. “Don’t forget to check on me,” he said. “I won’t.” “Hopefully, I will be alive.” “Yes.” I moved my pillow around and closed my eyes. But, try as I might, I couldn’t go back to sleep. It was three in the morning. I was thinking about Elizabeth, and I wondered what I had been hoping for when I had her or any of my children. What lay in store for them but that their eyes would empty, their skin turn blue? Even my granddaughter, Isabel—it was incredible to think about—even four-year-old Isabel, who jumped and skipped, her feet doing little flutter kicks in the air. Only two weeks ago, Eileen had dropped Isabel off at my house. When Isabel realized that her mother had left without her, her face reddened and her eyes clouded, and I could do nothing to prevent the storm. “I want Mommy!” she sobbed. “I want Mommy!” I tried to calm her, but she continued to cry and ask for her mother, so I said with some annoyance, “I want my mommy, too. Where is my mommy?” Because my mother had left me, and this was the greatest calamity of my life. Did she understand that? Isabel looked at me, and perhaps she understood, because the next moment she opened her mouth and let out a long, piercing shriek. When she stopped, we gazed at each other, and then I said, “I am sadder than you. Your mother is coming back in an hour. My mother has disappeared for good.” I did not go to that Christmas dinner. My husband stayed home, too, because he knew he had to. My daughter and my son went to Eileen’s. Elizabeth told me the details when they got back. The dinner had been a gloomy affair. Eileen had bought six filets mignons in case my husband and I showed up. She had spent a small fortune on the steaks, but then ended up overcooking the meat. As the four of them grimly chewed, Eileen had burst into tears. “What am I going to do with all this food?” she asked. Her outburst made them feel bad, because Eileen rarely showed her emotions. If she’d known I’d get so angry, she said, she would have invited Mrs. Hong and a thousand other of my friends over for Christmas dinner. “What does she want me to do?” she cried, slapping her hand on the table. “What does she want me to do?” “I’ve never seen her so upset,” Elizabeth told me, and I knew she was trying to make me feel guilty. “You really should make up with her, Mom.” “Eileen still doesn’t understand why I’m angry.” “I told them your side,” Elizabeth said. “Conrad said you were crazy. He said that he knew you were crazy all along, but that this confirmed it. He said that whenever we had Christmas from now on he would be sure to remind you of this Christmas and what you did to ruin everyone’s happiness.” The phone rang. It was Eileen. My husband answered it and asked me to pick up. “No!” I said. “Lin Fanghui, please pick up the phone.” “I will not!” “You are acting like a child.” But something in me had hardened. I wanted to hold on to my anger, no matter what. “She won’t come to the phone,” my husband said. To my surprise, his voice broke and he began to cry. “Don’t worry. She will come around. Your mother and I love you. I can’t talk anymore. I have to go.” He hung up the phone, drying his eyes with his thumb and forefinger. He looked at me. “She doesn’t deserve this. You’d better make up with her. A small thing like this, you blow up for nothing. You want to disown her? Your own daughter! You can’t take her back like something you purchased at a store. This is your life, what you’ve chosen.” Wang Peisan called me two weeks later. Since our shopping trip, I had been avoiding her. My husband, who always picked up the phone now, handed it to me, muttering, “Just hang up on her.” Like everyone else, he thought Wang Peisan a terrible nuisance, but his saying that made me think that he did not have a good heart. Wang Peisan did not sound like herself. Between coughs, she asked in a croaking whisper if I could take her to the doctor. I was tempted to make an excuse and suggest that she call a cab, but in the end I agreed to pick her up that afternoon. She answered the door in cotton pajamas, covering her mouth with both hands. “Don’t worry,” she said, noticing that I kept my distance. “I am no longer contagious.” I asked why she hadn’t dressed. “Won’t we be late?” “Oh, we have plenty of time,” she rasped. “I want to eat something first.” She opened the refrigerator and took out the cake I had made for her more than a month before. It had turned a mushroom shade and looked slick and congealed. “You can’t eat that!” I said. “Don’t you see? It’s spoiled!” “Once I put it in the microwave, it will be O.K.” “But you’ll get sick!” I took the slimy cake from her and threw it into the trash. She screeched like an ancient bird, her pupils dilating. “Don’t do that! Those cakes are my lifeline!” She opened the trash can and dug the cake out. “But it’s dirty now! You’re not going to eat it, are you?” “It’s still in the plastic, see?” She calmly unwrapped the cake and cut what was left into three pieces. She placed one piece on an immaculate plate, which she set in the microwave. “The next time you make a cake, please bake it in a square pan. It will be easier to cut that way.” “Don’t eat it,” I begged her. “Believe me, after the microwave it’s going to taste good.” Wang Peisan delicately worked her fork into the cake, as though anticipating French pastry, and took a thoughtful bite. She chewed for longer than I expected. “Oh, you’re right,” she murmured. “It tastes funny.” She began to cough until I thought she might choke, and I handed her a paper towel, into which she spat. Then, like a child, she gravely presented the balled-up napkin to me, and I threw it away along with the rest of the cake. We were late for her appointment. In the car, she clutched her elbows. “Lin Fanghui,” she said, “when the doctor examines me, I want you to be present.” “Are you sure?” I asked. “I will feel better with you beside me.” In the examination room, the nurse gave Wang Peisan one of those confusing gowns that are so difficult to tie up and which leave you feeling exposed. I averted my eyes as she took off her clothes, but I was not spared the sight of her cadaverous body, the loose, wrinkled skin and sunken chest. She weighed only sixty-five pounds when she stepped on the scale. Now, perched on the table, she looked like a small plucked bird. The doctor arrived, a large handsome man with shiny, sculpted hair. He looked like Superman. She was a sly one, choosing such a good-looking doctor. The doctor noted her weight and asked if she was drinking Ensure. Wang Peisan made a face. “It tastes like chalk.” “And you are still taking the Zoloft every day?” This is how I learned that she had been taking medicine for depression since her husband died. Wang Peisan tilted her head. “Some days I feel better, but then it’s as bad as before.” “So, on the whole, would you say you feel better?” “Maybe a little. The pills make me numb. Like I’m wearing a mask.” As the doctor listened to her lungs, I recalled an evening that my husband and I had spent with Wang Peisan and her husband, when Mr. Hong had entertained us with stories of his wife as a young woman. “She was extraordinarily beautiful,” he said, and at these words Wang Peisan straightened up in her chair. “All the eligible bachelors in our village were in love with her. One would sit at her feet, another would be at her elbow, and another would hover by her shoulder.” “Which one were you?” my husband asked, and we all laughed. “All of them,” Mr. Hong replied. “We circulated around her, vying for attention. She was a masterly flirt, like that Vivien Leigh, that Scarlett—she had all the men eating out of the palm of her hand!” Wang Peisan smiled, enjoying her husband’s flattery. Like many men, my husband is skeptical of stories of an old woman’s past charms. On the drive home, he turned to me and said, “Wang Peisan is not the only one who wants to write fairy tales.” The doctor was listening to Wang Peisan’s lungs with unusual attention, and I felt a chill pass through me when he announced that she needed to get a chest X-ray. “Blue roses,” she said quietly when he left the room. “What?” I asked. “Pleurosis,” she said again, and I was more confused than ever. “Haven’t you seen ‘The Glass Menagerie’? I always knew these lungs would be my downfall.” Her suspicion turned out to be correct. Two hours later, after the doctor had examined her X-ray, he returned to tell us that Wang Peisan had pneumonia. “I don’t want you to panic,” he said. “But, because of your age and your condition, this could be a serious situation. I’m going to call an ambulance so you can get checked into the hospital right away.” “That’s unnecessary. I don’t feel so bad,” Wang Peisan told him. “You need to be closely watched, and the hospital can give you the treatment you need.” Wang Peisan bowed her head. “You don’t have to call an ambulance. My friend here will take me to the hospital.” “You’ll take her right away?” the doctor asked me, and I promised I would. But in the car Wang Peisan persuaded me to stop at her place so that she could pack a bag. As soon as we entered her house, she shut herself in the bathroom. I could hear her coughing as drawers opened and closed, but when I asked if I could help she didn’t reply. I wandered into the living room and sat on the cold leather couch. The room had been decorated entirely in neutral colors, with cream carpet and beige walls. There was not even a television set—Wang Peisan said that it would disrupt her inner life. I stared at the hands of the silent gold clock on the mantel. My head drooped forward, and I allowed myself to fall slowly to my side, overcome by the blank, silent room. When I opened my eyes, the hands of the clock had moved a quarter of an hour. I forced myself to stand up. The bathroom light was still on, and I knocked on the door. “I’m sorry,” I said, “but I fell asleep. Are you O.K.?” A long silence passed before I heard a querulous voice. “Lin Fanghui, don’t worry about me. You can go home now. I’ve decided to stay here. I don’t need to go to the hospital.” “What?” I tried to open the door, but it was locked. “You heard the doctor. This is serious. You need to come out right now so I can take you to the hospital.” “I appreciate your concern. You’ve been very good to me. But I want to stay here. In the hospital I will have to wear their clothes and eat their food. I will be exposed to all sorts of diseases. I am more comfortable here.” “Please come out,” I pleaded. “Who knows what my daughter will do if I go with you? She might try to sell my house while I’m away. If you don’t want me to become homeless, you’ll understand why it’s in my best interest to stay where I am.” “Open the door right now.” “Thank you, Lin Fanghui, but I no longer need your help. Goodbye!” I was stunned by her duplicity. I wondered if I should call her doctor. But the person who would have more influence was her daughter, and I began to search the house for her number. In the drawer of Wang Peisan’s night table I found a small spiral notebook with a few telephone numbers jotted on the back cover. The pages were filled with an elegant, flowing script, which I assumed to be Wang Peisan’s until I held the notebook out at arm’s length and began to read. As I washed the dishes, she told me to turn the water down. She thinks I waste water and has told me so numerous times. I’d been thinking about a story I’d seen in the news about a frilled shark discovered off the coast of Japan. Researchers in Shizuoka captured the creature and put it in a pool, then filmed it as it died. Such a thing had never been caught alive, and it looked like something out of a nightmare, part eel, part shark, with a long serpent’s tail. It had lived in the darkest depths, and light had never touched its eyes before it made its way up to the surface to die. In the footage, it swam unsteadily, its jaws wide open, leering, as it tipped from side to side. I was thinking about that poor creature’s fate when she told me to turn the water down. I automatically obeyed, yet I felt a sudden spasm inside me. How many times have I experienced such convulsions without thinking about them? That awful grinning serpent swaying in the water. Reading these words by Wang Peisan’s dead husband gave me a shock, like a cold hand pressing on the back of my neck. I could hear my heart beating loudly. I put the notebook back in the drawer and returned to the locked bathroom, banging my fist on the door. “Open up!” I was afraid that my heart was going to burst inside me. “Forgive me, Lin Fanghui. If I go to the hospital, I may never come out.” “Don’t be such a chicken! Do you want to die here alone? I promise you will get better at the hospital.” “I don’t think so. The hospital is a dead end for me.” I took a deep breath. “You are making me very upset, and my heart is beating out of control. If you don’t come out now, I’m going to have a heart attack. Then you will be responsible for not one death but two!” There was a long silence before the door was unlocked and Wang Peisan emerged, blinking, from her hiding place. “Give me your cell phone,” I said, and she dug into her purse and handed it over. I called her daughter and informed her about Wang Peisan’s condition. “I’m taking your mother to the hospital now,” I said. “I expect to meet you there in an hour.” “Would it be possible for you to stay with her until this evening?” “Absolutely not. I am an old woman and your mother is tiring me out. I will see you in an hour.” I hung up the phone. What a heartless child. I tell her that her mother is dying, and she wants to avoid responsibility. That is America for you. Wang Peisan sat quietly in the back seat as I drove her to the hospital. I peered at her a couple of times in my rearview mirror, and she seemed distracted, stroking the edge of an eyebrow as she gazed out the window. She refused to speak as we waited for her to be checked in, closing her eyes and lifting her chin in response to anything I said. Her daughter arrived an hour late. Short and slender like Wang Peisan, the daughter wore a sleek tailored suit and high heels. Her long blond hair was startling to see. A sophisticated beauty who could have been mistaken for a movie star. I took Wang Peisan’s hand and pressed it. “I will visit you soon,” I said, but she just looked away from me with a slight smile on her lips. I left feeling remorse. I had acted badly, but at least she was in the hospital. I don’t understand how I have reached a point in my life when I look around me and all I can do is count my losses. In the mornings, I get out of bed and stare at my creased brow, the age spots staining my cheeks. I brush my yellowing teeth with baking soda, eat the lukewarm oatmeal my husband cooked two hours earlier. I do laundry. I wash dishes. I check my stocks on the computer, then watch an hour of my favorite Korean soap opera. Throughout all this, I am struck by a sense of futility. You hear about senseless, irreversible accidents, little accidents that become large ones—a woman carrying bags of groceries trips in a parking lot and dies—and I feel that something similar has happened to me. I tripped over some tiny thing and received a sharp blow to the head. When I opened my eyes, the sky had shifted and I was no longer where I had been. Elizabeth and Andrew flew back to San Francisco. In the week that they were here, I couldn’t help but notice how much I repel my son. Once, when we were alone in the car together, he complained about my smell. “Mom, you stink,” he said, waving his hand in front of his nose and rolling down the window. He claimed it was the lotion I use. No doubt the thought that he once lived inside my body disgusts him. And Elizabeth—I know she resents me, perhaps because there is nothing I can do to make her happy. As a child, she wanted to do me harm, tearing at my clothes when I held her, even breaking the gold chain that my mother gave me. Unlike Andrew, Eileen is not repelled by me. Nor has she ever acted violently toward me, as Elizabeth has. If anything, she has wanted to get closer. The other children came between us, and her distance from me grew as she got older. Now she loves her own children more. Part of me longs for a final break from all of them. I have fantasized about sending them each a letter: I have decided to leave. None of my children have ever appreciated what I have done for them. Do not try to find me, as that will only raise my blood pressure. Good luck to you all, Your Mommie Dearest. One afternoon, my husband tried to force a reconciliation between Eileen and me. From the kitchen, I saw them both get out of his car and walk to the front door, and I slipped out by way of the garage, started the Volvo, and began backing down the driveway. When my husband saw me, he ran out to prevent me from leaving, but I swerved around him, reversing clear across our lawn and over the sidewalk to make my escape. He always scolds me and the children whenever we leave the slightest tire mark on the grass bordering our driveway, and I knew that the deep ruts I’d just made, scarring the length of our front yard, would wrench his heart. But it served him right. I don’t like to be forced to do things. I looked into the rearview mirror as I drove away and saw that Eileen had fallen to her knees, her face crumpling. After this incident, I couldn’t help thinking of the morning I visited Eileen in the hospital after she’d given birth to Isabel. She lay quietly in bed, her plain, delicate features smoothed out, pale and transcendent. It was as though all of what makes a person colorful, bright, and distinct had been taken away from her. All the things that contribute to our vanity and our smallness had dropped away, and what remained was the calm, exhausted body, transfigured through pain. I decided to make up with Eileen. I told my husband, and he called Eileen and said, “Your mother is going to talk to you now,” before handing me the phone. “Hi, Mom,” Eileen said, trying to sound normal, though I detected the strain in her voice. “Hi. How are you and the kids doing?” “Oh, we’re all fine. The kids miss you and are always asking about you. How are you doing?” “I’m O.K. Though my friend Wang Peisan is in the hospital.” “Dad told me. How is she?” “Not so well.” “I’m sorry to hear that. Mom, I’m really sorry I didn’t invite her to Christmas dinner. I didn’t know how much it meant to you.” “That’s O.K. You know me. When I get angry, I can be angry forever.” “That’s true,” she said with a laugh. And so we made up. I’ve noticed that Eileen and Conrad are more respectful now and don’t ask as much of me as they once did. They’ve decided to hire a live-in nanny so that I don’t have to babysit more than once or twice a month. The last time my husband and I went out for dinner with them, they picked up the check. After my reconciliation with Eileen, I visited Wang Peisan at the hospital. “So you have come to see me,” she said from her bed. She was sharing a room with another patient, who was hidden from view by a blue curtain. “She keeps me awake at night with her moaning,” she said in a voice loud enough for her roommate to hear. “I’m waiting to be transferred. My insurance covers a private room. Isn’t that wonderful? My husband had the foresight to get good insurance. There are some things you should never be cheap about.” I was glad to see that she was still herself, animated by a sly self-interest. “I wish you had told me you were coming,” she said. “I would have combed my hair and put on some makeup so as not to frighten you.” “You look fine,” I reassured her. It was a bald lie, but you are supposed to say positive things at the hospital. Wang Peisan was so weak it was a struggle for her to sit up, and I was dismayed to see thick pads strapped to her elbows, most likely to prevent bedsores. “The first thing I want to do when I get out of here is to go to the salon and get my hair done,” she said. “I’ll take you,” I promised, and I found myself longing for the day when she would be well enough to vex me. Perhaps, in the end, we need these small daily irritants, a bit of sediment in our mouths, to keep life interesting. We fell silent, and Wang Peisan gazed into my eyes as though she were reading my thoughts. “Ke lian, yes?” she said. “Pathetic, isn’t it? Pitiful!” “You’ll grow stronger. Then you can leave this place.” She smiled sadly. “Why are you so kind to me? Perhaps I amuse you.” “I am kind because I am your friend.” She nodded slowly. “Do you know I think it was fate that we met? You are a dear friend to me.” “Since we’ve met, my dreams have become more vivid, less ordinary,” I confessed. Two nights before, I had dreamed of shopping in a large department store and being handed a flyer announcing that a great white shark was on display in the basement. “Isn’t it funny how we close our eyes and enter a strange world we’ve made up?” she said. “And when we wake up it’s difficult to express to another person how bright and real it was. I guess that’s what moves me.” Wang Peisan turned toward me, placing her hand beneath her cheek. “So what did you dream?” I closed my eyes for a moment and then tried to describe to her what I saw.
The Tree Line, Kansas, 1934 Five days of trading the field glasses and taking turns crawling back into the trees to smoke out of sight. Five days on surveillance, waiting to see if by some chance Carson might return to his uncle’s farm. Five days of listening to the young agent, named Barnes, as he recited verbatim from the file: Carson has a propensity to fire warning shots; it has been speculated that Carson’s limited vision in his left eye causes his shots to carry to the right of his intended target; impulse control somewhat limited. Five days of listening to Barnes recount the pattern of heists that began down the Texas Panhandle and proceeded north all the way up to Wisconsin, then back down to Kansas, until the trail tangled up in the fumbling ineptitude of the Bureau. For five days, Barnes talked while Lee, older, hard-bitten, nodded and let the boy play out his theories. Five days reduced to a single conversation. Years later, retired, sitting on his porch looking out at the lake while his wife clanked pots in the kitchen, whistling softly to herself, he’d know, or think he knew, that even at that moment in Kansas, turning to speak to Barnes, he’d had a sense that one day he’d be retired and reflecting on that particular point in time—back near the tree line—because that was what you did after spending much of your career trying to think the way other folks might think. When you retired, you turned back into yourself and tried to settle into not thinking about the way others thought. You rested your feet and sat around tweezing apart past scenarios that had ended up with you alive and others dead, taking advantage of the fact that you were still alive while those others weren’t, and in doing so relishing—with a religious sort of glory—the fact that you retained the ability to look out at a lake on a clean, quiet summer day while the wind riffled the far side and a single boat oared gently, dragging a fishing line. Five days he had listened to Barnes, staying quiet, holding back on saying much until that last day, when Barnes turned and said, Look, Lee, all we’re doing out here is wasting time. Carson isn’t coming. I mean, hell, let’s face it, it’s unlikely that he’s going to arrive down that road. And so Lee said, finally, Well, if Carson comes it’ll be because he has weighed the big risk of us being here against an even bigger payoff. As you’ve pointed out, he’s not the type who would come back just to see kinfolk. He’s not the type—and, Christ, we’ve seen enough of those—who would put himself at risk to visit an uncle on a failed farm. If he comes, it’ll be to get a stash of loot. No other reason. But for these guys that’s good enough. If he’s got some loot out here, he’ll take the risk. It’s that simple. Now I’m going back to have a smoke in the trees and take a break. And without waiting for a response he crawled through the weeds to the trees, where, released from his obligations to the younger agent, he stretched the stiffness out of his legs, lit a cigarette, and felt, for the first time, the tingle deep in his gut as it went to work, zeroing in—as only a gut can zero—on the following particulars: (1) The imperceptibly slow shift of light over the past few days as the dirt-clod shadows stretched across the field and then shortened gradually until, after the sun’s zenith, they lengthened while the sky loosened its grip on the sun and a violet, ruddy marl blushed the horizon. (2) The way the road spread out of the vanishing point, exposing its mouth to the farm while, at the same time, tapering back into the quivers of heat in a manner that made it hard, and at times impossible, to watch. (3) The sight of Carson’s Uncle Vern, coming out on Monday, and again on Thursday, shuffling with a slight hobble, bent-backed, moving around the house and disappearing from sight for a few minutes (causing an uptick of unease in both men as they waited for him to reappear), then backing the tractor out with the plow attached and tilling, it seemed, for the sake of toil itself, because it was clear that the land was dead and worthless. Plowing the same patch on Thursday that he had plowed on Monday, sending up a cloud of dust that hovered in the air. (4) The unseemliness, in an F.B.I. agent, of Barnes’s occasional outbursts (Shit, what a waste of time!). Always a phrase or two about the pointlessness of the assignment in relation to the use of time and to things he might otherwise be doing: e.g., tracking that syndicate thug—John Bradfield—whose file, loaded with tips, was tucked in his desk drawer back at headquarters. (5) The gradual broadening of his own awareness of the farm and its connection to the web of cat roads, as they were called, both northwest and southeast, along with even smaller roads whose purpose had been lost to time: old wagon trails and Indian paths that arrayed themselves as potential routes all the way to the outer edges of the Chicago stockyards. (Off-map roads were the bane of the Bureau.) These cat roads had started to impress themselves on Lee’s awareness during drives back to town, passing gaps in the fence line where they emerged out of the grass. On Monday, Barnes said, So far as I can see, he has one way in, and one way out. Which would make Carson even more of a fool if he tried to come here to visit. On Tuesday, he said, This is a trap. One way in, one way out. He’s not the type to play into a trap. (That’s the way it worked: an inexperienced young agent often re-stated what he thought was obvious about the setup, repeated the known details again and again, as if to assure himself that everything was positioned correctly, that what had been imagined in the Chicago office—using maps and line drawings—properly matched the Kansas reality.) (6) A flaw inherent in the dynamic between the two partners as they lay side by side, staying as still as possible while the weeds—mostly wild oat grass, with a patch of Queen Anne’s lace—shifted, languorously translating the breeze on Wednesday (the only day with wind) into motion, as if the world, unfurling itself with stunning elegance, were preparing for the imminent arrival of God, or gun, his gut told him, in those exact words. Something big was coming, the wind had said. It was a sure giveaway. Any experienced lawman knew that the wind rising like that had to mean something. But Lee had been distracted by the kid. After all, you read the landscape for signs: the way a road stays quiet for a certain amount of time; a lonely weed patch in the Four Corners region that, after three days of relative calm, is suddenly darkened by one of those odd cloud formations, not a thunderhead but a cloud that seems to refuse to achieve its full growth, giving you, as you sit in the car chewing a toothpick, a sense that something is amiss. “Sweetie, there is no kids’ section.”Buy the print » (7) It wasn’t simply what Barnes said, or his awkward inability to establish any kind of mature silence, but also the way he rounded his words, polishing them up, buffing them into a style of elocution that clashed with the landscape. He spoke with the sucked-in-cheeks manner of a man holding forth with unearned authority, as he said: It’s highly unlikely, Lee, regarding the patterns set forth by his previous movements, that he would alas venture, as I’ve said a few times before, to risk arriving at a location known to fit into his past movements. Snapping off his clean white teeth, his voice had a gee-whiz youthfulness until, catching hold, it shifted to take on the hardscrabble surroundings. Then he tightened in his phrases and tried as best he could to sound world-weary (never looking at Lee at those moments; turning away from Lee’s eyes, flecked gray, crinkled and set deep in the folds of his face, old-Texas-lawman style), saying, Here’s how I see it, sir: Carson started out a phony. Just another kid trying to make a name for himself as a stickup man. No real heart. He tried to look the Robin Hood part by handing over some cash to a few clodhopper bank customers. But by the time he got North he had too much heat. Now he has that shoot-first style that comes out of knowing the truth. If you know the truth, you shoot first. At that point, Barnes’s voice shifted again, sliding naturally into the rut of his thoughts, opening up to a deeper, more speculative tone as he droned on and on (or so it seemed to Lee, who kept his eyes on the farm), explaining how Carson was a man with a sense of self, who knew who he was in a way the old yeggs didn’t. Carson operated out of a deeper psychology, playing himself off what he knew others were thinking, not only playing the patterns of the law, which were usually pretty easy to figure out, but also what the law, most likely, would speculate; so that it was unlikely, say, that he’d come back around—even if there was loot involved—to dig something up at his uncle’s farm, knowing instinctually that we would have it covered . . . (Lee half listened, trying to blank out the kid’s voice, focussing his attention away from the house and onto the road, which came in straight from the horizon. The horizon, he understood, was a foe. The horizon altered the odds. The horizon—always mesmerizing if stared at too long—might take over the stakeout. Lee had once been beaten by the horizon in Waco, working freelance for the governor, tracking a killer named Newfield. Two days staking out a shack until his eyes lingered too long on the horizon—twilight—and got stuck there while his prey took advantage and, before Lee could shake himself awake, roared off in a rooster tail of dust.) Barnes was still talking, saying, This guy knows we’re looking for patterns, and he’s even considered, I’d venture to say, the idea that we’d expect him not to come back here, and in expecting him to expect us to expect him not to come back, he’d expect that we’d take that expectation into consideration—the potential pattern—and stake out his old uncle’s farm. You see, Lee, I think he has a self-awareness that a man like Hoover doesn’t. (And you do, Lee thought, lifting his head, nodding, feeling—again—an intense hankering for a cigarette.) Years later at his summer cottage in Wisconsin, sitting on the porch and staring out at the water, listening to Emma inside cooking or watching television, he’d go back to that conversation, holding it out for examination and wonder if he had misstepped at that point. Shut your yap, he might have said. Clam up, kid. You can talk until you’re out of words, but, no matter what you might say or think, the fact that there is a chance Carson might show is the only thing that matters. Even later, Lee would understand that by holding back on his side of the argument he had allowed for a much more dangerous distraction, a paternal vibration—unsettling and unspoken—between the two of them. (That kid was like a son to me, he told his wife. He annoyed me the way I used to annoy my old man. Except the old man would’ve boxed my ears off.) That afternoon, as he crawled back to Barnes, the gut feeling worked its way up his throat and struggled into his head. Note: A gut feeling finally becomes a hunch when it is transmuted into the form of clear, precise, verbal statements uttered aloud to a receptive listener—internal or external—who responds in kind. A hunch twists inside the sinews and bones, integrating itself into the physicality of the moment, whereas a gut feeling can only struggle to become a hunch, and, once it does, is recognized in retrospect as a gut feeling. Before Lee could express his hunch, Barnes wiped his brow with his handkerchief and said, Jesus, Lee, where’d you go? Into town for a bite? And Lee said, No, just a smoke. Anything happening out there? Barnes raised the field glasses up, lowered them, pursed his lips as if in deep thought, and then said, in a newly formed sarcastic voice, Hell, you missed the whole thing, Lee. Carson came rolling up with the entire gang. I think Pretty Boy Floyd was along for the ride. Women and all. They had a picnic over there by the windmill—fried chicken, watermelon, apple pie, the works. Shot a few guns into the air in celebration, dug up the loot (you were right about that), and took off. I let them, on account of you not being here. I said to myself, Agent Lee’s smoking a few back there and I’m not inclined to bother the man. Now, if you don’t mind, I’m going to go back and have a cigarette myself. Then he crawled off through the weeds and disappeared into the trees, leaving Lee alone to watch the farm. Fate operates retroactively. By trading smoking breaks, the two men had tried to wedge apart the tedium as well as they could, breaking the days up, sustaining attention on the field and house according to the dictates of training, knowing that at least one of them had to keep his eyes fixed on the farm, because if they both looked away, even for a minute, it would in theory betray Agent Jones and Agent Tate, who had drawn the night watch, drinking coffee from a vacuum flask, nudging each other awake, coming out to the road in the morning, bone-tired, saying, Nothing moved out there, not even the darkness. Not a damn thing, a total zero. Good luck, boys. Years later, in the reductive, slowed-down replay of memory, the Buick sedan—stolen fresh off a lot in Topeka—appeared suddenly, having come in off a cat road that ran west and hit the main road a quarter mile from the Carson farm, deep enough in the quivering heat to provide the element of surprise. First, just a glint of chrome radiator, a spark of light where the road bled itself into plowed field. Then, in a matter of seconds, the glint turned into a full-blown automobile, swinging alongside the house, roaring to a stop, rocking heavily as it disgorged three men. (Lee used the word in his report, saying, The car disgorged three men, who spread out to reconnoitre the homestead.) Carson appeared a moment later, stepping from the car with his hands spread wide, limping slightly (the Michigan City ricochet wound, festering), glancing around nervously as he directed the men while Lee, hidden in the grass, instantly understood the following: (A) Four years of heists and encounters with law enforcement had given Carson’s men an innate sense that certain probabilities—a stakeout, limited to two or three men—were best dealt with in a swift, heedless manner that included overwhelming firepower brought to bear on weary Bureau men who most likely had been in surveillance mode for days, hiding themselves in the grass or behind trees. (They knew we were there, Lee said later. They figured we’d be one, maybe two at the most. We were shorthanded and they understood that fact. I froze up. My judgment regarding how much field was between my position and the house was skewed. I was alone. Outgunned.) (B) As Carson’s men charged forward, they felt keenly, albeit intuitively, the way surveillance compressed time, tightening it in—days of inaction punctuated only by occasional shit breaks, piss breaks, smoke breaks and drink breaks, food breaks and stretch breaks interrupted only by small, inconsequential peripheral actions observed. (City men came into a farm scene like fire through ice, Lee would think later. They had that city jaunt, whereas we had forgotten the way time worked outside the confinement of the farm.) (C) Carson’s men strode ahead, as if through the streets of Chicago, their black suit coats even blacker in the hazy light. They had an elegant disregard for the landscape that came from the fact that most of them had been born and raised on farms or in dusty small towns, and had pushed that part of their lives behind them, learning how to stand in the city, adjusting cuffs, snapping hat brims, touching ties while shrouding their true intentions in wisecracks, moving around constantly in order to belie the static silence of the scene at hand. While the men closed in on Lee’s position, Carson stepped slowly to the right of the barn, looking down at his feet, moving, despite his slight limp, with an ease that bespoke his desire, even in this setting, to look casual, lifting his head to sniff the air before continuing along the side of the house. (He started at the southern end of the house, put one foot in front of the other, heel to toe, marking carefully, trying to locate the spot where the loot was buried, Lee would write in his report.) Back in the tree line, Barnes had smoked two cigarettes while he took in the view: a slight glen in the trees formed by the creek, rimmed by a small fringe of green fern. The horizon was mercifully lost in the trees, so from that vantage—factoring in his profound sense that the stakeout was futile—it was likely that he felt a deeper relaxation settle in, an all-knowing sense of calm that came from being young and inexperienced, and it was probably this, combined with the pleasure the smoke was giving him, that led him to think that the moment at hand was somehow reflective of the general state of the world. (Far off, the sound of a car engine devoured by land. Far off, a muffled car-door slam.) Whatever had been acting on Barnes’s gut over the several days of the stakeout combined with the quiet beauty back there, amplified by the barrenness of the farm in relation to the humiliation (yes, a stakeout was an act of humility that could easily, if not approached properly, turn to humiliation), had, in turn, combined with a natural desire in the young agent and caused him to break free from standard operating procedure, to move naturally, so that the kid walked out of the tree line that day standing straight and tall, moving with a sure manner, trusting his gut, struggling ahead of his own awareness (dulled, Lee would later imagine, by the persistent tedium of a scene that had gone on, with the exception of the old man plowing on Monday, and again on Thursday, and the wind on Wednesday, for what had seemed, to his youthful mind, an eternity). He stepped forward into a single, ferocious moment. He stepped forward into a fury of gunfire while his mind—young and foolish but beautiful nonetheless—remained partly back in the woods, taking in the solitude, pondering the way the future felt when a man was rooted to one place, waiting for an unlikely outcome, one that, rest assured, would never, ever arrive.
To the Measures Fall First read-through: you are biking through the Cotswolds when you come across the thing. Spring of ’63. Twenty-one years old, in your junior year abroad at the University of York, after a spring term green with Chaucer, Milton, Byron, and Swinburne. (Remember Swinburne?) Year One of a life newly devoted to words. Your recent change, of course, has crushed your father. He long hoped that you would follow through on that Kennedy-inspired dream of community service. You, who might have become a first-rate social worker. You, who might have done good things for the species, or at least for the old neighborhood. But life will be books for you, from here on. Nothing has ever felt more preordained. Term’s out, and it’s time to see every square mile of this island. Bicycle clips, a Blue Guide, a transistor radio, and skin-hugging rain. Villages slip past on valley roads as twisty as the clauses in Henry James. The book turns up in a junk shop in an old Saxon market town whose name you will remember as almost certainly having an “m” in it. Among the rusted baby buggies and ancient radios you find old cooking magazines, books on fly-tying and photography, late-fifties spy novels with cardboard covers worn as soft as felt. The thing pops out at you: “To the Measures Fall,” by someone named Elton Wentworth. There’s nothing else like it in the shop. It’s a fat tome with rough-cut pages in a deluxe, tooled binding. The dust jacket has disappeared, but the front matter suggests that you know all about Mr. Wentworth already. Born in 1888, the author of twelve previous books and the winner of awards too numerous to mention. The first line reads, “A freak snow hit late that year, two weeks after the sand martins returned to the gravel pits near the South Downs.” The next few paragraphs sketch out a hard-pressed town, Wotton-on-Wold, much like the one you are in, with the “m” in it. On page 3, the author reveals the date: 1913. On the last page, a village search party finds the body of a young amputee captain who served at the Somme lying at the bottom of said gravel pits. Only seven years have passed, but the lilting opening cadences have darkened into fragments from another world. The book seems to be a sweeping portrait of rural England before and after the First World War. You check the title page: copyright 1948. Aside from two bold exclamation points at the end of Chapter 1, the pages are unblemished, perhaps unread. Pencilled into the upper right hand of the inside front is a price: 10/6 d. Exorbitant. You draw seven pounds a week for student expenses. A three-course Chinese dinner on Station Road costs four shillings, and lunch in the canteen is half that. A 12-inch LP runs only a pound, and even a two-minute call to the States is cheaper than Mr. Wentworth’s book. Half a guinea for a used novel you’ve never heard of? Robbery. But something about that opening is too strange for you to resist. Besides, you’ve just devoted your life to literature. You graze the start of Chapter 2, in which Trevor, a spindly farmer’s son with Addison’s disease, baffles his parents by insisting on going to university. You need to know how this beginning can reach so macabre an end. The shop’s owner is a beaked old man with a gray hairline like a cowl slipping off his head. It’s humiliating to bargain with him, but you’re desperate. How much do you offer the junk-store owner for his used book? You are, by the way, female. Lots of folks think you shouldn’t be out biking alone, even in the Cotswolds. See pages 214 to 223 of Mr. Wentworth’s epic. How much would you have offered for the book had you been male? You buy the book, lug it around on the rest of the bike tour, drag it back up north with you, but somehow fail to read it. When summer ends, and with it your English idyll, you’re shocked to discover how many essential novels you’ve bought and haven’t got around to reading. Now the problem is packing them all into a suitcase that is lighter than forty-four pounds. You could mail them to the States, but they’d cost more to ship than you spent to buy them. You resort to the time-honored system of three piles: 1. Keep for all time. 2. Suspend in Purgatory. 3. Cast forever into the outer darkness. By the evening before the homeward flight, “To the Measures Fall” is stuck stubbornly in Purgatory, along with Wheelock’s “What Is Poetry?,” James Purdy’s “Malcolm,” “The Bull from the Sea,” by Mary Renault, John Braine’s best-seller “Life at the Top,” and Updike’s “The Centaur,” which has got mixed reviews. “Life at the Top” might be tricky to get hold of in the States. Who knows how long Updike will be read? “Malcolm,” on the other hand, is already on every undergraduate syllabus in the country. Renault, guilty pleasure, is the one you’d really love to have in your carry-on. The further adventures of Theseus and Hippolyta, with sun-drenched temples, earthquakes, and human-god miscegenation: how better to fill eight hours of captive reading? But your bag will hold only four more volumes. Choose which two books get dumped forever. Wentworth makes the cut, if only as a souvenir of that magical cycling tour. Weirdly, browsing through the bookshop in the Oceanic Terminal at Heathrow, you notice a reprint of one of his earlier novels, about coal miners in Wales. It’s a Penguin, with that orange spine that’s synonymous with great books. There’s a jacket blurb from Winston Churchill calling Wentworth “This island’s Balzac . . . our much revered, much imitated national asset,” and another from Dame Edith Sitwell, D.B.E., calling him “England’s most distinguished living author of the novel of community.” “National asset” makes Wentworth sound like a hulking stone country house given away by pauperized aristocrats for tax deductions. And “most distinguished” feels a bit dated, against a backdrop of Mods, Rockers, the Angry Young Men, and “Beyond the Fringe.” Still, two immortal literary lions have praised this man to the skies. What an incredible deal, getting that first edition for eight shillings. Clearly, the balding junk-shop owner didn’t know what he was selling. Far out over the Atlantic, as you approach Greenland, a twinge of conscience hits you. What good is all the cultivation in the world if you use it to cheat ignorant people? How much should you have paid the shopkeeper? Exceed his proposed price, if necessary. Back in the States, you look up Elton Wentworth. He isn’t England’s most distinguished living anything. He died right around the time that you realized you’d sooner sell cigarettes from a shoulder tray than go into social work. In addition to sheep in the Cotswolds and coal in Wales, he did Lincolnshire fishermen and three generations of Brummie factory workers. He wasn’t England’s Balzac; he was the James Michener of the Midlands. You read the first hundred pages of “To the Measures Fall,” hacking your way through thickets of dialect. The prose can be brutally beautiful. But the semester starts, you fall in love, get deflowered, watch Kennedy die and the Beatles invade, get high to listen to Coltrane, and discover Heller, Ellison, Ferlinghetti, and Bellow—writing that flows across the page in huge bright swaths that you didn’t know English could permit. So the First World War was a bad scene. Aren’t we over that yet? And what was Wentworth doing, bringing out a book wrapped in Edwardian nostalgia three years after Dachau? You graduate in the spring and pack up your worldly possessions again, just as the U.S.S. Maddox fires on three patrol boats in the Gulf of Tonkin, letting Johnson widen a war in a country that, until recently, was as fictional to you as Wentworth’s South Downs. Does the book go to Goodwill, the Salvation Army, or the twenty-five-cent pile at your graduation lawn sale? You survive two years of graduate classes, the General Comprehensive Test (flubbing the question on Tobias Smollett), marriage to a Faulkner guy, and a gruelling four-hundred-book Special Field Exam on “The Electra Complex in Postwar American Prose,” a subject that you begin to hate long before your committee can lob the first question. All the while, there’s Biafra, Black Power, the levitation of the Pentagon, My Lai, back-to-back assassinations, the siege of Chicago, street warfare, and city centers burning in an annual summer ritual. Drugs are everywhere, making people see God or murder their families. Books go surreal, psychedelic, and sometimes you wonder whether they’re causing the mayhem or just profiting from it. The dissertation—your baggy monster—becomes a four-year excuse to read everything except those writers you threaten to write about. On a hot June Thursday, early in the new decade, right around the time when five men break into the D.N.C. headquarters in D.C., you find yourself patrolling your own shelves, like a hopeful bidder at an estate sale. It’s a shock to come across that deluxe binding, which you distinctly remember throwing out a long time ago. The Cotswolds: cruel joke. Elgarian Imperial residue. You take it down and browse. You stop to fix dinner for your husband, who, an invalid of high modernism, cannot fix it for himself. But you’re back at Wentworth until 4 A.M., when you end up at the bottom of the South Downs gravel pit, 1920, your throat feeling as if you’d been taking swabs at it with a pipe cleaner. You don’t know what hurts more: the swirling moral turbulence of the book or the belated discovery that everything you thought about it was wrong. You missed it all: register, mood, irony, ambiguity, subtleties of characterization, narrative arc, even basic plot points. You can’t read. It’s like finding out, at thirty, that you’re adopted. You’re not yet sure that it’s great literature. But the thing took you underwater and held you there for the better part of thirteen hours and, two days later, you’re still winded. Its single, history-slapped village is a whole world, whose heft and weight and strange sinuous tangle of syntax stands for nothing but itself. Its portraits—particularly that of Sarah, the mother of doomed Captain Trevor and the furtive wife of idealism-scarred Francis Beck—seem so clearly ripped from microscopic observation that it’s cheating to call them fiction. This story is not your life. It’s not your time or place. It’s just a scrap of torn diary floating up from a scorched past. What does the thing want from you? Give the book a final grade: Fail Low Pass Pass Pass with Honors Highest Distinction You make your husband read it. You do the Lysistrata thing until he does. This is a mistake, as he reads it way too fast. “Very well done,” he reports, wanting his sugar cube. “Skillful. First-rate social realism. Why haven’t more people written about this guy?” It isn’t skillful. It isn’t social realism. You read it again, taking a week this time. Now the book gets more troubling. More weirdly allegorical. You can’t put your finger on what bothers you. Something to do with hoping against your better judgment. You lie awake on a hot August night wondering how a thing might be good and real and true for a while, then made irrelevant, or worse, by later events. You’ve got very close with your thesis adviser. In fact, if you remember right, you’re sleeping with him. The two of you are in an actual bed somewhere, in the dark, a luxury you can no longer imagine how you managed. Maybe it’s an OPEC, oil-crisis thing: turn off the lights when not in use. The two of you are playing that old favorite: which classic would you never dare admit to anyone but your lover in the dark that you haven’t read? You offer “Silas Lapham” and he ups the ante to “Billy Budd” and you try to trump with “The Sound and the Fury,” which he blows out of the water with “Huck Finn.” You ask him if he’s ever read any Wentworth. He just snickers, thinking it another game. You obsess about the thing. You read all the criticism. Most of it damns itself with due diligence: “Trevor Beck and Erikson’s Theory of Psychosocial Development”; “Wool, Surplus Value, and Class Unrest in Wentworth’s Wotton-on-Wold.” No article has an insight strong enough to explain why you should be reading it, rather than the book again. You learn all kinds of things about Elton Wentworth, some of which you wish you hadn’t. Blacklisted for pacifist activity under the Defence of the Realm Act. Went to Russia between the wars and came back extolling the enlightened social state. Right up until Munich, a prominent appeaser. But come September, 1939, he turned British superpatriot and personal propagandizer for Churchill, which helps explain the latter’s jacket blurb. After the war, he fought decolonization tooth and nail, in a series of interviews with dozens of natives on three continents who all declared the British Empire the best thing ever to happen to its colonial subjects. At the age of eighty-one, he was jailed for three months for participating in violent demonstrations against nuclear weapons. In short, the author of that autonomous, ungrudging, unjudging book with no villains and fewer heroes, in which every moral position is plausible but flawed, was himself a hopeless, card-carrying, repeat-offending true believer. Grade Elton Wentworth’s public performance. Separate marks for form, style, and intent. In one of the Wentworth biographies, you come across a photograph of a note to Wentworth from Sir Winston himself. The letter’s signature vaguely resembles the inked scrawl that you’ve never paid attention to, on the inside front cover of your copy, underneath the pencilled price that now fills you with shame. The signature in the reproduced note reads “Winnie.” The drooping, obscured squiggle in your copy looks more like “Hump-hump Clunluch.” You are insane, of course. Hallucinating from over-research. There is no way on any likely earth that a book belonging to one of the century’s most famous personages could end up in a junk shop in the Cotswolds. Winston Churchill, Nobel Laureate in Literature, wasn’t about to write his name in his bloody books. If found, please return to House of Commons, London. “Mom?”Buy the print » You try to erase the pencilled price, for a better look. But you succeed only in smearing the signature. You look up every occurrence of Churchill’s signature on record in the university’s library. There is a similarity. The book gives you nothing else to go on, except the two bold exclamation points at the end of the first chapter. The one on the right seems distinctly Churchillian. You’d take the book to an appraiser, but you get paranoid. This is exactly the kind of scenario in which the naïve get bilked. On your next trip to the city, you show it to an antiquarian whom you’ve bought from many times. He listens to your theory with a tight, embarrassed smile. He says that even if you did get the signature certified—which could cost considerable blood, toil, tears, and sweat—the simple signature, without any further marginalia, might not greatly increase the book’s value. Given the dicey nature of the scribble, you may not want to pay for appraisal. But he’s willing to give you fifty dollars for the copy, for a good customer. Fifty bucks could buy two years of used novels. Deal or no deal? You keep the copy, for reasons that reason doesn’t understand. But two and a half months later you wipe out on literature altogether. You’re out of time in the graduate program, and still no diss. Your husband says no kids until you finish, but you can’t finish. The thesis isn’t even embarrassing. Psychoanalytic readings reek of . . . six years ago, and this new post-structural stuff gives you hives. You crash and burn. The house goes to pot. You glue yourself to the Watergate hearings for weeks. The whole mad circus is like a Dickens serial saga. You talk to the screen, cheering and hissing. You even develop a little thing for Sam Ervin. You get a job adjuncting at a nearby college, intros and surveys. But drumming up enthusiasm for Wharton and Cather is murder. These days, it’s all Pynchon and Barthelme, Coover and Gaddis and Gass. The canon goes up in smoke. You realize, belatedly, that you’re a co-opted, false-consciousness servant of Empire, a kapo of privileged heteronormative white paternalism, but it’s too late to retool. Around the Fall of Saigon—plagued by those films of people on the Embassy rooftop clutching the runners of escaping helicopters—you bail out into law school. It’s the only practical choice. And doesn’t law, at bottom, involve the same act of eternal verbal negotiation as reading? The marriage breaks up under the pressure of 1L. Your only recreational reading for the next two years is the Congressional Record. You get a good job, with a decent boutique firm, specializing in intellectual property. None of your dozens of bright, well-read colleagues have ever heard of Wotton-on-Wold. You marry again, this time for real, to a big police-procedural fan in corporate litigation. At the last possible moment, you have kids. Three of them: one reader and two watchers, who get their ABCs from purple and green televised puppets. Nothing will ever light up the cortex faster than cathode rays. Yet, with your reader daughter, the whole awful, gut-wrenching seduction happens all over again. Urban ducklings, Wild Things, Purple Crayons—it doesn’t matter. Your daughter, glazed-eyed and body-snatched, chants “Read, Mommy, read,” like she’s off in Neverland already, even before the first verb. And you, fallen Wendy, eviscerated by the eternal recurrence of it all, hear Peter snarl at you for growing guilty and big and old, while something inside you cries, “Woman, woman, let go of me.” A few years pass, and still your daughter is reading furiously. You’ll lose her eventually, to the rising flood of film: the swelling archive of video that offers whole new republics of visual democracy. Who knows how long the page will hold her attention? Do you rush her into the good stuff while you can? Maybe, if you time things right, the whole crumbling Edwardian stage set of Wotton-on-Wold will strike her as some kind of hyper-Narnia. When should you push Wentworth on Jane? 1. Never too early. 2. Never too late. 3. Never gonna happen. Your children become the heroes of their own plots, timeworn narratives in unrecognizable new bindings. The eighties pass while your energies are spent elsewhere—on building up the college-tuition war chests, on making partner, on helping companies copyright common English words. You still read for pleasure: all kinds of things. The hunger remains, but, as with sex, the costumes must grow ever more elaborate to produce the same transport. You’re caught somewhere between reading for recognition and reading for estrangement. Mostly what you read are reviews. Too few hours left to do more than scan the books that you know you’d love. At least you can read what the gatekeepers say about this fall’s lineup. And, often, imagining a book from its synopsis beats what you do manage to slog through. The reviews accumulate faster than you can flip through them. What you really need is a thumbnail summary of the thumbnail summaries. A year or so after Grenada or Iran-Contra or some such thing, while blasting through last year’s stack of unread literary weeklies prior to pitching them, you come across the fact that “To the Measures Fall,” long out of print, is being reissued in an annotated Essential Library edition—part of a general renaissance of Wentworth, who, the review laments, has been in a twenty-year decline. The reviewer calls “Measures” the “once celebrated, now forgotten British ‘Magic Mountain.’ ” He claims that Wentworth’s wartime Midlands still have as much to reveal as any of the marginalized regions of the earth. Can that possibly include Lesotho, Lebanon, the Punjab? The retrospective appreciation feels like one of those lifetime-achievement awards that you get for having the courtesy to stay dead. The new cover for the Essential Library edition is dazzling; it makes Wentworth look like the next Alice Walker. You’re not sure what constitutes a decent interval between “much revered national asset” and “unfairly undervalued.” For the reviewer, the revival proves the one universal truth about literary merit: quality will surface, in the run of time. The trick is to stop time at just the right moment. Who is Elton Wentworth, exactly? Choose one. 1. The currently most unjustly underrated author of his generation. 2. The formerly most justly overrated author of his generation. 3. The soon-to-be least unjustly re-rated author of his generation. New annotated editions flood the market. Does your boat go up? You break down and pay an appraiser ten times what you would have, ten years ago, to look at your copy. Churchill’s marked-up volume, it turns out, went for eight hundred pounds at Sotheby’s, just as the new Wentworth renaissance hit. Your copy belonged to a Cotswold sheep farmer named H. H. Cleanleach. The appraiser offers you ten bucks off his fee. The boys in Information Processing install a terminal in your office that fulfills your old dream: rapid access to abstracts of all the articles that you can no longer find time to read. In between researching briefs, you follow the boomlet in Wentworth studies. The reader-response people take him up, then those who study reputational revision. There’s a minor heyday in swarming any author still in the state of pre-post-exhaustion, just before the idea of single-author studies gives out. A modernist at New Mexico State proves that “To the Measures Fall” was really written around 1928, suppressed by Wentworth for two decades, then published, despite his objections, in a form he didn’t want. A Barnard associate prof proves that half the novel was the work of Wentworth’s longtime mistress. A graduate student at Indiana proves that the book is riddled with historical error. Scholars of all ranks show how Wentworth was the product of a thousand horrific cultural blindnesses and Eurocentric brutalities. Write a brief letter to no one, about what you once thought the book might mean. The Berlin Wall falls, and the Evil Empire falls with it. The Cold War ends, and for a moment history does, too. You stop reading anything that is more than two months old. You don’t exactly remember the nineties. The Gulf, of course. Something about Somalia and Sarajevo. Smoke everywhere. Lots of colored ribbons tied around America’s trees. The firm keeps dangling the promise of senior partnership, but it never quite happens. The 1993 feature film adaptation of “To the Measures Fall” stars Daniel Day-Lewis and Emma Thompson. There’s an extended hallucinatory sequence depicting the suicidal “slow walk” at the Somme (filmed in Scotland), graphically matched to a torrid sex scene on the heath outside Wotton-on-Wold (filmed in a Hollywood sound studio). A tie-in paperback edition appears, with a glossy movie-still cover featuring the gorgeous leads. Rate the film: 1. Worth the price of a movie ticket. 2. Worth videotaping, when it comes on TV. 3. Worth denouncing at a dinner party. 4. Worth a class-action suit by readers everywhere. On your fifty-fifth birthday—the age at which the terminally ill Sarah Beck must identify her son’s body at the foot of the South Downs gravel pit—you join a book group. The kids are grown, the career’s on autopilot, the husband is off playing paintball, and it’s time to read again. Books are back, in more flavors than ever. Cool books, slick books, innovative remixes, massive doorstops, funny jeux d’esprit, weepy Uighur bildungsromans, caustic family sagas from Kazakhstan. Books in every market niche and biome: avant-après-post-retro. Back, too, is the long-dead art of communal reading. O.K.: maybe a few of your book-group members are in it for the finger food. But you’d forgotten what a pleasure it is to discuss out loud—aimless talk about love and lust, responsibility, hope, and pain. Together, over two years, you read the major national selections. Your fellow-members bring their old secret freight out of deep storage. You take nine months to work up to your request. You’re unsure of your friends. Unsure of your ability to reread. Unsure of just what’s in that treacherous book these days. You read it slowly this time, a chapter a night, over the course of weeks. This time through, the book is no more than a grand, futile gesture of nevertheless in the face of human frailty: Francis Beck’s refusal to believe that his wife is ill—a feckless cowardice that turns, by insistence, almost heroic; Alice Wright’s paralyzing premonition, which she can’t act upon without destroying the man who would destroy her; Trevor’s premeditated signal to Alice, ready to launch itself from beyond the grave. Two club members report flinging the book across the room in a rage. Another demands her three days back. Accusations multiply: it’s mawkish, it’s cerebral, it’s meandering, it’s manipulative, it’s cold and cunning and misanthropic, it’s wrecked by redemption. How are we supposed to care about these characters? I just wanted them all to get a life. But a few people in the group don’t know what hit them. One friend hated the first fifty pages but wanted fifty more after the end. The quietest man in the group comes back from Wotton-on-Wold wrapped in brittle bewilderment at his own existence. It’s a custom of the group—introduced by the male minority—to assign every book a letter grade. Yours gets a C+. What percentage of your pleasure has gone out of the book forever? Fractions permitted. Overnight, the World Wide Web weaves tightly around you. A novelty at first, then invaluable, then life support, then heroin. It’s a chance to recapture everything you’ve ever lost: college friends, out-of-print rarities, quotations that had vanished forever. Your online hours must come from somewhere, and it isn’t from your TV viewing. You lose whole days on the roller coaster of real-time eBay auctions. Volumes of Wentworth go off at every price, from triple digits down to a buck ninety-nine. You rescue a few, to give to friends, someday, or whenever. It thrills you to discover a site where all the shameless, recidivist Wentworth readers in the world gather to post their guilty pleasures. You subscribe to a feed. Six months later, the community spirals into civil war as a thread between sock puppets and anonymous avatars goes up in flames. You watch the Amazon ratings for “To the Measures Fall” drop steadily, from a high of four and a half stars to a low somewhat below that of a defective woodchipper. The wisdom of crowds means to send Wentworth into a third and final eclipse. You consider logging in at Comfort Suites across the country, creating all kinds of personae to rescue the book for another generation of Wentworth readers, whenever they dare to come out of hiding. How many aliases do you create to rate the book? 1. Just enough to boost the book back to its rightful rating. 2. Sarah Beck would never create an alias. Then the new century. Terror and sci-fi become life’s dominant genres. War turns perpetual. The last print newspapers head toward extinction. More words get posted in five years than were published in all previous history. Global warming threatens to flood coasts inhabited by half a billion people. Most of the planet suffers from drought or tainted water. Name the book that best captures life as now lived. Two months before you plan to retire, you learn that you have a massive hilar tumor, nestled up in the stem of your lungs, where nothing can reach it. It’s right where Sarah Beck’s is, if you’re imagining correctly. Your daughter the reader brings you the book, to keep you company in a state-of-the-art cancer center, in your bed next to a window that looks out onto a brick wall ten feet across a cement courtyard. You read it again. Not the whole book, of course—you couldn’t possibly read a whole anything. But you manage a few pages, searching for a creature that recedes in front of your gaze. This time, the book is about the shifting delusion of shared need, our imprisonment in a medium as traceless as air. It’s about a girl who knew nothing at all, taking a bike ride through the Cotswolds one ridiculous spring, mistaking books for life and those rolling hills of metaphor for truth. It’s about a little flash, glimpsed for half a paragraph at the bottom of a left-hand page, that fills you with something almost like knowing. A freak snow hits late that year. You lie in bed, an hour from your next morphine dose, your swollen index finger marking a secret place in the spine-cracked volume, the passage that predicted your life. For a moment you are lucid, and equal to any story. Score the world on a scale from one to ten. Say what you’d like to see happen, in the sequel.
Corrie “It isn’t a good thing to have the money concentrated all in the one family, the way you do in a place like this,” Mr. Carlton said. “I mean, for a girl like my daughter Corrie here. For example, I mean, like her. It isn’t good. Nobody on the same level.” Corrie was right across the table, looking their guest in the eye. She seemed to think this was funny. “Who’s she going to marry?” her father continued. “She’s twenty-five.” Corrie raised her eyebrows, made a face. “You missed a year,” she said. “Twenty-six.” “Go ahead,” her father said. “Laugh all you like.” She laughed out loud, and, indeed, what else could she do? the guest thought. His name was Howard Ritchie, and he was only a few years older than she was, but already equipped with a wife and a young family, as her father had immediately found out. Her expressions changed very quickly. She had bright-white teeth and short, curly, nearly black hair. High cheekbones that caught the light. Not a soft woman. Not much meat on the bone, which was the sort of thing her father might find to say next. Howard Ritchie thought of her as the type of girl who spent a lot of time playing golf and tennis. In spite of her quick tongue, he expected her to have a conventional mind. He was an architect, just getting started on a career. Mr. Carlton insisted on referring to him as a church architect, because he was at present restoring the tower of the town’s Anglican church. A tower that had been on the verge of toppling until Mr. Carlton came to its rescue. Mr. Carlton was not an Anglican—he had pointed that out several times. His church was the Methodist, and he was Methodist to the core, which was why he kept no liquor in the house. But a fine church like the Anglican ought not to be let to go to wrack and ruin. No hope looking to the Anglicans to do anything—they were a poor class of Irish Protestants, who would have taken the tower down and put up something that was a blemish on the town. They didn’t have the shekels, of course, and they wouldn’t understand the need for an architect, rather than a carpenter. A church architect. The dining room was hideous, at least in Howard’s opinion. This was the mid-fifties, but everything looked as if it had been in place before the turn of the century. The food was barely all right. The man at the head of the table never stopped talking. You’d think the girl would be exhausted by it, but she seemed mostly to be on the verge of laughing. Before she was done with her dessert, she lit a cigarette. She offered Howard one, saying, quite audibly, “Don’t mind Daddy.” He accepted, but didn’t think the better of her. Spoiled rich miss. Unmannerly. Out of the blue, she asked him what he thought of the Saskatchewan Premier, Tommy Douglas. He said that his wife supported him. Actually, his wife didn’t think Douglas was far left enough, but he wasn’t going to get into that. “Daddy loves him. Daddy’s a Communist.” This brought a snort from Mr. Carlton that didn’t squelch her. “Well, you laugh at his jokes,” she told her father. Shortly after that, she took Howard out to look at the grounds. The house was directly across the street from the factory, which made men’s boots and work shoes. Behind the house, however, were wide lawns and the river that curled halfway around the town. There was a worn path down to its bank. She led the way, and he was able to see what he hadn’t been sure of before. She was lame in one leg. “Isn’t it a steep climb back up?” he asked. “I’m not an invalid.” “I see you’ve got a rowboat,” he said, meaning that as a partway apology. “I’d take you out in it but not right now. Now we’ve got to watch the sunset.” She pointed out an old kitchen chair that she said was for watching the sunset, and demanded that he sit there. She herself sat on the grass. He was about to ask if she would be able to get up all right, but thought better of it. “I had polio,” she said. “That’s all it is. My mother had it, too, and she died.” “That’s too bad.” “I suppose so. I can’t remember her. I’m going to Egypt next week. I was very keen on going, but now I don’t seem to care so much. Do you think it’d be fun?” “I have to earn a living.” He was amazed at what he’d said, and, of course, it set her off giggling. “I was speaking in general terms,” she said grandly, when the giggling finished. “Me, too.” Some creepy fortune hunter was bound to snap her up, some Egyptian or whatever. She seemed both bold and childish. At first, a man might be intrigued by her, but then her forwardness, her self-satisfaction, if that was what it was, would become tiresome. Of course, there was money, and to some men that never became tiresome. “You mustn’t ever mention my leg in front of Daddy or he will go apoplectic,” she said. “Once he fired not just a kid who teased me but his entire family. I mean, even cousins.” From Egypt there arrived peculiar postcards, sent to his firm, not his house. Well, of course, how could she have known his home address? Not a single pyramid on them. No Sphinx. Instead, one showed the Rock of Gibraltar with a note that called it a pyramid in collapse. Another showed some flat dark-brown fields, God knows where, and said, “Sea of Melancholia.” There was another message in fine print: “Magnifying glass obtainable send money.” Fortunately, nobody in the office got hold of these. He did not intend to reply, but he did: “Magnifying glass faulty please refund money.” He drove to her town for an unnecessary inspection of the church steeple, knowing that she had to be back from the Pyramids but not knowing whether she would be at home or off on some other jaunt. She was home, and would be for some time. Her father had suffered a stroke. There was not really much for her to do. A nurse came in every other day. And a girl named Sadie Wolfe was in charge of the fires, which were always lit when Howard arrived. Of course, she did other chores as well. Corrie herself couldn’t quite manage to get a good fire going or put a meal together; she couldn’t type, couldn’t drive a car, not even with a built-up shoe to help her. Howard took over when he came. He looked after the fires and saw to various things around the house and was even taken to visit Corrie’s father, if the old man was able. He hadn’t been sure how he would react to the foot, in bed. But in some way it seemed more appealing, more unique, than the rest of her. She had told him that she was not a virgin. But that turned out to be a complicated half-truth, owing to the interference of a piano teacher, when she was fifteen. She had gone along with what the piano teacher wanted because she felt sorry for people who wanted things so badly. “Don’t take that as an insult,” she said, explaining that she had not continued to feel sorry for people in that way. “I should hope not,” he said. Then he had things to tell her about himself. The fact that he had produced a condom did not mean that he was a regular seducer. In fact, she was only the second person he had gone to bed with, the first being his wife. He had been brought up in a fiercely religious household and still believed in God, to some extent. He kept that a secret from his wife, who would have made a joke of it, being very left-wing. Corrie said she was glad that what they were doing—what they had just done—appeared not to bother him, in spite of his belief. She said that she herself had never had any time for God, because her father was enough to cope with. “What was the point of writing a blog that nobody else could read?”Buy the print » It wasn’t difficult for them. Howard’s job often required him to travel for a daytime inspection or to see a client. The drive from Kitchener didn’t take long. And Corrie was alone in the house now. Her father had died, and the girl who used to work for her had gone off to find a city job. Corrie had approved of this, even giving her money for typing lessons, so that she could better herself. “You’re too smart to mess around doing housework,” she had said. “Let me know how you get along.” Whether Sadie Wolfe spent the money on typing lessons or on something else was not known, but she did continue to do housework. This was discovered on an occasion when Howard and his wife were invited to dinner, with others, at the home of some rather important people in Kitchener. There was Sadie waiting on table, coming face to face with the man she had seen in Corrie’s house. The man she had seen with his arm around Corrie when she came in to take the plates away or fix the fire. An unknown woman with him, who, the conversation soon made plain, was his wife. It was also made plain that his wife had not come recently into the picture. Her time had overlapped with Corrie’s. Howard did not tell Corrie about the dinner right away, because he hoped it would become unimportant. The host and hostess of the evening were nothing like close friends of his, or of his wife. Certainly not of his wife, who made fun of them on political grounds afterward. It had been a social business event. And the household wasn’t likely the sort in which the maids gossiped with the mistress. Indeed, it wasn’t. Sadie said that she had not gossiped about it at all. She said this in a letter. It was not her mistress whom she had a notion of speaking to, if she had to. It was his own wife. Would his wife be interested in getting this information? was the way she put it. The letter was sent to his office address, which she had been clever enough to find out. But she was also acquainted with his home address. She had been spying. She mentioned that and also referred to his wife’s coat with the silver-fox collar. This coat bothered his wife, and she often felt obliged to tell people that she had inherited, not bought, it. That was the truth. Still, she liked to wear it on certain occasions, like that dinner party, to hold her own, it seemed, even with people whom she had no use for. “I would hate to have to break the heart of such a nice lady with a big silver-fox collar on her coat,” Sadie had written. “How would Sadie know a silver-fox collar from a hole in the ground?” Corrie said, when he felt that he had to break the news to her. “Are you sure that’s what she said?” “I’m sure.” He had burned the letter at once, had felt contaminated by it. “She’s learned things, then,” Corrie said. “I always thought she was sly. I guess killing her is not an option?” He didn’t even smile, so she said very soberly, “I’m just kidding.” It was April, but still cold enough that you would like to have a fire lit. She had planned to ask him to do it, all through supper, but his strange, sombre attitude had prevented her. He told her that his wife hadn’t wanted to go to that dinner. “It’s all just pure rotten luck.” “You should have taken her advice,” she said. “It’s the worst,” he said. “It’s the worst that could happen.” They were both staring into the black grate. He had touched her only once, to say hello. “Well, no,” Corrie said. “Not the worst. No.” “No?” “No,” she said. “We could give her the money. It’s not a lot, really.” “I don’t have—” “Not you. I could.” “Oh, no.” “Yes.” She made herself speak lightly, but she had gone deathly cold. For what if he said no? No, I can’t let you. No, it’s a sign. It’s a sign that we have to stop. She was sure that there’d been something like that in his voice, and in his face. All that old sin stuff. Evil. “It’s nothing to me,” she said. “And, even if you could get hold of it easily, you couldn’t do it. You’d feel you were taking it away from your family—how could you?” Family. She should never have said that. Never have said that word. But his face actually cleared. He said no, no, but there was doubt in his voice. And then she knew that it would be all right. After a while, he was able to speak practically and he remembered another thing from the letter. It had to be in bills, he said. She had no use for checks. He spoke without looking up, as if about a business deal. Bills were best for Corrie, too. They would not implicate her. “Fine,” she said. “It’s not an outrageous sum, anyway.” “But she is not to know that we see it that way.” A postal box was to be taken, in Sadie’s name. The bills in an envelope addressed to her, left there twice a year. The dates to be set by her. Never a day late. Or, as she had said, she might start to worry. He still did not touch Corrie, except for a grateful, almost formal goodbye. This subject must be altogether separate from what is between us, was what he seemed to be saying. We’ll start fresh. We will be able again to feel that we’re not hurting anybody. Not doing any wrong. That was how he would put it in his unspoken language. In her own language she made one half-joke that did not go over. “Already we’ve contributed to Sadie’s education—she wasn’t this smart before.” “We don’t want her getting any smarter. Asking for more.” “We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it. Anyway, we could threaten to go to the police. Even now.” “But that would be the end of you and me,” he said. He had already said goodbye and turned his head away. They were on the windy porch. He said, “I could not stand for there to be an end of you and me.” “I’m glad to hear that,” Corrie said. The time came quickly when they did not even speak of it. She handed over the bills, already in their envelope. At first he made a small grunt of disgust, but later that turned into a sigh of acquiescence, as if he had been reminded of a chore. “How the time goes around.” “Doesn’t it just?” “Sadie’s ill-gotten gains,” Corrie might say, and though he didn’t care for the expression at first, he got used to saying it himself. In the beginning, she would ask if he’d ever seen Sadie again, if there had been any further dinner parties. “They weren’t that kind of friends,” he reminded her. He hardly ever saw them, didn’t know if Sadie was still working for them or not. Corrie hadn’t seen her, either. Her people lived out in the country, and if Sadie came to see them they weren’t likely to shop in this town, which had rapidly gone downhill. There was nothing now on the main street but a convenience store, where people went to buy Lotto tickets and whatever groceries they had run out of, and a furniture store, where the same tables and sofas sat forever in the windows, and the doors seemed never to be open—and maybe wouldn’t be, until the owner died in Florida. After Corrie’s father died, the shoe factory had been taken over by a large firm that had promised—so she believed—to keep it running. Within a year, however, the building was empty, such equipment as was wanted moved to another town, nothing left, except a few outmoded tools that had once had to do with making boots and shoes. Corrie got it into her head to establish a quaint little museum to display these things. She herself would set it up and give tours describing how things used to be done. It was surprising how knowledgeable she became, helped by some photographs that her father had had taken to illustrate a talk that perhaps he himself had given—it was badly typed—to the Women’s Institute when they were studying local industries. Already by the end of the summer Corrie had shown a few visitors around. She was sure that things would pick up the next year, after she had put a sign up on the highway and written a piece for a tourist brochure. Buy the print » In the early spring, she looked out of her window one morning and saw some strangers starting to tear the building down. It turned out that the contract she’d thought she had to use the building so long as a certain amount of the rent was paid did not allow her to display or appropriate any objects found within the building, no matter how long they had been considered worthless. There was no question of these ancient bits of hardware belonging to her, and, in fact, she was fortunate not to be hauled up in court now that the company—which had once seemed so obliging—had found out what she was up to. If Howard had not taken his family to Europe the previous summer, when she embarked on this project, he could have looked at the agreement for her and she would have been saved a lot of trouble. Never mind, she said when she had calmed down, and soon she found a new interest. It began with her deciding that she was sick of her big and empty house—she wanted to get out, and she set her sights on the public library down the street. It was a handsome, manageable red brick building and, being a Carnegie Library, was not easy to get rid of, even though few people used it anymore—not nearly enough to justify a librarian’s wages. Corrie went down there twice a week and unlocked the doors and sat behind the librarian’s desk. She dusted the shelves if she felt like it, and phoned up the people who were shown by the records to have had books out for years. Sometimes the people she reached claimed that they had never heard of the book—it had been checked out by some aunt or grandmother who used to read and was now dead. She spoke then of library property, and sometimes the book actually showed up in the returns bin. The only thing not agreeable about sitting in the library was the noise. It was made by Jimmy Cousins, who cut the grass around the library building, starting again practically as soon as he’d finished because he had nothing else to do. So she hired him to do the lawns at her house—something she’d been doing herself for the exercise, but her figure didn’t really need it and it took forever with her lameness. Howard was somewhat dismayed by the change in her life. He came more seldom now, but was able to stay longer. He was living in Toronto, though working for the same firm. His children were teen-agers or else in college. The girls were doing very well, the boys not quite so well as he might have wished, but that was the way of boys. His wife was working full time and sometimes more than full time in the office of a provincial politician. Her pay was next to nothing, but she was happy. Happier than he’d ever known her. The past spring he had taken her to Spain, as a birthday surprise. Corrie hadn’t heard from him for some time then. It would have been lacking in taste for him to write to her from the birthday-present holiday. He would never do a thing like that, and she would not have liked him to do it, either. “You’d think my place were a shrine, the way you carry on,” Corrie said after he got back, and he said, “Exactly right.” He loved everything about the big rooms now, with their ornate ceilings and dark, gloomy panelling. There was a grand absurdity to them. But he was able to see that it was different for her, that she needed to get out once in a while. They began to take little trips, then somewhat longer trips, staying overnight in motels—though never more than one night—and eating at moderately fancy restaurants. They never ran into anyone they knew. Once upon a time they would have done so—they were sure of it. Now things were different, though they didn’t know why. Was it because they weren’t in such danger, even if it did happen? The fact being that the people they might have met, and never did, would not have suspected them of being the sinful pair they still were. He could have introduced her as a cousin without making any impression—a lame relation he had thought to drop in on. He did have relatives whom his wife never wanted to bother with. And who would have gone after a middle-aged mistress with a dragging foot? Nobody would have stored that information up to spill at a dangerous moment. We met Howard up at Bruce Beach with his sister, was it? He was looking good. His cousin, maybe. A limp? It wouldn’t have seemed worth the trouble. They still made love, of course. Sometimes with caution, avoiding a sore shoulder, a touchy knee. They had always been conventional in that way, and remained so, congratulating themselves on not needing any fancy stimulation. That was for married people. Sometimes Corrie would fill up with tears, hiding her face against him. “It’s just that we’re so lucky,” she said. She never asked him whether he was happy, but he indicated in a roundabout way that he was. He said that he had developed more conservative, or maybe just less hopeful, ideas in his work. (She kept to herself the thought that he had always been rather conservative.) He was taking piano lessons, to the surprise of his wife and family. It was good to have that kind of interest of your own, in a marriage. “I’m sure,” Corrie said. “I didn’t mean—” “I know.” One day—it was in September—Jimmy Cousins came into the library to tell her that he wouldn’t be able to cut her grass that day. He had to go to the cemetery and dig a grave. It was for someone who used to live around here, he said. Corrie, with her finger in “The Great Gatsby,” asked for the person’s name. She said that it was interesting how many people showed up here—or their bodies did—with this last request and bother for their relatives. They might have lived their entire lives in cities nearby or distant, and seemed quite satisfied in those places, but had no wish to stay there when they were dead. Old people got such ideas. Jimmy said that it wasn’t such an old person. The name was Wolfe. The first name slipped his mind. “Not Sadie? Not Sadie Wolfe?” He believed it was. And her name proved to be right there, in the library edition of the local paper, which Corrie never read. Sadie had died in Kitchener, at the age of forty-six. She was to be buried from the Church of the Lord’s Anointed, the ceremony at two o’clock. Well. This was one of the two days a week that the library was supposed to be open. Corrie couldn’t go. The Church of the Lord’s Anointed was a new one in town. Nothing flourished here but what her father had called “freak religions.” She could see the building from one of the library windows. She was at the window before two o’clock, watching a respectably sized group of people go in. Hats didn’t seem to be required nowadays, on women or men. How would she tell him? A letter to the office, it would have to be. She could phone there, but then his response would have to be so guarded, so matter of fact, that half the wonder of their release would be lost. She went back to “Gatsby,” but she was just reading words, not taking in the meaning—she was too restless. She locked the library and walked around town. People were always saying that this town was like a funeral, but in fact when there was a real funeral it put on its best show of liveliness. She was reminded of that when she saw, from a block away, the funeral-goers coming out of the church doors, stopping to chat and ease themselves out of solemnity. And then, to her surprise, many of them went around the church to a side door, where they reëntered. Of course. She had forgotten. After the ceremony, after the closed coffin had been put in its place in the hearse, everybody except those close enough to follow the dead and see her put into the ground would head for the after-the-service refreshments. These would be waiting in another part of the church, where there was a Sunday-school room and a hospitable kitchen. She didn’t see any reason that she shouldn’t join them. But at the last moment she would have walked past. Too late. A woman called to her in a challenging—or, at least, confidently unfunereal—voice from the door where the other people had gone in. This woman said to her, close up, “We missed you at the service.” Corrie had no notion who the woman was. She said that she was sorry not to have attended but she’d had to keep the library open. “Well, of course,” the woman said, but had already turned to consult with somebody carrying a pie. “Is there room in the fridge for this?” “One day, son, all this will belong to the youngest woman willing to make her body my playground.”Buy the print » “I don’t know, honey, you’ll just have to look and see.” Corrie had thought from the greeting person’s flowered dress that the women inside would all be wearing something similar. Sunday best if not mourning best. But maybe her ideas of Sunday best were out of date. Some of the women here were just wearing slacks, as she herself was. Another woman brought her a slice of spice cake on a plastic plate. “You must be hungry,” she said. “Everybody else is.” A woman who used to be Corrie’s hairdresser said, “I told everybody you would probably drop in. I told them you couldn’t till you’d closed up the library. I said it was too bad you had to miss the service. I said so.” “It was a lovely service,” another woman said. “You’ll want tea once you’re done with that cake.” And so on. She couldn’t think of anybody’s name. The United church and the Presbyterian church were just hanging on; the Anglican church had closed ages ago. Was this where everybody had gone? There was only one other woman at the reception who was getting as much attention as Corrie, and who was dressed as Corrie would have expected a funeral-going woman to be. A lovely lilac-gray dress and a subdued gray summer hat. The woman was being brought over to meet her. A string of modest genuine pearls around her neck. “Oh, yes.” She spoke in a soft voice, as pleased as the occasion would allow. “You must be Corrie. The Corrie I’ve heard so much about. Though we never met, I felt I knew you. But you must be wondering who I am.” She said a name that meant nothing to Corrie. Then shook her head and gave a small, regretful laugh. “Sadie worked for us ever since she came to Kitchener,” she said. “The children adored her. Then the grandchildren. They truly adored her. My goodness. On her day off I was just the most unsatisfactory substitute for Sadie. We all adored her, actually.” She said this in a way that was bemused, yet delighted. The way women like that could be, showing such charming self-disparagement. She would have spotted Corrie as the only person in the room who could speak her language and not take her words at face value. Corrie said, “I didn’t know she was sick.” “She went that fast,” the woman with the teapot said, offering more to the lady with the pearls and being refused. “It takes them her age faster than it does the real old ones,” the tea lady said. “How long was she in the hospital?” she asked in a slightly menacing way of the pearls. “I’m trying to think. Ten days?” “Shorter time than that, what I heard. And shorter still when they got around to letting her people know at home.” “She kept it all very much to herself.” This from the employer, who spoke quietly but held her ground. “She was absolutely not a person to make a fuss.” “No, she wasn’t,” Corrie said. At that moment, a stout, smiling young woman came up and introduced herself as the minister. “We’re speaking of Sadie?” she asked. She shook her head in wonder. “Sadie was blessed. Sadie was a rare person.” All agreed. Corrie included. “I suspect Milady the Minister,” Corrie wrote to Howard, in the long letter she was composing in her head on the way home. Later in the evening she sat down and started that letter, though she would not be able to send it yet—Howard was spending a couple of weeks at the Muskoka cottage with his family. Everybody slightly disgruntled, as he had described it in advance—his wife without her politics, him without his piano—but unwilling to forgo the ritual. “Of course, it’s absurd to think that Sadie’s ill-gotten gains would build a church,” she wrote. “But I’d bet she built the steeple. It’s a silly-looking steeple, anyway. I never thought before what a giveaway those upside-down ice-cream-cone steeples are. The loss of faith is right there, isn’t it? They don’t know it, but they’re declaring it.” She crumpled the letter up and started again, in a more jubilant manner. “The days of the Blackmail are over. The sound of the cuckoo is heard in the land.” She had never realized how much it weighed on her, she wrote, but now she could see it. Not the money—as he well knew, she didn’t care about the money, and, anyway, it had become a smaller amount in real terms as the years passed, though Sadie had never seemed to realize that. It was the queasy feeling, the never-quite-safeness of it, the burden on their long love, that had made her unhappy. She’d had that feeling every time she passed a postbox. She wondered if by any chance he would hear the news before her letter could get it to him. Not possible. He hadn’t reached the stage of checking obituaries yet. It was in February and again in August of every year that she put the special bills in the envelope and he slipped the envelope into his pocket. Later, he would probably check the bills and type Sadie’s name on the envelope before delivering it to her box. The question was, had he looked in the box to see if this summer’s money had been picked up? Sadie had been alive when Corrie made the transfer but surely not able to get to the mailbox. Surely not able. It was shortly before Howard left for the cottage that Corrie had last seen him and that the transfer of the envelope had taken place. She tried to figure out exactly when it was, whether he would have had time to check the box again after delivering the money or whether he would have gone straight to the cottage. Sometimes while at the cottage in the past he’d found time to write Corrie a letter. But not this time. She goes to bed with the letter to him still unfinished. And wakes up early, when the sky is brightening, though the sun is not yet up. There’s always one morning when you realize that the birds have all gone. She knows something. She has found it in her sleep. There is no news to give him. No news, because there never was any. No news about Sadie, because Sadie doesn’t matter and she never did. No post-office box, because the money goes straight into an account or maybe just into a wallet. General expenses. Or a modest nest egg. A trip to Spain. Who cares? People with families, summer cottages, children to educate, bills to pay—they don’t have to think about how to spend such an amount of money. It can’t even be called a windfall. No need to explain it. She gets up and quickly dresses and walks through every room in the house, introducing the walls and the furniture to this new idea. A cavity everywhere, most notably in her chest. She makes coffee and doesn’t drink it. She ends up in her bedroom once more, and finds that the introduction to the current reality has to be done all over again. But then there is a surprise. She is capable, still, of shaping up another possibility. If he doesn’t know that Sadie is dead he will just expect things to go on as usual. And how would he know, unless he is told? And who would he be told by, unless by Corrie herself? She could say something that would destroy them, but she does not have to. What a time it has taken her, to figure this out. And after all, if what they had—what they have—demands payment, she is the one who can afford to pay. When she goes down to the kitchen again she goes gingerly, making everything fit into its proper place.
The Dungeon Master The Dungeon Master has detention. We wait at his house by the county road. The Dungeon Master’s little brother Marco puts out corn chips and orange soda. Marco is a paladin. He fights for the glory of Christ. Marco has been many paladins since winter break. They are all named Valentine, and the Dungeon Master makes certain they die with the least possible amount of dignity. It’s painful enough when he rolls the dice, announces that a drunken orc has unspooled some Valentine’s guts for sport. Worse are the silly accidents. One Valentine tripped on a floor plank and cracked his head on a mead bucket. He died of trauma in the stable. “Take it!” the Dungeon Master said that time. Spit sprayed over the top of his laminated screen. “Eat your fate,” he said. “Your thread just got the snippo!” The Dungeon Master has a secret language that we don’t quite understand. They say he’s been treated for it. Whenever the Dungeon Master kills another Valentine, Marco runs off and cries to their father. Dr. Varelli nudges his son back into the study, sticks his bushy head in the door, says, “Play nice, my beautiful puppies.” “Father,” the Dungeon Master will say, “stay the fuck out of my mind realm.” “I honor your wish, my beauty.” Dr. Varelli says things like that. It’s not a secret language, just an embarrassing one. Maybe that’s why his wife left him, left Marco and the Dungeon Master, too. It’s not a decent reason to leave, but as the Dungeon Master hopes to teach us, the world is not a decent place to live. Now we sit, munch chips. “If they didn’t say corn, I wouldn’t think of them as corn,” Brendan says. He’s a third-level wizard. “Detention?” Cherninsky says, and stands, squats, stands, sits. He’s got black bangs and freckles, suffers from that disease where you can’t stay in your chair. “He chucked a spaz in Spanish,” I say. “I heard one of the seniors.” “The teacher rides him,” Marco says. Marco despises the Dungeon Master but loves his brother. I like Marco, but I’m no fan of Valentine. I’m a third-level ranger. I fight for the glory of me. The door smacks open. “Ah, the doomed.” The Dungeon Master strides past us, short and pasty with a fine brown beard. He sits behind his screen, which he’s ordered us never to touch. We never do, not even when he’s at detention. He shuffles some papers—his maps and grids. Dice click in his stubby hand. Behind him, on the wall, hang Dr. Varelli’s diplomas. The diplomas say that he’s a child psychiatrist, but he never brings patients here, and I’m not sure he ever leaves the house. “When last we met,” the Dungeon Master begins, “Olaf the thief had been caught stealing a loaf of pumpernickel from the village bakery. A halfling baker’s boy had cornered our friend with a bread knife. Ready to roll?” “I don’t want to die this way,” Cherninsky says. Cherninsky always dies this way—we all do—or die of something like it, but he seems pretty desperate this afternoon. Maybe he’s thinking of people who really have died, like his baby sister. She drowned in the ocean. Nobody ever mentions it. “This situation begs the question,” the Dungeon Master says, and sips from a can of strawberry milk. “Is bread the staff of life or the staff of death?” “What does that mean?” Cherninsky asks. “Read more,” the Dungeon Master says. “Enrich yourself.” “We all read,” Brendan says. “I mean books,” the Dungeon Master says. “I can’t believe you’re a wizard.” “Don’t kill me in a bakery,” Cherninsky says. “Don’t steal bread.” “What do you want? I’m a thief.” “Roll.” Cherninsky rolls, dies, hops out of his chair. “So why’d you get detention?” he says. “When did I get detention?” “Today,” I say. “You got it today.” The Dungeon Master peers at me over his screen. “Today, bold ranger, I watched a sad little pickpocket bleed out on a bakery floor. That’s the only thing that has happened today. Get it?” “Got it,” I say. I know that he is strange and not as smart as he pretends, but at least he keeps the borders of his mind realm well patrolled. That must count for something. “Now,” the Dungeon Master says, “any of you feebs want to take on the twerp with the kitchen utensil? Or would you rather consider a back-alley escape?” “Back-alley escape,” Marco says. “Valentine the Twenty-seventh?” the Dungeon Master says. “Twenty-ninth.” “Don’t get too attached, brother.” There are other kids, other campaigns. They have what teachers call imaginations. Some of them are in gifted. They play in the official after-school club. “I’ve got a seventeenth-level elf wizard,” Eric tells me in our freshman homeroom. “She flies a dragon named Green Star. We fought an army of frost giants last week. What about you?” “We never even see a dragon, let alone fly one. You have a girl character?” “You play with that psycho senior, what’s-his-face.” “The Dungeon Master,” I say. “He calls himself that? Like it’s his name?” “He doesn’t call himself anything.” “I heard that when he was little he hit some kid with an aluminum bat. Gave him brain damage.” “Completely made up,” I say, though I’m pretty sure it’s true. “He’s very smart.” “He’s not in gifted,” Eric says. “Neither am I.” “Good point,” Eric says, and turns to talk to Lucy Mantooth. Most days we play until we’re due home for dinner. But sometimes, if we call our houses for permission, Dr. Varelli cooks for us—hamburgers, spaghetti—and, if it’s not a school night, we sleep over. In the morning it’s pancakes, bacon, eggs, toast. “Eat, eat, my puppies.” We puppies eat in the study. Since we die so often, we take breaks while one of us makes a new character. One day, while Marco rolls Valentine the Thirty-second into being, I wander out to the parlor. Dr. Varelli sits on the divan with a shiny wooden guitar. His fingers flutter over the strings, and he sings something high and weepy. He stops, looks up. “It’s an Italian ballad.” There is shame in his voice, but it’s not about the song. I follow his gaze to an old photograph on the wall. A young woman poses beside a fountain. Pigeons swoop off its stone rim. Marco once told me that this woman is his mother. “So beautiful,” I say. “Of course,” Dr. Varelli says. “Rome is a beautiful city.” Later, we gather in the study for a new adventure. Our characters rendezvous at an inn called the Jaundiced Chimera. We’ve all died here before, in brawls and dagger duels, of poisoned ale, or even just of infections borne on unwashed steins. But the Dungeon Master insists the place has the best shepherd’s pie this side of the Flame Lakes. We befriend a blind man. Cherninsky steals his silver, but the poor sap doesn’t notice, so we befriend him some more. He tells us of a cave near the top of Mt. Total Woe, of a dragon in the cave, and a hoard beneath the dragon. “Sounds dangerous,” Marco says. “That’s the point,” I say. “It’s a tough decision,” Brendan says. I barely know Brendan. He met Marco at swim class or something. He’s nice, for the most part, and kind of dim. Wherever he goes to school, I doubt people notice him enough to bully him. Not true of Cherninsky. He makes a habit of asking for it, though some tormentors hang back. There’s something feral and untutored about his schoolyard ways. You sense that he might take a bully’s punches to the death. He’s the kid people whisper has no mother or father at home, but of course he does, they’re just old and stopped raising him years ago, maybe when his sister drowned. He always plays a thief, and even outside of the game, when he’s just Cherninsky, he steals stuff from the stores on Main. He and the Dungeon Master are not so different, or this town hurts them the same, which is probably why they sometimes hate each other. “Damn it, Brendan,” Cherninsky says now. “A tough decision? I say we go to that cave and get the gold. And then we get wenches.” “Wenches?” Brendan says. “Tarts,” Cherninsky says. “Elf beaver.” It’s all a charade, because there is no decision. There is no alternative. We shall scale Mt. Total Woe or die trying. Most likely the latter. “We’re going to grease that dragon,” I say. “Grease?” Brendan says. “Vietnam,” I say. “Oh, right.” But now the Dungeon Master has a mysterious appointment, which Dr. Varelli leans in to remind his beautiful puppy of, and the game adjourns. Cherninsky and I head home. Soon we’re near the reservoir, and we squish ourselves under the fence. We stumble down a rock embankment and start throwing things into the water, whatever we can find—rocks, bottles, old toys, parts of cars. We’ve all grown up doing this. I guess it’s our child psychiatry. Cherninsky drags a shredded tire toward the shoreline. He waves off my offer to help. “So what’s your opinion?” he asks. “Think this Mt. Woe thing is going to be any different?” The tire wobbles in the water, then pitches over with a splash. I whip a golf ball at its treads. “Maybe,” I say. “It could be.” “Saddest thing is how Marco and Brendan are so scared of dying. It’s just a game, but he’s playing with their minds. He’s been to Bergen Pines. Did you know that? Certified mental. I’m quitting soon. This game is for dorks, gaylords, and psychos, no offense.” “None taken,” I lie. Cherninsky claps my neck. “Want to smoke weed?” “No thanks.” “Want to watch my neighbor take a shower? She usually does it around now. She takes care of herself in there.” “What do you mean?” “You know what I mean. Oh, forget it. You want to start a band? I have all the equipment.” “Where’d you get the equipment?” “Don’t worry about that. We’d need a name.” “How about Elf Beaver?” Buy the print » “That’s pretty stupid,” Cherninsky says. “The fact that you thought of that could be a sign you’re a nimrod. Help me with this other tire.” We eat leftover London broil from my mother’s last catering job. My father, home from human resources, has his home-from-work work shirt on. He slices cucumbers for the cucumber salad, his specialty, while my mother pulls a tray from the stove. Upstairs, my sister squeals. She’s all phone calls and baggy sweaters. Today my ranger nearly got the snippo. A giant warthog jumped him in the woods. Is there even a warthog in the game manual? My ranger—his name is Valium, just to tease Marco—cut the beast down, but lost a lot of hit points. Even now I can picture him bent over a brook, cupping water onto his wounds. Later, he rests in the shade of an oak. The warthog crackles on a spit. “How’s it going over there?” my mother asks. “Here?” I say. “Great.” “Awesome,” my sister says, joining us. “Dead cow. Is there anything veggie?” “Cucumber salad,” my father says. “Way to experiment with new dishes, Dad.” “Way to employ sarcasm,” my father says. “Not here,” my mother says. “There.” “Where?” I say. “The Varelli house.” “It’s going fine,” I say. “Is it fun?” my mother asks. “I want you to have fun, you know.” “Yeah, it’s fun, I guess.” My mother gives my father one of those meaningful looks which mean nothing to me yet. “What?” I say. “The Varelli kid,” my sister says. “Isn’t he the one who flashed those girls at the ice rink. And set his turds on fire in the school parking lot?” “That was a long time ago,” I say. “It was kind of cool,” my sister says. “In a sicko way.” “Poor Varelli,” my father says. “His wife.” “That’s the thing about it,” my mother says. “The thing about what?” I say. My father turns to my sister and me as though he had something to say but has forgotten it and is now trying to come up with something else. “I put something special in the cucumber salad. Can you taste it?” “Veal?” my sister asks. “I’ve got nothing against you having fun and using your imagination,” my mother says. “But it’s just too crucial a time in your life to get sidetracked with games. They write those articles. And this one’s a little creepy. They write articles about that, too.” “My grades are good,” I say. “It’s middle track, honey. Of course your grades are good. But we’re trying not to be middle-track people.” Later, my father and I do the dishes, scour the pans—our pans, the catering pans. “Don’t worry,” he says. “Everything will be O.K.” Maybe he’s that guy at the office, too—the reassurance dispenser, the diplomat. The middle man with the middle-track son. “Are you guys getting a divorce?” I ask for no reason. “Funny you should say that.” My father inspects the sudsy platter in his gloved hand. “Yes,” he says finally, “we are getting a divorce.” I stand there for a stunned moment, and then his weird chirpy laugh kicks in. “Gotcha!” He must be the human-resources jokester as well, though maybe I had it coming. Now he gets serious. My mother’s catering gigs are drying up, and the raise he was counting on has fallen through. My sister and I will have to find after-school jobs if we mean to keep ourselves in candy and movies and rock and roll, he says. “There’s still some time,” he adds. “Enjoy your game. We’re just saying you might want to find some better things to do while you can. You’re going to be plenty busy.” I don’t really have better things to do. I could do what I did before I started going to the Varellis’. I could come home and eat too much peanut butter and hide in my room. I could lie in bed and think about Lucy Mantooth, stroke a batch off, nap until dinnertime. I could watch TV and fake doing my homework. But I’m not sure that those are better things. We tramp past the tree line of Mt. Total Woe, reach a stony ridge shrouded in mist. We hear odd bleats on the wind, and our weapons are wet with the blood of minor beasts we’ve slain along the trail. Deathbirds squawk overhead. Valentine the Whatever scans the rock face for possible points of ingress. It’s hard to see far in the mist. “I could weave a spell to clear it,” Brendan says. “What if the goats are shape-shifters?” Cherninsky says. “What goats?” Brendan asks. “Those are goats. Only goats bleat.” “Sheep bleat,” Marco says. “And anyway,” Cherninsky says. “Why should we believe that blind guy at the inn?” “I think he was chaotic good,” I say. “I recognize my own kind.” “I’m sure you do,” Marco says. Marco’s character is lawful good. It makes for what you’d call personality clashes. But today’s game is too good to waste bickering. We smite the fanged and scaly, stalk the untold riches the blind man did, in fact, tell us about. Meanwhile, no runaway oxcart smears us into the road. We are not nipped by rabid squirrels. We do not succumb slowly, like one early Valentine, to rectal cancer. This must be what the official after-school game is like—gifted children dreaming up splendors, not middle-trackers squirming beneath a nutso’s moods. What has come over the Dungeon Master? He seems almost happy behind his screen. “Brendan’s spell works,” he says. “The mist is clearing. About a hundred yards closer to the top you can see an outcropping and the mouth of a cave. Guarded, yes, by goats.” “We’re going into that mountain,” I say. “I can’t believe we’re going into that mountain. Let’s stove some heads.” “And get the gold,” Cherninsky says. “Stove?” Brendan says. “He reads,” the Dungeon Master says, and shoots me a grin so rare it’s a benediction. I decide not to tell him that I stole “stove” from a whaling movie. Now we’re at the cave mouth. The goats sing their goat songs and part at our approach. Valentine takes a prayerful knee. “Enough,” Cherninsky says. “You can rim Christ on the way out.” “Infidel,” Marco says. “I’m a humanist,” Cherninsky says. “Is that like human resources?” I ask. “Maybe.” “O.K.,” I say. “Let’s go into the fucking cave.” We go into the fucking cave. It’s dark and we light torches, listening to bats flap off. We hunch and shuffle through the tunnel maze. Putrid fiends lurk at every dead end. That’s how you know it’s a dead end: something that smells like rotten sausage pops up and claws at your eyeballs. This is what we always wanted: the top-shelf monsters, hydras and griffins, basilisks, giant worms. The thief and the wizard set traps and decoys, cast spells of misdirection. Valentine and Valium, that suddenly ferocious duo, berserk right in with morning stars and swords of dwarven steel. We bash and slice. Monsters fall in quivering, sushi-like chunks. The Dungeon Master, he almost roots for us. He lets each situation develop, refrains from his dire lessons, his murderous intrusions. We’re steeped in the dire. We want to stab beasts. We turn a granite corner, and there, lo and behold, we behold him. The dragon lounges, obscenely, atop a great apron of stone, his vermillion scales ablaze. Rainbow flames snake from his nostrils with each dozy breath. He regards us through the slits of his slimy amber eyes. The dragon’s treasure spills out from beneath him—gold, silver, rubies, jade. Just what’s heaped around our feet at the threshold of the chamber is a princely sum. “Let’s take that,” Cherninsky says. “Take what?” Marco asks “What’s around our feet. Just scoop it up and run.” “Not fight the dragon?” the Dungeon Master asks. “I like it,” Brendan says. “That’s strategy.” “The dragon could really kill the hell out of us,” Marco, who will never learn, explains. “No, let’s fight the dragon,” I say, and the Dungeon Master nods. “It’s part of the game. Maybe we can tame him and ride him.” “Ride him?” Cherninsky says. “Are you out of your mind?” “People do it.” “It would be cool,” Brendan says. “I got one thing to say,” Cherninsky declares, out of his chair now and pacing. “I’m not going to die here.” “Take a chance,” I say. “Otherwise it’s just boring. You’re the one who said we shouldn’t be afraid to die.” “When did I say that?” “Down at the reservoir.” “The reservoir,” the Dungeon Master says. “You guys talk about the campaign down there? You suck each other’s little bird dicks and talk tactics?” “Yeah,” Cherninsky says.“We did it Bergen Pines style.” “Guys,” I say. “Stop it. Come on. Let’s decide about the dragon. You really want to bail?” “Better safe than sorry,” Marco says. “Is that an old paladin saying?” “You’re outvoted,” Cherninsky says to me. “Fine.” “O.K.,” Cherninsky says to the Dungeon Master. “We’ll just scoop up what’s near our feet and not rile the dragon. Can you roll for not riling the dragon?” “Sure you want to do this?” the Dungeon Master asks. “This moment might never come again.” “We’re sure.” “Listen,” the Dungeon Master says. “I know I’ve been hard on all of you. I want to be more easygoing from now on. I want you to have fun.” “This is fun,” Brendan says. “Really. Thank you. This is so exciting. But I think right now we should just grab a little gold and leave the cave.” “This is pathetic,” I say. “It’s weenis.” “You don’t know anything about real violence,” Brendan says. “What?” “You heard.” “It’s a dragon, man!” I notice Cherninsky slide a scrap of paper over to the Dungeon Master. The Dungeon Master drops dice in his leather cup, the one reserved for the most fateful rolls. The dice thump on the desk blotter. “Consider the dragon officially riled.” “No,” Brendan says. “No, no.” “Get the gold!” Cherninsky says. I draw my two-handed sword and brandish it at the dragon while the others shovel treasure and flee. “Come on!” they call. “Go,” I say. “I’ll catch up. I’ve got a sudden craving for dragon burgers.” A smile wavers on the Dungeon Master’s face. Because I am brave, I realize, he will spare me. Buy the print » I charge the dragon, leap with my sword for his throat. Rainbow flames pour over my magic chain mail. The Dungeon Master flicks his eyes at my roll. “You’re dead. Deep-fried.” “Huh?” “A craving for dragon burgers? You think you’re in a movie?” “No,” I say. “A game. And I have magic chain mail.” “Bogus magic chain mail,” the Dungeon Master says. “You bought it off that wino monk.” “It’s held up O.K. until now.” “You thought you could kill a dragon? Sorry, my friend. Long may we honor the memory of Valium.” “This is bullshit.” “Bullshit?” the Dungeon Master says. He’s wound up. He really isn’t that well. “It’s not bullshit. It’s probability. What, you gonna kwy? You gonna kwy like my little brutha? Life is nasty, brutish, and, more to the point, it sucks. Get it, bird dick? How’s your two-handed bird dick now?” “It’s O.K.,” I say. The remainder of the group makes it out of the mountain maze, but the goats turn out to be shape-shifters, just as Cherninsky warned. They transform into ogres with huge spiked maces. It’s hardly a fight. Before he dies, Cherninsky’s thief does manage to stick an ogre with his dirk. The ogre turns back into a goat, then into Cherninsky’s dead sister, drenched, draped in seaweed. “Just a little girl,” the Dungeon Master says. “You freak,” I say. Cherninsky’s got his pen out, and I think he’s about to go for the Dungeon Master’s neck, but then he starts to bawl. “Cry it out, sweetheart,” the Dungeon Master says. “Leave him alone,” I say. “This doesn’t concern you,” the Dungeon Master says. “Just back off. You have no clue.” “O.K.,” Marco says. “It’ll be O.K.” He sounds like my father. “The hell it will,” the Dungeon Master says. The Dungeon Master holds up the note Cherninsky passed him. “Wait till you hear this,” he says. “Your pal was planning to steal everybody’s gold. He wanted me to roll for it.” “He’s a thief,” I say. “Go ahead, defend him.” “I am.” Brendan freezes in his chair. Cherninsky keeps weeping. Marco bobs up and down, mumbles a prayer of O.K. I stand, whack the screen off the Dungeon Master’s desk, see the dice, the sheets of graph paper, the manuals and numerical tables. There are doodles on the blotter. Giant vaginas with angel wings, mostly. They soar through ballpoint clouds. “I said never touch the screen,” the Dungeon Master hisses. “And I say don’t flash girls you will never have at the ice rink. Don’t set fire to your shits in the parking lot. You’re a mental case. They should have kept you locked up.” The Dungeon Master comes around the desk and I think he’s about to make a speech, but he lowers his head and spears me in the gut. We crash together to the floor. He squeezes my throat. I palm his chin and push. Marco screams, and I’m almost out of air when Brendan climbs the Dungeon Master’s back and bites his head. They both tumble away. The door bangs open and Dr. Varelli leans in. “Play nice, you goddam puppies!” he bellows, then shuts the door. We lie there, heaving. My wrist throbs. I smell raspberry soda in the carpet. The Dungeon Master paws at the blood on his head. Brendan rubs his tooth. “You children,” the Dungeon Master says, then rises, and lumbers off. We hear him scream at his father in the kitchen. He calls him a loser, a lesbian. “It’s been a little difficult around here,” Marco says. I crawl over to the window. In the next yard, some kids kick a ball. It looks amazing. My broken wrist takes a long time to heal. I stay clear of the Varelli house, and at school only Eric signs my cast. He puts his initials on it, as though his full name would announce too heavy an association. The deal is that I don’t have to get a job until the cast comes off. I join the after-school club, roll a ranger called Valium the Second, but nobody thinks it’s funny. Why would they? Lucy Mantooth plays a wizard-thief. It’s clear that she doesn’t want me in the club. Eric lives near me, and sometimes we walk part of the way home together. He likes to cut through some trees on a path near the Varellis’ house, and I don’t say anything. One day we see the Dungeon Master’s Corvette in the driveway. His father bought it for him last year, but the Dungeon Master has never driven it. He doesn’t even have a license. “You like our game so far?” Eric asks. “It’s cool.” It is cool, despite the death stares from Lucy Mantooth. We fly dragons, battle giants, build castles, raise armies and families and crops. But something is missing. No goblin child will shank you for your coin pouch. You’ll never die from a bad potato. “I think Lucy likes you,” Eric says. “What’s the giveaway? The fact that she never talks to me or that she rolls her eyes whenever I say anything?” “Both.” “I guess I don’t know much about girls.” “You’ll learn,” Eric says. “You’ve been hanging out with those weirdos.” “Everything’s weird if you stare at it,” I say. “I don’t know about that,” Eric says. “We’re sponsored by the school, just like the chess team.” I get bored with Eric’s game. Lucy Mantooth never warms up. Her wizard-thief leaves me for dead in a collapsing wormhole. Was there something I was supposed to say? I resume my old routine: peanut butter, batch, nap. One day I’m headed home to do just that. A sports car pulls up to the sidewalk, a midnight-blue Corvette. “Need a ride?” the Dungeon Master asks. I don’t, but slide in anyway. I’ve never been in a Corvette. We drive around town for a while, past my school, the hobby shop. “Thought you didn’t have a license,” I say. “Who said I do?” The Dungeon Master smiles. “There are rumors and there is the truth and there are true rumors. You want the rundown?” he asks. “Here’s the rundown. Hit a kid with a bat and gave him brain damage, yes. Flashing, yes. Burning my bowel movements, no. Have I been to the bughouse? I’ve been to the bughouse. Am I insane? Does my opinion even count? Remember all the newspaper stories about how the game makes kids crazy? Makes them do horrible things?” “My mom clips them for me.” “Love those. Take, for example, suicides. The game doesn’t create suicides. If anything, it postpones them. I mean, the world gives you many reasons to snuff it, got to admit.” “I’m fourteen,” I say. “I don’t know what I admit.” “In another age you could be a father already. In another neighborhood, even.” We drive for a while. We’re a few towns east. “Nobody’s seen you lately,” the Dungeon Master says. “Marco says you play with some snotty faggots at school.” “I stopped.” “You hear about Cherninsky? He got caught with all this stolen musical stuff in his garage. Amps and guitars and drums, the whole deal. Tried to dump it in the reservoir, but the cops got most of it. Now his dad might go to jail.” “His dad?” I say. “Harsh, right? Anyway, we’re into war-gaming now. Real technical shit. It’s not the same. Brendan can barely handle it. We’re doing Tobruk. I’m Rommel.” “The Desert Fox.” “You read,” the Dungeon Master says, though I picked up the name from an old tank movie. “That’s what I like about you. That’s why I thought I could teach you.” “Teach me what?” We pull into a scenic lookout, the Palisades. Past the bushes in front of us the cliff drops sheer to some rocks in the Hudson. The Corvette idles, and I wonder if I made a mistake when I accepted this ride. The Dungeon Master looks off across the river as though ready to jump it. “Teach me what?” I ask. The Dungeon Master guns the engine. I turn to him—that pale skin, the fine-spun beard, the bright, bitter eyes. “Teach me what?” His answer is another rev. His fingers drum on the gear knob. We’re going to fly a dragon, after all. Part of me is ready. Maybe it’s the part that kept me in Dr. Varelli’s study so long. “Whoa,” the Dungeon Master laughs. “You’re shaking.” He shifts into reverse and swings the car around. Soon we’re back on town streets. “Had you shitting,” he says. “You did.” “I’m doing that for real at some point.” “Oh,” I say. “But not for a while.” “That’s good.” “My dad’s kicking me out after graduation. I think it’ll be better for Marco. That kid needs to bloom.” “Where will you go? Your mom’s house?” “My mom doesn’t have a house. She died when Marco was born.” “Really? I’m sorry. I figured she just left.” “Well, guess that’s true in a way. No, I’ve got a cousin in Canada. We might room together.” “That’ll be cool.” “Probably not. Here we are.” “O.K.,” I say. “Thanks for the lift.” “You were almost home when I picked you up.” “Still, thanks.” I’m cutting across the yard when the Dungeon Master calls my name. “No hard feelings, O.K.?” he says. I stop, picturing him there behind me with his ridiculous head sticking out of the passenger-side window, but I cannot turn around. I’m still trembling from our drive. Do I have an almost uncanny sense in this instant of what’s to come, some cold swirling vision whose provenance I do not comprehend but in which I see the Dungeon Master, blue-cheeked, hanging by his Communion tie in Dr. Varelli’s study, and Cherninsky, his dad in prison, panhandling with the scrawny punks, the pin-stuck runaways in Alphabet City, and me, Burger Castle employee of the month for the month of October, de-gunking the fry-o-lator in the late-autumn light? Of course I don’t. “Really,” the Dungeon Master calls again. “No hard feelings.” It must be the dumbest thing he’s ever said. No hard feelings? What could ever be harder than feelings? I want to tell him this, but even as I turn back the Corvette peels away.
Extreme Solitude It was debatable whether or not Madeleine had fallen in love with Leonard the first moment she’d seen him. She hadn’t even known him then, and so what she’d felt was only sexual attraction, not love. Even after they’d gone out for coffee, she couldn’t say that what she was feeling was anything more than infatuation. But ever since the night they went back to Leonard’s place after watching “Amarcord” and started fooling around, when Madeleine found that instead of being turned off by physical stuff, as she often was with boys, instead of putting up with that or trying to overlook it, she’d spent the entire night worrying that she was turning Leonard off, worrying that her body wasn’t good enough, or that her breath was bad from the Caesar salad she’d unwisely ordered at dinner; worrying, too, about having suggested they order Martinis because of the way Leonard had sarcastically said, “Sure. Martinis. Let’s pretend we’re Salinger characters”; after having had, as a consequence of all this anxiety, pretty much no sexual pleasure, despite the perfectly respectable session they’d put together, and after Leonard (like every guy) had immediately fallen asleep, leaving her to lie awake stroking his head and vaguely hoping that she wouldn’t get a yeast infection, Madeleine asked herself if the fact that she’d just spent the whole night worrying wasn’t, in fact, a surefire sign that she was falling in love. And certainly after they’d spent the next three days at Leonard’s place having sex and eating pizza, after she’d relaxed enough to be able to come once in a while and finally to stop worrying so much about having an orgasm because her hunger for Leonard was in some way satisfied by his satisfaction, after she’d allowed herself to sit naked on his gross couch and to walk to the bathroom knowing that he was staring at her (imperfect) ass, to root for food in his disgusting refrigerator, to read the brilliant half page of philosophy paper sticking up out of his typewriter, and to hear him pee with taurine force into the toilet bowl, certainly, by the end of those three days, Madeleine knew she was in love. But that didn’t mean she had to tell anyone. Especially Leonard. Madeleine had met Leonard in an upper-level semiotics seminar taught by a renegade from the English department. Michael Zipperstein had arrived at Brown thirty-two years earlier filled with zeal for the New Criticism. He’d inculcated the habits of close reading and biography-free interpretation into three generations of students before taking a Road to Damascus sabbatical, in Paris, in 1975, where he’d met Roland Barthes at a dinner party and been converted, over duck cassoulet, to the new faith. Now Zipperstein taught two courses in the newly created Program in Semiotic Studies: Introduction to Semiotic Theory, in the fall, and, in the spring, Semiotics 211. Hygienically bald, with a seaman’s mustacheless white beard, Zipperstein favored French fisherman’s sweaters and wide-wale corduroys. He buried people with his reading lists: in addition to all the semiotic big hitters––Derrida, Eco, Barthes––the students in Semiotics 211 had to contend with a magpie nest of reserve reading that included everything from Balzac’s “Sarrasine” to issues of Semiotext(e) to xeroxed selections from E. M. Cioran, Robert Walser, Claude Lévi-Strauss, Peter Handke, and Carl Van Vechten. To get into the seminar, you had to submit to a one-on-one interview with Zipperstein during which he asked bland personal questions, such as what your favorite food or dog breed was, and made enigmatic Warholian remarks in response. This esoteric probing, along with Zipperstein’s guru’s dome and beard, gave his students a sense that they’d been spiritually vetted and were now—for two hours Wednesday afternoons, at least––part of a campus lit-crit élite. Almost overnight it became laughable to read writers like Cheever or Updike, who wrote about the suburbia Madeleine and most of her friends had grown up in, in favor of reading the Marquis de Sade, who wrote about anally deflowering virgins in eighteenth-century France. Madeleine had become an English major for the purest and dullest of reasons: because she loved to read. The university’s “British and American Literature Course Catalogue” was, for Madeleine, what its Bergdorf equivalent was for her roommates. A course listing like “English 274: Lyly’s Euphues” excited Madeleine the way a pair of Fiorucci cowboy boots did Abby. “English 450A: Hawthorne and James” filled Madeleine with an expectation of sinful hours in bed that was not unlike the sensation Olivia got from wearing a Lycra skirt and leather blazer to Danceteria. Right up through her third year of college, Madeleine had kept wholesomely taking courses like “Victorian Fantasy: From ‘Phantastes’ to ‘The Water-Babies,’ ” but by senior year she could no longer ignore the contrast between the blinky people in her Beowulf seminar and the hipsters down the hall reading Maurice Blanchot. Going to college in the moneymaking eighties lacked a certain radicalism. Semiotics was the first thing that smacked of revolution. It drew a line; it created an elect; it was sophisticated and Continental; it dealt with provocative subjects, with torture, sadism, hermaphroditism––with sex and power. Semiotics 211 was limited to ten students. Of those ten, eight had taken Introduction to Semiotic Theory. This was visually apparent at the first class meeting. Lounging around the seminar table, when Madeleine came into the room from the wintry weather outside, were eight people in black T-shirts and ripped black jeans. A few had razored off the necks or sleeves of their T-shirts. There was something creepy about one guy’s face––it was like a baby’s face that had hideously aged––and it took Madeleine a full minute to realize that he’d shaved off his eyebrows. Everyone in the room was so spectral-looking that Madeleine’s natural healthiness seemed suspect, like a vote for Reagan. She was relieved, therefore, when a big guy in a down jacket and snowmobile boots showed up and took the empty seat next to her. He had a cup of takeout coffee. Zipperstein asked the students to introduce themselves and explain why they were taking the seminar. The boy without eyebrows spoke up first. “Um, let’s see. I’m finding it hard to introduce myself, actually, because the whole idea of social introductions is so encoded. Like, if I tell you that my name is Thurston and that I grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut, will you know who I am? O.K. My name’s Thurston and I’m from Greenwich, Connecticut. I’m taking this course because I read ‘Of Grammatology’ last summer and it blew my mind.” When it was the turn of the boy next to Madeleine, he said in a quiet voice that he was a double major (biology and philosophy) and had never taken a semiotics course before, that his parents had named him Leonard, that it had always seemed pretty handy to have a name, especially when you were being called to dinner, and that if anyone wanted to call him Leonard he would answer to it. Leonard didn’t make another comment. During the rest of the class, he leaned back in his chair, stretching out his long legs. After he finished his coffee, he dug into his right snowmobile boot and, to Madeleine’s surprise, pulled out a tin of chewing tobacco. With two stained fingers, he placed a wad of tobacco in his cheek. For the next two hours, every minute or so, he spat, discreetly but audibly, into the cup. It was the last semester of Madeleine’s senior year, a time when she was supposed to have some fun, and she wasn’t having any. She’d never thought of herself as hard up. Since breaking up with her last boyfriend, Barry, a student filmmaker, she’d enjoyed being unattached. It was a relief not to have to organize your weekend around what your boyfriend wanted to do. It was great to concentrate fully on academics, to spend time with your female friends, to skip shaving your legs for a week, if you wanted, and just wear pants. As far as Madeleine was concerned, she didn’t want a boyfriend. But when she found herself wondering what it would be like to kiss a guy who chewed tobacco she began to think she was fooling herself. Looking back, Madeleine realized that her college love life had fallen short of expectations. Her freshman roommate, Jennifer Boomgaard, had rushed off to Health Services the first week of school to be fitted for a diaphragm. Unaccustomed to sharing a room with anybody, much less a stranger, Madeleine felt that Jennifer was a little too quick with her intimacies. She didn’t want to be shown Jennifer’s diaphragm, which reminded her of an uncooked ravioli, and she certainly didn’t want to feel the spermicidal jelly that Jennifer offered to squirt into her palm. Madeleine was frankly shocked when Jennifer started going to parties with the diaphragm already in place, when she wore it to the Harvard-Brown game, and when she left it one morning on top of their miniature fridge. That winter, when the Reverend Desmond Tutu came to campus for an anti-apartheid rally, Madeleine asked Jennifer on their way to see the great cleric, “Did you put your diaphragm in?” They lived the next four months in a twenty-by-fifteen room without speaking to each other. Though Madeleine hadn’t arrived at college sexually inexperienced, her freshman learning curve resembled a flat line. Aside from one makeout session with a Uruguayan named Carlos, a sandal-wearing engineering student who in low light looked like Che Guevara, the only other boy she’d fooled around with was a high-school senior visiting campus for Early Action weekend. She found Tim standing in line at the Ratty, pushing his cafeteria tray along the metal track, and quietly crying. His blue blazer was too big for him. He’d spent the entire day wandering around campus with no one speaking to him. Now he was starving and wasn’t sure if he was allowed to eat in the cafeteria or not. Tim seemed to be the only person at Brown more lost than Madeleine. She helped him negotiate the Ratty and, afterward, took him on a tour of the university. Around ten-thirty that night, they ended up back in Madeleine’s dorm room. Tim had the long-lashed eyes and pretty features of an expensive Bavarian doll, a little prince or yodelling shepherd boy. His blue blazer was on the floor and Madeleine’s shirt unbuttoned when Jennifer Boomgaard came through the door. “Oh,” she said, “sorry,” and proceeded to stand there, smiling at the floor as if already relishing how this juicy bit of gossip would play along the hall. When she finally did leave, Madeleine sat up, readjusted her clothes, and Tim picked up his blazer and went back to high school. Sophomore year hadn’t been much better, romance-wise. And then junior year she’d gone out with Barry. A sensitive male, Barry took part in Take Back the Night marches, bearing a candle up College Hill with a crowd of women. On the wall of his bedroom he painted the words “Kill the Father.” Killing the father was what, in Barry’s opinion, college was all about. “Who’s your father?” he asked Madeleine. “Is it Virginia Woolf? Is it Sontag?” “In my case,” Madeleine said, “my father really is my father.” “Then you have to kill him.” A month or so later, Madeleine got rid of Barry instead. Each week, Zipperstein assigned one daunting book of literary theory and one literary “text.” The pairings were eccentric, if not downright arbitrary. Madeleine still wasn’t sure to what extent Lyotard’s “The Postmodern Condition” had illuminated Pynchon’s “The Crying of Lot 49.” In Week Four, they started on Derrida. As the class beat its way into the thickets of deconstruction, however, Madeleine’s attention often wandered to Leonard. He was as husky as a jock, and yet he spoke in a careful, soft, almost professorial tone. One week, he forgot his book and had to look over Madeleine’s shoulder. His Skoal had a menthol scent, cleaner, more pleasant than she expected. Whenever he looked at her with his St. Bernard’s eyes (the eyes of a drooler, maybe, but also of a loyal brute who could dig you out of an avalanche), Madeleine couldn’t help staring back a significant moment longer. Buy the print » The Derrida went like this: “In that sense it is the Aufhebung of other writings, particularly of hieroglyphic script and of the Leibnizian characteristic that had been criticized previously through one and the same gesture.” In poetic moods, it went like this: “What writing itself, in its nonphonetic moment, betrays, is life. It menaces at once the breath, the spirit, and history as the spirit’s relationship with itself. It is their end, their finitude, their paralysis.” Since Derrida claimed that language, by its very nature, undermined any meaning it attempted to promote, Madeleine wondered how Derrida expected her to get his meaning. Maybe he didn’t. That was why he deployed so much arcane terminology, so many loop-de-looping clauses. That was why he said what he said in sentences it took a minute to identify the subjects of. (Could “the access to pluridimensionality and to a delinearized temporality” really be a subject?) Reading a novel after reading semiotic theory was like jogging empty-handed after jogging with hand weights. Once released from Semiotics 211, Madeleine fled to the Rockefeller Library, down to B Level, where the stacks exuded a vivifying smell of mold, and grabbed something, anything—“The House of Mirth,” “Daniel Deronda”—to restore herself to sanity. How wonderful it was when one sentence followed logically from the sentence before! What exquisite guilt she felt, wickedly enjoying narrative! Madeleine felt safe with a nineteenth-century novel. There were going to be people in it. Something was going to happen to them in a place resembling the world. But then, in Week Five, for reasons that were entirely extracurricular, semiotics began making sense. It was a Friday night, just past eleven. Madeleine was in bed, reading the assigned text for that week, Roland Barthes’s “A Lover’s Discourse.” She had the book in her lap. With her right hand, she was eating peanut butter, spooning it straight from the jar. The spoon fit perfectly against the roof of her mouth, allowing the peanut butter to dissolve creamily against her tongue. For a book purportedly about love, the Barthes didn’t look very romantic. The cover was a sombre chocolate brown. Opening to the introduction, she began to read: The necessity for this book is to be found in the following consideration: that the lover’s discourse is today of an extreme solitude. Outside, the temperature, which had been below freezing for the past week, had shot up to the fifties. The resulting thaw was alarming in its suddenness, drainpipes and gutters dripping, sidewalks puddling, streets flooded, a constant sound of water rushing downhill. Madeleine had her windows open on the liquid darkness. She sucked the spoon and read on: What we have been able to say below about waiting, anxiety, memory is no more than a modest supplement offered to the reader to be made free with, to be added to, subtracted from, and passed on to others: around the figure, the players pass the handkerchief which sometimes, by a final parenthesis, is held a second longer before handing it on. (Ideally, the book would be a cooperative: “To the United Readers and Lovers.”) It wasn’t only that this writing seemed beautiful to Madeleine. It wasn’t only that these opening sentences of Barthes’s made immediate sense, were readable, digestible. It wasn’t Madeleine’s relief at recognizing that here, at last, was a book she might write her final paper on. What made Madeleine sit up in bed was something closer to the reason she read books in the first place and had always loved them. Here was a sign that she wasn’t alone. Here was an articulation of what she had been so far mutely feeling. In bed on a Friday night, wearing sweatpants and eating peanut butter from the jar, Madeleine was in a state of extreme solitude. It had to do with Leonard. With how she felt about him and how she couldn’t tell anyone. With how much she liked him and how little she knew about him. With how desperately she wanted to see him and how hard it was to do so. After class that Wednesday, Madeleine and Leonard had ended up walking together to the Blue Room, the campus coffee shop. As they stood in line, Leonard had mentioned that the Film Society was playing a Fellini film that weekend. “Do you like Fellini?” he asked. “You want to know something embarrassing?” Madeleine said. “I’ve never seen a Fellini film.” “Then you should see one,” Leonard said. He asked for her phone number, and she wrote it down on the front of his notebook. Since then, Madeleine had stayed in every night, waiting for Leonard to call. When she came back from classes in the afternoon, she interrogated her roommates to find out if Leonard had called. “Some guy called this morning,” Olivia said, on Thursday. “When I was in the shower.” “Why didn’t you tell me?” “I forgot.” “Who was it?” “He didn’t say. I was dripping wet.” “Did it sound like Leonard?” “I don’t know what Leonard sounds like.” “Thanks for taking a message,” Madeleine said harshly. And so now it was Friday night, her roommates had gone out to a party, and Madeleine had stayed in “to study.” She was reading “A Lover’s Discourse” and marvelling at its relevance to her life: Waiting attente / waiting Tumult of anxiety provoked by waiting for the loved being, subject to trivial delays (rendezvous, letters, telephone calls, returns). . . . Waiting is an enchantment: I have received orders not to move. Waiting for a telephone call is thereby woven out of tiny, unavowable interdictions to infinity: I forbid myself to leave the room, to go to the toilet, even to telephone (to keep the line from being busy). Her father had called twice already, wanting to discuss graduation plans, and she’d nearly hung up on him. She could hear the television going in the apartment below. Her bedroom window faced the state-capitol dome, brightly lit against the dark sky. The heat, which they couldn’t control, was still on, the radiator wastefully knocking and hissing. The more she thought about it, the more Madeleine understood that extreme solitude didn’t only describe the way she was feeling about Leonard. It explained how she’d always felt when she was in love. It explained what love was like and, just maybe, what was wrong with it. Here the telephone rang. Madeleine dog-eared the page she was reading. She waited as long as she could (three rings) before answering. Leonard said hello. “Oh, hi,” Madeleine said. “I thought you might be my father. He’s freaking out about graduation already.” “I was just having a little freakout myself.” “About what?” “About calling you.” This was good. Madeleine ran a finger along her lower lip. She said, “Have you calmed down or do you want to call back later?” “I’m resting comfortably now, thank you.” Madeleine waited for more. None came. “Are you calling for a reason?” she asked. “Yes. That Fellini film? I was hoping you might, if you’re not too, I know it’s bad manners calling so late, but I was at the lab.” “I don’t think that was a complete sentence,” she said. “What did I leave out?” Leonard asked. “How about ‘Would you like to come with me?’ ” “I’d love to,” Leonard said. Madeleine frowned into the receiver. She had a feeling Leonard had set up this exchange, like a chess player thinking eight moves ahead. She was going to say goodbye when Leonard said, “Sorry. Not funny.” He cleared his throat. “Listen, would you like to go to the movies with me?” She didn’t answer right away. He deserved a little punishment. And so she put the screws to him––for another three seconds. “I’d love to.” And there it was already, that word. She wondered if Leonard had noticed. She wondered what it meant that she had noticed. It was just a word, after all. A way of speaking. So Madeleine believed, anyway, until she went home with Leonard the next night and stayed for three days. Leonard had a studio apartment on the third floor of a low-rent student building. The halls were full of bikes and junk mail. Stickers decorated the other tenants’ doors: a fluorescent marijuana leaf, a silk-screen Blondie. Leonard’s door, however, was as blank as the apartment inside. In the middle of the room, a twin mattress lay beside a plastic milk crate supporting a reading lamp. There was no desk, no bookcase, not even a table, only the nasty couch, with a typewriter on another milk crate in front of it. There was nothing on the walls but bits of masking tape and, in one corner, a small portrait of Leonard, done in pencil. The drawing showed Leonard as George Washington, wearing a tricornered hat and sheltering under a blanket at Valley Forge. The caption read, “You go. I like it here.” Madeleine thought the handwriting looked feminine. A ficus tree endured in the corner. Leonard moved it into the sun whenever he remembered to. Madeleine, taking pity on the tree, began to water it until she caught Leonard looking at her one day, his eyes narrowed with suspicion. “What?” she said. “Nothing.” “What?” “You’re watering my tree.” “The soil’s dry.” “You’re taking care of my tree.” She stopped doing it after that. There was a tiny kitchen where Leonard brewed and reheated the gallon of coffee he drank every day. A big greasy wok sat on the stove. The most Leonard did in the way of preparing a meal, however, was to pour Grape-Nuts into the wok. With raisins. Raisins satisfied his fruit requirement. The apartment had a message. The message said: I am an orphan. Abby and Olivia asked Madeleine what she and Leonard did together, and she never had an answer. They didn’t do anything. She came to his apartment and they lay down on the mattress and Leonard asked her how she was doing, really wanting to know. What did they do? She talked; he listened; then he talked and she listened. She’d never met anyone, and certainly not a guy, who was so receptive, who took everything in. She guessed that Leonard’s shrinklike manner came from years of seeing shrinks himself, and though one of her rules about dating was never to date guys who went to shrinks, Madeleine began to reconsider this prohibition. Back home, she and her sister had a phrase for serious emotional talks. They called it “having a heavy.” If a boy approached during one, the girls would look up and give warning: “We’re having a heavy.” And the boy would retreat. Until it was over. Until the heavy had passed. Going out with Leonard was like having a heavy all the time. Whenever she was with him, Leonard gave her his full attention. He didn’t stare into her eyes or smother her the way Barry had, but he made it clear that he was available. He offered little advice. Only listened, and murmured, reassuringly. People often fell in love with their shrinks, didn’t they? That was called transference and was to be avoided. But what if you were already sleeping with your shrink? What if your shrink’s couch was already a bed? And plus it wasn’t all heavy, the heavies. Leonard was funny. He told hilarious stories in a deadpan voice. His head sank into his shoulders, his eyes filled with rue, as his sentences drawled on. “Did I ever tell you I play an instrument? The summer my parents got divorced, they sent me to live with my grandparents in Buffalo. The people next door were Latvian, the Saulitises. And they both played the kokle. Do you know what a kokle is? It’s sort of like a zither, but Latvian. “Will you shut up about ‘Lost’ already!”Buy the print » “Anyway, I used to hear the Saulitises playing their kokles over in the next yard. It was an amazing sound. Sort of wild and overstimulated on the one hand, but really sad on the other. The kokle is the manic-depressive of the string family. I was bored to death that summer. And I used to sit on my grandparents’ porch, listening to the Saulitises playing next door. That sound really got to me. I was sixteen. Six foot one. One hundred and thirty-eight pounds. A major reefer smoker. I used to get high in my bedroom and then I’d go out to the porch to listen. Sometimes other people came over to the Saulitises’. Other kokle players. They set up lawn chairs in the back yard and they’d all sit there playing together. It was an orchestra! A kokle orchestra! Then one day they saw me watching over the fence and invited me over. They gave me potato salad and a grape Popsicle and I asked Mr. Saulitis how you played a kokle and he started giving me lessons. I used to go over there every day. They had an old kokle they let me borrow. I used to practice five, six hours a day. I was into it. “At the end of that summer, when I had to leave, the Saulitises gave me the kokle. To keep. I took it on the plane with me. I got a separate seat for it, like I was Rostropovich. My father had moved out of the house by then. So it was just me, my sister, and my mother. And I kept on practicing. I got good enough that I joined this band. We used to play at ethnic festivals and Orthodox weddings. We had these traditional costumes, embroidered vests, puffy sleeves, knee-high boots. Me and all the adults. Most of them were Latvian, some Russians, too. Our big number was ‘Otchi Tchornyia.’ That’s the only thing that saved me in high school. The kokle.” “Do you still play?” Madeleine asked. “Hell no. Are you kidding? The kokle?” Listening to Leonard, Madeleine felt impoverished by her happy childhood. She never wondered why she acted the way she did, or what effect her parents had had on her personality. Being fortunate had dulled her powers of observation. Whereas Leonard noticed every little thing. For instance, they spent a weekend on Cape Cod, and as they were driving back Leonard said, “What do you do? Just hold it?” “What?” “You just hold it. For two days. Until you get back home.” As his meaning seeped in, she said, “I can’t believe you!” “You have never, ever, taken a dump in my presence.” “In your presence?” “When I am present. Or nearby.” “What’s wrong with that?” “What’s wrong with it? Nothing. If you’re talking about I-sleep-over-and-go-off-to-class-the-next-morning and then you go and take a dump. That’s understandable. But when we spend two, almost three days together, eating surf and turf, and you do not take a dump the entire time, I can only conclude that you are more than a little anal.” “So what? It’s embarrassing!” Madeleine said. “O.K.? I find it embarrassing.” Leonard stared at her without expression and said, “Do you mind when I take a dump?” “Do we have to talk about this? It’s sort of gross.” “I think we do need to talk about it. Because you’re obviously not very relaxed around me, and I am—or thought I was—your boyfriend, and that means—or should mean—that I’m the person you’re most relaxed around. Leonard equals maximum relaxation.” Guys weren’t supposed to be the talkers. Guys weren’t supposed to get you to open up. But this guy was; this guy did. He’d said he was her “boyfriend,” too. He’d made it official. “I’ll try to be more relaxed,” Madeleine said, “if it’ll make you happy. But in terms of––excretion––don’t get your hopes up.” “This isn’t for me,” Leonard said. “This is for Mr. Lower Intestine. This is for Mr. Duodenum.” Even though this kind of amateur therapy didn’t exactly work (after that conversation, for instance, Madeleine had more, not less, trouble taking a dump if Leonard was within a mile), it affected Madeleine in a deep way. Leonard was examining her closely. She felt carefully handled, like something precious or immensely fascinating. It made her happy to think about how much he thought about her. By March, Madeleine and Leonard had gotten into a routine of spending every night together. On week nights, after Madeleine finished studying, she headed over to the biology lab, where she’d find Leonard staring at slides with two Chinese grad students. After she finally got Leonard to leave the lab, Madeleine then had to cajole him into sleeping at her place. At first, Leonard had liked staying at her apartment building. He liked the 1910 elevator and the view from her bedroom. He charmed Olivia and Abby by making pancakes on Sunday mornings. But soon Leonard began to complain that they always stayed at Madeleine’s place and that he never got to wake up in his own bed. Staying at Leonard’s place, however, required Madeleine to bring a fresh set of clothes each night, and since he didn’t like her to leave clothes at his place (and, to be honest, she didn’t like to, either, because whatever she left picked up a fusty smell), Madeleine had to carry her dirty clothes around to classes all day. She preferred sleeping at her own apartment, where she could use her own shampoo, conditioner, and loofah, and where it was “clean-sheet day” every Thursday. Leonard never changed his sheets. They were a disturbing gray color. Dust balls clung to the edges of the mattress. One morning in early April, Madeleine was horrified to see a calligraphic smear of blood that had leaked from her way back in March, a stain she’d attacked with a kitchen sponge while Leonard was sleeping. “You never wash your sheets!” she complained. “I wash them,” Leonard said evenly. “How often?” “When they get dirty.” “They’re always dirty.” “Not everyone can drop off their laundry at the cleaners every Wednesday. Not everybody grew up with ‘clean-sheet day.’ ” “You don’t have to drop them off,” Madeleine said, undeterred. “You’ve got a washer in the basement.” “I use the washer,” Leonard said. “Just not every Thursday. I don’t equate dirt with death and decay.” “Oh, and I do? I’m obsessed with death because I wash my sheets?” “People’s attitudes to cleanliness have a lot to do with their fear of death.” “This isn’t about death, Leonard. This is about crumbs in the bed. This is about the fact that your pillow smells like a liverwurst sandwich.” “Wrong.” “It does!” “Wrong.” “Smell it, Leonard!” “It’s salami. I don’t like liverwurst.” To a certain extent, this kind of arguing was fun. But then came nights when Madeleine forgot to pack a change of clothes and Leonard accused her of doing this on purpose in order to force him to sleep at her place. Next, more worryingly, came nights when Leonard said he was going home to study and would see her tomorrow. He began pulling all-nighters. One of his philosophy professors offered him the use of his cabin in the Berkshires, and, for an entire rainy weekend, Leonard went there, alone, to write a paper on Fichte, returning with a typescript a hundred and twenty-three pages long and wearing a bright-orange hunter’s vest. The vest became his favorite item of clothing. He wore it all the time. He started finishing Madeleine’s sentences. As if her mind were too slow. As if he couldn’t wait for her to gather her thoughts. He riffed on the things she said, going off on strange tangents, making puns. Whenever she told him he needed to get some sleep, he got angry and didn’t call her for days. And it was during this period that Madeleine truly understood how the lover’s discourse was of an extreme solitude. The solitude was extreme because it wasn’t physical. It was extreme because you felt it while in the company of the person you loved. It was extreme because it was in your head, that most solitary of places. The more Leonard pulled away, the more anxious Madeleine became. The more anxious she became, the more Leonard pulled away. She told herself to act cool. She went to the library to work on her thesis, but the sex-fantasy atmosphere––the reading-room eye contact, the beckoning stacks––made her desperate to see Leonard. And so against her will her feet began leading her back across campus through the darkness to the biology department. Up to the last moment, Madeleine had the crazy hope that this expression of weakness might in fact be strength. It was a brilliant strategy, because it lacked all strategy. It involved no games, only sincerity. Seeing such sincerity, how could Leonard fail to respond? She was almost happy as she came up behind the computer and tapped Leonard on the shoulder, and her happiness lasted until he turned around with a look not of love but of annoyance. It didn’t help that it was spring. Every day, people seemed more and more unclothed. The magnolia trees, blossoming on the green, looked positively inflamed. They sent out a perfume that drifted through the windows of Semiotics 211. The magnolia trees hadn’t read Roland Barthes. They didn’t think love was a mental state; the magnolias insisted it was natural, perennial. On a beautiful warm day, Madeleine showered, shaved her legs with extra care, and put on her first spring dress: an apple-green baby-doll dress with a bib collar and a high hem. With this, she wore Buster Browns, cream and rust, and went sockless. Her bare legs, toned from a winter of squash playing, were pale but smooth. She kept her glasses on, left her hair loose, and walked over to Leonard’s apartment. On the way, she stopped at a market to buy a hunk of cheese, some Stoned Wheat Thins, and a bottle of Valpolicella. Coming down the hill, she felt the warm breeze between her thighs. The front door of Leonard’s building was propped open with a brick, so she went up to his apartment and knocked. Leonard opened the door. He looked like he’d been napping. He blinked. “Niiiiice dress,” he said. They never made it to the park. They picnicked on each other. As Leonard pulled her toward the mattress, Madeleine dropped her packages, hoping the wine bottle wouldn’t break. She slipped her dress over her head. Soon they were naked, raiding, it felt like, a huge basket of goodies. Madeleine lay on her stomach, her side, her back, nibbling all the treats, the nice-smelling fruit candies, the meaty drumsticks, as well as more sophisticated offerings, the biscotti flavored with anise, the wrinkly truffles, the salty spoonfuls of olive tapenade. She’d never been so busy in her life. At the same time, she felt strangely displaced, not quite her usual tidy ego but merged with Leonard into a great big protoplasmic, ecstatic thing. She thought she’d been in love before. She knew she’d had sex before. But all those torrid adolescent gropings, all those awkward back-seat romps, the meaningful, performative summer nights with her high-school boyfriend Jim McManus, even the tender sessions with Barry where he insisted that they look into each other’s eyes as they came, none of that had prepared her for the wallop, the all-consuming pleasure, of this. Leonard was kissing her. When she could bear no more, Madeleine grabbed him savagely by his ears. She pulled Leonard’s head away and held it still to show him the evidence of how she felt (she was crying now). In a hoarse voice edged with something else, a sense of peril, Madeleine said, “I love you.” Leonard stared back at her. His eyebrows twitched. Suddenly, he rolled sideways off the mattress. He stood up and walked, naked, across the room. Crouching, he reached into her bag and pulled out “A Lover’s Discourse.” He flipped the pages until he found the one he wanted. Then he returned to the bed and handed the book to her. I Love You je-t’-aime / I-love-you As she read these words, Madeleine was flooded with happiness. She glanced up at Leonard, smiling. With his finger, he motioned for her to keep going. The figure refers not to the declaration of love, to the avowal, but to the repeated utterance of the love cry. Suddenly Madeleine’s happiness diminished, usurped by the feeling of peril. She wished she weren’t naked. She narrowed her shoulders and covered herself with the bedsheet as she obediently read on. Once the first avowal has been made, “I love you” has no meaning whatever. Leonard, squatting, had a smirk on his face. It was then that Madeleine threw the book at his head.
Agreeable If Patty hadn’t been an atheist, she might have thanked the good Lord for school athletic programs, because they basically saved her life and gave her a chance to realize herself as a person. She was especially grateful to Sandra Mosher at North Chappaqua Middle School, Elaine Carver and Jane Nagel at Horace Greeley High School, and Ernie and Rose Salvatore at the Gettysburg Girls Basketball Camp. It was from these wonderful coaches that Patty learned discipline, patience, focus, teamwork, and the ideals of good sportsmanship that helped make up for her morbid competitiveness and low self-esteem. Patty grew up in Westchester County, New York. She was the oldest of four children, the other three of whom were more like what her parents had been hoping for. She was notably Larger than everybody else in the family, also Less Unusual, also measurably Dumber. Not actually dumb but relatively dumber. She grew up to be five feet nine and a half, which was almost the same height as her brother and numerous inches taller than her sisters, and sometimes she wished she could have gone ahead and been six feet, since she was never going to fit into the family anyway. Being able to see the basket better and to post up in traffic and to rotate more freely on defense might have given her a somewhat less vicious competitive streak, leading to a happier life post-college; probably not, but it was interesting to think about. By the time she got to the collegiate level, she was usually one of the shorter players on the floor, which in a funny way reminded her of her position in her family and helped keep her adrenaline at peak levels. Patty’s first memory of doing a team sport with her mother watching was also one of her last. She was attending ordinary-person Sports daycamp at the same complex where her sisters were doing extraordinary-person Arts daycamp, and one day her mother and sisters showed up for the late innings of a softball game. Patty was frustrated to be standing in left field waiting around for somebody to hit a ball deep while less skilled girls made errors in the infield. She started creeping in shallower and shallower, which was how the game ended. Runners on first and second. The batter hit a bouncing ball to the grossly uncoördinated shortstop, whom Patty ran in front of so that she could field the ball herself and run and tag out the lead runner and then start chasing the other runner, some sweet girl who’d probably reached first on a fielding error. Patty bore down straight at her, and the girl ran squealing into the outfield, leaving the base path for an automatic out, but Patty kept chasing her and applied the tag while the girl crumpled up and screamed at the apparently horrible pain of being lightly touched by a glove. Patty was aware that this was not her finest hour of sportsmanship. Something had come over her because her family was watching. In the family station wagon on the way home, her mother asked her, in an even more quavering voice than usual, if she had to be quite so . . . aggressive. If it was necessary to be, well, to be so aggressive. Would it have hurt Patty to share the ball a little with her teammates? Patty replied that she hadn’t been getting any balls in left field. And her mother said, “I don’t mind if you play sports, but only if it’s going to teach you coöperation and community-mindedness.” And Patty said, “So send me to a real camp where I won’t be the only good player! I can’t coöperate with people who can’t catch the ball!” And her mother said, “I’m not sure it’s a good idea to be encouraging so much aggression and competition. I guess I’m not a sports fan, but I don’t see the fun in defeating people just for the sake of defeating them. Wouldn’t it be much more fun to all work together?” Patty’s mother was a professional Democrat. She later became a state assemblywoman, the Honorable Joyce Emerson, known for her advocacy of open space, poor children, and the Arts. Paradise for Joyce was an open space where poor children could go and do Arts at state expense. She was born Joyce Markowitz in Brooklyn in 1934 but apparently disliked being Jewish from the earliest dawn of consciousness. (Patty sometimes wondered if one reason that Joyce’s voice always trembled was from struggling so hard all her life to not sound like Brooklyn.) Joyce got a scholarship to study liberal Arts in the woods of Maine, where she met Patty’s exceedingly Gentile dad, whom she married at All Souls Unitarian Church on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. When young Jack Kennedy got the Democratic nomination, in 1960, it gave Joyce a noble and stirring excuse to get out of a house that she couldn’t seem to help filling up with babies. Then came civil rights, and Vietnam, and Bobby Kennedy—more good reasons to be out of a house that wasn’t nearly big enough for four little kids plus a Barbadian nanny in the basement. Joyce went to her first national convention in 1968 as a delegate committed to dead Bobby. She served as county Party treasurer and later chairwoman and organized for Teddy in 1972 and 1980. Every summer, all day long, herds of volunteers tramped in and out of the house’s open doors carrying boxes of campaign gear. Patty could practice dribbling and layups for six hours straight without anybody noticing or caring. Patty’s father, Ray, was a lawyer and amateur humorist whose repertory included fart jokes and mean parodies of his children’s teachers, neighbors, and friends. A torment he particularly enjoyed inflicting on Patty was mimicking the Barbadian, Eulalie, when she was just out of earshot, saying, “Stop de game now, stop de playin’,” in a louder and louder voice, until Patty ran from the dinner table in mortification and her siblings shrieked with excitement. Endless fun could also be had ridiculing Patty’s coach and mentor Sandy Mosher, whom Ray liked to call Saaaandra. He was constantly asking Patty whether Saaaandra had had any gentlemen callers lately or maybe, tee hee, tee hee, some gentlelady callers? Her siblings chorused, “Saaaandra, Saaaandra!” Other amusing methods of tormenting Patty were to hide the family dog, Elmo, and pretend that Elmo had been euthanized while Patty was at late basketball practice. Or tease Patty about certain factual errors she’d made many years earlier—ask her how the kangaroos in Austria were doing, or whether she’d seen the latest novel by the famous contemporary writer Louisa May Alcott, or whether she still thought funguses were part of the animal kingdom. “I saw one of Patty’s funguses chasing a truck the other day,” her father would say. “Look, look at me, this is how Patty’s fungus chases a truck.” Most nights her dad went back to work after dinner to meet with the poor people he was defending in court for little or no money. He had an office across the street from the courthouse in White Plains. His pro-bono clients included Puerto Ricans, Haitians, transvestites, and the mentally or physically disabled. Some of them were in such bad trouble that he didn’t even make fun of them behind their backs. As much as possible, though, he found their problems amusing. In tenth grade, for a school project, Patty sat in on two trials that her dad was part of. One was a case against an unemployed Yonkers man who had drunk too much on Puerto Rican Day and gone looking for his wife’s brother, intending to cut him with a knife, but hadn’t found him and had instead cut up a stranger in a bar. Not only Ray but the judge and even the prosecutor seemed amused by the defendant’s haplessness and stupidity. They kept exchanging little not-quite winks. As if misery and disfigurement and jail time were all just a lower-class sideshow designed to perk up their otherwise boring day. On the train ride home, Patty asked her dad whose side he was on. “Ha, good question,” he answered. “You have to understand, my client is a liar. The victim is a liar. And the bar owner is a liar. They’re all liars. Of course, my client is entitled to a vigorous defense. But you have to try to serve justice, too. Sometimes the P.A. and the judge and I are working together as much as the P.A. is working with the victim or I’m working with the defendant. You’ve heard of our adversarial system of justice?” “Yes.” “Well. Sometimes the P.A. and the judge and I all have the same adversary. We try to sort out the facts and avoid a miscarriage. Although don’t, uh. Don’t put that in your paper.” “I thought sorting out facts was what the grand jury and the jury are for.” “That’s right. Put that in your paper. Trial by a jury of your peers. That’s important.” “But most of your clients are innocent, right?” “Not many of them deserve as bad a punishment as somebody’s trying to give them.” “But a lot of them are completely innocent, right? Mommy says they have trouble with the language, or the police aren’t careful about who they arrest, and there’s prejudice against them, and lack of opportunity.” “All of that is entirely true, Pattycakes. Nevertheless, uh. Your mother can be somewhat dewy-eyed.” Patty minded his ridiculing less when her mother was the butt of it. “I mean, you saw those people,” he said to her. “Jesus Christ. El ron me puso loco.” An important fact about Ray was that his family had a lot of money. His parents lived on a big ancestral estate out in the hills of northwest New Jersey, in a pretty stone modernist house that was supposedly designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and was hung with minor works by famous French Impressionists. Every summer, the entire Emerson clan gathered by the lake at the estate for holiday picnics that Patty mostly failed to enjoy. Her granddad, August, liked to grab his oldest granddaughter around the belly and sit her down on his bouncing thigh and get God only knows what kind of little thrill from this; he was certainly not very respectful of Patty’s physical boundaries. Starting in seventh grade, she also had to play doubles with Ray and his junior partner and the partner’s wife, on the grandparental clay tennis court, and be stared at by the junior partner, in her exposing tennis clothes, and feel self-conscious and confused by his ocular pawing. Like Ray, August had bought the right to be privately eccentric by doing good public legal works; he’d made a name for himself defending high-profile conscientious objectors and draft evaders in three wars. In his spare time, which he had much of, he grew grapes on his property and fermented them in one of the outbuildings. His “winery” was called Doe Haunch and was a major family joke. At the holiday picnics, August tottered around in flip-flops and saggy swim trunks, clutching one of his crudely labelled bottles, refilling the glasses that his guests had discreetly emptied into grass or bushes. “What do you think?” he asked. “Is it good wine? Do you like it?” He was sort of like an eager boy hobbyist and sort of like a torturer intent on punishing every victim equally. Citing European custom, August believed in giving children wine, and when the young mothers were distracted with corn to shuck or competitive salads to adorn he watered his Doe Haunch Reserve and pressed it on kids as young as three, gently holding their chins, if necessary, and pouring the mixture into their mouths, making sure it went down. “You know what that is?” he said. “That’s wine.” If a child then began to act strangely, he said, “What you’re feeling is called being drunk. You drank too much. You’re drunk.” This with a disgust no less sincere for being friendly. Patty, always the oldest of the kids, observed these scenes with silent horror, leaving it to a younger sibling or cousin to sound the alarm: “Granddaddy’s getting the little kids drunk!” While the mothers came running to scold August and snatch their kids away, and the fathers tittered dirtily about August’s obsession with female deer hindquarters, Patty slipped into the lake and floated in its warmest shallows, letting the water stop her ears against her family. “And you thought I couldn’t find Hudson River views in your price range.”Buy the print » Her granddad had once been a true athlete, a college track star and football tight end, which was probably where her height and reflexes came from. Ray also had played football but in Maine for a school that could barely field a team. His real game was tennis, which was the one sport Patty hated, although she was good at it. She believed that Björn Borg was secretly weak. With very few exceptions (e.g., Joe Namath), she wasn’t impressed with male athletes in general. Her specialty was crushes on popular boys who were enough older or better-looking to be totally unrealistic choices. Being a very agreeable person, however, she went on dates with practically anybody who asked. She thought shy or unpopular boys had a hard life, and she took pity on them insofar as was humanly possible. For some reason, many of these boys were wrestlers. In her experience, wrestlers were brave, taciturn, geeky, beetle-browed, polite, and not afraid of female jocks. One of them confided to her that in middle school she’d been known to him and his friends as the She-Monkey. As far as actual sex goes, Patty’s first experience of it was being raped at a party when she was seventeen by a boarding-school senior named Ethan Post. Ethan didn’t do any sports except golf, but he had six inches of height and fifty pounds on Patty and provided discouraging perspectives on female muscle strength as compared with men’s. What he did to Patty didn’t strike her as a gray-area sort of rape. When she started fighting, she fought hard, if not well, and only for so long, because she was drunk for one of the first times ever. She’d been feeling so wonderfully free! Very probably, in the vast swimming pool at Kim McClusky’s, on a beautiful warm May night, Patty had given Ethan Post a mistaken impression. She was far too agreeable even when she wasn’t drunk. In the pool, she must have been giddy with agreeability. Altogether, there was much to blame herself for. Her notions of romance were like Gilligan’s Island: “as primitive as can be.” They fell somewhere between Snow White and Nancy Drew. And Ethan undeniably had the arrogant look that attracted her at that point in time. He resembled the love interest from a girls’ novel with sailboats on the cover. After he raped Patty, he said he was sorry “it” had been rougher than he’d meant “it” to be, he was sorry about that. It was only after the piña coladas wore off, early the next morning, in the bedroom that Patty shared with her littler sister so that their middle sister could have her own room to be Creative in: only then did she get indignant. The indignity was that Ethan had considered her such a nothing that he could just rape her and then take her home. And she was not such a nothing. She was, among other things, already, as a junior, the all-time single-season record holder for assists at Horace Greeley High School. A record she would demolish the following year! She was also first-team all-state in a state that included Brooklyn and the Bronx. And yet a golfing boy she hardly even knew had thought it was O.K. to rape her. To avoid waking her little sister, she went and cried in the shower. This was, without exaggeration, the most wretched hour of her life. Things that had never occurred to her before—such as the injustice of an oldest daughter having to share a room (instead of being given Eulalie’s old room in the basement, which was now filled floor to ceiling with outdated campaign paraphernalia), also the injustice of her mother being so enthralled about her middle daughter’s thespian performances but never going to any of Patty’s games—occurred to her now. She was so indignant that she almost felt like talking to somebody. But she was afraid to let her coach or teammates know she’d been drinking. How the story came out, in spite of her best efforts to keep it buried, was that Coach Nagel got suspicious and spied on her in the locker room after the next day’s game. Sat Patty down in her office and confronted her regarding her bruises and unhappy demeanor. Patty humiliated herself by immediately and sobbingly confessing to all. To her total shock, Coach then proposed taking her to the hospital and notifying the police. Patty had just gone three-for-four with two runs scored and several outstanding defensive plays. She obviously wasn’t greatly harmed. Also, her parents were political friends of Ethan’s parents, so that was a nonstarter. She dared to hope that an abject apology for breaking training, combined with Coach’s pity and leniency, would put the matter to rest. But, oh, how wrong she was. Coach called Patty’s house and got Patty’s mother, who, as always, was running out to a meeting and had neither time to talk nor yet the moral wherewithal to admit that she didn’t have time to talk. Coach spoke these indelible words into the P.E. department’s beige telephone: “Your daughter just told me that she was raped last night by a boy named Ethan Post.” Coach then listened to the phone for a minute before saying, “No, she just now told me. . . . That’s right. . . . Just last night . . . Yes, she is.” And handed Patty the telephone. “Patty?” her mother said. “Are you—all right?” “I’m fine.” “Mrs. Nagel says there was an incident last night?” “The incident was I was raped.” “Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. Last night?” “Yes.” “I was home this morning. Why didn’t you say something?” “I don’t know.” “Why, why, why? Why didn’t you say something to me?” “Maybe it just didn’t seem like such a big deal right then.” “So but then you did tell Mrs. Nagel.” “No,” Patty said. “She’s just more observant than you are.” “I hardly saw you this morning.” “I’m not blaming you. I’m just saying.” “And you think you might have been . . . It might have been . . .” “Raped.” “I can’t believe this,” her mother said. “I’m going to come and get you.” “Coach Nagel wants me to go to the hospital.” “Are you not all right?” “I already said. I’m fine.” “Then just stay put, and don’t either of you do anything until I get there.” Patty hung up the phone and told Coach that her mother was coming. “We’re going to put that boy in jail for a long, long time,” Coach said. “Oh no no no no no,” Patty said. “No, we’re not.” “Patty.” “It’s just not going to happen.” “It will if you want it to.” “No, actually, it won’t. My parents and the Posts are political friends.” “Listen to me,” Coach said. “That has nothing to do with anything. Do you understand?” Patty was quite certain that Coach was wrong about this. Dr. Post was a cardiologist, and his wife was from big money. They had one of the houses that people such as Teddy Kennedy and Ed Muskie and Walter Mondale made visits to when they were short of funds. Over the years, Patty had heard much tell of the Posts’ ”back yard” from her parents. This back yard was apparently about the size of Central Park but nicer. Conceivably one of Patty’s straight-A, grade-skipping, Arts-doing sisters could have brought trouble down on the Posts, but it was absurd to imagine the hulking B-student family jock making a dent in the Posts’ armor. “I’m just never going to drink again,” she said, “and that will solve the problem.” “Maybe for you,” Coach said, “but not for somebody else. Look at your arms. Look what he did. He’ll do that to somebody else if you don’t stop him.” “It’s just bruises and scratches.” Coach here made a motivational speech about standing up for your teammates, which in this case meant all the young women Ethan might ever meet. The upshot was that Patty was supposed to press charges and let Coach inform the New Hampshire prep school where Ethan was a student, so that he could be expelled and denied a diploma, and that if Patty didn’t do this she would be letting down her team. Patty began to cry again, because she would almost rather have died than let a team down. Earlier in the winter, she’d played most of a half of basketball with the flu, before fainting on the sideline and getting fluids intravenously. The problem now was that she hadn’t been with her own team the night before. She’d gone to the party with her field-hockey friend Amanda, whose soul was apparently never going to be at rest until she’d induced Patty to sample piña coladas, vast buckets of which had been promised at the McCluskys’. El ron me puso loca. None of the other girls at the McCluskys’ swimming pool were jocks. Almost just by showing up there, Patty had betrayed her true team. And now she’d been punished for it. Ethan hadn’t raped one of the fast girls, he’d raped Patty, because she didn’t belong there; she didn’t even know how to drink. She promised Coach to give the matter some thought. It was shocking to see her mother in the gym and obviously shocking to her mother to find herself there. She was wearing her everyday pumps and resembled Goldilocks in daunting woods as she peered around uncertainly at the naked metal equipment and the fungal floors and the clustered balls in mesh bags. Patty went to her and submitted to embrace. Her mother being much smaller of frame, Patty felt somewhat like a grandfather clock that Joyce was endeavoring to lift and move. She broke away and led Joyce into Coach’s little glass-walled office so that the necessary conference could be had. “Hi, I’m Jane Nagel,” Coach said. “Yes, we’ve—met,” Joyce said. “Oh, you’re right, we did meet once,” Coach said. In addition to her strenuous elocution, Joyce had strenuously proper posture and a masklike Pleasant Smile suitable for nearly all occasions public and private. Because she never raised her voice, not even in anger (her voice just got more strained when she was mad), her Pleasant Smile could be worn even at moments of excruciating conflict. “No, it was more than once,” she said now. “It was several times.” “Really?” “I’ll be outside,” Patty said, closing the door behind her. The parent-coach conference didn’t last long. Joyce soon came out on clicking heels and said, “Let’s go.” Coach, standing in the doorway behind Joyce, gave Patty a significant look. The look meant Don’t forget what I said about teamwork. Joyce’s car was the last one left in its quadrant of the visitor lot. She put the key in the ignition but didn’t turn it. Patty asked what was going to happen now. “Your father’s at his office,” Joyce said. “We’ll go straight there.” But she didn’t turn the key. “I’m sorry about this,” Patty said. “What I don’t understand,” her mother burst out, “is how such an outstanding athlete as you are—I mean, how could Ethan, or whoever it was—” “Ethan. It was Ethan.” “How could anybody—or Ethan,” she said. “You say it’s pretty definitely Ethan. How could—if it’s Ethan—how could he have . . . ?” Her mother hid her mouth with her fingers. “Oh, I wish it had been almost anybody else. Dr. and Mrs. Post are such good friends of—good friends of so many good things. And I don’t know Ethan well, but—” “I hardly know him at all!” “Well then how could this happen!” “Let’s just go home.” “No. You have to tell me. I’m your mother.” Hearing herself say this, Joyce looked embarrassed. She seemed to realize how peculiar it was to have to remind Patty who her mother was. And Patty, for one, was glad to finally have this doubt out in the open. If Joyce was her mother, then how had it happened that she hadn’t come to the first round of the state tournament, when Patty had broken the all-time Horace Greeley girls’ tournament scoring record with thirty-two points? Somehow everybody else’s mother had found time to come to that game. She showed Joyce her wrists. “This is what happened,” she said. “I mean, part of what happened.” Joyce looked once at the bruises, shuddered, and then turned away as if respecting Patty’s privacy. “This is terrible,” she said. “You’re right. This is terrible.” “Coach Nagel says I should go to the emergency room and tell the police and tell Ethan’s headmaster.” “Yes, I know what your coach wants. She seems to feel that castration might be an appropriate punishment. What I want to know is what you think.” “I don’t know what I think.” “If you want to go to the police now,” Joyce said, “we’ll go to the police. Just tell me if that’s what you want.” “I guess we should tell Dad first.” So down the Saw Mill they went. Joyce was always driving Patty’s siblings to Painting, Guitar, Ballet, Japanese, Debate, Drama, Piano, Fencing, and Mock Court, but Patty herself seldom rode with Joyce anymore. Most weekdays she came home very late on the jock bus. If she had a game, somebody else’s mom or dad dropped her off. If she and her friends were ever stranded, she knew not to bother calling her parents but to go ahead and use the Westchester Cab dispatcher’s number and one of the twenty-dollar bills that her mother made her always carry. It never occurred to her to use the twenties for anything but cabs, or to go anywhere after a game except straight home, where she peeled aluminum foil off her dinner at ten or eleven o’clock and went down to the basement to wash her uniform while she ate and watched reruns. She often fell asleep down there. “Here’s a hypothetical question,” Joyce said, driving. “Do you think it might be enough if Ethan formally apologized to you?” “He already apologized.” “For—” “For being rough.” “And what did you say?” “I didn’t say anything. I said I wanted to go home.” “But he did apologize for being rough.” “O.K., you’re good. Next!”Buy the print » “It wasn’t a real apology.” “All right. I’ll take your word for it.” “I just want him to know I still exist.” “Whatever you want—sweetie.” Joyce pronounced this “sweetie” like the first word of a foreign language she was learning. As a test or a punishment, Patty said, “Maybe, I guess, if he apologized in a really sincere way, that might be enough.” And she looked carefully at her mother, who was struggling (it seemed to Patty) to contain her excitement. “That sounds to me like a nearly ideal solution,” Joyce said. “But only if you really think it would be enough for you.” “It wouldn’t,” Patty said. “I’m sorry?” “I said it wouldn’t be enough.” “I thought you just said it would be.” Patty began to cry again very desolately. “I’m sorry,” Joyce said. “Did I misunderstand?” “He raped me like it was nothing. I’m probably not even the first.” “You don’t know that, Patty.” “I want to go to the hospital.” “Look, here, we’re almost at Daddy’s office. Unless you’re actually hurt, we might as well—” “But I already know what he’ll say. I know what he’ll want me to do.” “He’ll want to do whatever’s best for you. Sometimes it’s hard for him to express it, but he loves you more than anything.” Joyce could hardly have made a statement that Patty more fervently longed to believe was true. Wished, with her whole being, were true. Didn’t her dad tease her and ridicule her in ways that would have been simply cruel if he didn’t secretly love her more than anything? But she was seventeen now and not actually dumb. She knew that you could love somebody more than anything and still not love the person all that much, if you were busy with other things. There was a smell of mothballs in her father’s inner sanctum, which he’d taken over from his now deceased senior partner without redoing the carpeting or the curtains. Where exactly the mothball smell came from was one of those mysteries. “What a rotten little shit!” was Ray’s response to the tidings his daughter and wife brought of Ethan Post’s crime. “Not so little, unfortunately,” Joyce said with a dry laugh. “He’s a rotten little shit punk,” Ray said. “He’s a bad seed!” “So do we go to the hospital now?” Patty said. “Or to the police?” Her father told her mother to call Dr. Sipperstein, her old pediatrician, who’d been involved in Democratic politics since Roosevelt, and see if he was available for an emergency. While Joyce made this call, Ray asked Patty if she knew what rape was. She stared at him. “Just checking,” he said. “You do know the actual legal definition.” “He had sex with me against my will.” “Did you actually say no?” “ ‘No,’ ‘don’t,’ ‘stop.’ Anyway, it was obvious. I was trying to scratch him and push him off me.” “Then he is a despicable piece of shit.” She’d never heard her father talk this way, and she appreciated it, but only abstractly, because it didn’t sound like him. “Dave Sipperstein says he can meet us at five at his office,” Joyce reported. “He’s so fond of Patty I think he would have cancelled his dinner plans if he’d had to.” “Right,” Patty said. “I’m sure I’m number one among his twelve thousand patients.” She then told her dad her story, and her dad explained to her why Coach Nagel was wrong and she couldn’t go to the police. “Chester Post is not an easy person,” Ray said, “but he does a lot of good in the county. Given his, uh, given his position, an accusation like this is going to generate extraordinary publicity. Everyone will know who the accuser is. Everyone. Now, what’s bad for the Posts is not your concern. But it’s virtually certain you’ll end up feeling more violated by the pretrial and the trial and the publicity than you do right now. Even if it’s pleaded out. Even with a suspended sentence, even with a gag order. There’s still a court record.” Joyce said, “But this is all for her to decide, not—” “Joyce.” Ray stilled her with a raised hand. “The Posts can afford any lawyer in the country. And as soon as the accusation is made public the worst of the damage to the defendant is over. He has no incentive to speed things along. In fact, it’s to his advantage to see that your reputation suffers as much as possible before a plea or a trial.” Patty bowed her head and asked what her father thought she should do. “I’m going to call Chester now,” he said. “You go see Dr. Sipperstein and make sure you’re O.K.” “And get him as a witness,” Patty said. “Yes, he could testify if need be. But there isn’t going to be a trial, Patty.” “So he just gets away with it? And does it to somebody else next weekend?” Ray raised both hands. “Let me, ah. Let me talk to Mr. Post. He might be amenable to a deferred prosecution. Kind of a quiet probation. Sword over Ethan’s head.” “But that’s nothing.” “Actually, Pattycakes, it’s quite a lot. It’d be your guarantee that he won’t do this to someone else. Requires an admission of guilt, too.” It did seem absurd to imagine Ethan wearing an orange jumpsuit and sitting in a jail cell for inflicting a harm that was mostly in her head anyway. She’d done wind sprints that hurt as bad as being raped. She felt more beaten up after a tough basketball game than she did now. Plus, as a jock you got used to having other people’s hands on you—kneading a cramped muscle, playing tight defense, scrambling for a loose ball, taping an ankle, correcting a stance, stretching a hamstring. And yet: the feeling of injustice itself turned out to be strangely physical. Even realer, in a way, than her hurting, smelling, sweating body. Injustice had a shape, and a weight, and a temperature, and a texture, and a very bad taste. In Dr. Sipperstein’s office she submitted to examination like a good jock. After she’d put her clothes back on, he asked if she’d ever had intercourse before. “No.” “I didn’t think so. What about contraception? Did the other person use it?” She nodded. “That’s when I tried to get away. When I saw what he had.” “A condom.” “Yes.” All this and more Dr. Sipperstein jotted down on her chart. Then he took off his glasses and said, “You’re going to have a good life, Patty. Sex is a great thing, and you’ll enjoy it all your life. But this was not a good day, was it?” At home, one of her siblings was in the back yard doing something like juggling with screwdrivers of different sizes. Another was reading Gibbon unabridged. The one who’d been subsisting on Yoplait and radishes was in the bathroom, changing her hair color again. Patty’s true home amid all this brilliant eccentricity was a foam-cushioned, mildewed, built-in bench in the TV corner of the basement. The fragrance of Eulalie’s hair oil still lingered on the bench years after Eulalie had been let go. Patty took a carton of butter-pecan ice cream down to the bench and answered no when her mother called down to ask if she was coming up for dinner. Mary Tyler Moore was just starting when her father came down after his Martini and his own dinner and suggested that he and Patty go for a drive. “Can I watch this show first?” she said. “Patty.” Feeling cruelly deprived, she turned off the television. Her dad drove them over to the high school and stopped under a bright light in the parking lot. They unrolled their windows, letting in the smell of spring lawns like the one she’d been raped on not many hours earlier. “So,” she said. “So Ethan denies it,” her dad said. “He says it was just roughhousing and consensual.” Patty’s tears came on like a rain that starts unnoticeably but surprisingly soon soaks everything. She asked if her dad had spoken to Ethan directly. “No, just his father, twice,” he said. “I’d be lying if I said the conversation went well.” “So obviously Mr. Post doesn’t believe me.” “Well, Patty, Ethan’s his son. He doesn’t know you as well as we do.” “Do you believe me?” “Yes, I do.” “Does Mommy?” “Of course she does.” “Then what do I do?” Her dad turned to her like an attorney. Like an adult addressing another adult. “You drop it,” he said. “Forget about it. Move on.” “What?” “You shake it off. Move on. Learn to be more careful.” “Like it never even happened?” “Patty, the people at the party were all friends of his. They’re going to say they saw you get drunk and be aggressive with him. They’ll say you were behind a shed that wasn’t more than thirty feet from the pool, and they didn’t hear anything untoward.” “It was really noisy. There was music and shouting.” “They’ll also say they saw the two of you leaving later in the evening and getting into his car. And the world will see an Exeter boy who’s going to Princeton and was responsible enough to use contraceptives, and gentleman enough to leave the party and drive you home.” The deceptive little rain was wetting the collar of Patty’s T-shirt. “You’re not really on my side, are you,” she said. “Of course I am.” “You keep saying ‘Of course,’ ‘Of course.’ ” “Listen to me. The P.A. is going to want to know why you didn’t scream.” “I was embarrassed! Those weren’t my friends!” “But do you see that this is going to be hard for a judge or a jury to understand? All you had to do was scream, and you would have been safe.” Patty couldn’t remember why she hadn’t screamed. She had to admit that, in hindsight, it seemed bizarrely agreeable of her. “I fought, though.” “Yes, but you’re a top-tier student athlete. Shortstops get scratched and bruised all the time, don’t they? On the arms? On the thighs?” “Did you tell Mr. Post I’m a virgin? I mean, was?” “I didn’t consider that any of his business.” “Maybe you should call him back and tell him that.” “Look,” her dad said. “Honey. I know it’s horrendously unfair. I feel terrible for you. But sometimes the best thing is just to learn your lesson and make sure you never get in the same position again. To say to yourself, ‘I made a mistake, and I had some bad luck,’ and then let it. Let it, ah. Let it drop.” He turned the ignition halfway, so that the panel lights came on. He kept his hand on the key. “But he committed a crime,” Patty said. “Yes, but better to, uh. Life’s not always fair, Pattycakes. Mr. Post said he thought Ethan might be willing to apologize for not being more gentlemanly, but. Well. Would you like that?” “No.” “I didn’t think so.” “Coach Nagel says I should go to the police.” “Coach Nagel should stick to her dribbling,” her dad said. “Softball,” Patty said. “It’s softball season now.” “Unless you want to spend your entire senior year being publicly humiliated.” “Basketball is in the winter. Softball is in the spring, when the weather’s warmer?” “I’m asking you: is that really how you want to spend your senior year?” “Coach Carver is basketball,” Patty said. “Coach Nagel is softball. Are you getting this?” Her dad started the engine. As a senior, instead of being publicly humiliated Patty became a real player, not just a talent. She all but resided in the field house. She got a three-game basketball suspension for putting a shoulder in the back of a New Rochelle forward who’d elbowed one of her teammates, and she still broke every school record she’d set the previous year, plus nearly broke the scoring record. Augmenting her reliable perimeter shooting was a growing taste for driving to the basket. She was no longer on speaking terms with physical pain. In the spring, when the local state assemblyman stepped down after long service and the Party leadership chose Patty’s mother to run as his replacement, the Posts offered to co-host a fund-raiser in the green luxury of their back yard. Joyce sought Patty’s permission before she accepted the offer, saying she wouldn’t do anything that Patty wasn’t comfortable with, but by then Patty was beyond caring what Joyce did, and told her so. When the candidate’s family stood for the obligatory family photo, no grief was given to Patty for absenting herself. Her look of bitterness would not have helped Joyce’s cause.
Ash We’ll still be friends, she said. —Grand, he answered, and then he was walking down a street by himself, before he fully understood what had happened. He knew the street, although not very well. He wasn’t sure why he was there, why they’d gone over to this part of the city. His wife had just told him she was leaving him. Or he was leaving her. One or the other. And they’d still be friends. Grand. He made it home. He got the Dart, figured out how to get a one-way ticket out of the vending machine at the station. He’d left the car for his wife. She wasn’t there when he got in. He paid the babysitter. Later, Ciara came home. And she was all over him. She climbed onto him and cried as she came. —I’m so, so sorry. And that was that, he thought, if it had ever been anything in the first place. He didn’t want to ask her if she’d actually told him that she was leaving him. He knew she had. It didn’t matter. —You’ll be fine, she said, after she’d kissed his stomach and lay tucked in beside him. He’d passed a test, or something. He was delighted. She was gone in the morning. He went to work. The house was empty when he got home after collecting the girls. He thought, This is it, this is me. I live alone. With the kids. She’d taken nothing. The bedroom was exactly the same. Her book was still beside the bed. She came in very late. He wasn’t sure—he didn’t know—if she’d changed her mind or if she’d just come home later than usual. She was drunk—he didn’t ask. She rode him again, said nothing about being sorry this time. She didn’t cry. Then she was gone again. He put Erica and Wanda to bed again the next night, made them brush their teeth, read a story to them. “Kipper’s Toybox,” twice. —Where’s Mammy? —Work. —Poor Mammy. —Yeah. He turned off their light and made sure their bedroom door was open exactly as wide as they wanted it. —More. —No, stop. —More. He went downstairs. Ciara didn’t come in. He put the mobile phone beside him, on the arm of the chair. He watched telly. He slept. She didn’t phone. He went up to the bed. He turned off the light. He woke up. She wasn’t there. Three in the morning. And she wasn’t downstairs. He went back up to the bed but he didn’t sleep. He went down to the kitchen again. He accepted it as he put the coffee on the hob: She’s left me. You think she has? said his brother, Mick. —Yeah. —You think? said Mick. They were in the kitchen. —Yeah. —Well, like. Did she actually tell you she was leaving? —Yeah, he said. I think so. —You fuckin’ think so? Jesus, Kev, you can fuckin’ do better than that. —She told me. —Grand. And what happened then? —She rode the arse off me. —Strange, said Mick. But it makes sense, too. The long goodbye. The ride of the guilty. You’ve heard of it. —No. —It’s brilliant, said Mick. I recommend it. What happened then? —I think she went to work. —Is she riding anyone else? The question shocked him. Although it shouldn’t have. It annoyed him, the invasion. And frightened him. —I don’t think so, he said. —Think again. —As far as I know. —O.K. —How would I know? —Well, said Mick. She might have told you. —No. —Sure? —Yeah. I think so—no—yeah. —O.K., said Mick. Credit-card statements. —Hang on, said Kevin. It’s the man who always gets caught because of his credit card. Am I right? Mick shrugged. —Does she have her own card? —Yeah, said Kevin. Course. —So, let’s have a gawk. It can do no harm. Kevin was starting to dislike his brother, but this wasn’t a new feeling. —No, he said. Mick shrugged again. He was a cunt for the shrugging. —O.K., he said. He stood up. He had to go to their mother’s. —She’s complaining about the jacks. —She’s always complaining. —Ah, she’s not the worst, said Mick. It won’t turn off properly, or something. —The toilet? —Yeah, said Mick. She says it sounds like the cistern is talking to her when she’s downstairs and it’s upstairs. —It’s always upstairs. It’s attached to the fuckin’ wall. —You’re becoming a very bitter little man, Kev. —Fuck off, Mick. —This is me fucking off, said Mick as he walked to the back door. Away, to have a chat with our mother’s toilet. What a fuckin’ life. Good luck. Kevin took out the accordion file where they kept the bank statements, the insurance stuff, birth certificates, and all the other crap they were supposed to keep. It was in the wardrobe, at the back, behind her shoes and boots, a heap of the things. He sat on the bed and held one of her high heels as he looked at a recent statement. He put the page on a pillow, propped a bit, and he read it from a distance. He didn’t really read it—you couldn’t read a bank statement. He gave it a quick look; he glanced down the page. —Why are you holding Mammy’s shoe? It was Erica, the younger one. —What makes you think it’s Mammy’s shoe? He hadn’t a clue why he’d said that. —It is, said Erica. —You’re right, said Kevin. It was on the floor. Do you want to put it back? —Can I, like, wear them? —Yeah, all right. —Can Wanda? —Yeah. —Wanda! He left the girls in the bedroom lining up the shoes. —Where’s Mammy? —Work. —Poor Mammy. —That’s right. —Always working. —Now you’re talking. He went downstairs. —Nothing, he said, when Mick answered his mobile. —What? —I looked. There’s nothing on the credit-card statement. —Nothing incriminating, no? —Jesus, Mick, take it easy. —Well, said Mick. What were you looking for? —I don’t know, said Kevin. He was regretting he’d called Mick now. Big time. But he’d had to. —A name or something, he said. —A name? said Mick. What name? D’you think she’s paying whoever she’s having the affair with? —No. What affair? —Or it’s a rent boy or something? She has to pay someone to— —No. Fuck off. —Any restaurants? —No. —Hotels? —No. —He’s paying, so. —Who? —The rent boy. —Fuck off, Mick. —Stranger things have happened, man. People go off the rails in times of recession. Especially women. —What are you on about? —The moral compass, man, said Mick. They try to ride the fuckin’ thing. —Good night. Mick texted him. Hav u foned hr? No. Wy not? He phoned Mick. —Because I’m frightened. —O.K., said Mick. I’m with you. Mick wasn’t the worst, Kevin thought. —What would you do? he asked. “Language.”Buy the print » —Well, look it, man, said Mick. Just to remind you. I live in a poxy one-room flat because I had a short, meaningless fling with my son’s religion-and-civics teacher, who gave him a note to give to me and he—and I love my son, I blame only myself—he gave the note to his mother instead. Who read it, and it said— —I know. —You can do it to me that way next time. —I know, sorry. —Ten words that shook the fuckin’ world. They were enjoying themselves. —And you want to know what I’d do if I was in your position? —Yeah, said Kevin. I do. —Grand, said Mick. I haven’t a clue. —Good night, Mick. —Go a bit mad. —Thanks. —You asked. —How? —How what? —How would I go mad? —Wife swapping. —I’d need a wife. —True. —Good night, Mick. —Let me work on it. —Good night. —I’ll get back to you. —O.K. He went to his room—their room—and started throwing the shoes back into the wardrobe. —Excuse me! It was Erica. —We’re, like, trying to sleep in here! —Yeah! —Sorry. He got down on his knees and put the shoes and boots away, quietly. He piled them. The wardrobe door swung slowly toward him, and with it the full-length mirror. He looked, and saw nothing. He wasn’t there. He pushed the door back slightly. And there he was. He got into bed. He phoned her. Her voicemail was gone. It was the automated voice, the Vodafone woman, telling him to leave a message. He had nothing ready and he couldn’t think of anything he wanted to say out loud—The kids miss you; I miss you; Where the fuck are you, you stupid mad bitch of a cunt?—so he said nothing. Mick texted. Jcksns, snday. Jackson’s was a pub near Mick’s place. It was an ordinary pub six nights a week but on Sundays, according to Mick, it changed. It filled up with men—n wmn—of a certain age, who were no longer married or had never been married. —People like you. —Exactly, said Mick. —And that’s going wild, is it? said Kevin. Going to a pub full of Micks? They were laughing. —Works for me, said Mick. No one goes home empty-handed. —Lovely, said Kevin. I can’t wait. —I’m telling yeh, man, said Kevin. I went home the last time with fifty-seven-year-old twins. —Oh, Jesus. —Combined age, one hundred and fourteen. —Good night, Mick. —Next Sunday, so. —No, fuck off. I’ll think about it. —Do that. —Good night. He did think about it. Sunday was four days away. He’d need a babysitter. The young one from next door. Grace. The girls loved her. He could only stay out till eleven, because Grace would have school on Monday. That would give him two hours in Jackson’s. Two hours of abandonment. Then he’d have to come home. He’d come into the house and pay Grace, while Mick’s twins hid behind the car till the coast was clear. Or he could sneak them up the stairs then go back down to pay Grace and send her home. Or he’d sneak them up the stairs—they’d be pissed and too skinny and giggling—into the bedroom, and Ciara would be in the bed, waiting for him. He’d sneak them up the stairs, send Grace home, then stand at the bottom of the stairs, all night, till he could go to work. He’d sneak them up the stairs, and—he could see this now; he groaned—they’d go into the wrong room and wake Erica and Wanda. Oops! Or, he’d go to Jackson’s, have three pints, and come home. Mad. Wild. It wasn’t funny. He’d stop at the chipper on the way home. It wasn’t funny. He wasn’t going anywhere on Sunday. Mick and his fuckin’ twins. He woke before Ciara got into the bed. —Hi, she said. —Hi. —I don’t want to have sex with you. —Fine. She climbed in. He didn’t have to move. He was lying on his side of the bed. She lay back, and turned. She put her hand on his shoulder. She patted it—he thought she did. He felt her breath. He could smell it. No wine or anything—just toothpaste. He was asleep before her—he thought he was. And she was there when he woke. She came into the kitchen. The girls were still asleep. They’ll be delighted to see you. It was business as usual, although they managed to avoid touching or looking at one another. So are you back, or what? She cleared the old plates off the table. She got a cloth from the sink, wiped the table, and put four bowls and four spoons on the placemats. —We’ll have to talk, she said. He chopped a banana, to put on top of the girls’ cornflakes. —O.K., he said. About what? He threw the banana’s brown skin in the bin, so the girls wouldn’t see it and object. He looked, but Ciara wasn’t in the kitchen. She’d gone up to wake the girls. He could hear the squeals. He didn’t want to hear them laughing; she didn’t deserve them—he didn’t want to think that. He turned on the radio, to get the news. He was bang-on, half-seven. He actually listened. He ran to the hall. —Come down, quick! —Why? —The news! Come on! They all sat in front of the telly and watched the Icelandic volcano erupting. —Amazing. They looked at the cloud as it grew and curled. —It’s all ash, he told them. —What’s ash? Erica’s question—it was one of those brilliant moments. Kevin and Ciara looked at each other. They smiled. There were no coal fires in the house and neither of them had ever smoked. The cooker was electric. Nothing was ever burned. There was no real religion, at home or in school, so Erica had never noticed the gray thumbprints on Ash Wednesday, on the foreheads of the old and the Polish. A child like Erica could get this far without knowing what ash was, until she saw it spewing from a mountain. —It’s like dust, he said. Burnt. —What burnt? —Stone, I think. I’m not sure. —Stone? —I think so. —You, like, can’t burn stone. —If it’s hot enough, you can. Lava. —It’s scary. —It’s only a cloud. They sat and watched, and ate, and gathered the expertise. Ash killed planes; it attached itself to the turbine section of the engines. It was an act of God. —What’s that? —Nature. It had nothing to do with climate change or the economy. No one was to blame. All flights in and out of Ireland, in and out of Europe and everywhere, were cancelled. The airports were crowded and shut. There was no escape. —Does that mean there’ll never be any more planes? —No, said Kevin. It doesn’t. He looked at Ciara. —It’s just for a while. Things will get back to normal when the ash drifts away. Or falls. —Falls? —Yeah. —Will it hurt? —No, said Ciara. It won’t.
Free Fruit for Young Widows When the Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser took control of the Suez Canal, threatening Western access to that vital route, an agitated France shifted allegiances, joining forces with Britain and Israel against Egypt. This is a fact neither here nor there, except that during the 1956 Sinai Campaign there were soldiers in the Israeli Army and soldiers in the Egyptian Army who ended up wearing identical French-supplied uniforms to battle. Not long into the fighting, an Israeli platoon came to rest at a captured Egyptian camp to the east of Bir Gafgafa, in the Sinai Desert. There Private Shimmy Gezer (formerly Shimon Bibberblat, of Warsaw, Poland) sat down to eat at a makeshift outdoor mess. Four armed commandos sat down with him. He grunted. They grunted. Shimmy dug into his lunch. A squad-mate of Shimmy’s came over to join them. Professor Tendler (who was then only Private Tendler, not yet a professor, and not yet even in possession of a high-school degree) placed the tin cup that he was carrying on the edge of the table, taking care not to spill his tea. Then he took up his gun and shot each of the commandos in the head. They fell quite neatly. The first two, who had been facing Professor Tendler, tipped back off the bench into the sand. The second pair, who had their backs to the Professor and were still staring open-mouthed at their dead friends, fell face down, the sound of their skulls hitting the table somehow more violent than the report of the gun. Shocked by the murder of four fellow-soldiers, Shimmy Gezer tackled his friend. To Professor Tendler, who was much bigger than Shimmy, the attack was more startling than threatening. Tendler grabbed hold of Shimmy’s hands while screaming, “Egyptians! Egyptians!” in Hebrew. He was using the same word about the same people in the same desert that had been used thousands of years before. The main difference, if the old stories are to be believed, was that God no longer raised His own fist in the fight. Professor Tendler quickly managed to contain Shimmy in a bear hug. “Egyptian commandos—confused,” Tendler said, switching to Yiddish. “The enemy. The enemy joined you for lunch.” Shimmy listened. Shimmy calmed down. Professor Tendler, thinking the matter was settled, let Shimmy go. As soon as he did, Shimmy swung wildly. He continued attacking, because who cared who those four men were? They were people. They were human beings who had sat down at the wrong table for lunch. They were dead people who had not had to die. “You could have taken them prisoner,” Shimmy yelled. “Halt!” he screamed in German. “That’s all—halt!” Then, with tears streaming and fists flying, Shimmy said, “You didn’t have to shoot.” By then Professor Tendler had had enough. He proceeded to beat Shimmy Gezer. He didn’t just defend himself. He didn’t subdue his friend. He flipped Shimmy over, straddled his body, and pounded it down until it was level with the sand. He beat his friend until his friend couldn’t take any more beating, and then he beat him some more. Finally, he climbed off his friend, looked up into the hot sun, and pushed through the crowd of soldiers who had assembled in the minutes since the Egyptians sat down to their fate. Tendler went off to have a smoke. For those who had come running at the sound of gunfire to find five bodies in the sand, it was the consensus that a pummelled Shimmy Gezer looked to be in the worst condition of the bunch. At the fruit-and-vegetable stand that Shimmy Gezer eventually opened in Jerusalem’s Mahane Yehuda market, his son, little Etgar, asked about the story of Professor Tendler again and again. From the time he was six, Etgar had worked the duchan at his father’s side whenever he wasn’t in school. At that age, knowing only a child’s version of the story—that Tendler had done something in one of the wars that upset Etgar’s father, and Etgar’s father had jumped on the man, and the man had (his father never hesitated to admit) beat him up very badly—Etgar couldn’t understand why his father was so nice to the Professor now. Reared, as he was, on the laws of the small family business, Etgar couldn’t grasp why he was forbidden to accept a single lira from Tendler. The Professor got his vegetables free. After Etgar weighed the tomatoes and the cucumbers, his father would take up the bag, stick in a nice fat eggplant, unasked, and pass it over to Professor Tendler. “Kach,” his father would say. “Take it. And wish your wife well.” As Etgar turned nine and ten and eleven, the story began to fill out. He was told about the commandos and the uniforms, about shipping routes and the Suez, and the Americans and the British and the French. He learned about the shots to the head. He learned about all the wars his father had fought in—’73, ’67, ’56, ’48—though Shimmy Gezer still stopped short of the one he’d first been swept up in, the war that ran from 1939 to 1945. Etgar’s father explained the hazy morality of combat, the split-second decisions, the assessment of threat and response, the nature of percentages and absolutes. Shimmy did his best to make clear to his son that Israelis—in their nation of unfinished borders and unwritten constitution—were trapped in a gray space that was called real life. In this gray space, he explained, even absolutes could maintain more than one position, reflect more than one truth. “You, too,” he said to his son, “may someday face a decision such as Professor Tendler’s—may you never know from it.” He pointed at the bloody stall across from theirs, pointed at a fish below the mallet, flopping on the block. “God forbid you should have to live with the consequences of decisions, permanent, eternal, that will chase you in your head, turning from this side to that, tossing between wrong and right.” But Etgar still couldn’t comprehend how his father saw the story to be that of a fish flip-flopping, when it was, in his eyes, only ever about that mallet coming down. Etgar wasn’t one for the gray. He was a tiny, thoughtful, bucktoothed boy of certainties. And, every Friday when Tendler came by the stand, Etgar would pack up the man’s produce and then run through the story again, searching for black-and-white. This man had saved his father’s life, but maybe he hadn’t. He’d done what was necessary, but maybe he could have done it another way. And even if the basic schoolyard rule applied in adult life—that a beating delivered earns a beating in return—did it ever justify one as fierce as the beating his father had described? A pummelling so severe that Shimmy, while telling the story, would run Etgar’s fingers along his left cheek, to show him where Professor Tendler had flattened the bone. Even if the violence had been justified, even if his father didn’t always say, “You must risk your friend’s life, your family’s, your own, you must be willing to die—even to save the life of your enemy—if ever, of two deeds, the humane one may be done,” it was not his father’s act of forgiveness but his kindness that baffled Etgar. Shimmy would send him running across Agrippas Street to bring back two cups of coffee or two glasses of tea to welcome Professor Tendler, telling Etgar to snatch a good-sized handful of pistachios from Eizenberg’s cart along the way. This treatment his father reserved only for his oldest friends. And absolutely no one but the war widows got their produce free. Quietly and with dignity, so as to cause these women no shame, Etgar’s father would send them off with fresh fruit and big bags of vegetables, sometimes for years after their losses. He always took care of the young widows. When they protested, he’d say, “You sacrifice, I sacrifice. All in all, what’s a bag of apples?” “It’s all for one country,” he’d say. When it came to Professor Tendler, so clear an answer never came. When Etgar was twelve, his father acknowledged the complexities of Tendler’s tale. “Do you want to know why I can care for a man who once beat me? Because to a story there is context. There is always context in life.” “That’s it?” Etgar asked. “That’s it.” At thirteen, he was told a different story. Because at thirteen Etgar was a man. “You know I was in the war,” Shimmy said to his son. The way he said it Etgar knew that he didn’t mean ’48 or ’56, ’67 or ’73. He did not mean the Jewish wars, in all of which he had fought. He meant the big one. The war that no one in his family but Shimmy had survived, which was also the case for Etgar’s mother. This was why they had taken a new name, Shimmy explained. In the whole world, the Gezers were three. “Yes,” Etgar said. “I know.” “Professor Tendler was also in that war,” Shimmy said. “Yes,” Etgar said. “It was hard on him,” Shimmy said. “And that is why, why I am always nice.” Etgar thought. Etgar spoke. “But you were there, too. You’ve had the same life as him. And you’d never have shot four men, even the enemy, if you could have taken them prisoner, if you could have spared a life. Even if you were in danger, you’d risk—” Etgar’s father smiled, and stopped him. Buy the print » “Kodem kol,” he said, “a similar life is not a same life. There is a difference.” Here Shimmy’s face turned serious, the lightness gone. “In that first war, in that big war, I was the lucky one,” he said. “In the Shoah, I survived.” “But he’s here,” Etgar said. “He survived, just the same as you.” “No,” Etgar’s father said. “He made it through the camps. He walks, he breathes, and he was very close to making it out of Europe alive. But they killed him. After the war, we still lost people. They killed what was left of him in the end.” For the first time, without Professor Tendler there, without one of Shimmy’s friends from the ghetto who stopped by to talk in Yiddish, without one of the soldier buddies from his unit in the reserves, or one of the kibbutzniks from whom he bought his fruits and his vegetables, Etgar’s father sent Etgar across Agrippas Street to get two glasses of tea. One for Etgar and one for him. “Hurry,” Shimmy said, sending Etgar off with a slap on his behind. Before Etgar had taken a step, his father grabbed his collar and popped open the register, handing him a brand-new ten-shekel bill. “And buy us a nice big bag of seeds from Eizenberg. Tell him to keep the change. You and I, we are going to sit awhile.” Shimmy took out the second folding chair from behind the register. It would also be the first time that father and son had ever sat down in the store together. Another rule of good business: a customer should always find you standing. Always there’s something you can be doing—sweeping, stacking, polishing apples. The customers will come to a place where there is pride. This is why Professor Tendler got his tomatoes free, why the sight of the man who beat Shimmy made his gaze go soft with kindness in the way that it did when one of the miskenot came by—why it took on what Etgar called his father’s Free-Fruit-for-Young-Widows eyes. This is the story that Shimmy told Etgar when he felt that his boy was a man: The first thing Professor Tendler saw when his death camp was liberated was two big, tough American soldiers fainting dead away. The pair (presumably war-hardened) stood before the immense, heretofore unimaginable brutality of modern extermination, frozen, slack-jawed before a mountain of putrid, naked corpses, a hill of men. And from this pile of broken bodies that had been—prior to the American invasion—set to be burned, a rickety skeletal Tendler stared back. Professor Tendler stared and studied, and when he was sure that those soldiers were not Nazi soldiers he crawled out from his hiding place among the corpses, pushing and shoving those balsa-wood arms and legs aside. It was this hill of bodies that had protected Tendler day after day. The poor Sonderkommando who dumped the bodies, as well as those who came to cart them to the ovens, knew that the boy was inside. They brought him the crumbs of their crumbs to keep him going. And though it was certain death for these prisoners to protect him, it allowed them a sliver of humanity in their inhuman jobs. This was what Shimmy was trying to explain to his son—that these palest shadows of kindness were enough to keep a dead man alive. When Tendler finally got to his feet, straightening his body out, when the corpse that was Professor Tendler at age thirteen—“your age”—came crawling from that nightmare, he looked at the two Yankee soldiers, who looked at him and then hit the ground with a thud. Professor Tendler had already seen so much in life that this was not worth even a pause, and so he walked on. He walked on naked through the gates of the camp, walked on until he got some food and some clothes, walked on until he had shoes and then a coat. He walked on until he had a little bread and a potato in his pocket—a surplus. Soon there was also in that pocket a cigarette and then a second; a coin and then a second. Surviving in this way, Tendler walked across borders until he was able to stand straight and tall, until he showed up in his childhood town in a matching suit of clothes, with a few bills in his pocket and, in his waistband, a six-shooter with five bullets chambered, in order to protect himself during the nights that he slept by the side of the road. Professor Tendler was expecting no surprises, no reunions. He’d seen his mother killed in front of him, his father, his three sisters, his grandparents, and, after some months in the camp, the two boys that he knew from back home. But home—that was the thing he held on to. Maybe his house was still there, and his bed. Maybe the cow was still giving milk, and the goats still chewing garbage, and his dog still barking at the chickens as before. And maybe his other family—the nurse at whose breast he had become strong (before weakened), her husband who had farmed his father’s field, and their son (his age), and another (two years younger), boys with whom he had played like a brother—maybe this family was still there waiting. Waiting for him to come home. Tendler could make a new family in that house. He could call every child he might one day have by his dead loved ones’ names. The town looked as it had when he’d left. The streets were his streets, the linden trees in the square taller but laid out as before. And, when Tendler turned down the dirt road that led to his gate, he fought to keep himself from running, and he fought to keep himself from crying, because, after what he had seen, he knew that to survive in this world he must always act like a man. So Tendler buttoned his coat and walked quietly toward the fence, wishing that he had a hat to take off as he passed through the gate—just the way the man of the house would when coming home to what was his. But when he saw her in the yard—when he saw Fanushka his nurse, their maid—the tears came anyway. Tendler popped a precious button from his coat as he ran to her and threw himself into her arms, and he cried for the first time since the trains. With her husband at her side, Fanushka said to him, “Welcome home, son,” and “Welcome home, child,” and “We prayed,” “We lit candles,” “We dreamed of your return.” When they asked, “Are your parents also coming? Are your sisters and your grandparents far behind?,” when they asked after all the old neighbors, house by house, Tendler answered, not by metaphor, and not by insinuation. When he knew the fate, he stated it as it was: beaten or starved, shot, cut in half, the front of the head caved in. All this he related without feeling—matters, each, of fact. All this he shared before venturing a step through his front door. Looking through that open door, Tendler decided that he would live with these people as family until he had a family of his own. He would grow old in this house. Free to be free, he would gate himself up again. But it would be his gate, his lock, his world. A hand on his hand pulled him from his reverie. It was Fanushka talking, a sad smile on her face. “Time to fatten you up,” she said. “A feast for first dinner.” And she grabbed the chicken at her feet and twisted its neck right there in the yard. “Come in,” she said, while the animal twitched. “The master of the house has returned.” “Just as you left it,” she said. “Only a few of our things.” Tendler stepped inside. It was exactly as he remembered it: the table, the chairs, except that all that was personal was gone. Fanushka’s two sons came in, and Tendler understood what time had done. These boys, fed and housed, warmed and loved, were fully twice his size. He felt, then, something he had never known in the camps, a civilized emotion that would have served no use. Tendler felt ashamed. He turned red, clenched his jaw tight, and felt his gums bleeding into his mouth. “You have to understand,” Etgar’s father said to his son. “These boys, his brothers, they were now twice his size and strangers to him.” The boys, prodded, shook hands with Tendler. They did not know him anymore. “Still, it is a nice story,” Etgar said. “Sad. But also happy. He makes it home to a home. It’s what you always say. Survival, that’s what matters. Surviving to start again.” Etgar’s father held up a sunflower seed, thinking about this. He cracked it between his front teeth. “So they are all making a dinner for Professor Tendler,” he said. “And he is sitting on the kitchen floor, legs crossed, as he did when he was a boy, and he is watching. Watching happily, drinking a glass of goat’s milk, still warm. And then the father goes out to slaughter that goat. ‘A feast for dinner,’ he says. ‘A chicken’s not enough.’ Professor Tendler, who has not had meat in years, looks at him, and the father, running a nail along his knife, says, ‘I remember the kosher way.’ ” Tendler was so happy that he could not bear it. So happy and so sad. And, with the cup of warm milk and the warm feeling, Tendler had to pee. But he didn’t want to move now that he was there with his other mother and, resting on her shoulder, a baby sister. A year and a half old and one curl on the head. A little girl, fat and happy. Fat in the ankle, fat in the wrist. “Tell me about your last accounting job.”Buy the print » Professor Tendler rushed out at the last second, out of the warm kitchen, out from under his roof. Professor Tendler, a man whom other men had tried to turn into an animal, did not race to the outhouse. It didn’t cross his mind. He stood right under the kitchen window to smell the kitchen smells, to stay close. And he took a piss. Over the sound of the stream, he heard his nurse lamenting. He knew what she must be lamenting—the Tendler family destroyed. He listened to what she was saying. And he heard. “He will take everything” is what she said. “He will take it all from us—our house, our field. He’ll snatch away all we’ve built and protected, everything that has been—for so long—ours.” There outside the window, pissing and listening, and also “disassociating,” as Professor Tendler would call it (though he did not then have the word), he knew only that he was watching himself from above, that he could see himself feeling all the disappointment as he felt it, until he was keenly and wildly aware that he had felt nothing all those years, felt nothing when his father and mother were shot, felt nothing while in the camps, nothing, in fact, from the moment he was driven from his home to the moment he returned. In that instant, Tendler’s guilt was sharper than any sensation he had ever known. And here, in response to his precocious son, Shimmy said, “Yes, yes, of course it was about survival—Tendler’s way of coping. Of course he’d been feeling all along.” But Tendler—a boy who had stepped over his mother’s body and kept walking—had, for those peasants, opened up. It was right then, Professor Tendler later told Shimmy, that he became a philosopher. “He will steal it all away,” Fanushka said. “Everything. He has come for our lives.” And her son, whom Tendler had considered a brother, said, “No.” And Tendler’s other almost-brother said, “No.” “We will eat,” Fanushka said. “We will celebrate. And when he sleeps we will kill him.” To one of the sons she said, “Go. Tell your father to keep that knife sharp.” To the other she said, “You get to sleep early, and you get up early, and before you grab the first tit on that cow I want his throat slit. Ours. Ours, not to be taken away.” Tendler ran. Not toward the street but back toward the outhouse in time to turn around as the kitchen door flew open, in time to smile at the younger brother on his way to find his father, in time for Tendler to be heading back the right way. “Do you want to hear what was shared at such a dinner?” Shimmy asked his son. “The memories roused and oaths sworn? There was wine, I know. ‘Drink, drink,’ the mother said. There was the chicken and a pot of goat stew. And, in a time of great deprivation, there was also sugar for the tea.” At this, Shimmy pointed at the bounty of their stand. “And, as if nothing, next to the baby’s basket on the kitchen floor sat a basket of apples. Tendler hadn’t had an apple in who knows how long.” Tendler brought the basket to the table. The family laughed as he peeled the apples with a knife, first eating the peels, then the flesh, and savoring even the seeds and the cores. It was a celebration, a joyous night. So much so that Professor Tendler could not by its end, belly distended, eyes crossed with drink, believe what he knew to have been said. There were hugs and there were kisses, and Tendler—the master of the house—was given his parents’ bedroom upstairs, the two boys across the hall, and below, in the kitchen (“It will be warmest”), slept the mother and the father and the fat-ankled girl. “Sleep well,” Fanushka said. “Welcome home, my son.” And, sweetly, she kissed Tendler on both eyes. Tendler climbed the stairs. He took off his suit and went to bed. And that was where he was when Fanushka popped through the door and asked him if he was warm enough, if he needed a lamp by which to read. “No, thank you,” he said. “So formal? No thanks necessary,” Fanushka said. “Only ‘Yes, Mother,’ or ‘No, Mother,’ my poor reclaimed orphan son.” “No light, Mother,” Tendler said, and Fanushka closed the door. Tendler got out of bed. He put on his suit. Once again without any shame to his actions, Tendler searched the room for anything of value, robbing his own home. Then he waited. He waited until the house had settled into itself, the last creak slipping from the floorboards as the walls pushed back against the wind. He waited until his mother, his Fanushka, must surely sleep, until a brother intent on staying up for the night—a brother who had never once fought for his life—convinced himself that it would be all right to close his eyes. Tendler waited until he, too, had to sleep, and that’s when he tied the laces of his shoes together and hung them over his shoulder. That’s when he took his pillow with one hand and, with the other, quietly cocked his gun. Then, with goose feathers flying, Tendler moved through the house. A bullet for each brother, one for the father and one for the mother. Tendler fired until he found himself standing in the warmth of the kitchen, one bullet left to protect him on the nights when he would sleep by the side of the road. That last bullet Tendler left in the fat baby girl, because he did not know from mercy, and did not need to leave another of that family to grow to kill him at some future time. “He murdered them,” Etgar said. “A murderer.” “No,” his father told him. “There was no such notion at the time.” “Even so, it is murder,” Etgar said. “If it is, then it’s only fair. They killed him first. It was his right.” “But you always say—” “Context.” “But the baby. The girl.” “The baby is hardest, I admit. But these are questions for the philosopher. These are the theoretical instances put into flesh and blood.” “But it’s not a question. These people, they are not the ones who murdered his family.” “They were coming for him that night.” “He could have escaped. He could have run for the gate when he overheard. He didn’t need to race back toward the outhouse, race to face the brother as he came the other way.” “Maybe there was no more running in him. Anyway, do you understand ‘an eye for an eye’? Can you imagine a broader meaning of ‘self-defense’?” “You always forgive him,” Etgar said. “You suffered the same things—but you aren’t that way. You would not have done what he did.” “It is hard to know what a person would and wouldn’t do in any specific instance. And you, spoiled child, apply the rules of civilization to a boy who had seen only its opposite. Maybe the fault for those deaths lies in a system designed for the killing of Tendlers that failed to do its job. An error, a slip that allowed a Tendler, no longer fit, back loose in the world.” “Is that what you think?” “It’s what I ask. And I ask you, my Etgar, what you would have done if you were Tendler that night?” “Not kill.” “Then you die.” “Only the grownups.” “But it was a boy who was sent to cut Tendler’s throat.” “How about killing only those who would do harm?” “Still it’s murder. Still it is killing people who have yet to act, murdering them in their sleep.” “I guess,” Etgar said. “I can see how they deserved it, the four. How I might, if I were him, have killed them.” Shimmy shook his head, looking sad. “And whoever are we, my son, to decide who should die?” It was on that day that Etgar Gezer became a philosopher himself. Not in the manner of Professor Tendler, who taught theories up at the university on the mountain, but, like his father, practical and concrete. Etgar would not finish high school or go to college, and, except for his three years in the Army, he would spend his life—happily—working the stand in the shuk. He’d stack the fruit into pyramids and contemplate weighty questions with a seriousness of thought. And when there were answers Etgar would try employing them to make for himself and others, in whatever small way, a better life. It was on that day, too, that Etgar decided Professor Tendler was both a murderer and, at the same time, a misken. He believed he understood how and why Professor Tendler had come to kill that peasant family, and how men sent to battle in uniform—even in the same uniform—would find no mercy at his hand. Etgar also came to see how Tendler’s story could just as easily have ended for the Professor that first night, back in his parents’ room, in his parents’ bed, a gun with four bullets held in a suicide’s hand—how the first bullet Tendler ever fired might have been into his own head. Still, every Friday Etgar packed up Tendler’s fruit and vegetables. And in that bag Etgar would add, when he had them, a pineapple or a few fat mangos dripping honey. Handing it to Tendler, Etgar would say, “Kach, Professor. Take it.” This, even after his father had died.
Uncle Rock In the morning, at his favorite restaurant, Erick got to order his favorite American food, sausage and eggs and hash-brown papitas fried crunchy on top. He’d be sitting there, eating with his mother, not bothering anybody, and life was good, when a man started changing it all. Most of the time it was just a man staring too much—but then one would come over. Friendly, he’d put his thick hands on the table as if he were touching water, and squat low, so that he was at sitting level, as though he were being so polite, and he’d smile, with coffee-and-tobacco-stained teeth. He might wear a bolo tie and speak in a drawl. Or he might have a tan uniform on, a company logo on the back, an oval name patch on the front. Or he’d be in a nothing-special work shirt, white or striped, with a couple of pens clipped onto the left side pocket, tucked into a pair of jeans or chinos that were morning-clean still, with a pair of scuffed work boots that laced up higher than regular shoes. He’d say something about her earrings, or her bracelet, or her hair, or her eyes, and if she had on her white uniform how nice it looked on her. Or he’d come right out with it and tell her how pretty she was, how he couldn’t keep himself from walking up, speaking to her directly, and could they talk again? Then he’d wink at Erick. Such a fine-looking boy! How old is he, eight or nine? Erick wasn’t even small for an eleven-year-old. He tightened his jaw then, slanted his eyes up from his plate at his mom and not the man, definitely not this man he did not care for. Erick drove a fork into a goopy American egg yolk and bled it into his American potatoes. She wouldn’t offer the man Erick’s correct age, either, saying only that he was growing too fast. She almost always gave the man her number if he was wearing a suit. Not a sports coat but a buttoned suit with a starched white shirt and a pinned tie meant something to her. Once in a while, Erick saw one of these men again at the front door of the apartment in Silverlake. The man winked at Erick as if they were buddies. Grabbed his shoulder or arm, squeezed the muscle against the bone. What did Erick want to be when he grew up? A cop, a jet-airplane mechanic, a travel agent, a court reporter? A dog groomer? Erick stood there, because his mom said that he shouldn’t be impolite. His mom’s date said he wanted to take Erick along with them sometime. The three of them. What kind of places did Erick think were fun? Erick said nothing. He never said anything when the men were around, and not because of his English, even if that was the excuse his mother gave for his silence. He didn’t talk to any of the men and he didn’t talk much to his mom, either. Finally they took off, and Erick’s night was his alone. He raced to the grocery store and bought half a gallon of chocolate ice cream. When he got back, he turned on the TV, scooted up real close, as close as he could, and ate his dinner with a soup spoon. He was away from all the men. Even though a man had given the TV to them. He was a salesman in an appliance store who’d bragged that a rich customer had given it to him and so why shouldn’t he give it to Erick’s mom, who couldn’t afford such a good TV otherwise? When his mom was working as a restaurant hostess, and was going to marry the owner, Erick ate hot-fudge sundaes and drank chocolate shakes. When she worked at a trucking company, the owner of all the trucks told her he was getting a divorce. Erick climbed into the rigs, with their rooms full of dials and levers in the sky. Then she started working in an engineer’s office. There was no food or fun there, but even he could see the money. He was not supposed to touch anything, but what was there to touch—the tubes full of paper? He and his mom were invited to the engineer’s house, where he had two horses and a stable, a swimming pool, and two convertible sports cars. The engineer’s family was there: his grown children, his gray-haired parents. They all sat down for dinner in a dining room that seemed bigger than Erick’s apartment, with three candelabras on the table, and a tablecloth and cloth napkins. Erick’s mom took him aside to tell him to be well mannered at the table and polite to everyone. Erick hadn’t said anything. He never spoke anyway, so how could he have said anything wrong? She leaned into his ear and said that she wanted them to know that he spoke English. That whole dinner he was silent, chewing quietly, taking the smallest bites, because he didn’t want them to think he liked their food. When she got upset about days like that, she told Erick that she wished they could just go back home. She was tired of worrying. “Back,” for Erick, meant mostly the stories he’d heard from her, which never sounded so good to him: She’d had to share a room with her brothers and sisters. They didn’t have toilets. They didn’t have electricity. Sometimes they didn’t have enough food. He saw this Mexico as if it were the backdrop of a movie on afternoon TV, where children walked around barefoot in the dirt or on broken sidewalks and small men wore wide-brimmed straw hats and baggy white shirts and pants. The women went to church all the time and prayed to alcoved saints and, heads down, fearful, counted rosary beads. There were rocks everywhere, and scorpions and tarantulas and rattlesnakes, and vultures and no trees and not much water, and skinny dogs and donkeys, and ugly bad guys with guns and bullet vests who rode laughing into town to drink and shoot off their pistols and rifles, as if it were the Fourth of July, driving their horses all over town like dirt bikes on desert dunes. When they spoke English, they had stupid accents—his mom didn’t have an accent like theirs. It didn’t make sense to him that Mexico would only be like that, but what if it was close? He lived on paved, lighted city streets, and a bicycle ride away were the Asian drugstore and the Armenian grocery store and the corner where black Cubans drank coffee and talked Dodgers baseball. When he was in bed, where he sometimes prayed, he thanked God for his mom, who he loved, and he apologized to Him for not talking to her, or to anyone, really, except his friend Albert, and he apologized for her never going to church and for his never taking Holy Communion, as Albert did—though only to God would he admit that he wanted to because Albert did. He prayed for good to come, for his mom and for him, since God was like magic, and happiness might come the way of early morning, in the trees and bushes full of sparrows next to his open window, louder and louder when he listened hard, eyes closed. “We are gathered here today to bid farewell to the best assistant any magician could ask for.”Buy the print » The engineer wouldn’t have mattered if Erick hadn’t told Albert that he was his dad. Albert had just moved into the apartment next door and lived with both his mother and his father, and since Albert’s mother already didn’t like Erick’s mom, Erick told him that his new dad was an engineer. Erick actually believed it, too, and thought that he might even get his own horse. When that didn’t happen, and his mom was lying on her bed in the middle of the day, blowing her nose, because she didn’t have the job anymore, that was when Roque came around again. Roque was nobody—or he was anybody. He wasn’t special, he wasn’t not. He tried to speak English to Erick, thinking that was the reason Erick didn’t say anything when he was there. And Erick had to tell Albert that Roque was his uncle, because the engineer was supposed to be his new dad any minute. Uncle Rock, Erick said. His mom’s brother, he told Albert. Roque worked at night and was around during the day, and one day he offered Erick and Albert a ride. When his mom got in the car, she scooted all the way over to Roque on the bench seat. Who was supposed to be her brother, Erick’s Uncle Rock. Albert didn’t say anything, but he saw what had happened, and that was it for Erick. Albert had parents, grandparents, and a brother and a sister, and he’d hang out only when one of his cousins wasn’t coming by. Erick didn’t need a friend like him. What if she married Roque, his mom asked him one day soon afterward. She told Erick that they would move away from the apartment in Silverlake to a better neighborhood. He did want to move, but he wished that it weren’t because of Uncle Rock. It wasn’t just because Roque didn’t have a swimming pool or horses or a big ranch house. There wasn’t much to criticize except that he was always too willing and nice, too considerate, too generous. He wore nothing flashy or expensive, just ordinary clothes that were clean and ironed, and shoes he kept shined. He combed and parted his hair neatly. He didn’t have a buzzcut like the men who didn’t like kids. He moved slow, he talked slow, as quiet as night. He only ever said yes to Erick’s mom. How could she not like him for that? He loved her so much—anybody could see his pride when he was with her. He signed checks and gave her cash. He knocked on their door carrying cans and fruit and meat. He was there when she asked, gone when she asked, back whenever, grateful. He took her out to restaurants on Sunset, to the movies in Hollywood, or on drives to the beach in rich Santa Monica. Roque knew that Erick loved baseball. Did Roque like baseball? It was doubtful that he cared even a little bit—he didn’t listen to games on the radio or TV, and he never looked at a newspaper. He loved boxing, though. He knew the names of all the Mexican fighters as if they lived here, as if they were Dodgers players, like Steve Sax or Steve Yeager, Dusty Baker, Kenny Landreaux or Mike Marshall, Pedro Guerrero. Roque did know about Fernando Valenzuela, as everyone did, even his mom, which is why she agreed to let Roque take them to a game. What Mexican didn’t love Fernando? Dodger Stadium was close to their apartment. He’d been there once with Albert and his family—well, outside it, on a nearby hill, to see the fireworks for Fourth of July. His mom decided that all three of them would go on a Saturday afternoon, since Saturday night, Erick thought, she might want to go somewhere else, even with somebody else. Roque, of course, didn’t know who the Phillies were. He knew nothing about the strikeouts by Steve Carlton or the home runs by Mike Schmidt. He’d never heard of Pete Rose. It wasn’t that Erick knew very much, either, but there was nothing that Roque could talk to him about, if they were to talk. If Erick showed his excitement when they drove up to Dodger Stadium and parked, his mom and Roque didn’t really notice it. They sat in the bleachers, and for him the green of the field was a magic light; the stadium decks surrounding them seemed as far away as Rome. His body was somewhere it had never been before. The fifth inning? That’s how late they were. Or were they right on time, because they weren’t even sure they were sitting in the right seats yet when he heard the crack of the ball, saw the crowd around them rising as it came at them. Erick saw the ball. He had to stand and move and stretch his arms and want that ball until it hit his bare hands and stayed there. Everybody saw him catch it with no bobble. He felt all the eyes and voices around him as if they were every set of eyes and every voice in the stadium. His mom was saying something, and Roque, too, and then, finally, it was just him and that ball and his stinging hands. He wasn’t even sure if it had been hit by Pete Guerrero. He thought for sure it had been, but he didn’t ask. He didn’t watch the game then—he couldn’t. He didn’t care who won. He stared at his official National League ball, reimagining what had happened. He ate a hot dog and drank a soda and he sucked the salted peanuts and the wooden spoon from his chocolate-malt ice cream. He rubbed the bumpy seams of his home-run ball. Game over, they were the last to leave. People were hanging around, not going straight to their cars. Roque didn’t want to leave. He didn’t want to end it so quickly, Erick thought, while he still had her with him. Then one of the Phillies came out of the stadium door and people swarmed—boys mostly, but also men and some women and girls—and they got autographs before the player climbed onto the team’s bus. Joe Morgan, they said. Then Garry Maddox appeared. Erick clutched the ball but he didn’t have a pen. He just watched, his back to the gray bus the Phillies were getting into. Then a window slid open. Hey, big man, a voice said. Erick really wasn’t sure. Gimme the ball, la pelota, the face in the bus said. I’ll have it signed, comprendes? Échalo, just toss it to me. Erick obeyed. He tossed it up to the hand that was reaching out. The window closed. The ball was gone a while, so long that his mom came up to him, worried that he’d lost it. The window slid open again and the voice spoke to her. We got the ball, Mom. It’s not lost, just a few more. When the window opened once more, this time the ball was there. Catch. There were all kinds of signatures on it, though none that he could really recognize except for Joe Morgan and Pete Rose. Then the voice offered more, and the hand threw something at him. For your mom, O.K.? Comprendes? Erick stared at the asphalt lot where the object lay, as if he’d never seen a folded-up piece of paper before. Para tu mamá, bueno? He picked it up, and he started to walk over to his mom and Roque, who were so busy talking they hadn’t noticed anything. Then he stopped. He opened the note himself. No one had said he couldn’t read it. It said, I’d like to get to know you. You are muy linda. Very beautiful and sexy. I don’t speak Spanish very good, may be you speak better English, pero No Importa. Would you come by tonite and let me buy you a drink? There was a phone number and a hotel-room number. A name, too. A name that came at him the way that the home run had. Erick couldn’t hear. He could see only his mom ahead of him. She was talking to Roque, Roque was talking to her. Roque was the proudest man, full of joy because he was with her. It wasn’t his fault he wasn’t an engineer. Now Erick could hear again. Like sparrows hunting seed, boys gathered round the bus, calling out, while the voice in the bus was yelling at him, Hey, big guy! Give it to her! Erick had the ball in one hand and the note in the other. By the time he reached his mom and Roque, the note was already somewhere on the asphalt parking lot. Look, he said in a full voice. They all signed the ball.
La Vita Nuova The day her fiancé left, Amanda went walking in the Colonial cemetery off Garden Street. The gravestones were so worn that she could hardly read them. They were melting away into the weedy grass. You are a very dark person, her fiancé had said. She walked home and sat in her half-empty closet. Her vintage nineteen-fifties wedding dress hung in clear asphyxiating plastic printed “NOT A TOY.” She took the dress to work. She hooked the hanger onto a grab bar on the T and the dress rustled and swayed. When she got out at Harvard Square, the guy who played guitar near the turnstiles called, “Congratulations.” Work was at the Garden School, where Amanda taught art, including theatre, puppets, storytelling, drumming, dance, and now fabric painting. She spread the white satin gown on the art-room floor. Two girls glued pink feathers all along the hem. Others brushed the skirt with green and purple. A boy named Nathaniel dipped his hand in red paint and left his little handprint on the bodice as though the dress were an Indian pony. At lunchtime, the principal asked Amanda to step into her office. You are like living with a dark cloud, Amanda’s fiancé had told her when he left. You’re always sad. I’m sad now, Amanda had said. The principal told Amanda that, for an educator, boundaries were an issue. “Your personal life,” said the principal, “is not an appropriate art project for first grade. Your classroom,” said the principal, “is not an appropriate forum for your relationships. Let’s pack up the wedding dress.” “It’s still wet,” Amanda said. Her mother could not believe it. She had just sent out all the invitations. Her father swore he’d kill the son of a bitch. They both asked how this could have happened, but they remembered that they had had doubts all along. Her sister Lissa said she could not imagine what Amanda was going through. She must feel so terrible. Was Amanda going to have to write to everyone on the guest list? Like a card or something? She’d have to tell everybody, wouldn’t she? I waited all this time because I didn’t want to hurt you, Amanda’s fiancé had said. After school, she went for a drink with the old blond gym teacher, Patsy. They went to a bar called Cambridge Common and ordered gin-and-tonics. Patsy said, “Eventually, you’re going to realize that this is a blessing in disguise.” “We had too many differences,” said Amanda. Patsy lifted her glass. “There you go.” “For example, I loved him and he didn’t love me.” “Don’t be surprised,” said Patsy, “if he immediately marries someone else. Guys like that immediately marry someone else.” “Why?” Amanda asked. Patsy sighed. “If I knew that, I’d be teaching at Harvard, not teaching the professors’ kids.” Amanda tried writing a card or something. She wrote that she and her fiancé had decided not to marry. Then she wrote that her fiancé had decided not to marry her. She said that she was sorry for any inconvenience. She added that she would appreciate gifts anyway. Her parents told her not to send the card. They said that they were coming up for a week. She said that they couldn’t come, because she was painting her apartment. She did not paint the apartment. In the winter, Amanda cut her hair short like a boy’s. “Oh, your hair,” said Patsy. “Your beautiful curls.” In the spring, the principal told Amanda that, regretfully, she was not being renewed for the following year, because the art program at the Garden School was moving in a different direction. In the summer, Amanda’s fiancé married someone else. When school ended, Amanda took a job babysitting Nathaniel, the boy with the red handprint. Nathaniel’s mother asked for stimulating activities, projects, science. No TV. Nathaniel’s father didn’t ask for anything. Their first day together, Amanda asked Nathaniel, “What do you want to do?” “Nothing.” She said, “You read my mind.” They ate chocolate mice at Burdick’s and then they stood in front of the Harvard Coop and listened to Peruvian musicians. They explored the cemetery, and Amanda told Nathaniel that the gravestones were dragons’ teeth. They walked down to the river and she said, “If you trace the river all the way to the beginning, you’ll find a magic cave.” They took the T to Boston and stood in line for the swan boats in the Public Garden. She said, “At night, these boats turn into real swans.” Nathaniel said, “You have a great imagination.” His mother lived in a Victorian house on Buckingham Street. She worked at the Media Lab at M.I.T. and she had deadlines. The house had a garden full of flowers, but Nathaniel didn’t play there, because you couldn’t really dig. His father lived in an upside-down town house on Chauncy Street. The bedrooms were on the bottom floors, and the kitchen and living room on top. His father was writing a book and he came home late. Amanda and Nathaniel had pizza delivered to Chauncy Street and watched Charlie Chaplin movies from Hollywood Express. Sometimes they spread a sheet over the couch and ate a big bowl of popcorn. It’s hard to be with you, her fiancé had said. I feel like I’m suffocating. Open a window, Amanda had said. When the movie was done, Amanda gathered the sheet and stepped onto the balcony, where she shook out the crumbs. Amanda and Nathaniel had playdates with his friends at Walden Pond. They went canoeing on the Charles, and Nathaniel dropped his paddle in the water. Amanda almost tipped the boat, trying to fish it out. They wrote a book about pirates. Nathaniel told the stories and Amanda typed them on the computer in his father’s study. “Aarrr, matey,” she typed, “I’m stuck on a ship.” When his father stayed out past Nathaniel’s bedtime, Amanda tucked Nathaniel in, and then she read books in the study. The books were about American history. She read only a few pages of each, so she didn’t learn anything. If you ever stopped to listen, her fiancé had said, then you would understand. She stood on a chair and pulled out some small paperbacks from the top shelf. Dante, “The Divine Comedy,” in a new translation. Boccaccio, “The Decameron,” Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales,” complete and unabridged. Dante again, “La Vita Nuova.” “La Vita Nuova” explained how to become a great poet. The secret was to fall in love with a perfect girl but never speak to her. You should weep instead. You should pretend that you love someone else. You should write sonnets in three parts. Your perfect girl should die. Amanda’s mother said, “You have your whole life ahead of you.” She fell asleep on the couch waiting for Nathaniel’s father to come home. When she woke up, she saw him kneeling in front of her. She said, “What’s wrong?” He said, “Nothing’s wrong. I’m sorry. I didn’t want to wake you.” But he did wake her. She went home and stayed awake all night. “Let’s go somewhere,” she told Nathaniel the next day. “Where?” “Far away.” They took the T to Ashmont, at the end of the Red Line. They sat together in the rattling car and talked about doughnuts. “I like cinnamon doughnuts, but they make me cough,” Nathaniel said. She slept lightly. She dreamed she was walking with Nathaniel in a pine forest. She was telling him not to step on the dead hummingbirds. The birds were sapphire-throated, brilliant blue. She stole “La Vita Nuova.” It was just a paperback. Her sister called to check in. Her friend Jamie said she knew someone she’d like Amanda to meet. Amanda said, “Soon.” Jamie said, “What exactly are you waiting for?” Nathaniel’s father pretended not to look at her. Amanda pretended not to notice his dark eyes. “The question is what you’re going to do in September,” Amanda’s mother told her on the phone. “The question is what you’re going to do with your life,” her father said. Dante wrote, “O you who on the road of Love pass by, / Attend and see / If any grief there be as heavy as mine.” “When was the last time you painted anything?” her mother asked. “Apart from your apartment?” Her father said, “I paid for Yale.” All day, Amanda and Nathaniel studied the red ants of Buckingham Street. They experimented with cake crumbs and observed the ants change course to eat them. Nathaniel considered becoming an entomologist when he grew up. The next day, he decided to open his own ice-cream store. Buy the print » They biked to Christina’s, in Inman Square. Nathaniel pedalled in front on his little bike. Amanda pedalled behind on her big bike and watched for cars. At Christina’s, Nathaniel could read almost all the flavors on the board: adzuki bean, black raspberry, burnt sugar, chocolate banana, chocolate orange, cardamom. Nathaniel said, “I’ll have vanilla.” They sat in front near the bulletin board with ads for guitar lessons, tutoring, transcendental meditation. “What’s an egg donor?” Nathaniel said. I want to be with you for the rest of my life, her fiancé had told her once. You are my best friend, he had written on her birthday card. You make me smile, you make me laugh. “Love weeps,” Dante wrote. “Could I have a quarter for a gumball?” Nathaniel asked Amanda. “You just had ice cream,” she said. “Please.” “No! You just had ice cream. You don’t need candy.” “Please, please, please,” he said. “You’re lovely,” Nathaniel’s father whispered to Amanda late that night. She was just leaving, and he’d opened the door for her. “You’re not supposed to say that,” Amanda whispered back. “You’re supposed to write a sonnet.” Nathaniel said that he knew what to do when you were upset. She said, “Tell me, Nathaniel.” He said, “Go to the zoo.” Nathaniel studied the train schedule. They took the Orange Line to Ruggles Station and then the No. 22 bus to the Franklin Park Zoo. They watched orangutans sitting on their haunches, shredding newspapers, one page at a time. They climbed up on viewing platforms to observe the giraffes. They ran down every path. They looked at snakes. They went to the little barnyard and a goat frightened Nathaniel. Amanda said the goat was just curious. She said, “Goats wouldn’t eat you.” Nathaniel fell asleep on the T on the way home. He leaned against Amanda and closed his eyes. The woman sitting next to Amanda said, “He’s beautiful.” Amanda’s friend Jamie had a party in Somerville. The wine was terrible. The friend that Jamie wanted Amanda to meet was drunk. Amanda got drunk, too, but it didn’t help. She was late to work the next day. She found Nathaniel waiting on his mother’s porch. “I thought you were sick,” he said. “I was,” she told him. They walked to Harvard Square and watched the street magicians. They went to Le’s and shared vegetarian summer rolls and Thai iced tea. “This tastes like orange chalk,” Nathaniel said. They went to a store called Little Russia and looked at the lacquered dolls there. “See, they come apart,” Amanda told Nathaniel. “You pop open this lady, and inside there’s another, and another, and another.” “Do not touch, please,” the saleslady told them. They walked down to the river and sat on the grass under a tree and talked about their favorite dogs. “Labradoodle,” Amanda said. Nathaniel giggled. “No, Schnoodle.” “Golden Streudel.” Nathaniel said, “Is that the kind you had when you were young?” She dreamed that she was a Russian doll. Inside her was a smaller version of herself, and inside that an even smaller version. She ordered a set of blank wooden dolls online and began painting them. She covered the dolls with white primer. Then she painted them with acrylics and her finest brushes. First, a toddler only an inch high, in a gingham bathing suit. Second, a fingerling schoolgirl, wearing glasses. Third, an art student, with a portfolio under her arm. Fourth, a bride in white with long flowing hair. Fifth, a babysitter in sandals and sundress. She painted Nathaniel standing in front of her in his gecko T-shirt and blue shorts. He stood waist high, with her painted hands on his shoulders. When the paint was dry, she covered each doll with clear gloss. After that coat dried, she glossed each doll again until the reds were as bright as candy apples, the blues sparkled, and every color looked good enough to eat. She bought another set of blanks and began all over. She stayed up late each night painting. “Why are you so sleepy?” Nathaniel asked her in the afternoons. In the mornings, his mother asked her, “Why are you always late?” She fell asleep with Nathaniel at eight o’clock. She curled up next to him in his captain’s bed and woke when his father came in and touched her cheek. “I was wondering if you could come to the Cape with us,” Nathaniel’s father said as they tiptoed out into the hall. She shook her head. “Just for a few days in August.” His voice was low. His eyes were almost pleading. You are so beautiful, her fiancé had said. She painted Nathaniel’s father on a set of Russian dolls. First, she painted a toddler in a romper. Second, she painted a boy in a little Catholic-school uniform with short pants and a tie. Third, she painted a bridegroom, dashing in a dark suit with white stephanotis for his boutonnière. Fourth, she painted a new father, with a baby Nathaniel in his arms. Fifth, she painted a gray-haired man, in reading glasses. She painted Nathaniel’s father older than he was, and stouter. Not handsome, as he was in real life, but grandfatherly, with a belly following the contours of the bell-shaped doll. As before, she coated each painted doll with clear gloss until the colors gleamed. As before, she made each doll a perfect jewel-like object, but she spent the most time on the biggest, oldest doll. After that, she bought more blanks and painted more sets: people she knew, people she didn’t know. People she met. Portraits in series, five dolls each. She painted Patsy, blonder and blonder in each incarnation. She painted her fiancé as a boy, as an athlete, as a law student, as a paunchy bald guy, as a decrepit old man. She didn’t kill him, but she aged him. She lined up the dolls and photographed them. She thought about fellowships. She imagined group shows, solo shows. Refusing interviews. She took Nathaniel to swimming lessons. She went down to the harbor with him and they threw popcorn to seagulls that caught the kernels in midair. Nathaniel had his seventh-birthday party on Castle Island. He and his friends built a walled city of sandcastles with a moat. Nathaniel was the architect. Amanda was his assistant. His father was the photographer. His mother served the cake. At the end of the party, Amanda gathered the presents. Nathaniel was leaving for the Cape with his father, and then his mother was going to take him to the Vineyard for Labor Day weekend. Nathaniel said, “When we come back, it will be September.” She said, “You’re right.” He said, “Could you come with me?” Amanda said, “I can’t. I’m painting my apartment.” He said, “What color?” She said, “Actually, I’m moving.” “Moving away?” She told him, “You can talk to me on the phone.” Nathaniel started to cry. His mother said, “Honey!” He held on to Amanda and cried. “Why can’t you be my babysitter anymore?” “I’m going to New York,” she said. “Why?” Because your mother doesn’t like me, she told him silently. Because your father wants to sleep with me. Because the only reason I came to Boston was my fiancé. Because the question is what I’m going to do with my life. But all she said aloud was “That’s where I’m from.” She knelt down and gave him a map she’d drawn. She’d singed the edges of the parchment to make it look old. The map showed the cave at the source of the Charles River, the swan boats flying away, the chocolate mice at Burdick’s. Christina’s Ice Cream, Ashmont, the cemetery with dragons’ teeth. Nathaniel’s mother said, “This is gorgeous.” Nathaniel’s father said, “You’re really very talented.” Nathaniel said that he didn’t want a map. He said that he would rip it up. His mother said, “Nathaniel, is that any way to treat a gift?” His father said, “Come here.” Nathaniel tore a big piece out of the map. He screamed at his parents, “I don’t want you!” “He’s tired,” Nathaniel’s mother told Amanda. “He’s exhausted. Too much excitement in one day.” “I’m not tired!” Nathaniel screamed, and he wouldn’t let go of Amanda. He held on to her, half strangling her with his arms around her neck. “Look, Nathaniel—” his father began. His mother interrupted. “You’re making it worse!” Nathaniel was crying harder. He cried with his whole body. No one could get him to stop. Amanda closed her eyes. She said she was sorry. She said, “Please stop.” Finally, she rocked him in her arms and said, “I know. I know.”
Edgemont Drive What kind of car was it? I don’t know. An old car. What difference does it make? A man sits in his car three days running in front of the house, you should be able to describe it. An American car. There you go. A squarish car with a long hood. Long and floaty-looking. A Ford? Maybe. Well, definitely not a Cadillac. No. It looked tinny. An old car. Faded red. There were big round rust spots on the fender and the door. And it was filled with his things. It looked like everything he owned was in there with him. Well, what do you want me to do? You want me to stay home from work? No. It’s nothing. If it’s nothing, why did you bring it up? I shouldn’t have. Did he look at you? Please. Did he? When I turned around, he started the engine and drove off. What do you mean? So before you turned around— I felt his eyes. I was weeding. You were bending over? Here we go again. You know this creep pulls up in front of our house every morning and you go out to the garden and bend over? O.K., end of conversation. I have things to do. Maybe I can park at the curb and watch you weeding. The two of us. That’s something, anyway. Seeing you in your shorts bending over. I can’t ever talk to you about anything. It was a Ford Falcon. You said it was squared off, hard edges, a flattened look. A Falcon. They built them in the sixties. Three-speed manual shift on the column. Only ninety horses. O.K., that’s wonderful. You know all about cars. Listen, Miss Garden Lady, to know a man’s car is to know him. It is not useless knowledge. Fine. Guy is some immigrant up from Tijuana. What are you talking about? Who else would drive a forty-year-old heap? Looking for work. Looking for something he can steal. Looking for something from the lady with the long white legs who bends over in her garden. You’re out of your mind. You’ve got this know-it-all attitude— I’ll take the morning off tomorrow. Immigrants don’t have long white hair and roll the window down so I can see his pink face and pale eyes. Oh, ho! Now we’re getting somewhere. You don’t move out of here I’m writing down your license plate. The cops will I.D. you and see if it’s someone they know. . . . You’re calling the police? Yes. Why? Why not, if you don’t move? Go park somewhere else. I’m giving you a break. What is my offense? Don’t play dumb. In the first place, I don’t like some junk heap in front of my house. I’m sorry. It’s the only car I have. Right, I can see that no one would drive this thing if he didn’t have to. And all this bag and baggage. You sell things out of the trunk? No. These are my things. I wouldn’t want to let anything go. Because nobody in this neighborhood needs anything from the back of a car. Well, I’m sorry we’ve gotten off to the wrong start. Yes, we have. I’m not too friendly when some pervert decides to stalk my wife. Oh, I’m afraid you’re under a misconception. Am I? Yes. I didn’t want to disturb anyone, but I should have realized that parking in front of your house would attract notice. You got that right. If I’m stalking anything, it’s the house. What? I used to live here. For three days, I’ve been trying to work up the courage to knock on your door and introduce myself. Ah, I see the kitchen is quite different. Everything built-in and tucked away. Our sink was freestanding, white porcelain with piano legs. Over here was a cabinet where my mother kept the staples. A shelf swung out with a cannister for sifting flour. That impressed me. I’d probably have kept it. This is their renovation—the people who lived here before us. I have my own ideas for changing things around. You must have bought the house from the people I sold it to. You’ve been here how long? Let’s see. I count by the children’s ages. We moved in just after my eldest was born. That would be twelve years. And how many children have you? Three. All boys. I’ve sometimes wished for a daughter. They’re all in school? Yes. I have a daughter. An adult daughter. Would you like some tea? Yes, thank you. Very kind of you. Women are more gently disposed, as a rule. I hope your husband won’t be too put out. Not at all. To speak truly, it’s unsettling to be here. It’s something like double vision. The neighborhood is much as it was. But the trees are older and taller. The homes—well, they’re still here, mostly, though they don’t have the proud, well-to-do look they once had. It’s a settled neighborhood. Yes. But you know? Time is heartbreaking. Yes. My parents divorced when I was a boy. I lived with my mother. She would die in the master bedroom. Oh. I’m sorry, I sometimes speak tactlessly. After Mother died, I married and brought my wife here to live. I’ve never stayed anywhere else for any length of time. And certainly never owned property again. So this is the house—please don’t misunderstand me—this is the house I’ve continued to live in. I mean mentally. I ranged all through these rooms from childhood on. Until they reflected who I was, as a mirror would. I don’t mean merely that its furnishings displayed our family’s personality, our tastes. I don’t mean that. It was as if the walls, the stairs, the rooms, the dimensions, the layout were as much me as I was. Is this coherent? Wherever I looked, I saw me. I saw me in some way measured out. Do you experience that? I’m not sure. Your wife— Oh, that didn’t last long. She resented the suburbs. She felt cut off from everything. I’d go off to work and she’d be left here. We hadn’t many friends in the neighborhood. Yes, people here stick to themselves. The boys have school friends, but we hardly know anyone. This tea helps. Because this is a dizzying experience for me. It’s as if I were squared off, dimensionalized in these rooms, as if I were the space contained by these walls, the passageways, the fixed routes of going to and fro, from one room to another, and everything lit predictably by the times of day and the different seasons. It is all and indistinguishably . . . me. I think if you live in one place long enough— When people speak of a haunted house, they mean ghosts flitting about in it, but that’s not it at all. When a house is haunted—what I’m trying to explain—it is the feeling you get that it looks like you, that your soul has become architecture, and the house in all its materials has taken you over with a power akin to haunting. As if you, in fact, are the ghost. And as I look at you, a kind, lovely young woman, part of me says not that I don’t belong here, which is the truth, but that you don’t belong here. I’m sorry, that’s quite a terrible thing to say. It merely means— It means life is heartbreaking. He came back? He was here again? Yes. It seemed so sad, his just sitting out there, so I invited him in. You what! I mean, it wasn’t what you thought, was it? So why not? Right. Why wouldn’t you invite him in, since I told him if he came around again I’d call the cops? You should have invited him in yourself when he told you he’d lived in this house. Why is that a credential? Everyone has lived somewhere or other. Would you want to relive your glorious past? I shouldn’t think so. And this is not the first time. Don’t start in, please. Husband says white, wife says black. The way it works. So the world will know what she thinks of her husband. Why is it always about you! We’re not the same person. I have my own mind. Do you, now! Hey, you guys, we got an argument brewing? Close your door, son. This doesn’t concern you. Every time another man comes into this house you go berserk. A plumber, someone to measure for the window blinds, the man who reads the gas meter. Ah, but is your man a man? Awfully fruity-looking to me. Wears his white hair in a ponytail. And those tiny little hands. What does the well-known fag-hag have to say? He’s a Ph.D. and a poet. Jesus, I should have known. He gave up his teaching job to travel the country. His book is on the dining-room table. He signed it for us. A wandering minstrel in his Ford Falcon. Why are you so horrible! Arguing is instead of sex. It has been a while. This is better. Yes. I don’t know why I get so upset. You’re just a normally defective man. So we’re all like this? Thank you. Yes. It’s an imperfect gender. I’m sorry I said what I said. I’m thinking now, with all three of them in school all day, I should get a job. Doing what? Or maybe go for a graduate degree of some kind. Make myself useful. What brings this on? Times change. They need me less and less. They have their friends, their practices. I carpool. They come home and stay in their rooms with their games. You work late. I’m alone in this house a lot. We should go to the theatre more. A night in town. Or you like opera. I’ll do opera as long as it isn’t Richard fucking Wagner. That’s not what I’m saying. You chose the suburbs, you know. I work to pay off the mortgage. The three tuitions. The two car payments. I’m not blaming you. Could we turn on the light a moment? What’s the matter? There’s no moon. In the dark, it feels like a tomb. This is very embarrassing. What were you doing there at three in the morning? Sleeping. That’s all. I wasn’t bothering anyone. Yeah, well, the cops are touchy these days. People sleeping in their cars. It used to be a ball field. I played softball there as a boy. Well, it’s the mall now. You don’t mind that I gave them your name? Not at all. I like being known as a criminal associate. Why didn’t you just check into the local Marriott? I was trying to save money. The weather is clement. I thought, Why not? Clement. Yes, it’s definitely clement. Is it the habit of the police to go around impounding cars? Because if they think I’m a drug dealer, or something like that, they will find only books, my computer, luggage, clothes, and camping gear and a few private mementos that mean something only to me. Very unsettling, strangers digging around in my things. If I’d stayed at a hotel, I’d be on my way right now. I’m really sorry to impose on you. Well, what’s a neighbor for. That’s funny. I appreciate humor in this situation. I’m so glad. “I can’t just leave it—somebody has to sign for it.”Buy the print » But we’d be neighbors only if time had imploded. Actually, if time were to implode we’d be more than neighbors. We’d be living together, the past and the present moving through each other’s space. Like in a rooming house. If you wish, yes. As in a sort of rooming house. So he’s there. What—hitting on your wife? No, that won’t happen. It’s not what he’s about. I’m pretty sure. So what’s the problem? He comes on like some prissy fuss-pot poet, doesn’t have it together, drives a junk heap, claims to have quit his teaching job but was probably fired. And, with all of that, you know he’s a player. Yeah, I know people like that. His difficulties work in his favor. He gets what he wants. So what does he want from you? I’m not sure. It’s weird. The house? Like I’ve defaulted on the mortgage and he’s the banker come to repossess. So why’d you bring him home? He could sit in a Starbucks while they went through his car. Well, he called. And I hang up and there she is looking at me. And I’m suddenly into proving something to her. You see what’s happening? I can no longer be me, which is to say to the guy, I don’t know you. Who the fuck cares if you lived here or didn’t live here? They’ll give you back your damn car and you can leave. But no, he works it so that I have to prove something to my own wife—that I am capable of a charitable act. I guess you are. So, like, he’s now some new relative of ours. This touches on the basic fault line in our marriage. She’s naïve in principle—she forgives everybody everything. Always excusing people, finding a rationale for the shitty things they do. A clerk shortchanges her, she imagines he’s distracted and just made a mistake. Well, that’s a lovely quality. I know, I know. Her philosophy is if you trust people they will be trustworthy. Drives me crazy. So they’ll give him back his car and he’ll go. No. Not if I know her. She’ll drive him to pick it up. The day will have passed, and she’ll ask him to stay for dinner. And then she’ll insist that he shouldn’t be allowed to drive off in the night. And I will look at her and sit there and agree. And she will show him to the guest room. I’ll give you odds. You’re a bit overwrought. Have another. Why the hell not? With age, you see how much of it is invented. Not only what is invisible but what is everywhere visible. I’m not sure I understand. Well, you’re still quite young. Thank you. I wish I felt young. I’m not talking about one’s self-image. Or the way life can be too much of the same thing day in and day out. I’m not talking about mere unhappiness. Am I merely unhappy? I’m in no position to judge. But let’s say melancholy seems to suit the lady. Oh, dear—that it’s that obvious. But, in any case, whatever our state of mind life seems for most of our lives an intense occupation—keeping busy, competing intellectually, physically, nationally, seeking justice, demanding love, perfecting our institutions. All the fashions of survival. Everything we do to make history, the archive of our inventiveness. As if there were no context. But there is? Yes. Some vast—what to call it?—indifference that slowly creeps up on you with age, that becomes more insistent with age. That’s what I’m trying to explain. I’m afraid I’m not doing a very good job. No, really, this is interesting. I get very voluble on even one glass of sherry. More? Thank you. But I’m trying to explain the estrangement that comes over one after some years. For some earlier, for others later, but always inevitably. And to you, now? Yes. It’s a kind of wearing out, I suppose. As if life had become threadbare, with the light peeking through. The estrangement begins in moments, in little sharp judgments that you instantly put out of your mind. You draw back, though you’re fascinated. Because it’s the truest feeling a person can have, and so it comes again and again, drifting through your defenses, and finally settles over you like some cold, very cold, light. Maybe I should stop talking about this. It is almost to deny it, talking about it. No, I appreciate your candor. Does this have something to do with why you’ve come back here—to see where you used to live? You’re perceptive. This estrangement is maybe your word for depression. I understand why you would say that. You see me as the image of some colossal failure—living on the road in a beaten-up car, an obscure poet, a third-rate academic. And maybe I am all those things, but I’m not depressed. This isn’t a clinical issue I speak of. It’s a clear recognition of reality. Let me explain it this way: It’s much like I suppose what a chronic invalid feels, or someone on the verge of dying, where the estrangement is protective, a way of abating the sense of loss, the regret, and the desire to live is no longer important. But subtract those circumstances and there I am, healthy, self-sufficient, maybe not the most impressive fellow in the world but one who’s managed to take care of himself quite well and live in freedom doing what he wants to do and without any major regrets. Yet the estrangement is there, the truth has settled upon him, and he feels actually liberated because he’s outside now, in the context, where you can’t believe in life anymore. Why would anyone come to New Jersey to die? Sir? And the house is nothing special, you’ll grant me that. The usual Colonial with white vinyl siding, a one-car garage, the gutters packed with the crap of I don’t know how many autumns. Actually, I’ve been meaning to get to that. Sir, please. We ask and you answer and we leave. Can you tell us anything more about the deceased? Well, you see, I knew him mostly as a corpse in the hallway. Ah, you are skeptical. And why not, with my wife weeping away like he was a close relation? So you’re saying— Hard to believe, isn’t it? Not even an old boyfriend of hers, not even that. You have no heart. No, it’s an interesting experience, a total stranger falling dead in his underwear on the way to the bathroom. And to see him carried out the door in a body bag! Wouldn’t miss it for the world. Good for the kids, too, a life experience before going off to school. Their first suicide. Sir, the man died of an acute myocardial infarction. Says who? The E.M.T.s examined him. Well, they’re entitled to their opinion. It’s more than an opinion, sir. They see things like this every day. They didn’t even try to resuscitate. No, he took himself out, for sure, wily fellow that he was. That’s why he came here—it was all planned. Why are you being like this? He came here, it was like— Like what? A pilgrimage. Oh, right. He came here to fuck up our lives is why he came here. Came here like a dog to lift his leg and mark his territory. And where does that leave us? Living in a dead man’s house. I thought my home was my castle. I didn’t think you had such homebound loyalties. Well, folks, we’ll be leaving now. I didn’t! Somewhere to stash the wife and kids is as far as it went with me. But, by God, I paid for it with my labor. I’ve done everything I was supposed to do. Gave you a house, a safe if dull neighborhood, three children, a reasonably comfortable life. To make you happy! And have you ever been? What but your dissatisfactions could have led you to invite this walking death wish into your home! Well, folks, as I said, we’ll be leaving now. We may have some more questions after we sort things out. And what are you going to do about his damn Ford Falcon sitting in my driveway? We’ve gone through the car. We’ve inventoried the contents. Got his I.D. Closest relative. He said he had a daughter. Yes, ma’am, we have that. But the car! We have no more interest in the car. It becomes part of the deceased’s estate. The daughter will decide its disposition. In the meantime, I will ask you to leave it where it is. Safer here than downtown. Keys are in the ignition. Jesus! Sir, there are procedures for situations like this. We are following the procedures. The cause of death will be confirmed by the medical examiner, the death certificate filed with the town clerk’s office, the body placed in the morgue, pending instructions from the closest relative. That will be the daughter. Officer, I will want to write her. Soon as we make contact, ma’am. I see no reason why you can’t. We’ll be in touch. Thank you. And, hey, Officer? Sir? Tell her the good news. Daddy has come home. So, finally, I agree with you. Yes? We can’t live here anymore. I pass through the hallway and sidle along the wall as if he were there on the floor, staring. It’s eerie. I feel dispossessed. I’m a displaced person. Not the best time to be selling, babe. And what about the kids’ school? Right in the middle of the term. You’re the one who said we couldn’t ever get this out of our mind. I know, I know. The boys won’t come upstairs. The playroom’s their dormitory. And it’s damp down there. All right. O.K. Maybe we should think about renting something. Maybe a sublet somewhere till we get squared away. We’ll see. You want another? A half. I am really sorry. I don’t blame you. I speak in the heat of the moment. No, I suppose I should have known. The way he talked. But it was interesting. His ideas—how unusual to hear philosophical conversation. That someone would reveal himself to that extent. So though I thought he was a depressed person, I was fascinated by the novelty that someone could be talking that way as if it were the most natural thing. You know, it’s really funny. . . . What? She’s just like him, the daughter. A gamer. Yes, I did think it odd. I would not call that a close relationship, would you? Hardly. Couldn’t care less. You know, I found—when Goodwill took away all his stuff—I found that the actual naked car inside was clean. Upholstery’s O.K. And I looked under the hood. Needs an oil change, and the fan belt looks a bit ragged. Took it around the block and it bounces a bit on the road. Maybe new shocks. You like that car, don’t you? Well, with a good paint job, maybe some detailing . . . You know, people collect these things, Ford Falcons. It was his home. No, dear one. This is his home. That’s just a car. Our car. Appears to be. We ought to frame her letter. Or bury it in the yard along with the can of ashes. Oh, but she meant for them to be strewn. Strewn? Did you say strewn? Scattered? Why not sprinkled? Sown. O.K., sown. I’ll go with sown.
Prefiguration of Lalo Cura It’s hard to believe, but I was born in a neighborhood called Los Empalados: The Impaled. The name glows like the moon. The name opens a way through the dream with its horn, and man follows that path. A quaking path. Invariably harsh. The path that leads into or out of Hell. That’s what it all comes down to. Getting closer to Hell or farther away. Me, for example, I’ve had people killed. I’ve given the best birthday presents. I’ve backed projects of epic proportions. I’ve opened my eyes in the dark. Once, I opened them by slow degrees in total darkness, and all I saw or imagined was that name: Los Empalados, shining like the star of destiny. I’ll tell you everything, naturally. My father was a renegade priest. I don’t know if he was Colombian or from some other country. But he was Latin American. He turned up one night in Medellín, stone broke, preaching sermons in bars and whorehouses. Some thought he was working for the secret police, but my mother kept him from getting killed and took him to her penthouse in the neighborhood. They lived together for four months, I’ve been told, and then my father vanished into the Gospels. Latin America was calling him, and he kept slipping away into the sacrificial words until he vanished, gone without a trace. Whether he was Catholic or Protestant is something I’ll never find out now. I know that he was alone and that he moved among the masses, fevered and loveless, full of passion and empty of hope. I was named Olegario when I was born, but people have always called me Lalo. My father was known as El Cura, the priest, and that’s what my mother wrote down under “surname” on my birth certificate. It’s my official name. Olegario Cura. I was even baptized into the Catholic faith. She was a dreamer, my mother. Connie Sánchez was her name, and if you weren’t so young and innocent it would ring a bell. She was one of the stars of the Olimpo Movie Production Company. The other two stars were Doris Sánchez, my mother’s younger sister, and Monica Farr, née Leticia Medina, from Valparaíso. Three good friends. The Olimpo Movie Production Company specialized in pornography, and although the business was more or less illegal and operated in a distinctly hostile environment, it lasted until the mid-eighties. The guy in charge was a multitalented German, Helmut Bittrich, who worked as the company’s manager, director, set designer, composer, publicist, and, occasionally, thug. Sometimes he even acted, under the name Abelardo Bello. He was a weird guy, Bittrich. No one ever saw him with an erection. He liked to lift weights at the Health and Friendship Gym, but he wasn’t gay. It’s just that in the movies he never fucked anyone. Male or female. If you’re interested, you can find him playing a Peeping Tom, a schoolteacher, a spy in a seminary—always a modest, minor role. What he liked best was playing a doctor. A German doctor, of course, although most of the time he didn’t even open his mouth: he was Dr. Silence. The blue-eyed doctor hidden behind a conveniently located velvet curtain. Bittrich had a house on the outskirts of Medellín, where the neighborhood of Los Empalados borders the wasteland, El Gran Baldío. The cottage in the movies. The house of solitude, which later became the house of crime, out there on its own, among clumps of trees and blackberry bushes. Connie used to take me. I’d stay in the yard playing with the dogs and the geese, which the German reared there as if they were his children. There were flowers growing wild among the weeds and the dogs’ dirt holes. In the course of a regular morning, ten or fifteen people would go into that house. Although the windows were shut, I could hear the moans coming from inside. Sometimes there was laughter, too. At lunchtime Connie and Doris would bring a folding table out into the back yard and set it up under a tree, and the employees of the Olimpo Movie Production Company would dive into the canned food that Bittrich heated up on a gas burner. They ate directly from the cans or off paper plates. Once, I went into the kitchen to help, and when I opened the cupboards all I found were enema tubes, hundreds of enema tubes lined up as if for a military parade. Everything in the kitchen was fake. There were no real plates, no real knives and forks, no real pots and pans. That’s what it’s like in the movies, Bittrich said, watching me with those blue eyes of his. (They scared me then, but thinking of them now I just feel sad.) The kitchen was fake. Everything in the house was fake. Who sleeps here at night? I asked. Sometimes Uncle Helmut does, Connie replied. Uncle Helmut stays here to look after the dogs and the geese and get on with his work. Editing his homemade movies. Homemade, but the business was booming: the films went out to Germany, Holland, and Switzerland. Some copies stayed in Latin America and others were sold in the United States, but most of them went to Europe, where Bittrich had his main client base. Maybe that’s why he did voice-overs in German, narrating the various scenes. Like a travel journal for sleepwalkers. The obsession with mother’s milk was another European peculiarity. When Connie was pregnant with me, she went on working. And Bittrich made lacto-porn. Along the lines of Milch and Pregnant Fantasies, aimed at men who believe or make believe that women lactate during pregnancy. With her eight-month bulge, Connie squeezed her breasts and the milk flowed like lava. She leaned over Pajarito Gómez or Sansón Fernández, or both of them, and gave them a good swig. That was one of the German’s tricks; Connie had never had milk. Or only a little bit, for two weeks, maybe three, just enough to give me a taste. Actually, the movies were like Pregnant Fantasies, not so much like Milch. There’s Connie, big and blond, with me curled up inside her, laughing as she lubricates Pajarito Gómez’s asshole with Vaseline. She already has the sure, delicate touch of a mother. My moron of a father has left her, and there she is, with Doris and Monica Farr, the three of them smiling on and off, exchanging looks and subtle signals or secrets among themselves, while Pajarito stares at my mother’s belly as if in a hypnotic trance. The mystery of life in Latin America. Like a little bird charmed by the gaze of a snake. The Force is with me, I thought, the first time I saw that movie, at the age of nineteen, crying my eyes out, grinding my teeth, holding the sides of my head, the Force is with me. All dreams are real. I wanted to believe that when those cocks had gone as far into my mother as they could, they came up against my eyes. I often dreamed about that: my sealed, translucent eyes swimming in the black soup of life. Life? No: the dealing that imitates life. My squinting eyes, like the snake hypnotizing the little bird. You get the picture: a kid’s silly celluloid fantasies. All fake, as Bittrich used to say. And he was right, as he almost always was. That’s why the girls adored him. They were glad to have the German around; they could always count on him for friendly advice and comfort. The girls: Connie, Doris, and Monica. Three good friends lost in the mists of time. Connie had tried to make it on Broadway. Even in the hardest years, I don’t think she ever gave up on the possibility of happiness. There in New York she met Monica Farr, and they shared their hardships and hopes. They cleaned hotel rooms, sold their blood, turned tricks. Always looking for a break, walking around the city hooked up to the same Walkman—typical dancers, a little bit thinner and closer together with every passing day. Chorus girls. Looking for Bob Fosse. At a party thrown by some Colombians, they met Bittrich, who was passing through New York with a batch of his merchandise. They talked until dawn. No sex, just music and words. They cast their dice that night on Seventh Avenue, the Prussian artist and the Latin-American whores. That was where it was all decided. In some of my nightmares, I see myself resting in Limbo and then I hear, distantly at first, the sound of dice on the pavement. I open my eyes and I scream. Something changed forever that morning. The bond of friendship took hold like the plague. Then Connie and Monica Farr got an acting job in Panama, where they were thoroughly exploited. The German paid for their tickets to Medellín, which was home to Connie and as good a place as any for Monica. Doris, who went to meet them at the airport, took photos of them descending the steps. Connie and Monica are wearing sunglasses and tight pants. They’re not very tall, but they’re well proportioned. The Medellín sun is casting long shadows across an airstrip devoid of planes, except for one in the background, emerging from a hangar. There are no clouds in the sky. Connie and Monica display their teeth. Drink Coca-Cola in the taxi line and strike provocative, turbulent poses. Atmospheric and terrestrial turbulence. Their attitude suggests that they have come straight from New York, surrounded by mystery. Then a very young Doris appears beside them. The three of them hugging, photographed by an obliging stranger leaning against a taxi’s bumper, while the driver inside looks on, so old and worn it’s hard to believe he’s real. So begin the most passionate adventures. A month later, they are already shooting the first movie: “Hecatomb.” While the world is in turmoil, the German shoots “Hecatomb.” A film about the turmoil of the spirit. A saint in prison remembers nights of plenitude and fucking. Connie and Monica do it with four guys who look like shadows. Doris walks along the bank of a weakly flowing river accompanied by Bittrich’s largest goose. The night is unusually starry. At dawn, Doris comes across Pajarito Gómez and they start making love in the back part of Bittrich’s house. There is a great fluttering of geese. Connie and Monica at a window, clapping. The lobster-red cock of the saint shines with semen. The End. The credits appear over the image of a sleeping policeman. Bittrich’s sense of humor. His movies amused drug lords and businessmen. The ordinary guys—the gunmen and the messengers—didn’t understand them; they’d have been happy to blow the German away. Buy the print » Another movie: “Kundalini.” A rancher’s wake. While the mourners weep and drink coffee with aguardiente, Connie enters a dark room full of farming implements. Two guys—one disguised as a bull and one as a condor—jump out of an enormous wardrobe. They proceed to force Connie’s front and rear entries. Connie’s lips curve into the shape of a letter. Monica and Doris feel each other up in the kitchen. Then paddocks full of cattle and a man approaching with difficulty, pushing his way through the cows. It’s Pajarito Gómez. He never arrives: the following scene shows him stretched out in the mud, among cowpats and hooves. Monica and Doris rim each other on a big white bed. The dead rancher opens his eyes. He sits up and climbs out of his coffin, to the horror and amazement of his family and friends. Covered by the bull and the condor, Connie pronounces the word “kundalini.” The cows escape from the paddocks, and the credits appear over the abandoned, gradually darkening body of Pajarito Gómez. Another movie: “Impluvium.” Two beggars drag sacks along a dirt road. They reach the back yard of Bittrich’s house. There they find Monica Farr, naked, and chained in an upright position. The beggars empty the sacks: an abundant collection of sexual instruments made of steel and leather. The beggars put on masks with phallic protuberances, and, kneeling down, one in front of Monica, one behind, they penetrate her, moving their heads in a way that is, to say the least, ambiguous. It’s hard to tell whether they’re excited or whether the masks are suffocating them. Lying on an army cot, Pajarito Gómez smokes a cigarette. On another cot, the conscript Sansón Fernández is jerking off. The camera pans slowly over Monica’s face: she is crying. The beggars depart, dragging their sacks down a miserable, unpaved street. Still chained, Monica shuts her eyes and seems to fall asleep. She dreams of the masks, the latex noses, the pair of old carcasses who could barely hold a breath of air and yet were so enthusiastic in the performance of their task. Supernatural carcasses emptied of all the essentials. Then Monica gets dressed, walks through the center of Medellín, and is invited to an orgy, where she meets Connie and Doris; they kiss one another and smile, and talk about what they’ve been doing. Pajarito Gómez, half dressed in fatigues, has fallen asleep. When the orgy is over, before it gets dark, the owner of the house wants to show them his most prized possession. The girls follow their host to a garden covered with a metal and glass canopy. The man’s bejewelled finger indicates something at the far end. The girls examine a concrete swimming pool in the shape of a coffin. When they lean over the edge, they see their faces reflected in the water. Then dusk falls, and the beggars come to an area where big cargo ships are docked. The music, performed by a band of kettledrummers, gets louder, more sinister and ominous, until the storm finally breaks. Bittrich adored sound effects like that. Thunder in the mountains, the sizzle of lightning, splintering trees, rain against windowpanes. He collected them on high-quality tapes. He said this was to make his movies atmospheric, but in fact it was just because he liked the effects. The full range of sounds that rain makes in a forest. The rhythmic or random sibilance of the wind and the sea. Sounds to make you feel alone, sounds to make your hair stand on end. His great treasure was the roar of a hurricane. I heard it as a kid. The actors were drinking coffee under a tree, and Bittrich, away from the others, looking pasty, the way he did when he’d been working too hard, was toying with an enormous German tape player. Now you’re going to hear the hurricane from inside, he said. At first I couldn’t hear anything. I think I was expecting a God Almighty, earsplitting racket, so I was disappointed when all I could hear was a kind of intermittent whirling. An intermittent ripping. Like a propeller made of meat. Then I heard voices; it wasn’t the hurricane, of course, but the pilots of a plane flying in its eye. Hard voices talking in Spanish and English. Bittrich was smiling as he listened. Then I heard the hurricane again, and this time I really heard it. Emptiness. A vertical bridge and emptiness, emptiness, emptiness. I’ll never forget the smile on Bittrich’s face. It was as if he were weeping. Is that all? I asked, not wanting to admit that I’d had enough. That’s all, Bittrich said, fascinated by the silently turning reels. Then he stopped the tape player, closed it up very carefully, went inside with the others, and got back to work. Another movie: “Ferryman.” From the ruins, you might guess it’s about life in Latin America after the Third World War. The girls wander through garbage dumps, along deserted paths. Then there’s a broad, gently flowing river. Pajarito Gómez and two other guys play cards by the light of a candle. The girls come to an inn where the men are carrying guns. They make love with them all, one after the other. They look out from the bushes at the river and a few pieces of wood tied clumsily together. Pajarito Gómez is the ferryman—at least, that’s what everyone calls him—but he doesn’t budge from the table. He holds the best cards. The villains remark on how well he’s playing. What a good player the ferryman is. What good luck the ferryman has. Gradually, the supplies begin to run short. The cook and the kitchen hand torture Doris, penetrating her with the handles of enormous butcher knives. Hunger reigns over the inn: some stay in bed, others wander through the bushes looking for food. While the men fall ill one by one, the girls scribble in their diaries as if possessed. Desperate pictograms. Images of the river superimposed on images of a never-ending orgy. The end is predictable. The men dress the women up as chickens, make them do their tricks, and then proceed to eat them at a feather-strewn banquet. The bones of Connie, Monica, and Doris lie on the inn’s patio. Pajarito Gómez plays another hand of poker. He wears his luck like a close-fitting glove. The camera is behind him, and the viewer can see the cards he’s holding. They are blank. The credits appear over the corpses of all the actors. Three seconds before the end of the film, the river changes color, turning jet black. That one was especially deep, Doris used to say. It illustrates the sad fate of artists in the porn industry: first we’re ruthlessly exploited, then we’re devoured by thoughtless strangers. Bittrich seems to have made “Ferryman” to compete with the cannibal-porn videos that were starting to cause a stir at the time. But it isn’t hard to see that the film’s real center is Pajarito Gómez sitting in the gambling den. Pajarito Gómez, who could generate a kind of inner vibration that burned his image into the viewer’s eyes. A great actor wasted by life, our life—yours and mine, my friends. But the movies Bittrich made live on, unsullied. And so does Pajarito Gómez, holding those dusty cards, with his dirty hands and his dirty neck, his eternally half-closed eyelids, vibrating on and on. Pajarito Gómez, an emblematic figure in the pornography of the nineteen-eighties. He wasn’t particularly well endowed or muscular, he didn’t appeal to the target audience for that kind of movie. He looked like Walter Abel. He had no experience when Bittrich dragged him out of the gutter and put him in front of a camera: it came so naturally it’s hard to believe. Pajarito had this continuous vibration, and watching him, sooner or later, depending on your powers of resistance, you’d be transfixed by the energy emanating from that scrap of a man, who looked so feeble. So unprepossessing, so undernourished. So strangely triumphant. The preëminent porn actor in Bittrich’s Colombian cycle. The best when it came to playing dead and the best when it came to playing vacant. He was also the only member of the German’s cast who survived. By 1999, Pajarito Gómez was the only one still alive; the rest had been killed or had succumbed to disease. Sansón Fernández died of AIDS. Praxíteles Barrionuevo died in the Hole of Bogotá. Ernesto San Román was stabbed to death in the Areanea sauna in Medellín. Alvarito Fuentes died of AIDS in the Cartago jail. All of them young guys with supersized cocks. Frank Moreno, shot to death in Panama. Oscar Guillermo Montes, shot to death in Puerto Berrío. David Salazar, known as the Anteater, shot to death in Palmira. Victims of vendettas or fortuitous brawls. Evelio Latapia, hanged in a hotel room in Popayán. Carlos José Santelices, stabbed by strangers in an alley in Maracaibo. Reinaldo Hermosilla, last seen in El Progreso, Honduras. Dionisio Aurelio Pérez, shot to death in a bar in Mexico City. Maximiliano Moret, drowned in the Marañón River. Ten-to-twelve-inch cocks, sometimes so long they couldn’t get them up. Young mestizos, blacks, whites, Indians—sons of Latin America, whose only assets were a pair of balls and a member tanned by exposure to the elements or, by some weird freak of nature, miraculously pink. The sadness of the phallus was something that Bittrich understood better than anyone. I mean the sadness of those monumental members against the backdrop of this vast and desolate continent. For example, Oscar Guillermo Montes in a scene from a movie I’ve forgotten the rest of: he’s naked from the waist down, his penis hangs flaccid and dripping. Behind the actor, a landscape unfolds: mountains, ravines, rivers, forests, towering clouds, a city, perhaps a volcano, a desert. Oscar Guillermo Montes perched on a high ridge, an icy breeze playing with a lock of his hair. That’s all. It’s like a poem by Tablada, isn’t it? But you’ve never heard of Tablada. Neither had Bittrich, and it doesn’t matter, really, it’s all there in that image—I must have the tape around somewhere—the loneliness I was talking about. Impossible geography, impossible anatomy. What was Bittrich aiming for with that sequence? Was he trying to justify amnesia, our amnesia? Or to portray Oscar Guillermo Montes’s weary eyes? Or did he just want to show us an uncircumcised penis dripping in the continent’s immensity? Or to give an impression of useless grandeur: handsome young men without shame, marked for sacrifice, fated to disappear into the immensity of chaos? Who knows? “It’s the only way I can get myself out of bed in the morning.”Buy the print » The only one who always got away was the amateur Pajarito Gómez, whose endowment extended, after plenty of work, to a maximum length of seven inches. The German flirted with death—what the hell did he care about death?—he flirted with solitude and with black holes, but he never tried anything with Pajarito. Elusive and uncontrollable, Pajarito came into the camera’s scope as if he had just happened to be passing by and stopped for a look. Then he began to vibrate, full on, and the viewers, whether they were solitary jerk-off artists or businessmen who used the videos to liven up the décor, barely intending to glance at the screen, were transfixed by that scrawny creature’s moods. Pajarito Gómez emanated prostatic fluid! That was something different, something that far exceeded the German’s lucubrations. And Bittrich knew it, so when Pajarito appeared in a scene there were usually no additional effects, no music or sounds of any kind, nothing to distract the viewer from what really mattered—the hieratic Pajarito Gómez, sucked or sucking, fucking or fucked, but always vibrating, as if unawares. The German’s protectors were deeply suspicious of that talent; they’d have preferred to see Pajarito working in the central market unloading trucks, ruthlessly exploited until the day he disappeared. They wouldn’t have been able to explain what it was that they didn’t like about him; they just had a vague sense that he was a guy who could attract bad luck and make people feel ill at ease. Sometimes, when I remember my childhood, I wonder how Bittrich must have felt about his protectors. He respected the drug lords; after all, they put up the money, and, like all good Europeans, he respected money, a reference point in the midst of chaos. But the corrupt police and Army officers—what would he have thought of them, Bittrich, a German, who read history books in his spare time? They must have seemed so ludicrous; he must have had such a good laugh at them, at night, after those unruly meetings. Monkeys in S.S. uniforms, that’s what they were. Alone in his house, surrounded by his videos and his amazing sounds, he must have laughed and laughed. And they were the ones who wanted to get rid of Pajarito, those monkeys, with their sixth sense. Those pathetic, odious monkeys thought they could tell him, a German director in permanent exile, whom he should and shouldn’t be hiring. Imagine Bittrich after one of those meetings, in the dark house in Los Empalados, after everyone else has gone, drinking rum and smoking Mexican Delicados in the biggest room, the one he uses as his study and bedroom. On the table there are paper cups with dregs of whiskey in them. Two or three videotapes sit on top of the TV, the latest from the Olimpo Movie Production Company. Diaries and torn-out pages covered with figures: salaries, bribes, bonuses. Pocket money. And the words of the police commissioner, the Air Force lieutenant, and the colonel from military intelligence still floating in the air: We don’t want that jinx anywhere near the company. When people see him in our films, their stomachs turn. It’s bad taste to have that slug fucking the girls. And Bittrich let them speak, he observed them silently, and then he did what he liked. After all, they were only porn videos; it’s not as if there were serious profits at stake. Pajarito Gómez. A quiet and reserved sort of guy, but for some mysterious reason the girls were especially fond of him. In the course of their professional duties, they all got to lay him, and it left them with a curious feeling, hard to say just what it was, but they were all ready to do it again. I guess being with Pajarito was like being nowhere. Doris ended up even living with him for a while, but it didn’t work out. Doris and Pajarito: for six months they went back and forth between the Hotel Aurora, which is where he lived, and the apartment on Avenida de los Libertadores where she lived. It was too good to last—you know how it is: singular spirits can bear only so much love, so much perfection stumbled on by chance. Maybe if Doris hadn’t been such a bombshell, and if she’d been mute, and if Pajarito had never vibrated . . . Things finally fell apart during the shooting of “Cocaine,” one of Bittrich’s worst movies. But they stayed friends until the end. Many years later, when they were all dead, I tracked down Pajarito. He was living in a tiny one-room apartment, on a street that led down to the sea, in Buenaventura. He was working as a waiter in a restaurant owned by a retired policeman—Octopus Ink, the place was called—ideal for someone who wanted to lie low. He went from home to work and back again, with a brief stop each day at a video store, where he’d usually rent a couple of movies. Walt Disney and old Colombian, Mexican, or Venezuelan films. Every day, like clockwork. From his walkup to Octopus Ink, and then, after dark, back to the apartment, with two videotapes under his arm. He never brought back food, only movies. He rented them on the way there or on the way back, it varied, but always from the same store, a little shack, nine feet by nine, open eighteen hours a day. I went looking for him on a whim, just because I felt like it. I went looking and I found him in 1999. It was easy; it took less than a week. Pajarito was forty-nine then, but he looked at least ten years older. He wasn’t surprised to find me sitting on his bed when he got home. I told him who I was, reminded him of the movies he’d made with my mother and my aunt. Pajarito took a chair and as he sat down the videos fell out from under his arm. You’ve come to kill me, Lalito, he said. He’d rented films with Ignacio López Tarso and Matt Dillon, two of his favorite actors. I reminded him of the old lacto-porn days. We both smiled. I saw your prick, I said. It was transparent, like a worm. My eyes were open, you know, watching your glass eye. Pajarito nodded, then sniffed. You always were a clever kid, he said, before you were born, too, I guess, with your eyes open already, why not. I saw you—that’s what matters, I said. You were pink at the start in there, then you turned transparent and you got one hell of a shock, Pajarito. Back then you weren’t afraid—you moved so fast that only little creatures and fetuses could see you moving. Only cockroaches, nits, lice, and fetuses. Pajarito was looking at the floor. I heard him whisper, Et cetera, et cetera. Then he said, I never liked that sort of movie, one or two is O.K., but it’s criminal to make so many. I’m a fairly normal person, really. I was genuinely fond of Doris, I was always a friend to your mother, when you were little I never did you any harm. Do you remember? I didn’t run the business, I never betrayed anyone or killed anyone. I did a bit of dealing, a few robberies—we all did—but, as you can see, it didn’t set me up for retirement. Then he picked the videos up off the floor, put the one with Ignacio López Tarso in the VCR, and as the soundless images succeeded one another on the screen, he began to cry. Don’t cry, Pajarito, I said. It’s not worth it. His days of vibrating were over. Or maybe he was still vibrating a little, and as I sat there on the bed I was scavenging those remnants of energy with the ravenous hunger of a shipwrecked sailor. It’s hard to vibrate in such a small apartment, with the smell of chicken soup permeating every cranny. It’s hard to pick up a vibration when your eyes are fixed on a dumbly gesticulating Ignacio López Tarso. López Tarso’s eyes in black-and-white: how could so much innocence and malice be mixed together? A good actor, I remarked, just to say something. One of our founding fathers, Pajarito said in agreement. He was right. Then he whispered, Et cetera, et cetera. That lousy fucking Pajarito. We sat there in silence for a long time: López Tarso went gliding through the movie’s plot like a fish inside a whale; the images of Connie, Doris, and Monica lit up for a few seconds in my head, and Pajarito’s vibration became imperceptible. I haven’t come to rub you out, I said to him in the end. Back then, when I was young, I had trouble using the word “kill.” I never killed: I took people out, blew them away, put them to sleep, I topped, stiffed, or wasted them, sent them to meet their maker, made them bite the dust, I iced them, snuffed them, did them in. I smoked people. But I didn’t smoke Pajarito. I just wanted to see him and chat for a while. To feel his beat and remember my past. Thanks, Lalito, he said, and then he got up and filled a washbasin with water from a pitcher. With exact, artistic, resigned movements, he washed his hands and his face. When I was a kid, that’s what they all called me, Connie, Monica, Doris, Bittrich, Pajarito, Sansón Fernández: they called me Lalito. Lalito Cura playing with the dogs and the geese in the garden of the house of crime, which for me was the house of boredom and sometimes the house of dismay and happiness. These days there’s no time to get bored, happiness has vanished somewhere in the world, and all that’s left is dismay. Perpetual dismay, composed of corpses and ordinary people, like Pajarito, who was thanking me. I never intended to kill you, I said. I’ve kept all your movies. I don’t watch them very often, I admit, only on special occasions, but I’ve looked after them. I’m a collector of your cinematic past, I said. Pajarito sat down again. He had stopped vibrating: he was watching the López Tarso movie out of the corner of his eye, and his stillness suggested a mineral patience. According to the clock radio beside the bed, it was two in the morning. The night before, I had dreamed of finding Pajarito: I was fucking him and shouting unintelligible words in his ear, something about a buried treasure. Or about an underground city. Or about a dead person wrapped in paper that was resistant to rot and to the passage of time. But now I didn’t even lay my hand on his shoulder. I’ll leave you some money, Pajarito, so you can live without having to work. I’ll buy you whatever you like. I’ll take you to a quiet place where you can spend all your time watching your favorite actors. There was no one like you in Los Empalados, I said. Ignacio López Tarso and Pajarito Gómez looked at me: stonelike patience. The pair of them gone crazily dumb. Their eyes full of humanity and fear and fetuses lost in the immensity of memory. Fetuses and other tiny wide-eyed creatures. For a moment, my friends, I felt that the whole apartment was starting to vibrate. Then I stood up very carefully and left.
The TV One day the man wakes up and finds that he does not feel like going to work. He is not sick, exactly; he just doesn’t feel like going to work. He calls the office and makes an excuse, then he pours himself a bowl of cereal and sits down in front of the television. The man doesn’t usually have time to watch television, so it takes him a while to find a show he’s interested in, but when he eventually does find one he sits rapt, his cereal forgotten, for a very, very, very long time. The show seems to last much longer than a normal show. In fact, it lasts all day. It is five o’clock before the main character finally leaves his job and heads home, prompting the credits to roll. The man sets his bowl of cereal aside and stares at the floor for a while. My God, he thinks. He gets up, goes into the bathroom, and takes a shower. As he washes, he thinks about the show he has just seen. He is shampooing his hair when suddenly he realizes: the show was about him. Not kind of about him, not metaphorically about him, but actually about him. That’s why the main character looked so familiar, he thinks, dunking his head under the water. But how could it have taken me so long to recognize my own self? he wonders. And how did they manage to find an actor who looks so exactly like me? The man stays home from work again the next day, claiming to have the flu. The show is on again—his show. Yep, there he is, arriving at work. He is wearing the suit he bought last week at Macy’s. There he is, waving at the security guard he always waves at in the morning. Now he’s walking down the hallway toward his office, now he’s moving inside—there’s his desk, his chair, his in-box and his out-box, his stapler and his letter opener. It’s amazing; the man can hardly believe it. Onscreen, he sits down at his desk, looks at the clock, and begins to work. The man does the same thing at work every day; it is not very exciting. But somehow watching himself do it from inside his apartment, through the TV, is absolutely fascinating. The man is mesmerized by all the little unconscious movements his onscreen self makes. He seems to chew on his lip a lot. Maybe that’s why my lips are always chapped, he thinks, running a finger over them. He will have to watch that in the future. At lunchtime, the man onscreen leaves the building and goes down the block to a little sandwich shop. It is Thursday, so the old guy who owns the place is in. He and the man have a conversation about the state of the world while the man eats his sandwich (roast beef, same as always) and drinks his coffee (black, same as always). Then the man returns to the office and works for the rest of the day. At five o’clock he finishes up and heads out the door, and once again the credits roll. This time the man on the couch studies the credits carefully. Yep, there’s his name, listed as both the main character and the actor. So it really is me, the man thinks in relief. It has been bothering him to think that an actor could so perfectly play him. It made him feel foolish to be so predictable, so reproducible. This way is much better. He feels proud of his role in the whole affair. The next day, the man goes to work. He apologizes for having been absent for the past couple of days, but no one seems to care very much. This does not surprise him, but still it seems a little sad. The man sits at his desk and does his work. It is not much fun. It has never been much fun, he reflects, but now it seems particularly burdensome. He spends most of the time trying not to chew on his lip, with little success. At lunch, he goes down to the sandwich shop. It is Friday, so the old guy who owns the place is not in. The man sits alone at a table in the corner and remembers the conversation that his onscreen self had with the old guy the day before. He smiles to himself about some of the witty and observant things the two of them said. Something nice happens in the afternoon. The man discovers that, because his onscreen self did his work so well in the past couple of days, he is now done for the week. The man can hardly believe it. He almost never finishes his full workload. Usually, he has to stay late on Friday night, or even come in on Saturday or Sunday—or both—to get it all done. He sits at his desk, marvelling at the knowledge that he can go home early, and then he does. He waves goodbye to the security guard on his way out. He drives home, feeling the wind in his hair and the sun on his face. At home, the man turns on the TV and is surprised to find that his show is on. There he is, wearing the same clothes he is wearing right now—but he is still at work. He is sitting behind his desk, hunched over a legal pad, writing something. How can this be? the man thinks. All the work is finished! He squints at the TV, trying to see what, exactly, his other self is working on. It is hard to tell. He seems to be writing up a list of some kind. The man notices that the man behind the desk is no longer chewing on his lip. That night, the program does not end at five. The man in the office keeps right on working until almost nine-thirty. At home, the man has pulled a straight-backed chair up to the TV, and tries to figure out what’s happening, what his other self is doing. He cannot figure it out. When the man finally finishes working on his list—or whatever it is—he slides it into his briefcase and leaves work for the day. Again. At home, the man sits with his eyes glued to the front door, waiting for himself to walk in. He has lots of questions. He wants to know what this list is all about. Ten, eleven, eleven-thirty, midnight. The door does not open. Suddenly it occurs to the man that he can just open the briefcase and take out the list and read it. After all, it is his briefcase. He gets up and goes into the bedroom. Now, where did he put that briefcase? He can’t remember. Where does he usually put it? He can’t remember that, either. In fact, he can’t remember ever owning a briefcase at all. In the morning, the man awakens confused. He sits on the edge of the bed. He feels as if he were forgetting something, but he can’t think what it could possibly be. The man gets to the couch early, so he won’t miss anything. But it turns out he’s already late. There he is, in his office, behind his desk, with his feet up, reading a book. The book is lying open in his lap, so the man cannot tell what it is. It is very thick, though. There are other books stacked neatly on the desk. The man squints to make out the titles. Some of them seem to be about business management, but one is about calculus, and there are others about art and history, and one narrow volume looks like a collection of poetry. The man smiles when he sees that. What on earth is going on? When nine o’clock rolls around, the man behind the desk closes the book he’s reading (is it the dictionary?) and gets down to work. He works quickly and with an air of extreme concentration. At home, the man on the couch, though filled with admiration for his other, better self, feels a twinge of jealousy, and even, strangely, something like fear. At lunch, the man onscreen does not go to the shop on the corner. Instead, he fixes his tie and heads down the corridor in the direction of his boss’s office. The man on the couch cannot believe what he’s seeing. He watches as he knocks firmly on the boss’s door and then goes inside, closing the door behind him. When he emerges, fifteen minutes later, he is smiling. He stops and calls back to the person inside, something in the way of an affirmation, and then heads off down the hall, a spring in his step. With the remainder of his lunch hour, he eats a sandwich he has brought to work in a brown paper bag, and drinks a bottle of water. The man at home does not know what’s happening. He has never purposely gone to speak to his boss. In fact, he can’t imagine ever wanting to do such a thing. Still, he admires his onscreen self for doing it. Perhaps something good will come of it—maybe a raise. The man goes into the kitchen and grabs a bag of cookies from the cupboard. But when he returns to the living room he finds that his onscreen self has left for the day. His office is clean, his out-box is full, his pile of books has disappeared. He begins to get antsy. Where has he gone? There is no way to know. What did he say to his boss? What was on the list? And what are all the books for? The man is beginning to feel nauseated, thinking about it all. He is making himself sick. He has to think about something else. Perhaps there is something else on TV. The man changes the channel. There is a cartoon about a coyote, a commercial for an exercise machine, someone talking about the weather, and, oh, wait, what’s this? There’s the man again. He’s in his car now, driving down a street that the man on the couch finds unfamiliar. He stops outside a building, an office building, and goes inside. He speaks to a receptionist, and is then ushered into a conference room. “One of our greatest minds in restaurant criticism.”Buy the print » In the room are a number of men, all of whom look very serious. The man on the couch is frightened. But his other self looks perfectly at home. He places his briefcase carefully on the table, unlocks it with a pair of decisive clicks, and opens it up. Inside is a stack of papers. He begins to hand them out and, as he does so, begins to speak. He speaks about things the man on the couch doesn’t understand. Stocks and bonds and financial matters, things like that. The man on the couch furrows his brow, trying to follow it all. He can’t, but he is relieved to see that the men in the room seem to be following it quite well, and, what’s more, seem to be happy with what they’re hearing. At the end of the meeting, the men rise, smiling, and congratulate the man on what he has said and done. Cigars are passed around, and the man takes one and sees himself smoking it with a practiced air, despite the fact that he has never smoked a cigar in his life, and would never want to, since they’re disgusting. Still, he has to admit, it is quite enjoyable. When the man leaves the meeting, however, the show does not follow him. It stays in the conference room with the other men, and after a while—despite the fact that these other men are beginning to seem vaguely familiar—the man on the couch starts to tire of their banter. He figures he’s probably returned to the office by now, so he changes the channel again, and then again. He is almost back to his original station when suddenly he recognizes himself on a show about doctors. He is in surgery, raising his hands in the air as a nurse slips a pair of latex gloves over them. He almost didn’t recognize himself, thanks to the mask that covers half his face, but there’s no doubt about it, it’s him—after all, if a man can’t recognize himself, what can he recognize? This is his first day as a surgeon. Apparently, the man has been going to night school. The man on the couch is impressed. He didn’t know you could go to night school to become a surgeon, and yet it turns out that he has actually been doing it this whole time! He marvels at himself as he cuts open some poor man’s chest and begins to operate on his malfunctioning heart. He hopes the operation will go well, and it does. The nurses congratulate him as he sews the man back together. Later on, they all go out drinking, and the man makes love to one of the nurses—the most attractive one—in the bathroom of the club. It is the best sex the man has had in years. On another station, the man finds himself foiling a gang of jewel thieves. He has infiltrated the gang, thanks to some ingenious plastic surgery and a number of carefully constructed lies. He waits until the last possible moment, and then he springs the trap. Everyone is arrested and found guilty, and after the trial the man is singled out for bravery and is given a medal, and a monument is erected to him in a park downtown. Lovers sit on a bench beside the monument and feel safe. It is sad, though, because the man’s father died in a botched robbery, and, while what the man has done makes him feel that he has finally evened out the situation, he knows that nothing he can do will ever bring his father back from the dead. Still, perhaps his work has prevented other innocent fathers from being killed. Meanwhile, on another station, the man is a scientist who has invented a way to bring people back from the dead. He uses it to bring back his wife, who died a few years ago, but then he learns that she didn’t love him, after all, and that it is better not to mess with bringing people back from the dead. He is a better man for learning this, but he can’t help feeling sorry for himself, as he misses his wife and the love that he thought she had for him. On another station, the man has become the head of a warlike country and is threatening to unleash Armageddon on the world if his barbarous demands are not met. The man becomes afraid of himself and changes the channel. Now he is murdering a small boy in a field with a rusty knife, and he feels absolutely terrible. Whatever happened to night school and poetry books? The man is confused. He is proud of himself and everything he has accomplished, very proud indeed—he always knew he had it in him. But at the same time he is scared of what he sees. There are things about himself that he doesn’t want to know, things he does that he doesn’t want to think about. He wishes there were some way he could choose what he does and does not do. But it is beyond his control. He runs rampant across the world, helping and killing and saving and selling, buying and raping and stealing and feeling and making love and running away and laughing and crying and dying and being born and dying and being born and dying and being born and dying and being born. Eventually the man comes to see that he has a mind, and that his mind is like a fist, wrapped tightly around a single thought. He cannot open the fist to look at the thought, for fear that it will fly away, but he knows that it is very important and that he must hang on to it, no matter the cost. He stares at the fist and hopes that it is very strong. He feels like a man who has fallen asleep at the wheel and has awakened to find his car lurching off a cliff. He has applied the brake, he has swung the wheel to the side, he has offered up a silent prayer, but it is too soon to see whether he has done these things in time. He can only wait for the next moment to come, and hope as hard as he can. Finally, the next moment comes. The man opens his fist and realizes that the thing in his hand is not a thought but the end of an electrical cord. He looks down and finds that the electrical cord leads to the television—now a dark, silent box lying on the floor at his feet. The man feels a rush of triumph. He has come out on top, he has won. He grins to himself as he contemplates his next move. He decides that the best thing to do is to take the TV down to the trash and get rid of it. And this is exactly what he does. But in the stairwell, on the way back from the trash, the man passes himself carrying the television down to the trash. He stops to congratulate himself on his wisdom and strength, but his other self averts his eyes, hoping not to be noticed. The man begins to take offense and is about to say something when both of them are elbowed aside by the man, who is carrying his TV back up from the trash. The man hurries after himself, yelling, No, no, I don’t want that anymore! But he doesn’t listen. As they enter the apartment, the man on the couch looks up from the TV in irritation. Why can’t everyone leave him alone? The room is packed with versions of the man running here and there, talking to himself about this and that, making plans on the phone and staring out the window and falling in love and falling out of love and finding himself loved and unloved and hated and feared and liked and disliked and ignored and unknown and known. He is fired, promoted, rehired and refired, has found a new place to live and is moving out, is moving in and repainting, is in the other room dying and in the kitchen being born. There is too much going on. The man walks out the door and down the hall and into the next apartment. Mommy, Mommy, his children scream, what’s for breakfast? The man makes French toast and waffles and ham and eggs and pancakes and cereal and Pop-Tarts and brownies and hot dogs and hamburgers and baked Alaska and a birthday cake in the shape of a castle and pours glasses of milk and orange juice and coffee and Tang and Kool-Aid and water and puts ice in all of the glasses. He takes the kids down to the bus stop seven hundred times, and he drives the bus to school. Drunk, sober, hungover, on acid, pot, cocaine, uppers and downers, or nothing at all—it doesn’t matter in the least—he gets in an accident every foot of the way, or he doesn’t. At school, he gets in a fight on the playground and is sent to the office, or doesn’t and isn’t, or does and isn’t, or doesn’t and is. He gives himself a good lecture, maybe, winks at the secretary he has or has not been banging for the past two weeks, or four weeks, or ten weeks, or no weeks, then hurries slowly to the women’s room, realizing that it is or is not his time of the month, mops none or half or all of the gym and goes out back to have a smoke or stare at the sky or remember the time he accidentally ate a spider or became President or something else or nothing else or everything else. He flies to the next town over and perches in all the trees, then falls to the ground in several different countries and is blown away by the wind, which hammers endlessly in all the ears he has—more than he is capable of counting. Sometimes the man cries himself to sleep at night, but usually he just changes the channel. He has not been able to find his way to the office; he doesn’t know where they put it. He rings and rings, but the nurse no longer answers his calls. One night, he discovers that his lips are horribly chapped. This strikes him as the worst thing that has ever happened, and for a moment he sobs uncontrollably. Then, once more, he opens the fist.
Gavin Highly Did it happen this way? The land lay like stone, and one night, all night long, rain pelted down on it the way people, they say, hammer hard on a stone to find blood. And in the morning the land was cut in two by a deep flow of creek, clotted with red weed—Gavin Highly’s creek. But all this was a long time ago. I did not know back then that hearts could be laid out like land and cut in two by storms coming out of the sky, or that dreams could be thrown, as Gavin Highly threw the ashes of his fire or his oyster shells or his old tins and bottles or his scraps of food, deep into the dark flowing divided heart to be buried there. I did not know, and my brother did not know. We cared more about plums—ah, they were yellow and dusty blue and hung on trees, over Gavin Highly’s fence, and in the early autumn the sun burned on each plum till its tight yellow or blue dusty skin gave in and rolled up like a blind to let in more sun. The plums split and were ripe and we ate them and, if Gavin Highly caught us, all he said, in one breath, was “Hop-it-you.” I think he understood about plums. He lived alone; apparently, he had always lived alone. The story was that he had been up Central, living in a rabbit burrow, where a rabbit kept house for him and he invited ferrets, kindly ones, in for afternoon tea. But of course that sort of story couldn’t be believed by realists. Still, it was true that he had never lived in an actual house. A tent, yes, and huts and, when he was small, in a room with an iron bed, top and tail at night with brothers and sisters, but never a real house. His dwelling now was a hut with a hole in the roof to satisfy the needs of smoke wanting to go out, and with old bulging beer barrels, corseted by rusty iron hoops, placed at strategic points around the outside walls, to act as downpipe and spouting. There wasn’t even a step to the door. Going inside was like climbing a mountain, though I had never been inside and could only guess. People said that there were books everywhere, on shelves, under chairs, on chairs—the chairs were two—and tied with binder twine in bags under the bed. Gavin Highly collected and loved books. No one had ever really seen these books, but hearsay had it that they were worth thousands of pounds and, if ever Gavin wanted to have his dream and live in a proper house with a proper downpipe and spouting and taps inside and waste pipes under the sink and hot water, why, all he’d need to do was sell his books. And the selling, word went around, would have to happen very soon, for Gavin’s hut had been condemned by the Health Inspector, and if he had no money to buy a house he would have to go to jail or to an old people’s home, where he’d eat boiled mutton all the time and no oysters. And folks knew how much Gavin Highly liked oysters—indeed, he ate so many that he could have become one. He was in league with them, surely. But then he was the kind of man who is in league with many things—almost everything except people. For him, there was no way, it seemed, of being in league with people, as he was with the birds, shabby starlings, their feathers worn and shiny green from flight, or with the frogs that in early autumn made the creek vocally sinister with their croaking, handless and cold, their pale-yellow-and-cream ballooning throats propped upon the surface of the water, or with the trees, willows that knew whenever their limbs failed, and lived near the creek, so as to be able to drop their dead parts down for burying. Was that why Gavin Highly, too, lived so close to the creek? Tip, splash went the ashes from his fire every morning; whizzbang went the pork-and-bean tins. Till the Health Inspector made a visit. He was a narrow man, like a shadow, the sort of man who slips under doors and through keyholes, or else how could he have known that our dog, Lassie, slept in our bedroom? “I have had complaints,” he said to Mother on one visit. “There are dogs in and out of your windows. You have a . . . lady dog, I understand.” Yes, the Health Inspector was a sneaky sort of man, and I felt sorry for old Gavin Highly when I heard my parents talking about him. “They say the place is a disgrace. Full of books and oyster shells,” a lady said to my mother. This lady came and drank tea and then knitted tea cozies and hotwater-bottle covers for bazaars, while Mother watched and wished that she could knit and crochet, but I did not like the knitting woman. Come to think of it, I wasn’t much in league with people, either, and so I pitied poor Gavin Highly having to sell all his precious books or else sit in jail with a bowl of bread and water. But I soon put him out of my mind, for a little while, anyway. My brother had a new sled with a patented speedometer, which read, true or false, ninety miles an hour. One morning, it was autumn and the little polished acorn bullets were knocking down hard on the roof of the shed, and it was breakfast time, with my father eating porridge, my mother sewing a quick patch onto Dad’s work pants, my brother putting the kindling wood in the coal house, and me still sitting, past porridge and halfway through bread and treacle, and suddenly my father stopped eating and said, “Today’s the day.” A silly, obvious remark. Of course today was the day—for me, the day of sycamore windmills. The sycamore seeds were brittle and thin as a fly’s wings, but they could whizz, and today was the day of whizzing. But I knew that my father was not talking about that. I took another piece of bread and treacle. “You have hollow legs,” my father remarked absently, but in my curiosity about today’s being the day I felt no special pride in this anatomical wonder, which my father quite frequently assured me that I possessed. He continued, “I hear Gavin Highly is selling his books today. He’s making quite a fuss about it, advertising and all that. There’s a van calling to take them to the auction room, and this morning an expert is coming to look at the collection and price it. Half the town’ll be there for sure.” How could I forget that day? There was a light-blue morning wind blowing and thistledown flying loose along the tops of the clouds and larks going up and down, up and down, in the shining lift of the sky. Poor Gavin Highly. I did not see anything that happened, but I know, I tell you, I know that it happened this way. Toward noon Gavin Highly began to prepare a number of packing cases at his front and only door. The cases were labelled “Soap Powder,” “Tinned Beans,” or “Sunkissed Oranges.” All would eventually contain books, millions’ worth, folks said, and old Highly would be someone, richer than anyone in town. He sat crouched like a watchdog on top of the cases, waiting for the men to come and see the books, the experts who lived in clean houses with doorsteps and downpipes and spoutings and taps, hot and cold, and baths, the experts with their folded wallets stuffed to the seams with banknotes. And soon the experts did come, or, rather, one expert. He was an old man, about the same age as Gavin. He was half bald and he looked like a kind ferret, with his long nose leading the way up the path to where Gavin sat like a stone mountain on the cases. “Gavin Highly?” the visitor queried. Gavin looked respectful. “That’s me, sir. You got my notice, no doubt. The books are in here. They mean m’ life to me. They’re valu’ble books, but they’ve gotta be sold.” Gavin led the way through the door to his one room. He had spread the books on the bed and the sofa. The thousands were not there—only fifty or so old volumes, some torn, some ragged and zigzagged by the teeth of mice or rats, some without covers. “I’ve talked about them sometimes to people, but they’re me private life,” Gavin continued. “I’ve never shown them. I don’t have people coming here. What are they worth?” The expert frowned. “If they mean your life to you, how do you expect me to assess their real value?” He spoke in proper language and used big words because he was an expert. Gavin did not answer but reached for a book. “This is a hist’ry book. I’ve had not much education but I know it’s valu’ble an’ I read it every night.” The expert leaned forward eagerly and grasped the book. The title? The edition? The publisher? He opened the book and read “Junior History for Schools. Our Nation’s Story.” There was childish writing on the flyleaf, somebody’s name, Standard Four, then a little rhyme: Standard Four Never no more If this book should chance to roam Give it a whack and send it home to ME. The name was written again in red ink underneath. The expert turned over the pages. There was a picture of Captain Cook, embellished with red hair and a permanent wave and spectacles. “The marks can be rubbed out, I s’pose,” Gavin said. “All old books get some kind of marks, don’t they, like stamps, but it’s got about when grass grew in the streets of London and the Great Fire and the plague and the people walking from door to door and crying, ‘Bring out your dead! Bring out your dead!’ And to think I’ve got a book about it! And I’ve others like that—po’try, and the high tide coming up on the coast of Lincolnshire. This is what I call my treasure, and, if anything can buy me a decent house to spend my old age in, it’s these books will buy it for me. What are they worth?” For a moment, the expert looked quite incredulous. Surely old Highly was not serious. Children’s history books, old, dirty magazines. “Worth millions,” Highly had said in the note he’d got the auctioneer to type. Gavin waited for the expert to answer. “They are valu’ble, aren’t they? They’re hist’ry.” “Yes, they’re valuable,” the expert answered. Gavin sighed with relief. Real downpipes and spoutings. A doorstep. Taps running hot and cold, a warm fire and no smoke. “I guessed their value,” he murmured airily. “Though no one’s seen them. About what are they worth?” The expert pondered. “A few pounds,” he said. Gavin looked startled. “But there’s some mistake—they’re valu’ble.” “In money they are worth a few pounds, perhaps not even that.” Gavin opened the history book to the picture of London. “Look. Grass growing in London streets, on the floors of the poor people’s houses an’ up through the cracks in the walls, an’ when you go on the street you’re going on grass, just like going out onto your lawn, if you’ve got a lawn.” He turned the pages again. “An’ look, the Fire in the Fern, that’s us, an’ the land being fished up out of the sea, and the forest being taken away—it’s hist’ry,” he pleaded. The expert glanced at his watch. He took shelter in formality. “I haven’t really much time, Mr. Highly. Your books are very valuable, I told you that, and they are worth a few pounds, no more. The value is inside you, and I’m afraid you cannot take that down in a van to the auction rooms and call for bids upon it. Love does not go under the hammer, ever. But I must be going.” Gavin spoke humbly. “I see. I’ve spent years collecting these, down at the rubbish dumps and in secondhand shops. I thought they were rare an’ precious. My apologies, sir,” he said calmly and with dignity. “But will you stay to tea with me? I don’t ever have people to tea, but I like the way you speak.” So the expert sat down on one of the two chairs to drink a cup of thick black tea. He sat there holding the stained cup in his small wrinkled hands, and he looked like the kindly ferret come to take tea with Gavin Highly in the home that was a rabbit burrow. Away up Central. After tea, he shook hands with Gavin and left him sitting quite peacefully on the bank of the creek. By the afternoon the whole town knew about Gavin Highly. Somehow they just knew. Where would he go, they asked, with no money, no house? It was not as if he could make do on social security. And his books turning out not to be worth anything—it seemed the man had been delivered a mortal blow. “He’ll go mad,” my father said. “A man can’t withstand a lifetime of dreams being swept away like that. He’ll go mad and shoot himself. Or jump off the wharf.” My brother and I listened, fearful and trembling. Oh, Gavin Highly and the bird-picked and clouting plums, whose stones told tomorrow, and the blackberries, on which the late-in-leaving autumn sun lavished a shoeshine, hanging around in a gold thirst over the trees. Gavin Highly’s trees, and Gavin Highly’s creek. Supposing he should die or jump off the wharf? He had to be helped, rescued. So my brother and I, just before sundown, took some bread and treacle wrapped in newspaper and set off for Gavin Highly’s hut. My brother did a quick calculation. “It’ll last him pretty long,” he said. “All these pieces.” “We ought to help him escape,” I suggested. “The Health Inspector’ll be after him, and you know how he took Lassie to the gasworks—perhaps they’ll take Gavin Highly to the gasworks, instead of prison, for not having a proper house.” We arrived at the fence near the creek and peeped in. We felt afraid. The treacle was sticking to the newspaper, the print getting swamped in the brown coming through. Gavin Highly was sitting on the bank of the creek. He wore his old khaki shirt open at the neck, and beside him was a bag of oysters and in his hand an oyster knife. He lay the oysters on the bank and—we could see it clearly through the fence—whenever they opened their mouths he pounced on them with the knife. He was talking to them, saying something like this: “Aha, got you. Whenever you open your mouth to breathe or speak, I stick a knife in your throat and kill you! Aha, got you! Never open your mouths to speak again! Got you!” My brother and I shivered. It was true. Gavin Highly was in league with the oysters. How else could he get them at this time of year, anyway? He was in league with them and talking to them. Then he turned to look up at the willow tree. He said something like this—time has changed the words in my mind, but the meaning stays—he said, “Willow tree, when your branches die you don’t carry them with you to sap your strength, you know they are dead. They drop off into this creek and are buried. This afternoon I came here and buried fifty books below the water. The weed is red like blood, and the creek is a wound of everlasting blood flow.” We crept shivering away. I threw the sandwiches high onto the hedge for the birds, if they cared for them. We did not speak all the way home. We went to bed and slept deep as willow logs. The next morning Gavin Highly was gone. No, he was not dead; he was just gone, and no one knew where. Perhaps it was up Central. He may be there today, living in a rabbit burrow, with a rabbit to keep house for him and a ferret—a kindly one—to come for afternoon tea.
I.D. “For an eiii-dee,” they were saying. “We need to see Lisette Mulvey.” This was unexpected. In second-period class, at 9:40 A.M., on some damn Monday in some damn winter month she’d lost track of, when even the year—a “new” year—seemed weird to her, like a movie set in a faraway galaxy. It was one of those school mornings—some older guys had got her high on beer, for a joke. Well, it was funny, not just the guys laughing at her but Lisette laughing at herself. Not mean-laughing—she didn’t think so—but like they liked her. “Liz-zette”—“Liz-zette”—was their name for her, high-pitched piping like bats, and they’d run their fingers fast along her arms, her back, like she was scalding hot to the touch. They picked her up on their way to school. The middle school was close to the high school. Most times, she was with a girlfriend—Keisha or Tanya. They were mature girls for their age—Keisha, especially—and not shy like the other middle-school girls. They knew how to talk to guys, and guys knew how to talk to them, but it was just talk mostly. Now this was—math?—damn math class that Lisette hated. It made her feel so stupid. Not that she was stupid. It was just that sometimes her thoughts were as snarled as her hair, her eyes leaking tears behind her dark-purple-tinted glasses—pres-ciption lenses—so that she couldn’t see what the hell the teacher was scribbling on the board, not even the shape of it. Ms. Nowicki would say in her bright hopeful voice, “Who can help me here? Who can tell us what the next step is?” and most of the kids would just sit on their asses, staring. Smirking. Not wanting to be called on. But then Lisette was rarely called on in math class—sometimes she shut her eyes, pretending that she was thinking really hard, and when she opened them there was one of the three or four smart kids in the class at the board, taking the chalk from Nowicki. She tried to watch, and she tried to comprehend. But there was something about the sound of the chalk clicking on the board—not a black board, it was green—and the numerals that she was expected to make sense of: she’d begin to feel dizzy. Her mother, Yvette, had no trouble with numbers. She was a blackjack dealer at the Casino Royale. You had to be smart, and you had to think fast—you had to know what the hell you were doing—to be a blackjack dealer. Counting cards. This was forbidden. If you caught somebody counting cards you signalled for help. Yvette liked to say that one day soon she would change her name, her hair color, and all that she could about herself, and drive out to Vegas, or to some lesser place, like Reno, and play blackjack in such a way that they’d never catch on—counting cards like no amateur could do. But if Lisette said, “You’re going to take me with you, Momma, O.K.?” her mother would frown as if Lisette had said something really dumb, and laugh. “Sweetie, I’m just joking. Obviously you don’t fuck with these casino guys.” Vegas or Reno wasn’t where she’d gone this time. Lisette was certain of that. She hadn’t taken enough clothes. In seventh grade, Lisette had had no trouble with math. She’d had no trouble with any of her school subjects. She’d got mostly Bs and her mother had stuck her report card, open like a greeting card, to the refrigerator. All that seemed long ago now. She was having a hard time sitting still. It was like red ants were crawling inside her clothes, in her armpits and between her legs. Stinging and tickling. Making her itch. Except that she couldn’t scratch the way she wanted to—really hard with her fingernails, to draw blood—and there was no point in just touching where her skin itched. That would only make it worse. The ridge of her nose, where the cartilage and bone had been “rebuilt”—a numb sensation there. And her eye—her left eye, with its tears dripping out. Liz-zette’s crying! Hey—Liz-zette’s crying! Why’re you crying, Liz-zz-zette? They liked her, the older guys. That was why they teased her. Like she was some kind of cute little animal, like—a mascot? First time she’d seen J.C. (Jimmy Chang—he’d transferred into her class in sixth grade), she’d nudged Keisha, saying, “Ohhhh,” like in some MTV video, a moan to signal sex-pain, though she didn’t know what that was, exactly. Her mother’s favorite music videos were soft rock, retro rock, country and Western, disco. Lisette had heard her in the shower, singing-moaning in a way she couldn’t decipher—was it angry or happy? Oh, she hated math class! Hated this place! Sitting at her desk in the row by the windows, at the front of the classroom, made Lisette feel like she was at the edge of a bright-lit room looking in—like she wasn’t a part of the class. Nowicki said, “It’s to keep you involved, up close like this,” so Lisette wouldn’t daydream or lose her way, but it had just the opposite effect. Most days Lisette felt like she wasn’t there at all. She swiped at her eyes. Shifted her buttocks hoping to alleviate the stinging red ants. Nearly fifteen damn minutes she’d been waiting for the teacher to turn her fat back so that she could flip a folded-over note across the aisle to Keisha, for Keisha to flip over to J.C., in the next row. This note wasn’t paper but a Kleenex, and on the Kleenex a lipstick kiss—a luscious grape-colored lipstick kiss—for J.C. from Lisette. She’d felt so dreamy blotting her lips on the Kleenex. A brand-new lipstick, Deep Purple, which her mother knew nothing about, because Lisette, like her girlfriends, wore lipstick only away from home, and it was startling how different they all looked within seconds—how mature and how sexy. Out of the corner of her eye she was watching J.C.—J.C., stretching his long legs in the aisle, silky black hair falling across his forehead. J.C. wasn’t a guy you trifled with. Not J.C. or his “posse.” She’d been told. She’d been warned. These were older guys by a year or maybe two. They’d been kept back in school, or had started school later than their classmates. But the beer buzz at the back of Lisette’s head made her careless, reckless. J.C.’s father worked at the Trump Taj Mahal. Where he’d come from, somewhere called Bay-jing, in China, he’d driven a car for some high government official. Or he’d been a bodyguard. J.C. boasted that his father carried a gun. J.C. had held it in his hand. Man, he’d fired it! A girl had asked J.C. if he’d ever shot anybody and J.C. had shrugged and laughed. Lisette’s mother had moved Lisette and herself to Atlantic City from Edison, New Jersey, when Lisette was nine years old. She’d been separated from Lisette’s father, but later Daddy had come to stay with them when he was on leave from the Army. Then they were separated again. Now they were divorced. Lisette liked to name the places where her mother had worked. They had such special names: Trump Taj Mahal, Bally’s, Harrah’s, the Casino Royale. Except she wasn’t certain if Yvette still worked at the Casino Royale—if she was still a blackjack dealer. Could be, Yvette was back to being a cocktail waitress. It made Lisette so damn—fucking—angry! You could ask her mother the most direct question, like “Exactly where the hell are you working now, Momma?” and her mother would find a way to give an answer that made some kind of sense at the time, but melted away afterward, like a tissue dipped in water. J.C.’s father was a security guard at the Taj. That was a fact. J.C. and his friends never approached the Taj but hung out instead at the south end of the Strip, where there were cheap motels, fast-food restaurants, pawnshops, bail-bond shops, and storefront churches, with sprawling parking lots, not parking garages, so they could cruise the lots and side streets after dark and break into parked vehicles if no one was watching. The guys laughed at how easy it was to force open a locked door or a trunk, where people left things like, for instance, a woman’s heavy handbag that she didn’t want to carry while walking on the boardwalk. Assholes! Some of them were so dumb you almost felt sorry for them. Lisette was still waiting for Nowicki to be distracted. She was beginning to lose her nerve. Passing a lipstick kiss to J.C. was like saying, “All right, if you want to screw me, fuck me—whatever—hey, here I am.” Except maybe it was just a joke. So many things were jokes—you had to negotiate the more precise meaning later. If there was a later. Lisette wasn’t into thinking too seriously about later. She wiped her eyes with her fingertips, like she wasn’t supposed to do since the surgery. Your fingers are dirty, Lisette. You must not touch your eyes with your dirty fingers. There is the risk of infection. Oh, God, she hated how both her eyes filled with tears in the cold months and in bright light, like the damn fluorescent light in all the schoolrooms and corridors. So her mother had got permission for Lisette to wear her dark-purple-tinted glasses to school. They made her look cool—like she was in high school, not middle school, sixteen or seventeen, not thirteen. “Hell, you’re not thirteen—are you? You?” one of her mother’s man friends would say, eying her suspiciously. But, like, why would she want to play some trick about her age? He’d been mostly an asshole, this friend of her mother’s. Chester—Chet. But he’d lent Momma some part of the money she’d needed for Lisette’s eye doctor. This morning Lisette had had to get up by herself. Get her own breakfast—Frosted Wheaties—in front of the TV, and she hated morning TV, cartoons and crap, or, worse yet, “news.” She’d slept in her clothes for the third night in a row—black T-shirt, underwear, wool socks—dragged on her jeans, a scuzzy black sweater of her mother’s with “TAJ” embossed on the back in turquoise satin. And her boots. Checked the phone messages but there were none. Friday night at nine her mother had called. Lisette had seen the caller I.D. and hadn’t picked up. Fuck you, going away. Why the fuck should I talk to you? Later, feeling kind of scared, hearing loud voices out in the street, she’d tried to call her mother’s cell phone. But the call hadn’t gone through. Fuck you. I hate you anyway. Hate hate hate you! Unless Momma brought her back something nice, like when she and Lisette’s father went to Fort Lauderdale for their “second honeymoon” and Momma brought back a pink-coral-colored outfit—tunic top, pants. Even with all that had gone wrong in Fort Lauderdale, Momma had remembered to bring Lisette a gift. Now it happened—and it happened fast. Nowicki went to the classroom door, where someone was knocking and—quick!—with a pounding heart Lisette leaned over to hand the wadded Kleenex note to Keisha, who tossed it onto J.C.’s desk. J.C. blinked at the note like it was some weird beetle that had fallen from the ceiling, and without glancing over at Keisha or at Lisette, peering at him through her tinted glasses, with a gesture like shrugging his shoulders—J.C. was so cool—all he did was shut the Kleenex in his fist and shove it into a pocket of his jeans. Any other guy, he’d open the note to see what it was. But not Jimmy Chang. J.C. was so accustomed to girls tossing him notes in class, he didn’t have much curiosity about what it was that the snarl-haired girl in the dark glasses had sent him—or maybe he already had a good idea what it was. Kiss-kiss. Kiss-kiss-kiss. The main thing was that J.C. hadn’t just laughed and crumpled it up like trash. By now Lisette’s mouth was dry like cotton. This was the first time she’d passed such a note to J.C.—or to any boy. And the beer buzz that had made her feel so happy and hopeful was rapidly fading. She’d had half a beer, maybe. Swilling it down outside in the parking lot, where the buses parked and fouled the air with exhaust, but the guys didn’t seem to notice, loud-talking and loud-laughing, and she could see the way they looked at her sometimes: Lisette Mulvey was hot. Except she’d spilled beer on her jacket. Beer stains on the dark-green corduroy, which her mother would detect, if she sniffed at them. Whenever she returned home. This Monday, in January—it was January. She’d lost track of the actual date like she’d lost track of the little piece of paper from the eye doctor that her mother had given her, for the drugstore, for the eye drops. This her mother had given her last week, the last time she’d seen her, maybe Thursday morning. Or Wednesday. It was some kind of steroid solution that she needed for her eye after the surgery, but she couldn’t find that piece of paper now, not in her jacket or in her backpack or in the kitchen or in her bedroom—not anywhere. Nowicki was at the door now, turning to look at—who? Lisette? It was like a bad dream, where you’re singled out—some stranger, a cop, it looked like, coming to your classroom to ask for you. “A light palate-cleansing between courses, folks?”Buy the print » “Lisette? Can you step out into the hall with us, please?” Next to Nowicki was a woman in a uniform—had to be Atlantic City P.D.—Hispanic features and skin color, and dark hair drawn back tight and sleek in a knot. Everybody in the classroom was riveted now, awake and staring, and poor Lisette in her seat was paralyzed, stunned. She tried to stand, biting at her lip. Fuck, her feet were tangled in her backpack straps. There was a roaring in her ears, through which the female cop’s voice penetrated, repeating what she’d said and adding, “Personal possessions, please,” meaning that Lisette should bring her things with her. She wouldn’t be returning to the classroom. So scared, she belched beer. Sour-vomity-beer taste in her mouth and—oh, Christ!—what if the cop smelled her breath? In the corridor, a worse roaring in her ears, out of the woman’s mouth came bizarre sounds. Eiii-dee. If you are Lisette Mulvey, come with me. Eiii-dee, eiii-dee—like a gull’s cry borne on the wind, rising and snatched away, even as you strained desperately to hear it. Turned out, there were two cops who’d come for her. The Hispanic policewoman introduced herself: Officer Molina. Like Lisette was going to remember this name, let alone use it. The other cop was a man, a little younger than the woman, his skin so acne-scarred you’d be hard put to say if he was white. Both of them looking at Lisette like—what? Like they felt sorry for her, or were disgusted with her, or—what? She saw the male cop’s eyes drop to her tight-fitting jeans with a red rag patch at the knee, then up again to her blank terrified face. It wouldn’t be note-passing in math class that they’d come to arrest her for. Maybe at the Rite Aid the other day—plastic lipstick tubes marked down to sixty-nine cents in a bin. Lisette’s fingers had snatched three of them up and into her pocket, without her even knowing what she was doing. “You are Lisette Mulvey, daughter of Yvette Mulvey, yes?” Numbly Lisette nodded. Officer Molina did the talking. Lisette was too frightened to react when the policewoman took hold of her arm at the elbow, not forcibly but firmly, as a female relation might, walking Lisette down the stairs, talking to her in a calm, kindly, matter-of-fact voice that signalled, You will be all right. This will be all right. Just come with us. “How recently did you see your mother, Lisette? Or speak with your mother? Was it today?” Today? What was today? Lisette couldn’t remember. “Has your mother been away, Lisette? And did she call you?” Lisette shook her head. “Your mother isn’t away? But she isn’t at home, is she?” Lisette tried to think. What was the right answer? A weird scared smile made her mouth twist in the way that pissed off her mother, who mistook the smile for something else. Molina said, “When did you last speak with your mother, Lisette?” Shyly Lisette mumbled that she didn’t know. “But not this morning? Before you went to school?” “No. Not—this morning.” Lisette shook her head, grateful for something to say that was definite. They were outside, behind the school. A police cruiser was parked in the fire lane. Lisette felt a taste of panic. Was she being arrested, taken to juvie court? The boys in J.C.’s posse joked about juvie court. In the cold wet air she felt the last of the beer buzz evaporate. She hated how the cops—both cops—were staring at her, like they’d never seen anything so sad or so pathetic before, like she was some snivelling little mangy dog. They could see the pimply skin at her hairline and every knot in her frizz-hair that she hadn’t taken the time to comb or run a brush through, let alone shampoo, for four, five days. She hadn’t had a shower, either. That long, her mother had been away. Away for the weekend with—who? That had been one of Momma’s secrets. Could be a new “friend”—some man she’d met at the casino. There were lots of roving unattached men in Atlantic City. If they won in the casino they needed to celebrate with someone, and if they lost in the casino they needed to be cheered up by someone. Yvette Mulvey was the one! Honey-colored hair, not dirt-colored like Lisette’s, in waves to her shoulders, sparkling eyes, a quick soothing laugh that a man wanted to hear—not sharp and ice-picky, driving him up the wall. Lisette had asked her mother who she was going away for the weekend with and Momma had said, “Nobody you know.” But the way she’d smiled—not at Lisette but to herself, an unfathomable look on her face like she was about to step off a diving board into midair—had made Lisette think suddenly, Daddy? She knew that her mother was still in contact with her father. Somehow she knew this, though Momma had not told her. Even after the divorce, which had been a nasty divorce, they’d been in contact. That was because (as Daddy had explained to her) she would always be his daughter. All else might change—like where Daddy lived, and if Daddy and Mommy were married—but not that. Not ever. So Lisette had persisted in asking her mother, Was it Daddy she was going away with? Was it Daddy? Was it?—nagging at Momma until she laughed, saying, “Hell no! No way I’m seeing that asshole again.” Her mother had gone away for the weekend. “I can trust you, Lisette, right?” she’d said, and Lisette had said, “Sure, sure you can.” Alone in the house meant that Lisette could stay up as late as she wanted. And watch any TV channel she wanted. And lie sprawled on the sofa talking on her cell phone as much as she wanted. It was a short walk to the mini-mall—Kentucky Fried Chicken, Vito’s Pizzeria, Taco Bell. Though it was easier just to defrost frozen suppers in the microwave and eat in front of the TV. The first night, Keisha had come over. The girls had watched a DVD that Keisha brought and eaten what they could find in the refrigerator. “It’s cool your mother’s gone away. Where’s she gone?” Lisette thought. Possibly her mother had gone to Vegas after all. With her man friend, or whoever. This time of year, depressing cold and wet by the ocean—the smartest place to go would be Vegas. “She’s got lots of friends there, from the casino. She’s welcome to go out there anytime. She’d have taken me, except for damn, dumb school.” “So when did you last speak to her?” The cops were staring at her now, waiting for an answer, as she was guiltily faltering, fumbling. “Could’ve been, like, just yesterday—or the day before.” Her heart thumped in her chest like a crazed sparrow throwing itself against a window, like the one she’d seen in a parking garage once, trapped up by the ceiling, beating its wings and exhausting itself. Yvette Mulvey was in trouble with the law—was that it? The only court Lisette had been in was Ocean County Family Court. There, the judge had awarded custody to Yvette Mulvey and visitation privileges to Duane Mulvey. If something happened to Yvette Mulvey now, Lisette would be placed in a foster home. It wasn’t possible for Lisette to live with her father, who was a sergeant in the U.S. Army, and, last she’d heard, was about to be deployed to Iraq for the third time. Deployed was a strange word—a strange sound. De-ployed. Daddy hadn’t meant to hurt her, she knew. Even Momma believed this, which was why she hadn’t called 911. And when the doctor at the E.R. had asked Lisette how her face had got so bruised, her nose and eye socket broken, she’d said that it was an accident on the stairs—she’d been running, and she’d fallen. Which was true. She’d been running, and she’d fallen. Daddy shouting behind her, swiping with his fists—not meaning to hit her. But he’d been pissed. And all the things that Daddy had said afterward were what she’d wanted to hear; they’d made her cry, she’d wanted so badly to hear them. “And your father? How recently did you see your father, Lisette?” In the cruiser, the male cop drove. Molina sat in the passenger seat, swivelled to face Lisette. Her cherry-red lips were bright in her face, like something sparkly on a billboard that was otherwise weatherworn. Her sleek black hair shone like a seal’s coat, her dark eyes shone with a strange unspeakable knowledge. It was an expression that Lisette saw often on the faces of women—usually women older than her mother—when they looked at her not in disapproval but with sudden sympathy, seeing her. Lisette was uneasy with the expression. She’d seen it on Nowicki’s face, too. Better was the look of disgust, dismay. Must’ve been two, three times that Molina explained to Lisette where they were taking her—to the hospital for the I.D. But the words hadn’t come together in a way that was comprehensible. Eiii-dee. Eiii-dee. “We will stay as long you wish. Or not long at all—it’s up to you. Maybe it will be over in a minute.” Molina spoke to Lisette in this way, which was meant to soothe but did not make sense. No matter the words, there was a meaning beneath them that Lisette could not grasp. Sometimes adults were uncomfortable with Lisette because they thought she was smirking, but it was just the skin around her left eye, the eye socket that had been shattered and repaired, and the frozen look of that part of her face because some of the nerve muscles were dead. “Such a freak accident,” her mother had said. “Told her and told her not to—not to run—on the stairs. You know how kids are!” And half-pleading with the surgeon, though she already knew the answer to the question, “Will they heal ever? The broken nerves?” Not broken but dead. At the hospital they parked at the rear of the building. In a lowered voice Molina conferred with the male cop. Lisette couldn’t hear what they were saying. She had no wish to hear. But she wanted to believe that the Hispanic woman was her friend and could be trusted. It was like that with Hispanic women, the mothers of her classmates—mostly they were nice, they were kind. Molina was a kind woman, you could see how she’d be with children and possibly grandchildren. Weird that she was a cop and carried a gun—packed heat, it was said. Lisette’s mother knew some cops—she’d gone out with a cop. She’d said that the life of a cop was so fucking boring; once in a while, something happened and happened fast and you could be shot down in that second or two, but mostly it was very, very boring, like dealing blackjack cards to assholes who think they can win against the house. You never win against the house. They were standing just inside the hospital, on the first floor by the elevators. People moved around them, past them, like blurs in the background of a photograph. It seemed urgent now to listen to what Molina was telling her as she gripped Lisette’s arm again. Did Molina think that Lisette was going to try to escape? The male cop held himself a little apart, frowning. What Molina was saying did not seem relevant to the situation, but later Lisette would see that, yes, everything that the policewoman had said was relevant: asking Lisette about Christmas, which was maybe two or three weeks earlier, and New Year’s—and what had Lisette and her mother done over the holidays, anything special? Lisette tried to think. “Holidays” wasn’t a word that she or Momma would use. “Just saw some people. Nothing special.” “You didn’t see your father?” “No.” “When was the last time you saw him?” Lisette tried to think: he’d been gone by the time of the face surgery and the eye surgery. She’d been out of school. Must have been the summer. Like, around July 4th. “Not more recently than that?” Lisette swiped at her eye. Wondering, was this some kind of trick like you saw on TV cop shows? “On New Year’s Eve, did your mother go out?” Yes. Sure. Momma always went out, New Year’s Eve. “Do you know who she went out with?” “No.” “He didn’t come to the house to pick her up?” Lisette tried to think. If whoever it was had come to the house, for sure Lisette had hid from him, just like she hid from Momma’s women friends, and why? No reason, just wanted to. Lisette, how big you’re getting! Lisette, taller than your mom, eh? They took the elevator down. Down to the floor marked “Morgue.” Here the hospital was a different place. The air was cooler and smelled of something like chemicals. There were no visitors. There were very few hospital staff people. A female attendant in white pants, a white shirt, and a cardigan sweater told them that the assistant coroner would be with them soon. Buy the print » They were seated. Lisette was between the two cops. Feeling weak in the knees, sick—like she’d been arrested, she was in custody, and this was a trick to expose her. Casually—for she’d been talking of something else—Molina began to ask Lisette about a motel on the south edge of the city, the Blue Moon Motel, on Atlantic. Had Lisette heard of the Blue Moon Motel? Lisette said no, she had never heard of the Blue Moon Motel. There were motels all over Atlantic City, some of them sleazy places, and she did not think—as Molina seemed to be saying—that her mother had worked at any of these motels, ever. If Yvette Mulvey had worked at the Blue Moon Motel, she’d have heard of it. She had not. Lisette said that her mother was not a motel maid or a cocktail waitress but a blackjack dealer, and you had to be trained for that. Lisette said, like she was groping for a light switch, “Is Momma in—some kind of trouble?” A twisty little knot of rage in her heart against Momma. All this was Momma’s fault. Molina said that they weren’t sure. That was what the I.D. might clear up. “We need your coöperation, Lisette. We are hoping that you can provide—identification.” Weird how back at school she’d heard eiii-dee not I.D. It was like static was interfering, to confuse her. Like after she’d fallen on the stairs and hit her face and her head and she hadn’t been able to walk without leaning against a wall, she’d been so dizzy, and she’d forgotten things. Some short circuit in her brain. “Can you identify these? Do these look familiar, Lisette?” A morgue attendant had brought Molina a box containing items, of which two were a woman’s handbag and a woman’s wallet. Molina lifted them carefully from the box, with gloved hands. Lisette stared at the handbag and the wallet. What were these? Were they supposed to belong to her mother? Lisette wasn’t sure if she had ever seen them before. She stared at the brown leather handbag with some ornamentation on it, like a brass buckle, and straps, and the black wallet, shabby-looking, like something you’d see on a sidewalk or by a Dumpster and not even bother to pick up to see if there was money inside. Molina was saying that these “items” had been “retrieved” from a drainage ditch behind the Blue Moon Motel. Also behind the drainage ditch was a woman’s body—a “badly damaged” woman’s body, for which they had no identification yet. Carefully Molina spoke. Her hand lay lightly on Lisette’s arm, which had the effect of restraining Lisette from swiping and poking at her left eye, as she’d been doing. “The purse has been emptied out and the lining is ripped. In the wallet was a New Jersey driver’s license issued to ‘Yvette Mulvey,’ but no credit cards or money, no other I.D. There was a slip of paper with a name and a number to be called ‘in case of emergency,’ but that number has been disconnected. It belonged to a relative of your mother’s who lives, or lived, in Edison, New Jersey? Iris Pedersen?” Lisette shook her head. This was all too much—just too much for her to absorb. She didn’t recognize the handbag and she didn’t recognize the wallet—she was sure. She resented being asked. These items were so grungy-looking it was an insult to think that they might belong to her mother. Close up she saw that Molina’s eyes were beautiful and dark-thick-lashed, the way Lisette’s mother tried to make hers, with a mascara brush. The skin beneath Molina’s eyes was soft and bruised-looking, and on her throat were tiny dark moles. It did not seem right that a woman like Molina, who you could tell was a mother—her body was a mother’s body for sure, wide hips and heavy breasts straining at the front of her jacket—could be a cop; it did not seem right that this person was carrying a gun, in a holster attached to a leather belt, and that she could use it, if she wanted to. Anytime she wanted to. Lisette went into a dream thinking that if she struck at Molina, if she kicked, spat, or bit, Molina might shoot her. The male cop you’d expect to have a gun. You’d expect he would use it. Daddy had showed them his guns, the ones he’d brought back from Iraq. These were not Army-issue but personal guns, a pistol with a carved-wood handle and a heavier handgun, a revolver. He’d won these in a card game, Daddy said. Maybe he hadn’t brought them from Iraq. Maybe he’d got them at Fort Bragg, where he was stationed. Lisette was saying that if her mother’s driver’s license had been in that wallet maybe it was her mother’s wallet, but definitely she didn’t recognize it. As for Iris Pedersen—Aunt Iris—that was her mother’s aunt, not hers. Aunt Iris was old enough to be Lisette’s grandmother and Lisette hadn’t seen her in years and did not think that her mother had, either. For all they knew, the old lady was dead. “We tried to contact her and the Edison police tried to contact her. But—” An I.D. by someone who knew Yvette Mulvey well was necessary, Molina said, to determine if, in fact, the dead woman was Yvette Mulvey—or another woman of her approximate age. The condition of the body and the injuries to the face made it difficult to judge, from the driver’s license photo. Or from the photos on file at the casinos where Yvette Mulvey had worked. Molina went on to tell Lisette that they had tried to locate her father—Duane David Mulvey—to make the I.D. for them, but he was no longer a resident of Edison, or, so far as they knew, of the State of New Jersey. Lisette said, “My father’s in the U.S. Army. My father is a sergeant in the U.S. Army. He used to be stationed at Fort Bragg but now he’s in Iraq,” and Molina said, “No, Lisette. I’m afraid that has changed. Your father is no longer a sergeant in the U.S. Army, and he is no longer in Iraq. The Army has no record of Duane Mulvey at the present time—he’s been AWOL since December 26th of last year.” Lisette was so surprised she couldn’t speak. If Molina hadn’t been gripping her arm, she’d have jumped up and run away. She was shivering. The corduroy jacket wasn’t really for winter—this nasty wet cold. Momma hadn’t been there that morning, scolding her, “Dress warm! For Christ’s sake, it’s January.” Another morgue attendant, an Indian-looking man—some kind of doctor—had come to speak in a low voice to the police officers. Quickly, Lisette shut her eyes, not listening. Trying to picture the classroom she’d had to leave—there was Nowicki at the board with her squeaky chalk, and there was J.C. slouched in his desk, hair in his face, and Keisha, who breathed through her mouth when she was excited or scared, and there was Lisette’s own desk, empty—though now it was later, it was third period, and J.C. wasn’t in Lisette’s English class, but there was always the cafeteria. When the bell rang at 11:45 A.M., it would be lunchtime and she’d line up outside the doors, with the smell of greasy food, French fries, macaroni and cheese, chili on buns. . . . Lisette’s mouth flooded with saliva. She smiled, seeing the purple-lipstick kiss on the Kleenex, as J.C. would see it when he unfolded it—a surprise! Her mother didn’t want her to wear lipstick, but fuck Momma. All the girls her age did. Last time she’d seen Momma with Daddy, Daddy had been in his soldier’s dress uniform and had looked very handsome. His hair had been cut so short. Not then but an earlier visit, when Daddy had returned from Iraq for the first time, Lisette’s mother had covered his face in purple-lipstick kisses. Lisette had been so young she’d thought that the lipstick kisses were some kind of wound, that her daddy was hurt and bleeding. The times were confused. There were many times. There were many Daddys—she could not “see” them all. There was the time Daddy took Momma to Fort Lauderdale. They’d wanted to take Lisette but it hadn’t worked out—Lisette had had to be in school at that time of year. She’d gone to stay with her mother’s friend Misty, who worked at Bally’s. They were planning on ten days in Florida but Lisette’s mother had surprised her by returning after just a week, saying that that was it, that was the end, she’d had to call the police when he’d got drunk and beaten her, and in a restaurant he’d knocked over a chair he was so angry—that was it for her, no more. Yvette had had man friends she’d met in the casinos. Most of them Lisette had never met. Never wished to meet. One of them was a real-estate agent in Monmouth County—Lisette could almost remember his first name. It was something unusual, like Upton, Upwell . . . The Indian man looked very young to be a doctor. Behind his wire-rimmed glasses, his eyes were soft-black, sombre. His hair was black, but coarse, not silky-fine like J.C.’s hair. He was leading the cops and Lisette into a refrigerated room. Molina had a firm hold on Lisette’s hand. “We will make it as easy for you as we can, Lisette. All you have to do is squeeze my hand—that will mean yes.” Yes? Yes what? Desperately Lisette was picturing the school cafeteria, the long table in the corner where the coolest guys sat—J.C. and his friends, and sometimes certain girls were invited to sit with them. Today maybe J.C. would call Lisette over to sit with them—Lisette! Hey Liz-zette!—because he’d liked the purple-lipstick kiss, and what it promised. “Take your time, Lisette. I’ll be right beside you.” Then—so quick—it was over! The female body she was meant to I.D. was not anyone she knew, let alone her mother. This one had hair that was darker than Yvette’s, with brown roots showing, and it was all matted like a cheap wig, and the forehead was so bruised and swollen, and the eyes—you could hardly see the eyes—and the mouth was, like, broken. You couldn’t make sense of the face, almost. It was a face that needed to be straightened out, like with pliers. “No. Not Momma.” Lisette spoke sharply, decisively. Molina was holding her hand—she was tugging to get free. This was the morgue; this was a corpse. This was not a woman but a thing—you could not really believe that it had ever been a woman. Only the head and the face were exposed. The rest of the body was covered by a white sheet but you could see the shape of it, the size, and it was not Lisette’s mother—obviously. Older than Momma, and something had happened to the body to make it small—smaller. Some sad, pathetic, broken female, like debris washed up on the shore. It was lucky the sheet was drawn up over the chest. The breasts. And the belly, and the pubic hair—the fat-raddled thighs of a woman of this age, you would not want to look at. Guys were quick to laugh, to show their contempt. Any girl or woman who was not good-looking, who was flat-chested or a little heavy—she had to walk fast to avoid their eyes. “This is not Momma. This is no one I know.” Molina was close beside Lisette, instructing her to take her time. It was very important, Molina was saying, to make an eiii-dee of the woman, to help the police find who had done these terrible things to her. Lisette pulled free of Molina. “I told you—this is not Momma! It is not.” Something hot and acid came up into her mouth—she swallowed it down. She gagged again, and swallowed, and her teeth chattered like dice being shaken. She wanted to run from this nasty room, which was cold like a refrigerator but smelled of something sweet, sickish—like talcum powder and sweat—but Molina detained her. They were showing her some clothes now, from the box. Dirty, bloodstained clothes, like rags. And a coat—a coat that resembled her mother’s red suède coat but was filthy and torn. It was not the stylish coat that Momma had bought a year ago, in the January sales at the mall. Lisette said that she’d never seen any of these things before. She had not. She was breathing funny, like her friend Keisha, who had asthma, and Molina was holding her hand and saying things to comfort her, bullshit things, telling her to be calm, it was all right. If she did not think that this woman was her mother, it was all right: there were other ways to identify the victim. Victim. This was a new word. Like corpse, drainage ditch. Molina led her to a restroom. Lisette had to use the toilet, fast. Her insides had turned to liquid fire and had to come out. At the sink she was going to vomit but could not. Washed and washed her hands. In the mirror a face hovered—a girl’s face—in purple-tinted glasses, her lips a dark grape color. The scarring around the left eye wasn’t so visible if she didn’t look closely, and she had no wish to look closely. There had been three surgeries and after each surgery Momma had promised, “You’ll be fine! You’ll look better than new.” They wanted to take her somewhere—to Family Services. She said that she wanted to go back to school. She said that she had a right to go back to school. She began to cry. She was resentful and agitated and she wanted to go back to school, and so they said, “All right, all right for now, Lisette,” and they drove her to school. The bell had just rung for lunch, so she went directly to the cafeteria—not waiting in line but into the cafeteria without a tray and still in her jacket, and, in a roaring sort of haze, she was aware of her girlfriends at a nearby table. There was Keisha, looking concerned, calling, “Lisette, hey—what was it? You O.K.?” and Lisette said, laughing into the bright buzzing blur, “Sure I’m O.K. Hell, why not?”
The Pura Principle Those last months. No way of wrapping it pretty or pretending otherwise: Rafa estaba jodido. By then it was only me and Mami taking care of him and we didn’t know what the fuck to do, what the fuck to say. So we just said nothing. My mom wasn’t the effusive type anyway, had one of those event-horizon personalities—shit just fell into her and you never really knew what she felt about it. She just seemed to take it, never gave anything off, not light, not heat. Crinkled her eyes, maybe, or frowned, but that was it. Me, I wouldn’t have wanted to talk even if she had been game. The few times my boys at school tried to bring it up, I flipped. Told them to mind their own fucking business. To get out of my face. I was seventeen and a half. Smoking so much bud that if I remembered an hour from any one of those days it would have been a lot. My mother was checked out in her own way. She wore herself down—between my brother and the factory and taking care of the household (I didn’t lift a fucking finger in our apartment, male privilege, baby) I’m not sure she slept. Lady still managed to scrounge a couple hours here and there to hang with her new main man, Jehovah. I had my yerba, she had hers. She’d never been big on church before, but as soon as we landed on cancer planet she went so over-the-top Jesucristo that I think she would have nailed herself to a cross if she’d had one handy. That last year she was especially Ave Maria. Had her prayer group over to our apartment two, three times a day. The Four Horsefaces of the Apocalypse, I called them. The youngest and the most horsefaced was Gladys—diagnosed with breast cancer the year before, and right in the middle of her treatment her evil husband had run off to Colombia and married one of her cousins! Hallelujah! Another lady, whose name I could never remember, was only forty-five but looked ninety, a complete ghettowreck: overweight, with a bad back, bad kidneys, bad knees, diabetes, and maybe sciatica. Hallelujah! The chief rocker, though, was Doña Rosie, our upstairs neighbor, this real nice Boricua lady, happiest person you’ve ever seen even though she was blind. Hallelujah! You had to be careful with her because she had a habit of sitting down without even checking if there was anything remotely chairlike underneath her, and twice already she’d missed the couch and busted her ass—the last time hollering Dios mío, qué me has hecho?—and I had to drag myself out of the basement to help her to her feet. These viejas were my mother’s only friends—even our relatives had gotten scarce after year two—and when they were over was the only time Mami seemed somewhat like her old self. Loved to tell her stupid campo jokes. Wouldn’t serve them coffee until she was sure each tácita contained the exact same amount. And when one of the Four was fooling herself she let her know it with a simple extended Bueeeeennnnoooo. The rest of the time, she was beyond inscrutable, in perpetual motion: cleaning, organizing, cooking meals, going to the store to return this, pick up that. The few occasions I saw her pause she would put a hand over her eyes, breathe in and out deeply, and that was when I would know she was exhausted. But of all of us Rafa took the cake. When he’d come home from the hospital this second go-round, he fronted like nothing had happened. Which was kinda nuts, considering that half the time he didn’t know where the fuck he was because of what the radiation had done to his brain and the other half he was too tired to even fart. Dude had lost eighty pounds to the chemo, looked like a break-dancing ghoul (my brother was the last motherfucker in the Jerz to give up his tracksuit and rope chain), and had a back laced with spinal-tap scars, but his swagger was more or less where it had been before the illness: a hundred per cent loco. He prided himself on being the neighborhood lunatic, wasn’t going to let a little thing like cancer get in the way of his official duties. Not a week out of the hospital, he cracked this illegal Peruvian kid in the face with a hammer and two hours later threw down at the Pathmark because he thought some fool was talking shit about him, popped said fool in the piehole with a weak overhand right before a bunch of us could break it up. What the fuck, he kept yelling, as if we were doing the craziest thing ever. The bruises he gave himself fighting us were purple buzz saws, infant hurricanes. Dude was figureando hard. Had always been a papi chulo, so of course he dove right back into a grip of his old sucias, snuck them down into the basement whether my mother was home or not. Once, right in the middle of one of Mami’s prayer sessions, he strolled in with this Parkwood girl who had the hugest donkey on the planet, and later I said, Rafa, un chín de respeto. He shrugged. Can’t let them think I’m slipping. He’d hang out at Honda Hill and come home so garbled that he’d sound as if he was speaking Aramaic. Anybody who didn’t know better would have thought homeboy was on the mend. I’ll put the weight back on, you’ll see, was what he told folks. Had my mother making him all these nasty protein shakes. Mami tried to keep his ass home. Remember what your doctor said, hijo, remember. But he just said, Ta to, Mom, ta to, and danced right out the door. She never could control him. With me she yelled and cursed and hit, but with him she sounded as if she was auditioning for a role in a Mexican novela. Ay mi hijito, ay mi tesoro. I tried to get him to slow his roll, too—Yo, shouldn’t you be convalescing or something?—but he just stared at me with his dead eyes. We hadn’t really been close before the cancer struck, so it’s not like I had any wins with him. Right before we all got shipped out to cancer planet, we hadn’t even been talking. He’d side-fucked this girl I was trying to talk to and thought it hilarious: You got to move faster, bro. Pussy got an expiration date. Anyway, after a few weeks on overdrive motherfucker hit a wall. Developed this dynamite cough from being out all night and ended up back at the hospital for two days—which after his last stint (eight months) didn’t really count as nothing—and when he got out you could see he was trying to be smart about the whole thing. Stopped breaking night and drinking until he puked. The Iceberg Slim thing stopped, too. No more chicks crying over him on the couch or gobbling the rabo downstairs. The only one who hung tough was this ex of his, Tammy Franco, whom he’d pretty much physically abused their whole relationship. Bad, too. A two-year-long public-service announcement. He’d get so mad at her sometimes that he dragged her around the parking lot by her hair. Once her pants came unbuttoned and got yanked down to her ankles, and we could all see her toto and everything. That was the image I still had of her. After my brother, she had hopped on a white boy and gotten married faster than you can say I do. A beautiful girl. You remember that José Chinga jam “Fly Tetas”? That was Tammy. What was strange was that on the days she dropped by she wouldn’t come into the apartment, not at all. She’d pull her Camry up in front and he would go out and sit with her in the bitch seat. I’d just started summer vacation and had nothing going on, so I’d watch them from the kitchen window, waiting for him to palm her head down into a blow-job position, but nothing like that ever happened. It didn’t even look like they were talking. After fifteen, twenty minutes, he’d climb out and she’d drive away and that would be that. What the fuck you guys doing? Trading brain waves? He was fingering his molars—the radiation had cost him two already. Ain’t she, like, married to some Polack? Doesn’t she have, like, two kids? He looked at me. What the fuck do you know? Nothing. Nothing at all. Entonces cállate la fucking boca. So this was where he should have been from the start: taking it easy, hanging around the crib, smoking all my weed (I had to hide my puffing, while he twisted his joints right in the living room), watching the tube, sleeping. Mami was ecstatic. She even beamed every now and then. Told her group that Dios Santísimo had answered her prayers. Alabanza, Doña Rosie said, her eyes rolling around like marbles. I sat with him sometimes when the Mets were playing, and he wouldn’t say a word about how he was feeling, what he was expecting to happen. It was only when he was in bed, dizzy or nauseous, that I’d hear him groaning: What the hell is happening? What do I do? What do I do? I should have known that it was the calm before the storm. Not ten days after he recovered from that cough, he disappeared for almost the whole day, then rolled into the apartment and announced that he had scored himself a part-time job. I’m dying to hear the logic behind this, I said. A man has to stay busy. He grinned like an idiot. Got to make myself useful. Hijo, you cannot be serious. My mother sat next to him. But he was already engrossed in the TV. Nothing to worry about, Ma. It’s only part time. It was at the Yarn Barn, of all places. My mother literally got on her knees, begging him not to do it. Hijo, please, think of how weak you are. Remember what your doctor said. Jesus, Ma, get off the floor. You’re embarrassing me. La vaina was a total mystery. Wasn’t like my brother had some incredible work ethic that needed exercising. The only job Rafa had ever had was pumping to the Old Bridge white kids, and even on that front he’d been super laid back. If he’d wanted to keep busy he could have gone back to that—it would have been easy, and I told him so. We still knew a lot of white kids over in Cliffwood Beach and Laurence Harbor, a whole dirtbag clientele, but he wouldn’t do it. What kind of legacy is that? Legacy? I couldn’t believe what I was hearing. Bro, you’re working at the Yarn Barn! Better than being a dealer. Anybody can do that. And selling yarn? That’s only for the giants? He put his hands on his lap. Stared at them. You live your life, Yunior. I’ll live mine. My brother had never been the most rational of agents, but this one was the ill zinger. I chalked it up to boredom, to those eight months he had spent in the hospital. To the medicine he was taking, to wanting to feel normal. In all honesty, he seemed pretty excited about the whole thing. Dressed up to go to the job, delicately combed that once great head of hair that had grown back sparse and pubic after the chemo. Gave himself plenty of time, too. Can’t be late. Every time he headed out, my mother would slam the door behind him, and if the Hallelujah Crew was available they’d all be on their knees. I may have been zooted out of my gourd most of the time, but I still managed to drop in on him a few times just to be sure he wasn’t face down in the mohair aisle. A surreal sight. The hardest dude in the nabe chasing price checks like a herb. I never stayed longer than it took to confirm that he was still alive. He pretended not to see me; I pretended not to have been seen. When he brought home his first check, he threw the money on the table and laughed: I’m making bank, baby. Oh yeah, I said, you’re killing it. Still, later that night I asked him for twenty and he gave it to me. Thankfully, that nonsense didn’t last. I mean, how could it? After about three weeks of making the fat white ladies nervous with his skeletal self, he started forgetting shit, getting disoriented, handing customers the wrong change, cursing people out. And finally he just sat down in the middle of an aisle and couldn’t get up. Too sick to drive himself home, so the job people called the apartment, got me right out of bed. I found him sitting in the office, his head hanging, and when I helped him to his feet this Spanish girl who was taking care of him started bawling as if I was leading him off to the gas chamber. He had a fever like a motherfucker. I could feel the heat through the denim of his apron. Jesus, Rafa, I said He didn’t lift his eyes. Mumbled, Nos fuimos. He stretched out on the back seat of his Monarch while I drove us home. I feel like I’m dying, he said. You ain’t dying. I eased onto Westminster. But if you do kick it leave me the ride, O.K.? I’m not leaving this baby to nobody. I’m going to be buried in it. In this piece of crap? Yup. With my TV and my boxing gloves. What, you a pharaoh now? He raised his thumb in the air. Put your slave ass in the trunk The fever lasted two days, but it took a week before he was close to better, before he was spending more time on the couch than in bed. I was convinced that as soon as he was mobile he was going to head right back to Yarn Barn, or try to join the Marines or something. My mother feared the same. Told him every chance she got that it wasn’t going to happen. She was the tiniest person, but she posted up on him like she was Gigantor. I won’t allow it. Her eyes were shining behind her black Madres de Plaza de Mayo glasses. I won’t. Me, your mother, will not allow it. Leave me alone, Ma. Leave me alone. You could tell he was going to pull something stupid. The good thing was he didn’t try to go back to the Barn. The bad thing was what he did with Pura. Remember the Spanish chick, the one who’d been crying over him at the Yarn Barn? Well, turns out she was actually Dominican. Not Dominican like my brother or me but Dominican Dominican. As in fresh-off-the-boat-didn’t-have-no-papers Dominican. Before Rafa was even better, she started coming around, all solicitous and eager; would sit with him on the couch and watch Telemundo. (I don’t have a TV, she must have told us twenty times.) Lived in London Terrace, too, over in Building 22, with her little son Adrian, stuck in a tiny room she was renting from this older Gujarati guy, so it wasn’t exactly a hardship for her to hang out with (as she put it) her gente. Even though she was trying to be all proper, keeping her legs crossed, calling my mother Señora, Rafa was on her like an octopus. By visit five, he was taking her down to the basement, whether the Hallelujah Crew was around or not. Pura was her name. Pura Adames. Pura Mierda was what Mami called her. O.K., for the record, I didn’t think Pura was so bad; she was a hell of a lot better than most of the hos my brother had brought around. Guapísima as hell: tall and indiacita, with huge feet and an incredibly soulful face, but unlike your average hood hottie Pura seemed not to know what to do with her fineness, was sincerely lost in all the pulchritude. A total campesina, from the way she held herself down to the way she talked, which was so demotic I couldn’t understand half of what she said—she used words like “deguabinao” and “estribao” on the regular. She’d talk your ear off if you let her, and was way too honest: within a week she’d told us her whole life story. How her father had died when she was young; how her mother had married her off at thirteen to a stingy fifty-year-old (which was how she got her first son) for an undisclosed sum; how after a couple years of that terribleness she got the chance to jump from Las Matas de Farfán to Newark, brought over by a tía who wanted her to take care of her retarded son and bedridden husband; how she had run away from her, too, because she hadn’t come to Nueba Yol to be a slave to anyone, not anymore; how she had spent the next four years more or less being blown along on the winds of necessity, passing through Newark, Elizabeth, Paterson, Union City, Perth Amboy (where some crazy Cubano knocked her up), everybody taking advantage of her good nature; and now here she was in London Terrace, trying to stay afloat, looking for her next break. She smiled brightly at my brother when she said that. They don’t really marry girls off like that in the D.R., do they, Ma? Por favor, ridículo, Mami said. Don’t believe anything that puta tells you. But a week later she and the Horsefaces were lamenting how often that happened in the campo, how Mami herself had had to fight to keep her own crazy mother from trading her for a pair of goats. Now, my mother, she had a simple policy when it came to my brother’s “amiguitas”: since none of them were ever going to last, she paid them no more heed than she’d paid our chickens back in the D.R. Didn’t bother even to learn their names. Mami wasn’t mean to them or anything. If a girl said hi, she would say hi back, and if a girl was courteous Mami would return the courtesy. But the vieja didn’t expend more than a watt of herself. She was unwaveringly, punishingly indifferent. Pura, man, was another story. For some reason, Pura brought it out in Mami. Right from the beginning it was clear that Mami did not like this girl. It wasn’t just that Pura was mad obvious about the paper thing, dropping hints non-stop about her immigration status—how her life would be so much better, how her son’s life would be so much better, how she would finally be able to visit her poor mother and her other son in Las Matas, if only she had papers. Mami had dealt with paper bitches before, and she never got this pissy. Something about Pura’s face, her timing, her personality, just drove Mami batshit. Felt real personal. Or maybe Mami had a presentiment of what was to come. Whatever it was, Mami was super evil to Pura. If she wasn’t getting on her about the way she talked, the way she dressed, how she ate (with her mouth open), how she walked, about her campesina-ness, about her prieta-ness, Mami would pretend that she was invisible, would walk right through her, pushing her aside, ignoring her most basic questions. If she had to refer to Pura at all, it was to say something like Rafa, what would Puta like to eat? Banana-ness! But what made it all the iller was that Pura seemed completely oblivious of the hostility! No matter how Mami acted or what Mami said, Pura kept trying to chat Mami up. Instead of shrinking Pura, Mami’s bitchiness seemed only to make her more herself. When she and Rafa were alone, Pura was pretty quiet, but when Mami was around homegirl had an opinion about everything, jumped in on every conversation, said shit that made no sense—like that the capital of the United States was N.Y.C. or that there were only three continents—and then would defend it to the death. You’d think with Mami stalking her she’d be careful and restrained, but nope. The girl took liberties! Búscame algo para comer, she’d say to me. No please or nothing. If I didn’t get her what she wanted, she would help herself to sodas or flan. My mother would take food out of Pura’s hands, but as soon as Mami turned around Pura would be back in the fridge helping herself. Even told Mami that she should paint the apartment. You need color in here. Esta sala está muerta. I shouldn’t laugh, but it was all kinda funny. Buy the print » And the Horsefaces? They could have moderated things a little, don’t you think, but they were, like, Fuck that, what are friendships for if not for instigating? They beat the anti-Pura drums daily. Ella es prieta. Ella es fea. Ella dejó un hijo en Santo Domingo. Ella tiene otro aquí. No tiene hombre. No tiene dinero. No tiene papeles. Qué tú crees que ella busca por aquí? They terrorized Mami with the scenario of Pura getting pregnant with my brother’s citizen sperm and Mami having to support her and her kids and her people in Santo Domingo forever, and Mami, the same woman who now prayed to God on a Mecca timetable, told the Horsefaces that if that happened she’d cut the baby out of Pura herself. Ten mucho cuidado, she said to my brother. I don’t want a mono in this house. Too late, Rafa said, eying me. My brother could have made life easier by not having Pura over so much or by limiting her to when Mami was at the factory, but when had he ever done the reasonable thing? He’d sit on the couch in the middle of all that tension, and he actually seemed to be enjoying himself. Maybe dying makes you more romantic, what the fuck did I know, but he was definitely more caballero with Pura than he’d been with his other girls. Opening doors. Talking all polite. Even making nice with her cross-eyed boy. A lot of his ex-girls would have died to see this Rafa. This was the Rafa they’d all been waiting for. Romeo or not, I still didn’t think the relationship was going to last. I mean, my brother never kept a girl, ever; dude had thrown away better bitches than Pura without so much as a thought. And that was the way it seemed to go. After a month or so, Pura just disappeared. You should have seen how gleeful Mami was. Set the table singing: No puta aquí, ni aquí, ni aquí. A couple weeks later, Rafa disappeared. Took the Monarch and vanished. No note or telephone call, nada. Gone for one day, gone for two. By then Mami was starting to flip seriously out. Had the Four Horsefaces putting out an A.P.B. on the godline. Walked around the neighborhood asking everybody if they’d seen my brother, even the gringos, and my mother had to be under serious duress to speak to a gringo. I was starting to worry, too, remembering that when he was first diagnosed he’d jumped into his ride and tried to drive to Miami, where he had some boy or another. He hadn’t made it past Philly before his car broke down. I wondered if he was on his way to Cali or something. He’d always wanted to see L.A. One of his dreams. I got worried enough that I walked over to Tammy Franco’s house, but when her Polack husband answered the door I lost my nerve. I turned around and walked away. On the third night we were in the apartment just waiting when the Monarch pulled up. My mother ran over to the porch. Holding the curtains until her knuckles were white. No, she said finally. Rafa stomped in with Pura in tow. He was clearly drunk, and Pura was dressed as if they’d just been at a club. Where have you been? Mami said. Check it out, Rafa said, holding out both his and Pura’s hands. They had rings on. We got married! It’s totally official, Pura said giddily, pulling the license from her purse. You should have seen the expression on my mother’s face. It was worse than when my father ran off with his putika. Worse than when the doctor had first said the word “leukemia.” Her face drained of everything. Is she pregnant? Not yet, Pura said. Is she pregnant? My mother looked straight at my brother. No, Rafa said. I’m going to be moving in, cuñada. Pura went to hug my mother. Let’s have a drink, my brother said. My mother stopped Pura with an upraised finger. No one is drinking in my house. I’m having a drink. My brother walked toward the kitchen but my mother stiff-armed him. Ma, Rafa said. No one is drinking in this house. She pushed Rafa back. If this—she threw her hand in Pura’s direction—is how you want to spend what might be the last months of your life, then, Rafael Urbano, I have nothing more to say to you. Please, I would like you and your puta to leave my house. My brother’s eyes went flat. I ain’t going anywhere. I want you—and this is when she started shrieking—out of here! For a second I thought my brother, who had punched every fucking thing that had ever crossed him—boys, girls, men, women, viejos, white boys, morenos, Boricuas, Filipinos, chinos, teachers, policemen—but had never in his life put his hand on my mother, was going to pop her. I really did. And for an instant I think he considered it. But then all the swolt went out of him. He put his arm around Pura (who, for once, looked as if she understood that something was wrong). I’ll see you later, Ma, he said. Then he got back into the Monarch and drove away. Mami? Are you O.K.? She continued to stare out the window at the parking lot. Lock the door, Yunior. I never would have guessed it would last as long as it did. My mother couldn’t resist my brother. Not ever. No matter what the fuck he pulled—and my brother pulled a lot of shit, a lot of shit—she was always a hundred per cent on his side, as only a Latin mom can be with her querido oldest hijo. If he’d come home one day and said, Hey, Ma, I exterminated half the planet, I’m sure she would have defended his ass: Well, hijo, we were overpopulated anyways. There was the cultural stuff, and the cancer stuff, of course, but you also got to factor in that Mami had miscarried her first two fetuses and that by the time she’d gotten pregnant with Rafa she’d been told for years that she’d never have children again; my brother himself had almost died in childbirth, and for the first two years of his life Mami had had this morbid fear (so my tías tell me) that someone was going to kidnap him. Factor in, too, that he had always been the most beautiful of boys—her total consentido—and you begin to get a sense of how she felt about the lunatic. You hear mothers say all the time that they would die for their children, but my mom never said shit like that. She didn’t have to. When it came to my brother, it was written across her face in 112-point Tupac Gothic—when you saw her watching him you knew that not only would this fucking vieja die for her son, she would probably put a knife in God’s eye if it would give my brother an extra day of life. So I figured that after a few days of heat she’d crack, and then there’d be hugs and kisses (maybe a kick to Pura’s head), and it would be all love again. But shit on a shingle if Mami wasn’t playing, and she told him as much the next time Rafa came to the door. I don’t want you in here. Mami shook her head firmly. Go live with your wife. You think I was surprised? You should have seen my brother. He looked gobsmacked. Fuck you then, he said to Mami, and when I told him not to talk to my mother like that he said, Fuck you, too. Rafa, come on, I said, following him into the street. You can’t be serious—you don’t even know that chick. He wasn’t listening. When I got close to him, he punched me in the chest. Hope you like the smell of curry, I called after him. And baby shit. Ma, I said. What are you thinking? Ask him what he is thinking. Two days later, when Mami was at work and I was in Sayreville hanging with the boys, Rafa let himself into the house and grabbed the rest of his stuff. He also helped himself to his bed, to the TV, and to Mami’s bed. The neighbors who saw him told us he had some Indian guy with him. I was so mad I wanted to call the cops, but my mother forbade it. If that’s how he wants to live his life, I won’t stop him. Sounds great, Ma, but what the fuck am I going to watch my shows on? She looked at me grimly. We have another TV. We did. A ten-inch black-and-white with its volume control permanently locked at 2. Mami told me to bring down a spare mattress from Doña Rosie’s apartment. This is just terrible what’s happening, just terrible, Doña Rosie said. It’s nothing, Mami said, sighing. You should have seen what we slept on when I was little. Next time I saw my brother on the street he was with Pura and the kid, looking awful in gear that no longer fit him. I yelled, You asshole, you got Mami sleeping on the fucking floor! Don’t talk to me, Yunior, he warned. I’ll fucking cut your throat. Any time, brother, I said. Any time. Now that he weighed a hundred and ten pounds and I had bench-pressed my way up to a hundred and seventy-nine, I could be aguajero, but he just ran his finger across his neck. Leave him alone, Pura pleaded, trying to keep him from coming after me. Leave us all alone. Oh, hi, Pura. They ain’t deported you yet? By then my brother was charging, and, a hundred and ten pounds or not, I decided not to push it. I scrammed. Never would have predicted it, but Mami hung tough. Went to work. Did her prayer group, spent the rest of her time in her room. He’s made his choice. She didn’t allow me or anyone else to speak his name. Took down all his pictures. First my father and now Rafa. I was all that was left. But she didn’t stop praying for him. I heard her in the group asking God to protect her wayward son, to heal him, to give him the power of discernment. Sometimes she sent me over to check up on him under the pretense of bringing him medicine. I was scared, thinking he was going to kill me, but my mother was even scarier. First, I had to be let into the apartment by the Gujarati guy, and then I had to knock and be let into their room. Pura actually kept the place pretty tight, got herself dolled up for these visits, put her son in his F.O.B. best. She really played it to the hilt. Gave me a big hug. How are you doing, hermanito? Rafa, on the other hand, didn’t seem to give two shits. He lay on the bed in his underwear, didn’t say anything to me, while I sat with Pura on the edge of the bed, dutifully explaining some pill or another, and Pura would nod and nod but not look like she was getting any of it. And then quietly I’d ask, Has he been eating? Has he been sick at all? Pura glanced at my brother. He’s been muy fuerte. No vomiting? No fevers? Pura shook her head. O.K., then. I got up. Bye, Rafa. Bye, dickhole. Doña Rosie was always with my mother when I returned from these missions, to keep Mami from seeming desperate. How did he look? la Doña asked. Did he say anything? He called me a dickhole. I’d say that was promising. Once, when Mami and I were heading to the Pathmark, we caught sight of my brother in the distance with Pura and the brat. I turned to watch them to see if they would wave, but my mother kept walking. September brought school back. Officially my senior year. I’d been bumped down from honors to college prep—which was Cedar Ridge’s way of saying not-going-to-college prep. For the most part everybody left me alone—I was the cancer kid’s brother, what did anyone have to talk to me about? All I did was read, and when I was too high to read I stared out the windows. After a couple weeks of that bullshit, I went back to cutting classes, which was the reason I’d been demoted out of honors in the first place. My mother left for work early, got back late, and couldn’t read a word of English, so it wasn’t as if I was ever in danger of being caught. Which was why I was home the day my brother unlocked the front door and walked into the apartment. He jumped when he saw me sitting on the couch. What the hell are you doing here? I laughed. What the hell are you doing here? He looked awful. He had this black cold sore at the corner of his mouth, and his eyes had sunk into his face like little pits. No question about it: he had lost weight. What the fuck you been doing to yourself? You look worse than five-day-old shit. He ignored me and marched into Mami’s room. I stayed seated, heard him rummaging around for a while, and then he walked out. This happened two more times. It wasn’t until the third time he was crashing around Mami’s room that it dawned on my Cheech and Chong ass what was happening. Rafa was taking the money my mother kept stashed in her room! It was in a little metal box whose location she often changed but which I kept track of just in case I ever needed some bucks on the quick. I went into her room while Rafa was mucking around in the closet, and slid the box out from one of her drawers, put it snug under my arm. He came out of the closet. He looked at me, I looked at him. Give it to me, he said. You ain’t getting shit. He grabbed me. Any other day of our lives this would have been no contest—he would have broken me in four—but the rules had changed. I couldn’t decide which was greater: the exhilaration of beating him at something physical for the first time in my life or the fear. We knocked this shit over and that shit over, but I kept the box from him and finally he let go. I was ready for a second round, but he was shaking like a Seventh-day Adventist. That’s fine, he panted. You keep the money. But don’t you worry. I’ll fix you soon enough, Mr. Big Shit. I’m really scared, I said. That night I told Mami everything. (Of course, I stressed that it had all gone down after I got home from school.) She turned the stove on under the beans she had left soaking that morning. Please don’t fight your brother. Let him take whatever he wants. But he’s stealing our money! He can have it. Fuck that, I said. I’m going to change the lock. No, you are not. This is his apartment, too. Are you fucking kidding me, Ma? I was about to explode, but then it hit me. I looked at my mother. Ma? Yes, hijo. How long has he been doing it? Doing what? How long, Ma? How goddam long? She turned her back to me so I threw the little metal box across the room. Knocked the big wooden spoon she had tacked up on the wall to the floor. At the beginning of October, we got a call from Pura. He’s not feeling well. My mother nodded, and so I went over to check. Talk about an understatement. My brother was straight delusional. Burning up. When I put my hands on him, he looked at me with zero recognition. Pura was sitting on the edge of the bed, holding her son, trying to look all worried. Give me the damn keys, I said, but she smiled weakly. We lost them. She was lying, of course. She knew that if I got the keys to the Monarch she’d never see that car again. I found a shopping cart and put him in it. Pura watched us from the front stoop. I have to take care of Adrian, she explained. All Mami’s praying must have paid off, because we got one miracle that day. Guess who was parked in front of the apartment, who came running when she saw what I had in the shopping cart, who took Rafa and me and Mami and all the Horsefaces up to Beth Israel? That’s right: Tammy Franco. A.k.a. Fly Tetas. After Rafa got out of the hospital, they went back to their old routine, except that he was too sick to sit with her anymore. He’d stand behind our glass porch door and she’d sit in the car, and they’d stare at each other. As for Pura—who visited my brother exactly never while he was in the hospital—she dropped by one more time. Rafa was still in Beth Israel, so I wasn’t under any obligation to let her ass in, but my mother insisted. Pura sat down on the couch and tried to hold my mother’s hands, but Mami wasn’t having any of it. She had Adrian with her, and the little manganzón immediately started running around and knocking into things, and I had to resist the urge to break my foot off in his ass. Without losing her smile, Pura explained that Rafa had borrowed money from her and she needed it back; otherwise, she was going to lose her apartment. Oh, por favor, I spat. My mother eyed her carefully, as if measuring her neck for a severing. How much was it? Two thousand dollars. Two thousand dollars. In 198— My mother nodded thoughtfully. What do you think he did with the money? I don’t know, Pura whispered. He never explained anything to me. And then she fucking smiled. The girl really was a genius. Mami and I both looked liked creamed shit, but she sat there as fine as anything and confident to the max—now that the whole thing was over she didn’t even bother hiding it. I would have clapped if I’d had the strength, but I was too depressed. Mami sighed. Give me a second. She went into her bedroom, and I figured she was going to emerge with my father’s Saturday-night special, the one thing of his that she’d kept when he left. To protect us, she claimed, but more likely to shoot my father dead if she ever saw him again. I looked at Pura’s kid, happily throwing around the TV Guide, and wondered how much he was going to like being an orphan, but Mami didn’t come out with a pistol; she held a hundred-dollar bill. Ma, I cried. She gave the bill to Pura but didn’t let go of her end. For a minute they stared at each other, and then Mami let the bill go, the force between them so strong the paper popped. God bless you, Pura said, fixing her top across her breasts before standing. None of us saw Pura or her son or our car or our TV or our beds or the X amount of dollars Rafa had stolen for her ever again. She blew out of the Terrace sometime before Christmas to points unknown. The Gujarati guy told me when I ran into him at the Pathmark. He was still pissed because Pura had stiffed him almost two months’ rent. Last time I ever rent to one of you people. Amen, I said. So you’d have thought Rafa would be at least a little contrite, right? Fat chance. He didn’t say a thing about Pura, and not two days after he got out of the hospital I was coming home from the store with a gallon of milk when, out of nowhere, my face exploded. All the circuits in my brain went lights out. No idea how long I was down, but a dream and a half later I found myself on my knees, my face on fire, holding in my hands not the milk but a huge Yale padlock. Wasn’t until I made it home and Mami put a compress on the knot under my cheek that I figured it out. Someone had thrown that lock at me. Someone who, when he was still playing baseball for the high school, had had his fastball clocked at ninety-three miles per hour. That’s just terrible, Rafa clucked. They could have taken your eye out. Later, when Mami went to bed, he looked at me evenly: Didn’t I tell you I was going to fix you? Didn’t I?
The Knocking Upstairs, he stops for a moment, just to let the tension build, and then he begins again, softer at first, going east to west and then east again, heading toward the Fifth Avenue side of the building, pausing to get his bearings, to look out at the view, to taunt me, I imagine, before going back into motion for a few minutes, setting the pace with a pendulous movement, following the delineation of the apartment walls—his the same as mine, exactly the same—and then there is another pause, and I lean back and study the ceiling and hear, far off, the sound of knocking in his kitchen, until eventually, maybe five minutes, maybe more, he comes back and begins again persistent and steady, without the usual aggression, as if he had forgotten me, set me aside, put away his desire for vengeance, offering a reprieve from the nature of his knocking. Maybe a five-minute reprieve, more or less, because it is impossible to guess how long these quiet moments will last when they open up overhead, since I know, as I wait, that the knocking will begin again, if not in the form of his tapping heel, then as some other kind of knocking: perhaps the sound of the hammer he uses to pound nails (he’s a big nail pounder; he’ll hang pictures at all hours), or the rubbery thud of his printer at work (he’s a big printer, scrolling out documents in the wee hours of the morning, at dusk, and at dawn), or the thump of his mattress hitting the slats, accompanied by the wheeze of springs (the wheeze not officially a knocking, but functioning as a kind of arabesque, a grace note to the mattress knocks that arrive after he’s done some easeful swaying in his bed). Other sounds, too, that might be included in the knocking family accumulate in my mind this afternoon, an entire cornucopia of noises stretching back to the day I moved in, two years ago—pot/pan banging, dull plaster thud, bubbling water dribble, the claw-scratch titter that continued for a week, the incessant moaning, and the grief-filled swooning sound that arose intermittently and at first sounded human but then, in the course of a few days, took on a mechanistic, reproduced quality that made me certain it was a recording, a tape loop of some sort. He was that kind of knocker. He was willing to go beyond the call of duty to find a way to make a new noise and then to repeat it endlessly. He was the kind of knocker who would learn a fresh technique, a manner of landing his heel on the floor, of lifting his toes and letting them rattle a board, and work with a calisthenic efficiency—all bones and sinew—to transmit the sound via the uncarpeted prewar floorboards of his apartment, woody, resonant oak, solid enough to withstand the harder strikes. He not only took knocking seriously but went beyond that, to a realm of pure belief in the idea that by being persistent and knocking only for the sake of knocking—in other words, blanking me at least temporarily out of his consciousness, and in doing so forgetting the impulse (our brief meeting in the hall) for starting to knock in the first place—he could increase his level of concentration, achieve rapture, and, in turn, strengthen his ability to sustain the knocking over the long run. By casting off that original impetus (our brief hallway exchange that was not really a friendly greeting but a curt nod of heads, in which it seemed to me that we agreed to a mutual distaste for each other while, at the same time, our stories—in one of those fleeting, New York-style flashes—were conveyed), he could hit the floor with his heels while I, below, heard him and knew that he was doing so driven by a faith that went beyond retribution. (I’d tried, long ago, to return the knocks, pounding the ceiling with a broom handle, getting up on a stepladder to follow the footfalls, only to find that, as the one below, I was unable to fend off the knocking; because to knock up is not the same as to knock down, and any sound that resides at the feet most certainly isn’t the same as a sound that comes down upon the head.) Theoretically, there is still debate about the nature of the knock in relation to the listener, of course, and one can easily postulate that a knock not heard is not a knock but, rather, a sound, pure and simple, and that to qualify as an official knock the sound not only must be heard but also must arrive in the ears with an annoying quality. To be sure, there are gentle knocks, sweet knocks, but those usually fall into the category of soft rappings: the late-night arrival, the lover-to-lover, message-through-the-wall (often adulterous) tap; the old-school, salesman-at-the-door, Fuller Brush five-knuckle rap—a deep anachronism now, replaced long ago by the doorbell, which, in turn, has been replaced by the telephone ring. To the recipient of the knock, all theories, no matter how plausible or how sensible, are destroyed by the sound itself. Imaginative capacities gather around the knock. A hammer against a nail, sharp and determined, goes on a beat too long, pounding and pounding throughout an entire evening, with metronomic precision. The rounded edge of a sap—lead in leather—is slapped against the floorboards overhead, making a blunt rubbery thud with a leathery overtone. A sharp metallic tap, not too loud and not too soft, comes out from under the casual noise of a summer afternoon—the roar of traffic on Fifth combined with high-heeled taps, taxi horns, and the murmur of voices—with a hauntingly pristine quality, like the tin tip of a walking stick. A sweeping sound stretches from one side of the head to the other, arriving one afternoon . . . Again, many of these knockings come late in the day, when he knows, because he does know, that I’m in my deepest state of reverie, trying to ponder—what else can one do!—the nature of my sadness in relation to my past actions, throwing out, silently, wordlessly, my theorems: Love is a blank senseless vibration that, when picked up by another soul, begins to form something that feels eternal (like our marriage) and then tapers and thins and becomes wispy, barely audible (the penultimate days in the house by the Hudson), and then is, finally, nothing but air unable to move anything (the deep persistent silence of loss; Mary gone, kids gone). One afternoon—as I was remembering how it felt to slide my hand along Mary’s hips, or the way her skin smoothed out around her belly and grew bone hard and then softer and flatter until I got to the even softer wetness—the sweeping sound began, not a knocking but simply the sound of a man upstairs straightening his apartment in the middle of a hot New York afternoon—a clean, easy sound at first. Nothing to it—no knocking—until my attention was drawn away from reverie (Mary) and I detected within the sound a hardness, a pressing nature, and became aware, over the course of what seemed to be an hour, that the sound remained just above my head, with a steadiness that went beyond the nature of the task. There was keen deliberateness. He was going to sweep his way through the floor, the joists and plaster. At some point the sweet, even anachronistic, broom swish switched over to knock mode; not so much the actual sound but, rather, the intent behind the gesture had gone from the act of sweeping to the sound that the act made, so that it was clear to me below that what had started out as a normal cleaning routine had, perhaps in response to my moaning and occasional shouts up at the ceiling between sweeps, shifted to knocking. In other words, at some point his desire to sweep had morphed into a desire to knock. Another example: One relatively quiet afternoon—just the dull murmur of televisions going on all sides, the occasional voice in the air shaft—my friend upstairs decided to hang a picture of some kind, or to pound a nail for some other reason (is there another reason?), and he began with the occasional tap, teasingly working the point of the nail into the plaster. It was a tidy sound, with something pleasant in it. The hammerhead against the nail. Force being transferred to the tapered point, easing into the plaster, finding the gap where the plaster opens into void. I listened with pleasure. Leaning back in my chair, I thought, Go on, old boy! Pound away! Get that nail in there! Don’t pause too long or you’ll lose your sense of the task! Get to work! Find some semblance of rhythm in the strikes! Hold the hammer low and let it swing lightly to avoid pressure on the inside of the wrist! Get into that pure state if you can, and let the head fall in accordance with the demands of the nail itself ! If need be, go back in your mind to those long afternoons in the house in Westchester, when you were neatly tied up in your matrimonial vows and waiting to see what the next project might bring in the way of quietude: some afternoon, cutting into a board, or feeling your way around a broken water valve in a dark recess. Let the pounding become one with your own sense of needing to get something done, physically, to see some effort transposed from thumb to forefinger, so to speak, smoothing down freshly poured concrete with a trowel, feeling the gelatinous shift of substance. Whatever it is, I thought, or maybe even shouted—because I was prone to instruct him when necessary and might have shouted up at the ceiling—whatever it is you’re doing, get it done swiftly and with clean strokes and avoid catching yourself up in the task itself. Go to it, old boy! I’m sure I said. Get into it! Pound away! The age of the handy task is waning. We’re in the twilight of the age of knocking, I’m sure I said. The great tradition is on its way out, I know I said, I think, because he was going full bore with a terrifying, frenetic efficiency, pinpointing the sound with a steady, ecstatic perfection. He was the greatest of all knockers. He was a brilliant virtuosic master of the form, landing thuds in what seemed an intuitively perfect way. No intent, no human intent of any kind, could find such a precise way to make the sound he made. He was at the top of his form. Each knock had my name on it! Each knock spoke directly to me! His was the work of a man on the edge of madness. A man who had lost just about everything, and was channelling all his abilities into his knocking. He was seeking the kind of clarity you could get only by bothering another soul, down below (never up) in his own abode, hunkering down on a hot summer afternoon on the great insular isle of the Manhattoes, trying to put the pain of a lost marriage behind him (Mary!), along with fond memories of a time when the desire he felt for his wife was equally matched by her desire for him (presumably); when there had been a great exchange of love between two souls, or at least what seemed to be, and he had gone about his days, puttering, fixing things, knocking about in a much less artistic manner, trying the best he could to keep the house in shape.
Ask Me If I Care Late at night, when there’s nowhere left to go, we go to Alice’s house. Scotty drives his pickup, two of us squeezed in the front with him, blasting bootleg tapes of the Stranglers, the Mutants, Negative Trend, the other two stuck in the back, where you freeze all year long, getting tossed in the actual air when Scotty crests the hills. Still, if it’s Bennie and me I hope for the back, so that I can push against his shoulder in the cold, and hold him for a second when we hit a bump. The first time we go to Sea Cliff, where Alice lives, she points up a hill at fog sneaking through the eucalyptus trees and says that her old school is up there: an all-girls school that her little sisters go to now. K through six, you wear a green plaid jumper and brown shoes, after that a blue skirt and white sailor top, and you can pick your own shoes. Scotty goes, “Can we see them?” and Alice goes, “My uniforms?” but Scotty says, “Your alleged sisters.” Alice leads the way upstairs, Scotty and Bennie right behind her. They’re both fascinated by Alice, but it’s Bennie who entirely loves her. And Alice loves Scotty, of course. Bennie’s shoes are off, and I watch his brown heels sink into the white cotton-candy carpet, so thick that it muffles every trace of us. Jocelyn and I come last. She leans close to me, and inside her whisper I smell cherry gum covering up the five hundred cigarettes she’s smoked. I can’t smell the gin we drank at the beginning of the night, taking it from my dad’s hidden supply and pouring it into Coke cans so that we could drink it on the street. Jocelyn goes, “Watch, Rhea. They’ll be blond like her, the sisters.” I go, “According to?” “Rich children are always blond,” Jocelyn says. “It has to do with vitamins.” Believe me, I don’t mistake this for information. I know everyone that Jocelyn knows. The room is dark except for a pink night-light. I stop in the doorway and Bennie hangs back, too, but the other three go crowding into the space between the beds. Alice’s little sisters are sleeping on their sides, the covers tucked around their shoulders. One looks like Alice, with pale wavy hair; the other is dark, like Jocelyn. I’m afraid that they’ll wake up and be scared of us, in our dog collars and safety pins and shredded T-shirts. I think, We shouldn’t be here. Scotty shouldn’t have asked to come in. Alice shouldn’t have said yes, but she says yes to everything that Scotty asks. I think, I want to lie down in one of those beds and go to sleep. “Ahem,” I whisper to Jocelyn as we’re leaving the room. “Dark hair.” She whispers back, “Black sheep.” 1980 is almost here, thank God. The hippies are getting old. They blew their brains on acid, and now they’re begging on street corners all over San Francisco. Their hair is tangled and their bare feet are as thick and gray as shoes. We’re sick of them. At school, we spend every free minute in the Pit. It’s not a pit, in the strictly speaking sense; it’s a strip of pavement above the playing fields. We inherited it from last year’s Pitters, who graduated, but still we get nervous walking in if other Pitters are already there: Tatum, who wears a different color Danskin every day, or Wayne, who grows sinsemilla in his actual closet, or Boomer, who’s always hugging everyone since his family did est. I’m nervous walking in unless Jocelyn is already there, or (for her) I am. We stand in for each other. On warm days, Scotty plays his guitar. Not the electric he uses for Flaming Dildos gigs but a lap steel guitar that you hold a different way. Scotty actually built this instrument—bent the wood, glued it, painted on the shellac. Everyone gathers around; there’s no way not to when Scotty plays. One time the entire J.V. soccer team climbed up to listen, all of them looking around in their jerseys and long red socks like they didn’t know how they’d got there. Scotty is magnetic. And I say this as someone who does not love him. The Flaming Dildos have had a lot of names: the Crabs, the Croks, the Crimps, the Crunch, the Scrunch, the Gawks, the Gobs, the Flaming Spiders, the Black Widows. Every time Scotty and Bennie change the name, Scotty sprays black paint over his guitar case and Bennie’s bass case, and then he makes a stencil of the new name and sprays it on. We don’t know how Bennie and Scotty decide if they’re going to keep a name, because they don’t actually talk. But they agree on everything, maybe through E.S.P. Jocelyn and I write all the lyrics and work out the tunes with Bennie and Scotty. We sing with them in rehearsal, but we don’t like being onstage. Alice doesn’t, either—the only thing we have in common with her. Bennie transferred here last year from a high school in Daly City. We don’t know where he lives, but some days we visit him after school at Green Apple Records, on Clement, where he works. If Alice comes with us, Bennie will take his break and share a pork bun in the Chinese bakery next door, while the fog gallops past the windows. Bennie has light-brown skin and excellent eyes, and he irons his hair into a Mohawk as shiny black as a virgin LP. He’s usually looking at Alice, so I can watch him as much as I want. Down the path from the Pit is where the Cholos hang out, with their black leather coats and clicky shoes and dark hair in almost invisible nets. Sometimes they talk to Bennie in Spanish, and he smiles at them but never answers. “Why do they keep speaking Spanish to him?” I go to Jocelyn, and she looks at me and goes, “Rhea, Bennie’s a Cholo. Isn’t that obvious?” “That’s factually crazy,” I go, and my face gets hot. “He has a Mohawk. And he’s not even friends with them.” Jocelyn goes, “Not all Cholos are friends.” Then she says, “The good part is: rich girls won’t go with Cholos. So he’ll never get Alice, period-the-end.” Jocelyn knows that I’m waiting for Bennie. But Bennie is waiting for Alice, who’s waiting for Scotty, who’s waiting for Jocelyn, who’s known Scotty the longest and makes him feel safe, I think, because even though Scotty is magnetic, with bleached hair and a studly chest that he likes to uncover when it’s sunny out, his mother killed herself three years ago with sleeping pills. Scotty’s been quieter since then, and in cold weather he shivers like someone is shaking him. Jocelyn loves Scotty back, but she isn’t in love with him. Jocelyn is waiting for Lou, an adult man who picked her up hitchhiking. Lou lives in L.A., but he said he would call her the next time he comes to San Francisco. That was weeks ago. No one is waiting for me. Usually the girl in a story that no one is waiting for is fat, but my problem is more rare: I have freckles. I look like someone threw handfuls of mud at my face. When I was little, my mom told me that my freckles were special. Thank God I’ll be able to remove them, when I’m old enough and can pay for it myself. Until that time I have my dog collar and my green rinse, because how can anyone call me “the girl with freckles” when my hair is green? Jocelyn has chopped black hair that looks permanently wet, and twelve ear piercings that I gave her with a needle, not using ice. She has a beautiful half-Chinese face. It makes a difference. Jocelyn and I have done everything together since fourth grade: hopscotch, jump rope, charm bracelets, buried treasure, Harriet the Spying, blood sisters, crank calls, pot, coke, quaaludes. She’s seen my dad puking into the hedge outside our building, and I was with her on Polk Street the night she recognized one of the leather boys hugging outside the White Swallow—it was her dad, who was on a “business trip,” back before he moved away. So I still can’t believe that I missed the day she met Lou. She was hitchhiking home from downtown and he pulled up in a red Mercedes and drove her to an apartment that he uses on his trips to San Francisco. He unscrewed the bottom of a can of Right Guard, and a baggie of cocaine dropped out. Lou did some lines off Jocelyn’s bare butt and they went all the way twice, not including when she went down on him. I made Jocelyn repeat every detail of this story until I knew everything she knew, so that we could be equal again. Lou is a music producer who knows Bill Graham personally. There were gold and silver record albums on his walls and a thousand electric guitars. The Flaming Dildos rehearsal is on Saturday, in Scotty’s garage. When Jocelyn and I get there, Alice is setting up the new tape recorder that her stepfather bought her, with a real microphone. She’s one of those girls who like machines—another reason for Bennie to love her. Joel, the Dildos’ steady drummer, arrives next, driven by his dad, who waits outside in his station wagon through the whole practice, reading books about the Second World War. Joel is A.P. everything, and he’s applied to Harvard, so I guess his dad isn’t taking any chances. Where we live, in the Sunset, the ocean is always just over your shoulder and the houses have Easter-egg colors. But the second Scotty lets the garage door slam down we’re suddenly enraged, all of us. Pretty soon we’re screaming out the songs, which have titles like “Pet Rock” and “Do the Math” and “Pass Me the Kool-Aid,” but when we holler them in Scotty’s garage the lyrics might as well be fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck. Every once in a while a kid from band or orchestra pounds on the garage door to try out with us (invited by Bennie). Today we audition a sax, a tuba, and a banjo, but sax and banjo keep hogging the stage and tuba covers her ears as soon as we start to play. Practice is almost over when there’s another bang on the garage door and Scotty ropes it up. An enormous pimpled kid in an AC/DC T-shirt is standing there, holding a violin case. He goes, “I’m looking for Bennie Salazar?” Jocelyn and Alice and I stare at one another in shock, and it feels for a second like we’re all three friends, like Alice is part of “us.” “Hey, Marty,” Bennie says. “Perfect timing. Everybody, this is Marty.” Marty plugs in his violin and we launch into our best song, “What the Fuck?”: You said you were a fairy princess You said you were a shooting star You said we’d go to Bora-Bora Now look at where the fuck we are. Bora-Bora was Alice’s idea—we’d never heard of it. While everyone roars the chorus (“What the fuck? / What the fuck? / What the fuck?”), I watch Bennie listen, his eyes closed, his Mohawk like a million antennas pricking up from his head. When the song ends, he opens his eyes and grins. “I hope you got that, Al,” he goes, and Alice rewinds the tape to make sure. Alice takes all our tapes and turns them into one top tape, and Bennie and Scotty drive from club to club, trying to get people to book the Flaming Dildos for a gig. Our big hope is the Mab, of course: the Mabuhay Gardens, on Broadway, where all the punk bands play. We go there every Saturday night, after practice. We’ve heard the Dead Kennedys there, and Eye Protection, the Germs, and a trillion other bands. The bar is expensive, so we drink from my dad’s supply ahead of time. Jocelyn needs to drink more than me to get buzzed, and when she feels the booze hit she takes a long breath, like she’s finally herself again. “Can you stop complaining about historical inaccuracy and try to enjoy yourself for one minute?”Buy the print » In the Mab’s graffiti-splattered bathroom we eavesdrop and find out how Ricky Sleeper fell off the stage at a gig, how Joe Rees, of Target Video, is making an entire movie of punk rock, how two sisters we always see at the club have started turning tricks to pay for heroin. Knowing all this takes us one step closer to being real, but not completely. When does a fake Mohawk become a real Mohawk? Who decides? How do you know if it’s happened? During the shows we slam-dance in front of the stage. We tussle and push and get knocked down and pulled back up until our sweat is mixed up with real punks’ sweat and our skin has touched their skin. Bennie does less of this than the rest of us. I think he actually listens to the music. One thing I’ve noticed: there are no real punk rockers with freckles. They don’t exist. One night, Jocelyn answers her phone and it’s Lou, going, “Hello, Beautiful.” He says he’s been calling for days and days, but the phone just rings. “Why not try calling at night?” I ask, when Jocelyn repeats this. That Saturday, after rehearsal, she goes out with Lou. The rest of us go to the Mab, then back to Alice’s house. By now we treat the place like we own it: we eat the yogurt her mom makes in glass cups on a warming machine, we lie on the living-room couch with our sock feet on the armrests. One night, her mom made us hot chocolate and brought it into the living room on a gold tray. She had big tired eyes and tendons moving in her neck. Jocelyn whispered in my ear, “Rich people like to hostess, so they can show off their nice stuff.” Tonight, maybe because Jocelyn isn’t here, I ask Alice if she still has those school uniforms she mentioned the first time we came over. She looks surprised. “Yeah,” she goes. “I do.” I follow her up the fluffy stairs to her actual room, which I’ve never seen. It’s smaller than her sisters’ room, with blue shag carpeting and crisscross wallpaper in blue and white. Her bed is under a mountain of stuffed animals, which all turn out to be frogs: bright green, light green, Day-Glo green, some with stuffed flies attached to their tongues. Her bedside lamp is shaped like a frog, plus her pillow. I go, “I didn’t know you were so into frogs,” and Alice goes, “How would you?” I haven’t really been alone with Alice before. She seems not as nice as she is when Jocelyn is around. She opens her closet, stands on a chair, and pulls down a box with some uniforms inside: one of the green plaid one-pieces she wore when she was little, a sailor-suit two-piece from later on. I go, “Which did you like better?” “Neither,” she says. “Who wants to wear a uniform?” I go, “I would.” “Is that a joke?” “What kind of joke would it be?” “The kind where you and Jocelyn laugh about how you made a joke and I didn’t get it.” My throat turns very dry. I go, “I won’t. Laugh with Jocelyn.” Alice shrugs. “Ask me if I care,” she says. We sit on her rug, the uniforms across our knees. Alice wears ripped jeans and drippy black eye makeup, but her hair is long and gold. She isn’t a real punk, either. After a while I go, “Why do your parents let us come here?” “They’re not my parents. They’re my mother and stepfather.” “O.K.” “They want to keep an eye on you, I guess.” The foghorns are extra loud in Sea Cliff, like we’re alone on a ship sailing through the thickest fog. I hug my knees, wishing so much that Jocelyn was with us. “Are they right now?” I ask, softly. “Keeping an eye?” Alice takes a huge breath and lets it back out. “No,” she goes. “They’re asleep.” Marty the violinist isn’t even in high school—he’s a sophomore at S.F. State, where Jocelyn and I and Scotty (if he passes Algebra II) are headed next year. Jocelyn tells Bennie, “The shit will hit the fan if you put that dork onstage.” “We’ll find out,” Bennie says, and he looks at his watch like he’s thinking. “In two weeks and four days and six hours and I’m not sure how many minutes.” We stare at him, not comprehending. Then he tells us: Dirk Dirksen, from the Mab, gave him a call. Jocelyn and I shriek and hug onto Bennie, which for me is like touching something electric, his actual body in my arms. I can remember every hug I’ve given him. I learn something each time: how warm his skin is, how he has muscles like Scotty even though he never takes his shirt off. This time I feel his heartbeat on my palm when I hold his back. Jocelyn goes, “Who else knows?” Scotty, of course. Alice, too, but it’s only later that this bothers us. I have cousins in Los Angeles, so Jocelyn calls Lou from our apartment, where the charge won’t stand out on the phone bill. I’m two inches away from her on my parents’ flowered bedspread as she dials the phone with a long black fingernail. I hear a man’s voice answer and it shocks me that he’s real, that Jocelyn didn’t make him up, even though I never supposed that she had. He doesn’t say, “Hey, Beautiful,” though. He says, “I told you to let me call you.” Jocelyn goes, “Sorry,” in an empty little voice. I grab the phone and go, “What kind of hello is that?” Lou goes, “Who the Christ am I talking to?” and I tell him, “Rhea.” Then he goes, in a calmer voice, “Nice to meet you, Rhea. Now, would you hand the phone back to Jocelyn?” This time she pulls the cord away. Lou seems to be doing most of the talking. After a minute or two, Jocelyn hisses at me, “You have to leave. Go!” I walk out of my parents’ bedroom into our kitchen. There’s a fern hanging from the ceiling by a chain, dropping little brown leaves in the sink. The curtains have a pineapple pattern. My two brothers are on the balcony, grafting bean plants for a science project. After a while, Jocelyn comes out. Happiness is floating up from her hair and skin. Ask me if I care, I think. Later she tells me that Lou said yes: he’ll come to the Dildos gig at the Mab, and maybe he’ll give us a record contract. “It’s not a promise,” he warned her. “But we’ll have a good time anyway, right, Beautiful? Don’t we always?” The night of the concert, I go with Jocelyn to meet Lou for dinner at Vanessi’s, a restaurant just down Broadway from the Mab, where tourists and rich people sit outside drinking Irish coffees and gawking at us when we walk by. We could have invited Alice, but Jocelyn goes, “Her parents probably take her to Vanessi’s all the time.” I go, “You mean her mother and stepfather.” A man is sitting in a round corner booth, smiling teeth at us, and that man is Lou. He looks as old as my dad, meaning forty-three. He has shaggy blond hair and he’s handsome, I guess, the way dads can sometimes be. Lou actually does say, “C’mere, Beautiful,” and he lifts an arm to Jocelyn. He’s wearing a light-blue denim shirt and some kind of copper bracelet. She slides around the table and fits right under his arm. “Rhea,” Lou goes, and lifts up his other arm for me, so instead of sliding in next to Jocelyn, like I was just about to do, I end up on Lou’s other side. His arm comes down around my shoulder. And, like that, we’re Lou’s girls. A week ago, I looked at the menu outside Vanessi’s and saw linguine with clams. All week long I’ve been planning to order that dish. Jocelyn picks the same, and, after we order, Lou hands her something under the table. We both slide out of the booth and go to the ladies’ room. It’s a tiny brown bottle full of cocaine. There’s a miniature spoon attached to a chain, and Jocelyn heaps up the spoon two times for each nostril. She sniffs and makes a little sound and closes her eyes. Then she fills the spoon again and holds it for me. By the time I walk back to the table I’ve got eyes blinking all over my head, seeing everything in the restaurant at once. Maybe the coke we’ve done before this wasn’t really coke. We sit down and tell Lou about a new band we’ve heard of called Flipper, and Lou tells us about being on a train in Africa that didn’t completely stop at the stations—it just slowed down so that people could jump off or on. I go, “I want to see Africa!” and Lou goes, “Maybe we’ll go together, the three of us,” and it seems like this really might happen. He tells us, “The soil in the hills is so fertile it’s red,” and I go, “My brothers are grafting bean plants, but the soil is just regular brown soil,” and Jocelyn goes, “What about the mosquitoes?” and Lou goes, “I’ve never seen a blacker sky or a brighter moon,” and I realize that I’m beginning my adult life right now, on this night. When the waiter brings my linguine I can’t take one bite. Only Lou eats: an almost raw steak, a Caesar salad, red wine. He’s one of those people who never stop moving. Three times people come to our table to say hello to him, but he doesn’t introduce us. Back on Broadway he keeps an arm around each of us. We pass the usual things: the scuzzy guy in a fez trying to lure people into the Casbah, the strippers lounging in the doorways of the Condor and Big Al’s. Traffic pushes along Broadway, people honking and waving from their cars like we’re all at one gigantic party. With my thousand eyes it looks different, like I’m a different person seeing it. I think, After my freckles are gone, my whole life will be like this. The door guy at the Mab recognizes Lou and whisks us past the snaking line of people waiting for the Cramps and the Nuns, who are playing later on. Inside, Bennie and Scotty and Joel are onstage, setting up with Alice. Jocelyn and I put on our dog collars and safety pins in the bathroom. When we come back out, Lou’s already introducing himself to the band. Bennie shakes Lou’s hand and goes, “It’s an honor, sir.” The Flaming Dildos open with “Snake in the Grass.” No one is dancing or even really listening; people are still coming into the club or killing time until the bands they’re here for start playing. Normally Jocelyn and I would be directly in front of the stage, but tonight we stand back, leaning against a wall with Lou. He’s bought us both gin-and-tonics. I can’t tell if the Dildos sound good or not. I can barely hear them, my heart is beating too hard and my thousand eyes are peering all over the room. According to the muscles on the side of Lou’s face, he’s grinding his teeth. Marty comes on for the next number, but he spazzes out and drops his violin. The barely interested crowd gets just interested enough to yell some insults when he crouches to replug it, with his plumber’s crack showing. I can’t even look at Bennie, it matters so much. When they start playing “Do the Math,” Lou yells in my ear, “Whose idea was the violin?” I go, “Bennie’s.” “Kid on bass?” I nod, and Lou watches Bennie for a minute and I watch him, too. Lou goes, “Not much of a player.” “But he’s—” I try to explain. “The whole thing is his—” “The President wants a calm, measured, evenhanded speech that kicks some serious butt.”Buy the print » Something gets tossed at the stage that looks like glass, but, when it hits Scotty’s face, thank God it’s only ice from a drink. Scotty flinches but keeps on playing, and then a Budweiser can flies up and clips Marty right in the forehead. Jocelyn and I look at each other, panicked, but when we try to move Lou anchors us. The Dildos start playing “What the Fuck?” but now garbage is spewing at the stage, chucked by four guys with safety-pin chains connecting their nostrils to their earlobes. Every few seconds another drink strikes Scotty’s face. Finally he just plays with his eyes shut. Alice is trying to tackle the garbage throwers now and they shove her back and suddenly people are slam-dancing hard, the kind of dancing that’s basically fighting. Joel clobbers his drums as Scotty tears off his dripping T-shirt and snaps it at one of the garbage throwers, hitting him right in the face with a twangy crack—snrack—like my brothers snapping bath towels, but sharper. The Scotty magnet is starting to work—people are watching his bare muscles shining with sweat and beer. Then one of the garbage throwers tries to storm the stage, but Scotty kicks him in the chest with the flat of his boot—there’s a kind of gasp from the crowd as the guy flies back. Scotty’s smiling now, grinning like I almost never see him grin, wolf teeth flashing, and I realize that, of all of us, Scotty is the truly angry one. I turn to Jocelyn, but she’s gone. Maybe my thousand eyes are what tell me to look down. I see Lou’s fingers spread out over her black hair. She’s kneeling in front of him, giving him head, like the music is a disguise and no one can see them. Maybe no one does. Lou’s other arm is still around me, which I guess is why I don’t run, although I could. I stand there while Lou mashes Jocelyn’s head against himself again and again until I don’t know how she can breathe, until it starts to seem like she’s not even Jocelyn but some kind of animal or machine that can’t be broken. I force myself to look at the band, Scotty snapping the wet shirt and knocking people with his boot. Lou is grasping my shoulder, squeezing it harder, turning his head into my neck, and letting out a hot, stuttering groan that I can hear even through the music. He’s that close. A sob cracks open in me. Tears leak out from my eyes, but only from the two in my face. The other thousand eyes are closed. The walls of Lou’s apartment are covered with electric guitars and gold and silver LPs, just like Jocelyn said. But she never mentioned that it was on the thirty-fifth floor, six blocks away from the Mab. She didn’t even tell about the green marble slabs in the elevator. I think that was a lot to leave out. In the kitchen, Jocelyn pours Fritos into a dish and takes a glass bowl of green apples out of the refrigerator. She’s already passed around quaaludes, offering one to every person except me. I think she’s afraid to look at me. Who’s the hostess now? I want to ask. In the living room, Alice sits with Scotty, who is wearing a Pendleton shirt from Lou’s closet and looks pale and shaky, maybe from having stuff thrown at him, maybe because he now understands for real that Jocelyn has a boyfriend and that it isn’t him and never will be. Marty is there, too; he’s got a cut on his cheek and an almost black eye and he keeps saying, “That was intense,” to no one in particular. Joel got driven straight home, of course. Everyone agrees that the gig went well. When Lou leads Bennie up a spiral staircase to his recording studio, I tag along. He calls Bennie “Kiddo” and explains each machine in the room, which is small and warm, with black foam points all over the walls. Lou’s legs move restlessly and he eats a green apple with loud cracking noises, like he’s gnawing rock. Bennie glances out the door toward the rail overlooking the living room, trying to get a glimpse of Alice. I keep being about to cry. I’m worried that what happened in the club counts as having sex with Lou—that I was part of it. Finally I go back downstairs. Off the living room I notice a door partly open, a big bed just beyond. I go in and lie face down on a velvet bedspread. A peppery incense smell trickles around me. The room is cool and dim, with photographs in frames on both sides of the bed. My whole body hurts. After a few minutes someone else comes in and lies down next to me, and I know it’s Jocelyn. We don’t say anything—we just lie there side by side in the dark. Finally I go, “You should’ve told me.” “Told you what?” she goes, but I don’t even know. Then she goes, “There’s too much,” and I feel like something is ending, right at that minute. After a while Jocelyn turns on a lamp by the bed. “Look,” she goes. She’s holding a framed picture of Lou in a swimming pool surrounded by kids, the two littlest ones almost babies. I count six. Jocelyn goes, “They’re his children. That blond girl, she’s almost twenty.” I lean close to the picture. Lou looks so happy, surrounded by his kids like any normal dad, that I can’t believe the Lou with us is the same man. He comes into the bedroom a minute later, rock-crunching another apple. I realize that the bowl of green apples is completely for Lou—he eats them non-stop. I slide off the bed without looking at him, and he shuts the door behind me. It takes me a second to get what’s going on in the living room. Scotty is sitting cross-legged, picking at a gold guitar in the shape of a flame. Alice is behind him with her arms around his neck, her face next to his, her hair falling into his lap. Her eyes are closed with joy. I forget who I actually am for a second—all I can think is how Bennie will feel when he sees this. I look around for him, but there’s just Marty peering at the albums on the wall, trying to be inconspicuous. And then I notice the music flooding out of every part of the apartment at once—the couch, the walls, even the floor—and I know Bennie’s alone in Lou’s studio, pouring music around us. A minute ago it was “Don’t Let Me Down.” Then it was Blondie’s “Heart of Glass.” Now it’s Iggy Pop’s “The Passenger”: I am the passenger And I ride and I ride I ride through the city’s backsides I see the stars come out of the sky. Listening, I think, You will never know how much I understand you. I notice Marty looking over at me kind of hesitantly, and I see how this is supposed to work: I’m the dog, so I get Marty. I slide open a glass door and step out onto Lou’s balcony. I’ve never seen San Francisco from so high up: it’s a soft blue-black, with colored lights and fog like gray smoke. Long piers reach out into the flat, dark bay. There’s a mean wind, so I go in for my jacket then come back out and curl up tight on a white plastic chair. I stare at the view until I start to feel calmer. I think, The world is actually huge. That’s the part no one can really explain. After a while the door slides open. I don’t look up, thinking it’s Marty, but it turns out to be Lou. He’s barefoot, wearing shorts. His legs are tanned, even in the dark. I go, “Where’s Jocelyn?” “Asleep,” he says. He’s standing at the railing, looking out. It’s the first time I’ve seen him be still. I go, “Do you even remember being our age?” Lou grins at me in my chair, but it’s a copy of the grin he had at dinner. “I am your age,” he goes. “Ahem,” I go. “You have six kids.” “So I do,” he goes. He turns his back, waiting for me to disappear. I think, I didn’t have sex with this man. I don’t even know him. Then he says, “I’ll never get old.” “You’re already old,” I tell him. He swivels around and peers at me huddled in my chair. “You’re scary,” he goes. “You know that?” “It’s the freckles,” I go. “It’s not the freckles, it’s you.” He keeps looking at me, and then something shifts in his face and he goes, “I like it.” “Do not.” “I do. You’re gonna keep me honest, Rhea.” I’m surprised he remembers my name. I go, “It’s too late for that, Lou.” Now he laughs, really laughs, and I understand that we’re friends, Lou and I. Even if I hate him, which I do. I get out of my chair and walk to the railing, where he is. “People will try to change you, Rhea,” Lou goes. “Don’t let ’em.” “But I want to change.” “Don’t,” he goes, serious. “You’re beautiful. Stay like this.” “But the freckles,” I go, and my throat gets that ache. “The freckles are the best part,” Lou says. “Some guy is going to go apeshit for those freckles. He’s going to kiss them one by one.” I start to cry. I don’t even hide it. “Hey,” Lou goes. He leans down so our faces are together and stares straight into my eyes. He looks tired, like someone walked on his skin and left footprints. He goes, “The world is full of shitheads, Rhea. Don’t listen to them—listen to me.” And I know that Lou is one of those shitheads. But I listen. Two weeks later, Jocelyn runs away. I find out at the same time as everyone else. Her mother comes straight to our apartment. She and my parents sit me down: What do I know? Who is this new boyfriend? I tell them, “Lou. He lives in L.A. and has six children. He knows Bill Graham personally.” I think that Bennie might know who Lou actually is, so Jocelyn’s mom comes to our school to talk to Bennie Salazar. But he’s hard to find. Now that Alice and Scotty are together, Bennie has stopped coming to the Pit. Before, he and Scotty didn’t talk because they were like one person. Now it’s like they’ve never met. I can’t stop wondering: if I’d pulled away from Lou and fought the garbage throwers, would Bennie have settled for me the way Scotty settled for Alice? Could that one thing have made all the difference? They track down Lou in a matter of days. He tells Jocelyn’s mom that she hitchhiked all the way to his house without even warning him. He says that she’s safe, he’s taking care of her, it’s better than having her on the street. He promises to bring her home when he comes to the city the next week. Why not this week? I wonder. While I’m waiting for Jocelyn, Alice invites me over. We take the bus from school, a long ride to Sea Cliff. Her house looks smaller in daylight. In the kitchen, we mix honey with her mother’s homemade yogurts and eat two each. We go up to her room, where all the frogs are, and sit on her built-in window seat. Alice tells me that she’s planning to get real frogs and keep them in a terrarium. She’s calm and happy now that Scotty loves her. I can’t tell if she’s real, or if she’s just stopped caring whether she’s real or not. Or is not caring what makes a person real? I wonder if Lou’s house is near the ocean. Does Jocelyn look at the waves? Do they ever leave Lou’s bedroom? Are his children there? I keep getting lost in these questions. Then I hear giggling, pounding from somewhere. I go, “Who’s that?” “My sisters,” Alice goes. “They’re playing tetherball.” We head downstairs and outside, into Alice’s back yard, where I’ve been only in the dark. It’s sunny now, with flowers in patterns and a tree with lemons on it. At the edge of the yard, two little girls are slapping a bright-yellow ball around a silver pole. They turn to us, laughing in their green uniforms.
Appetite Things were not going as I had hoped. My sole purpose for interrupting my manager at this late hour on this Monday night was to inquire, respectfully, about an increase in my wage. But the conversation had somehow reversed itself, and now here I was standing awkwardly in the doorway of the restaurant office having to defend my very competency at my job. All through my shift I had entertained and distracted myself by imagining the scene in exacting detail: the gentle knock on the office door (or perhaps the assertive knock), the disarming smile, the small talk about the weather, and then the casual introduction to the larger issue at hand, the larger issue that I had come to talk about with all reasonableness; the larger issue being eight to ten. That was how I had planned to say it: “I’m looking to move from eight to ten an hour.” Simply put. Or perhaps, I’d thought, I would say, “I’m looking to move to . . .” Or, “I’m looking to move up to, up from, up toward . . .” Somewhere I had heard that it’s best to put your goals into clear terms, straightforward terms, and that once those goals had been thus stated all would follow accordingly. In the rare instance that things did not follow accordingly, the onus was, of course, on you and your own ineptitude. I think I had heard this discussed on television. Or I had read it somewhere. The counsel had seemed wise at the time, and I had been determined to remember it if ever an occasion presented itself. So I stood in the doorway as my manager reclined in his chair with his fingers to his chin, staring up at the dark skylight, where rain was pattering. It had rained every day for a week. They said it was going to rain every day for another week. Fall was always like this in our city. But this fall was worse than others, they said. Soon it would be winter. “Business is bad,” the manager had told me briskly, effortlessly, as if he had also been rehearsing the scene all night long and was waiting only for me to ask so that he could answer and rid himself of the refrain in his head. Not knowing how to respond, I said nothing, one foot crossed uncomfortably in front of the other in what had been, initially, an attempt at bold informality but, as time passed, quickly began to feel like an effeminate posture that would help only in the case against my confidence and assertiveness. And then my manager had broken the awful silence by reminding me that two meals had been returned by customers that evening. Why had two separate meals been returned, he wanted to know. The clock on his desk read 1:00 A.M. I wondered whether, if I had chosen to speak to him earlier that night, he would have been in a different mood, a more conciliatory mood, and would not have dismissed my request so swiftly. Next to the clock were lists of the various ingredients that needed to be ordered; check marks in small boxes indicated the amounts. We dealt in volume: crates, jugs, sacks. The manager’s pen was uncapped. His shirt was white except for a trail of red dots, possibly tomato sauce, that ran along one sleeve from his elbow to his shoulder. Perhaps the dots were blood. “A grilled cheese sandwich was returned tonight,” my manager said. He stated it as if he were genuinely interested, philosophically speaking. “A grilled cheese sandwich and a plate of pasta. Why were they returned?” I did not know why, and my face tightened with false concern. I realized, though, that if I did not say something convincing, and say it fast, I would implicate myself by admitting not only that I had made defective, inedible food but that I had so little awareness of my job that I could not even recall why or when such an error had occurred. “I’ll have to look into that” was all I said, as if I had my own underlings to consult. The clock now read 1:03. The manager’s face was round and kind, with puffy cheeks, and in the office light it looked for some reason even kinder than usual. I should change the subject, I thought. And I should uncross my feet so that I don’t look like a supplicant. I should talk about the rain and ask him when he thinks it will stop. It will make him think that I respect his authority. And then I will come back in a week and ask again for a raise—or in two weeks, maybe, not more than three, at some point in the near future, when everything has been forgotten and no meals have been returned and the rain has stopped and I have come up with a good response for when he tells me that business is bad. But before I could say anything my manager swivelled around in his chair, faced his desk, placed his hands lightly on top of the piles of paper there, as if they were a Ouija board and he was reading a signal from the beyond. Then he shuffled the papers around. Very rapidly, he shuffled the papers. “Seven-twenty-three the grilled cheese sandwich was returned,” my manger read. “And eleven-fifty-two the plate of pasta came back.” Those times seemed so long ago. My manager looked up at me with his kind face, almost angelic. A baby face with puffy cheeks. Answer him! But all I could think was that I was in the restaurant at seven-twenty-three. I was in the restaurant at eleven-fifty-two. And here I am at one-oh-seven, still in the restaurant. Tomorrow, I thought, I will be here. And the day after that. And the day after that is my day off. But then I will be back. “Is it really that complicated for you to make a grilled cheese sandwich?” the kind face asked. Somewhere in my past, something had gone wrong for me. Years prior, at my high-school graduation, I had sat docilely in the audience and watched the valedictorian onstage in a lavender cap and gown read a tedious and patronizing speech that I knew for a fact had been patched together from a book of stock lectures. “There are some of us here this evening who will be heading off to college,” he declared, “others who are going into the military, and still others who are entering directly into the workforce.” As if all those choices were equal. His voice, amplified by the microphone, sounded exceptionally powerful and confident, and I imagined that if he were to remove that ridiculous lavender gown we would discover that he was naked underneath, and that he had, as I well knew from gym class, broad shoulders and a broad chest, and was not at all embarrassed to be seen naked. While beneath my billowy gown was a small-large frame, short legs but long arms, soft flesh but hard knees and elbows, with no real delineation between torso and limbs, or between limbs and extremities; the body of a hamster. I was irritated by the valedictorian’s speech and by his three categories of life and his attempts at anecdotal humor that were supposed to seem spontaneous and ingratiate him with the parents but instead sounded contrived and wooden. The parents laughed and were won over. Sitting in the audience with five hundred other students, I had the unsettling awareness that I had already been consigned to a life of mediocrity by the very fact that I had not been the one chosen to stand on the podium. There was only one chance at having that happen in one’s life, and I had missed it. Nothing could make up for that now. I would forever be indistinguishable from all the others who had not been chosen. I was just one of five hundred. One of five hundred million. I am the addressee, I kept thinking as the valedictorian droned on. I will always be the addressee. I turned nineteen working at the restaurant, making $4.50 an hour. I turned twenty at $4.75. And twenty-one at $5.75. “This is just a stopping-through place,” a busboy had told me on the day he quit. He was eighteen and had the expertise of someone who has done nothing to earn that expertise. I wanted to ask him for advice anyway. Instead I said, “You got that right,” as if I were also an expert. For my twenty-fifth birthday ($7.50) the waitresses got everyone to chip in to surprise me with a cake. “Happy birthday!” they sang at the end of the night. The twenty-five candles overwhelmed the cake. The flame was wide and significant; I saw the substance of my age. People joked about the restaurant catching fire. The waitresses had wanted to be nice, but I could see only pity. Who wants to celebrate his twenty-fifth birthday at an “employees’ table” next to a mop closet while wearing a splattered apron and a checkered cook’s uniform? I ate the cake to show my gratitude. My manager came by and slapped me on the back. “Congratulations,” he said. He was the only person there who was older than I. The slap had a proprietary quality. When I was about eighteen, a guy I knew from the neighborhood had seen me walking down the street and picked me up in his taxi. I was a block from home, but he wanted to drive me around and show off his new job. I sat in the back seat and looked at his head. “I’m celebrating my twenty-fifth birthday next week,” he told me. “Big party. Come on by.” “O.K.,” I said. “A quarter of a century,” he said. He was being boastful, but the phrase was jarring. I can tell you this much, I wanted to say. When I’m a quarter of a century, I won’t be driving a taxi. I had dreams of grandeur. I didn’t know how to get there, but I knew that it would work out. He drove me around for a while and then he dropped me off right where we’d begun, a block from my house. “See you at the party,” he told me. But I never went. “I didn’t raise you to steal tacky crap.”Buy the print » I start at five o’clock and I stop at midnight. On weekends I stop at one o’clock. Sundays the restaurant is closed. Thursdays I have off. On busy nights, the dinner rush begins around seven and goes until eleven. There is relative calm in the kitchen at first, and then the sounds begin to take on a discernible urgency—voices, dishes, doors, not unlike light rain before heavy rain—and then suddenly there will be an explosion of orders. How is it possible? All these orders? All these orders at once? Oh, my God! There are only three cooks, but there are fifty orders, and then there are a hundred orders. The white blur of the manager’s shirt mixes with the black blurs of the waitresses’. Each cook in a pristine apron, soon to become filthy, hunches over a little workstation, cutting, frying, wiping, responsible for his little world. Once in a while, one cook will come to the aid of another who has fallen far behind, as if in battle, and this is always viewed as an act of extreme kindness. Generally, though, it’s every man for himself, and we let one another die face down in the mud. I move at a steady pace somewhere between frantic and perilous. Once, I scalded my entire forearm with boiling water, and it felt as if I had been sliced open with a knife; I wrapped the wound with cold towels and continued marching onward up the hill. Another time, I lacerated the tip of my finger and went to the hospital for stitches only after my shift was over. I have learned precision and efficiency over the years. There is no wasted motion in anything I do. I am a study of that thin line between human and machine. The order comes in, the eyes scan the order, one hand removes two slices of rye bread (for instance) and places the bread on the grill, the other hand is already reaching for the American cheese that is in the little square tin on the shelf, while another order comes in and the eyes are scanning that as . . . Only when the rush finally begins to abate do I understand that I have been in something akin to a trance, moving constantly but without full consciousness. The sounds in the kitchen will get quieter, a gentle, non-essential clattering. A lullaby of clattering—it’s near midnight, after all. The waitresses stand around idly. The dishwasher smokes a cigarette, even though he’s not supposed to smoke in here. Afterward I walk the ten blocks to my apartment, and if I make it home in time I watch the end of David Letterman. A few days after I was turned down for a raise, an anorexic waitress started working at the restaurant. She was pretty but had no breasts or ass. I caught her a few times eating the scraps from customers’ plates. She chewed and swallowed slowly, methodically, as if it took all her concentration. The waitresses said that they heard her sometimes in the bathroom coughing violently, and if they entered after her they noticed traces of blood in the toilet bowl. The first time I saw her, she was sitting at the employees’ table before the dinner shift, clipping flowers and placing them in vases. She looked up when I passed by, and I saw that her eyes were bright blue, even though her hair was black. Her arms were thin and her shoulder blades protruded at a sharp angle. When our eyes met, she looked down quickly and then she looked back up, and when she looked up I looked away. A couple of days later, she was standing at the time clock trying to figure out how to punch out after her shift. I was just arriving at the restaurant, and my shoes were wet from the rain. “Here,” I said. “Like this. You do it like this.” And I put her time card in and jiggled it, because sometimes it has to be jiggled, and the clock crunched out the time: 4:52 P.M. “What a piece of shit,” she said. “The manager should fix that.” Her voice was deep considering how fragile she appeared. I saw that she had a red rash on her neck that she was trying to conceal with makeup. The rash seemed to be either creeping up toward her face or down onto her body, as if it might be the thing that had eaten away at her breasts and her ass. Her elbow touched my elbow, but I couldn’t tell if this was on purpose. And then my manager came into the break room. “Busy night ahead of us,” he said, and slapped me on the back. “The time clock,” the waitress said to him. “It doesn’t work.” “Oh?” the manager said. He looked embarrassed. “I’ll tell the fix-it guy.” But he was wrong: it was a slow night. Which can be worse, because then one must make oneself busy. Or at least appear busy. A self-imposed punishment for the lack of business, as if the employees were to blame. I spent my time polishing all the stainless steel in the kitchen, using an old jar of cream that guaranteed immediate results. It lived up to its billing, and I got satisfaction from seeing things gleam. When an order came in, it was burdensome and overwhelming, and I had to drag myself to the grill to put together whatever it was that had been requested. Tonight, I was certain, was not the night to ask again for a raise. I commended myself on my foresight. Occasionally, I would look through the little round window of the kitchen door and see the anorexic waitress carrying trays of coffee mugs from one end of the restaurant to the other. How was it possible for her to carry a tray of coffee mugs? How was it possible for her to stand on those skinny legs? But she showed no signs of exertion in anything she did, like one of those small birds that suddenly take off with great power, beating their wings angrily. I should ask her out, I thought. We could come back here to eat. Take a long time looking at the menu. Inconvenience other people for a change. At the end we could ask to see the manager, and if he was feeling generous he could waive the bill. That night, I sat on my couch and watched David Letterman interview a starlet. She wore unusually long earrings, high heels, and a red dress that I kept hoping I’d be able to see up. “What’s your dream vacation?” Letterman asked her. “Oh, I just want to stay home in my pajamas,” the starlet said. And David Letterman looked at the camera, in that way he has, and everyone in the audience laughed, and Paul Shaffer played something quick on the keyboard, and the rain was coming down outside my window, and I realized that, shockingly, it was the anorexic waitress being interviewed by David Letterman. And David Letterman was looking at the camera, which is to say he was looking at me, and he was saying, “Is it really that complicated for you to make a grilled cheese sandwich?” And the anorexic waitress was holding a plate with a grilled cheese sandwich as evidence of my incompetence. “Why was this returned?” David Letterman was asking. But before I could respond the valedictorian said that some of us here tonight would enter directly into the workforce. Suddenly, I was wide awake on the couch. A police show from the seventies or eighties was playing on the television. Buddy talk. I switched it off. Light was just beginning to break. I got up and paced around the living room and then I sat back down on the couch. The couch was soft; next to it was a chair and a lamp, all generously provided by the landlady. When I had first come to look at the apartment, I had been disconcerted to observe a refrigerator standing against the living-room wall. “You can have that, too,” the landlady said, as if having a refrigerator in the living room were a desirable thing. “Some people like to have a second refrigerator,” she said. I made a show of considering it. We walked out onto the balcony, which was the apartment’s main selling point. It was a sunny day, and we stood together for a while looking down five flights to the street. The previous tenant had spray-painted a pair of shoes on the balcony without bothering to put newspaper down. Positioned between myself and the landlady was the permanent silhouette of two feet facing the railing. They had a ghostly quality, as if someone had leaped and left behind his imprint. I wanted to ask the landlady if she might be able to clean away those feet at some point, but I didn’t ask and I took the apartment anyway. Now I opened the balcony door and stood outside. It was raining lightly. Perhaps today was the day it would stop altogether. No one was out on the street. In the distance was a line of dense trees that in the dim light seemed closer than they actually were. Beyond the trees were the mountains. The mountains and the trees made the city seem rural, or on the verge of becoming rural, as if civilization were working in reverse and nature were reclaiming the land for itself. The mayor had countered this by referring to the city as “The Emerging International City.” He hoped the moniker would catch on. So far it hadn’t. On local television, there were commercials every half hour, poorly made, with people on the street pretending to be saying unprompted things about why the city was already an international city or deserved to be one. But it was clear that none of them really knew what they were talking about. Furthermore, the phrase “emerging international city” was so cumbersome and took such great concentration to say that you could detect, after watching these commercials over and over, the way people paused ever so slightly before uttering it. The very fact that everyone managed to pronounce the phrase without stumbling once was evidence that the whole man-on-the-street conceit was fraudulent. Down below my balcony, two black boys were riding by on bicycles. They were drenched from the rain and they were laughing and they were full of bravado. One of the boys happened to glance up at me. “What are you looking at, white man?” he yelled out. Then he sped away as if I might be able to swoop down and catch him. I was humiliated, not by the use of “white” but by the use of “man.” He sees me as a man, I thought. When I was eight years old, I had spent the afternoon playing with a group of my friends and a lone black boy who lived in the next neighborhood over. All afternoon we played, until another one of our friends showed up, making the lone black boy superfluous. “Time to go home, fella,” my friend had told him. The boy refused to go home and an argument ensued. I wanted to stand up for him, but before I could figure out what to say, my friend’s father threw open the kitchen window. “Go home, boy,” he said, assuming that the black boy was the cause of the trouble. “Go home before I come down there and slap the taste out of your mouth.” When I woke in the morning, it was raining hard. My downstairs neighbor hadn’t taken in his newspaper yet, so I sat in the vestibule and read it. Business is bad. That was the big news. Business is bad and the rain won’t stop. Business is going to get better, but first it’s going to get worse. The rain is going to get worse, too. And then the rain will stop. When my neighbor came down, he was wearing a gray bathrobe. “Here’s your paper,” I said, as if I’d been standing in the vestibule with his newspaper in my hands for the purpose of handing it to him. He looked aggrieved. “Thank you,” he said. Hollow words. He folded the paper and put it under his arm; his armpit was stained. He nodded at me. “Have a great day,” he said. But it was clear he didn’t mean it. My day was good, though. In the morning I did my exercises. I do them every day. If I ever join the Army, I will be prepared. But I have no intention of joining the Army. A couple of years ago, on the basketball court, an older guy had come over after the game and talked to me about life. He was friendly and showed interest, and I thought he might be gay. “Is that right, son?” he said. He smiled at everything I said. At the end of our conversation, he handed me his business card: Sergeant Robert Alton. “Stop by, son, and talk to me sometime.” I thought about stopping by, but what I really wanted was for him to come back to the basketball court and ask me again to stop by sometime. I did fifty pushups, straight and with no effort. Several minutes later I did fifty more. Those took effort. Then I did sit-ups. The room vibrated. When I was done, I examined my body in the mirror. Sharp corners met round corners. When I turned to the side, the sharpness gave way to roundness. The body of a hamster, I thought. And then I thought about the anorexic waitress standing next to me at the time clock. The body of a hamster meets the body of a bird. “Here,” the hamster said. “Like this. You do it like this.” And the bird’s wing touched the hamster’s paw, but it was not clear if this was intentional. On Saturday night, I decided I would ask again for a raise. Especially considering that one of the other cooks had not shown up for his shift. I was covering for him, a near-impossibility, because that night the orders were unceasing. I loathed the waitresses who brought them to me, even the anorexic one. The manager said that he would come and help out, as if he had any idea what needed to be done, as if anyone could just drop in and do my job. But he didn’t help, and I saw this as even more reason to ask for a raise. “I’m looking to move up to . . .” “I’m looking to move up from . . .” “I must say I liked the clouds much better than the new indoor-outdoor carpet.”Buy the print » Near midnight, things finally slowed down. My apron was splattered, as if I had been shot with food the way people are sometimes shot with paint for fun. The dishwasher smoked a cigarette, and I hoped the manager would come in and catch him. Through the window of the kitchen door, I could see the anorexic waitress tallying up her tips for the night. The way she concentrated over the pile of money accentuated her cheekbones. I knew she’d be gone by the time I was done cleaning up my workstation. A last-second order came in, and I got it ready. And then I scrubbed the grill with a long wire brush. I was supposed to scrub it every night, but I never did, and no one noticed. Tonight, though, there would be no evidence that could be used against me. Hard bits of ash that had accumulated over the years fell from the grates like ants. My shoulder ached from the exertion. And when I looked through the window, sure enough, the anorexic waitress was gone. Just a few more odds and ends to finish up, I thought, but when I turned around my manager was standing there with a plate in his hand. “What’s this?” he asked. On the plate was a grilled cheese sandwich: the bread was almost black, but the cheese, as my manager showed me, had not melted. “How do you burn the bread,” he asked, “but not melt the cheese?” His face was kind. Outside, I stood under the restaurant awning. The rain was coming down in great sheets. The wind and the dark gave it the quality of a volcanic eruption. People were saying that this was it—the final rainfall—and that as early as tomorrow morning or tomorrow afternoon it was going to be sunny. They’d heard this said. I started walking. My umbrella was no defense. After two blocks, the material tore away beneath the onslaught, so that I was holding only the frame of an umbrella. Why could no umbrella be invented to withstand a downpour? When I was sixteen years old, I had filled out an application at school for a summer job and then forgotten about it until I was called one June morning to meet with the supervisor of an umbrella factory. It was a small, family-owned place on the outskirts of town, where factories still existed. I had to take three buses to get there. The supervisor was a sweat-stained man in a tie, with one button missing from the center of his shirt. He was looking for an office clerk. He asked me what my skills were, but I didn’t know, because I’d never had a job before. I told him I was a hard worker, because I assumed that this would be true if I was given the opportunity, and he seemed to accept it at face value. Afterward, he showed me around the plant. It was old and made of wood, and I assumed there were mice. A group of Mexicans, or people who looked like they might be Mexicans, stood around a long table spray-painting assorted logos onto umbrellas. I was curious about their work, and the supervisor took me closer so I could see. The smell of paint was pleasant and reminded me of my kindergarten days. “It smells great,” I said to the supervisor, grinning. He looked askance at me, and within thirty seconds the smell had become so overwhelming, so noxious, that I feared I might vomit. “Let’s get away from these characters,” the supervisor said. He showed me the office where I would be working. It had a file cabinet and a typewriter and a window that looked out onto the factory floor. I pictured myself sitting at the desk and wearing a tie, and the image invigorated me. Two days later, the supervisor called to offer me the job, and I told him it was too far away for me, but I thanked him anyway. Three blocks from my apartment, I could see that I had left the light on in the living room. In the dark, it looked like a beacon of sorts. The hair on half of my head was matted from the rain. A car approached from the opposite direction, spraying water on both sides. It steered toward me, and for a moment I thought that it might be some punks looking to drive through a puddle and splash me. But then it slowed and stopped completely, and the window came down and the anorexic waitress leaned her head out. “Get in, silly,” she said. There was another girl in the car, so I got in the back seat. “I just live right there,” I said, pointing, but instead of turning the car around she drove over the bridge, past the railroad tracks, up into the hills. “This is my friend,” the anorexic waitress said, looking at me in the rearview mirror, but the windshield wipers were clacking and I couldn’t catch the friend’s name. She was in college, this friend. Or about to go to college. The anorexic waitress was going to go to the same college in the spring. I couldn’t hear what she was going to study. She spoke as if she were already weary of it. Her thin hands gripped the steering wheel. In her black waitress blouse, her arms looked the diameter of fingers. Could those even be called arms? But she drove with ferocity. Up into the hills we went, those dark hills that looked as if they were encroaching on the city. Shortly we were in the thick of them, and I was surprised to discover that, rather than being the heart of the rural world, they were the heart of the suburbs. Nice houses that looked identical were set catercorner to one another off the main road. Billboards directed us to more houses about to be built, and to a mall I kept hearing about. Another billboard showed an illustration of a spinning earth with an arrow pointing to a small speck that was presumably where we were. “The Emerging International City,” it read. And soon we were dropping the friend off in front of her parents’ large house. The house was dark, except for one light that illuminated the driveway. “Good night! Good night!” she called. I took the front seat and I noticed how wet my shoes were. I noticed how close I was now to the anorexic waitress. Back toward the city we went. In the gloomy swirl of rain, I could see the giant office building with its antenna that in the darkness looked like a cross on a church steeple. “Do you want to hear a riddle?” she asked, out of the blue. “O.K.,” I said. She smiled broadly. Her teeth looked discolored. “There’s a cabin in the woods with two dead people. They are both strapped to chairs.” She paused to glance my way. “The doors of the cabin are blocked and the windows are sealed. The people did not die from murder, exposure, dehydration, suicide, fire, asphyxiation, disease, or starvation. What did they die from?” She concentrated now as if she were also trying to think of the answer. I thought about the word “starvation.” I really had no idea what the answer was, so I guessed AIDS. No. I guessed again. No. “Should we really be talking about dying while you’re driving in the rain?” I asked. She let out a ghoulish movie laugh, and then pantomimed turning the wheel hard, as if to swerve into oncoming traffic. This made me tense. The windshield wipers beat out their rhythm. “What killed them?” she said again. We went around a bend and the office building disappeared momentarily and then reappeared, so that its giant antenna now resembled a needle stuck in an arm. “It’s an airplane, silly,” she said. “They’re seat-belted into the cabin of an airplane that’s crashed in the woods.” I thought about this, piecing it back together from the opposite end. “That’s a good riddle,” I said finally. “I know,” she said. “I’ve got a lot of them.” We were coming back over the railroad tracks that were about a mile from my apartment. A bartender from the restaurant had once managed to elude the police who had come to arrest him in the middle of his shift, and not knowing where to go he had run all the way to the tracks and hidden in the underbrush. They’d found him three hours later, covered in dirt, and taken him to jail. At his trial, he had pleaded “no contest” on the advice of his court-appointed lawyer so that he’d get only a three-year sentence. He had not known what the phrase meant, though, and so, standing in the courtroom in his baggy suit, he had said, “No contents,” and everyone in the courtroom had laughed. “What are you thinking about?” she asked me abruptly. “What are you so quiet for?” I told her about the bartender, and she said, “That’s a funny story.” And then she said, “That’s a strange story.” After that she said she had thought about studying law but decided against it. But still might study it after all. “You’re a funny boy,” she said. “You know that?” And it was my turn to smile, because it’d been a long time since anyone had called me a boy. When had I crossed that line from boy to man? Whenever it was, the line had been so faint, so subtle, that I had missed it entirely. Maybe if I had been paying closer attention things might have turned out differently for me. “ ‘Boy,’ ” I said. “That’s a weird thing to call me.” So she said it again. “Boy . . . boy . . . boy.” Teasing now. But suddenly she was no longer saying just “boy” but “pretty boy.” Or perhaps I had misheard her. “Pretty boy.” I wanted to ask if I was hearing her correctly, because the rain was loud, and the car was loud, and she was driving with great vigor along the wet streets, all the power of her fossilized limbs surging into the car. I watched her mouth, waiting for it to speak again. A wide mouth with wide lips. Her lips were the fleshiest part of her body. The second I looked back toward the street I heard her say it again. “Pretty boy,” she said. “Pretty, pretty boy.” “Really?” I asked her. “Really?”
Foster Early on a Sunday, after first Mass in Clonegal, my father, instead of taking me home, drives deep into Wexford toward the coast, where my mother’s people came from. It is a hot August day, bright, with patches of shade and greenish sudden light along the road. We pass through the village of Shillelagh, where my father lost our red shorthorn in a game of forty-five, and on past the mart in Carnew, where the man who won her sold her not long afterward. My father throws his hat on the passenger seat, winds down the window, and smokes. I shake the plaits out of my hair and lie flat on the back seat, looking up through the rear window. I wonder what it will be like, this place belonging to the Kinsellas. I see a tall woman standing over me, making me drink milk still hot from the cow. I see another, less likely version of her, in an apron, pouring pancake batter into a frying pan, asking would I like another, the way my mother sometimes does when she is in good humor. The man will be her size. He will take me to town on the tractor and buy me red lemonade and crisps. Or he’ll make me clean out sheds and pick stones and pull ragweed and docks out of the fields. I wonder if they live in an old farmhouse or a new bungalow, whether they will have an outhouse or an indoor bathroom, with a toilet and running water. An age, it seems, passes before the car slows and turns in to a tarred, narrow lane, then slams over the metal bars of a cattle grid. On either side, thick hedges are trimmed square. At the end of the lane, there’s a white house with trees whose limbs are trailing the ground. “Da,” I say. “The trees.” “What about them?” “They’re sick,” I say. “They’re weeping willows,” he says, and clears his throat. On the housefront, tall, shiny windowpanes reflect our coming. I see myself looking out from the back seat, as wild as a tinker’s child, with my hair all undone, but my father, at the wheel, looks just like my father. A big, loose hound lets out a few rough, halfhearted barks, then sits on the step and looks back at the doorway, where the man has come out to stand. He has a square body like the men my sisters sometimes draw, but his eyebrows are white, to match his hair. He looks nothing like my mother’s people, who are all tall, with long arms, and I wonder if we have not come to the wrong house. “Dan,” he says, and tightens himself. “What way are you?” “John,” Da says. They stand looking out over the yard for a moment and then they are talking rain: how little rain there is, how the priest in Kilmuckridge prayed for rain this very morning, how a summer like this was never before known. There is a pause, during which my father spits, and then the conversation turns to the price of cattle, the E.E.C., butter mountains, the cost of lime and sheep-dip. I am used to it, this way men have of not talking: they like to kick a divot out of the grass with a boot heel, to slap the roof of a car before it takes off, to sit with their legs wide apart, as though they do not care. When the woman comes out, she pays no heed to the men. She is even taller than my mother, with the same black hair, but hers is cut tight like a helmet. She’s wearing a printed blouse and brown, flared trousers. The car door is opened and I am taken out, and kissed. “The last time I saw you, you were in the pram,” she says, and stands back, expecting an answer. “The pram’s broken.” “What happened at all?” “My brother used it for a wheelbarrow and the wheel fell off.” She laughs and licks her thumb and wipes something off my face. I can feel her thumb, softer than my mother’s, wiping whatever it is away. When she looks at my clothes, I see my thin cotton dress, my dusty sandals through her eyes. Neither one of us knows what to say. A queer, ripe breeze is crossing the yard. “Come on in, a leanbh.” She leads me into the house. There’s a moment of darkness in the hallway; when I hesitate, she hesitates with me. We walk through into the heat of the kitchen, where I am told to sit down, to make myself at home. Under the smell of baking, there’s some disinfectant, some bleach. She lifts a rhubarb tart out of the oven and puts it on the bench. Pale-yellow roses are as still as the jar of water they are standing in. “So how is your mammy keeping?” “She won a tenner on the prize bonds.” “She did not.” “She did,” I say. “We all had jelly and ice cream and she bought a new tube for the bicycle.” I feel, again, the steel teeth of the comb against my scalp earlier that morning, the strength of my mother’s hands as she wove my plaits tight, her belly at my back, hard with the next baby. I think of the clean pants she packed in the suitcase, the letter, and what she must have written. Words had passed between my mother and my father: “How long should they keep her?” “Can’t they keep her as long as they like?” “Is that what I’ll say?” “Say what you like. Isn’t it what you always do.” Now the woman fills an enamel jug with milk. “Your mother must be busy.” “She’s waiting for them to come and cut the hay.” “Have ye not the hay cut?” she says. “Aren’t ye late?” As the men come in from the yard, it grows momentarily dark, then brightens once again when they sit down. “Well, Missus,” Da says, pulling out a chair. “Dan,” she says, in a different voice. “There’s a scorcher of a day.” “ ’Tis hot, surely.” She turns her back to watch the kettle, waiting. “Wasn’t it a great year for the hay all the same. Never saw the like of it,” Da says. “The loft is full to capacity. I nearly split my head on the rafters pitching it in.” I wonder why my father lies about the hay. He is given to lying about things that would be nice, if they were true. Somewhere farther off, someone has started up a chainsaw and it drones on like a big, stinging wasp for a while. I wish I was out there, working. I am unused to sitting still and do not know what to do with my hands. Part of me wants my father to leave me here while another wants him to take me back, to what I know. I am in a spot where I can neither be what I always am nor turn into what I could be. The kettle rumbles up to the boiling point, its steel lid clapping. Kinsella gets a stack of plates from the cupboard, opens a drawer and takes out knives and forks, teaspoons. He opens a jar of beetroot and puts it on a saucer with a little serving fork, leaves out sandwich spread and salad cream. Already there’s a bowl of tomatoes and onions, chopped fine, a fresh loaf, ham, a block of red cheddar. “And what way is Mary?” the woman says. “Mary? She’s coming near her time.” “I suppose the last babby is getting hardy?” “Aye,” Da says. “He’s crawling. It’s feeding them that’s the trouble. There’s no appetite like a child’s and, believe you me, this one is no different.” “Ah, don’t we all eat in spurts, the same as we grow,” the woman says, as though this is something he should know. “She’ll ate but you can work her.” Kinsella looks up at his wife. “There’ll be no need for any of that,” he says. “The child will have no more to do than help Edna around the house.” “We’ll keep the child gladly,” the woman echoes. “She’s welcome here.” When we sit in at the table, Da tastes the ham and reaches for the beetroot. He doesn’t use the serving fork but pitches it onto the plate with his own. It stains the pink ham, bleeds. Tea is poured. There’s a patchy silence as we eat, our knives and forks breaking up what’s on our plates. After some little scraps of speech, the tart is cut. Cream falls over the hot pastry, into warm pools. Now that my father has delivered me and eaten his fill, he is anxious to light his fag and get away. Always, it’s the same: he never stays in any place long after he’s eaten, not like my mother, who would talk until it grew dark and light again. This, at least, is what my father says. I have never known it to happen. With my mother it is all work: us, the butter-making, the dinners, the washing up and getting up and getting ready for Mass and school, weaning calves, and hiring men to plow and harrow the fields, stretching the money and setting the alarm for a time before the sun rises. But this is a different type of house. Here there is room to think. There may even be money to spare. “I’d better hit the road,” Da says. “What hurry is on you?” Kinsella says. “The daylight is burning, and I’ve yet the spuds to spray.” “There’s no fear of blight these evenings,” the woman says, but she gets up anyway, and goes out the back door with a sharp knife. A silence climbs between the men while she is gone. “Give this to Mary,” she says, coming in. “I’m snowed under with rhubarb, whatever kind of year it is.” My father takes the rhubarb from her, but it is as awkward as the baby in his arms. A stalk falls to the floor and then another. He waits for her to pick them up, to hand them to him. She waits for him to do it himself. In the end, it’s Kinsella who stoops. “There now,” he says. Out in the yard, my father throws the rhubarb onto the back seat, gets in behind the wheel, and starts the engine. “Good luck to ye,” he says. “I hope this girl will give no trouble.” He turns to me. “Try not to fall into the fire, you.” I watch him reverse, turn in to the lane, and drive away. Why did he leave without so much as a goodbye or ever mentioning when he would come back for me? “What’s ailing you, child?” the woman says. I look at my feet, dirty in my sandals. Kinsella stands in close. “Whatever it is, tell us. We won’t mind.” “Lord God Almighty, didn’t he go and forget all about your wee bits and bobs!” the woman says. “No wonder you’re in a state. Well, hasn’t he a head like a sieve, the same man.” “Not a word about it,” Kinsella says. “We’ll have you togged out in no time.” When I follow the woman back inside, I want her to say something, to put me at ease. Instead, she clears the table, picks up the sharp knife, and stands at the window, washing the blade under the running tap. She stares at me as she wipes it clean and puts it away. “Now, girleen,” she says. “I think it’s nearly time you had a bath.” She takes me upstairs to a bathroom, plugs the drain, and turns the taps on full. “Hands up,” she says, and pulls my dress off. She tests the water and I step in, trusting her, but the water is too hot, and I step back out. “Get in,” she says. “It’s too hot.” “You’ll get used to it.” I put one foot through the steam and feel, again, the same rough scald. I keep my foot in the water, and then, when I think I can’t stand it any longer, my thinking changes, and I can. The water is deeper than any I have ever bathed in. Our mother bathes us in what little she can, and makes us share. After a while, I lie back and through the steam watch the woman as she scrubs my feet. The dirt under my nails she scrapes out with tweezers. She squeezes shampoo from a plastic bottle, lathers my hair, and rinses the lather off. Then she makes me stand and soaps me all over with a cloth. Her hands are like my mother’s hands but there is something else in them, too, something I have never felt before and have no name for. This is a new place, and new words are needed. “Now your clothes,” she says. “I don’t have any clothes.” “Of course you don’t.” She pauses. “Would some of our old things do you for now?” “I don’t mind.” “Good girl.” She takes me to a bedroom, at the other side of the stairs, and looks through a chest of drawers. “Maybe these will fit you.” She is holding a pair of old-fashioned trousers and a new plaid shirt. The sleeves and legs are a bit too long but the waist tightens with a canvas belt, to fit me. “There now,” she says. “Mammy says I have to change my pants every day.” “And what else does your mammy say?” “She says you can keep me for as long as you like.” She laughs at this and brushes the knots out of my hair, and turns quiet. The windows are open and I see a stretch of lawn, a vegetable garden, edible things growing in rows, spiky yellow dahlias, a crow with something in his beak which he slowly breaks in two and eats. “Come down to the well with me,” she says. “Now?” “Does now not suit you?” Something about the way she says this makes me wonder if it’s something that we are not supposed to do. “Is this a secret?” “What?” “I mean, am I not supposed to tell?” She turns me around, to face her. I have not really looked into her eyes until now. Her eyes are dark blue, pebbled with other blues. In this light she has a mustache. “There are no secrets in this house, do you hear?” I don’t want to answer back but feel she wants an answer. “Do you hear me?” “Yeah.” “It’s not ‘yeah.’ It’s ‘yes.’ What is it?” “It’s yes.” “Yes, what?” “Yes, there are no secrets in this house.” “Where there’s a secret,” she says, “there’s shame, and shame is something we can do without.” “O.K.” I take big breaths so I won’t cry. She puts her arm around me. “You’re just too young to understand.” As she says this, I realize that she is just like everyone else, and I wish I was back at home so that the things that I do not understand could be the same as they always are. Downstairs, she fetches a zinc bucket from the scullery. At first I feel uneasy in the strange clothes, but, walking along, I forget. Kinsella’s fields are broad and level, divided with electric fences that she says I must not touch, unless I want a shock. When the wind blows, sections of the longer grass bend over, turning silver. On one strip of land, bony Friesian cows stand all around us, grazing. They have huge bags of milk and long teats. I can hear them pulling the grass up from the roots. Neither one of us talks, the way people sometimes don’t, when they are happy. As soon as I have this thought, I realize that its opposite is also true. We climb over a stile and follow a dry path through the grass to a small iron gate, where stone steps run down to a well. The woman leaves the bucket on the grass and comes down with me. “Look,” she says. “There’s not a finer well in the parish. Who’d ever know there wasn’t so much as a shower since the first of the month?” I go down steps until I reach the water. “Taste it,” she says. Hanging above us is a big ladle, a shadow cupped in the steel. I reach up and take it from the nail. She holds the belt of my trousers so I won’t fall in. “It’s deep,” she says. “Be careful.” I dip the ladle and bring it to my lips. This water is as cool and clean as anything I have ever tasted. I dip it again and lift it level with the sunlight. I drink six measures of water and wish, for now, that this place without shame or secrets could be my home. She takes me back up the steps, then goes down alone. I hear the bucket floating on its side for a moment before it sinks and swallows, making a grateful sound, a glug, before it’s pulled out and lifted. That night, I expect her to make me kneel down but instead she tucks me in and tells me that I can say a few little prayers in my bed, if that is what I ordinarily do. The light of the day is still bright and strong. She is just about to hang a blanket over the curtain rail, to block it out, when she pauses. “Would you rather I left it?” “Yeah,” I say. “Yes.” “Are you afraid of the dark?” I want to say that I am afraid but am too afraid to say so. “Never mind,” she says. “It doesn’t matter. You can use the toilet past our room but there’s a chamber pot here, too, if you’d prefer.” “I’ll be all right,” I say. “Is your mammy all right?” “What do you mean?” “Your mammy. Is she all right?” “She used to get sick in the mornings but now she doesn’t.” “Why isn’t the hay in?” “She hasn’t enough to pay the man. She only just paid him for last year.” “God help her.” She smooths the sheet across me, sighs. “Do you think she’d be offended if I sent her a few bob?” “What’s ‘offended?’ ” “Would she mind?” I think about this for a while. “She wouldn’t, but Da would.” “Ah, yes,” she says. “Your father.” She kisses me, a plain kiss, then says good night. I sit up when she is gone and look around the room. Trains of every color race across the wallpaper. There are no tracks for these trains, but, here and there, a small boy stands off in the distance, waving. He looks happy, but some part of me feels sorry for every version of him. I roll onto my side and, though I know that she wants neither, wonder if my mother will have a girl or a boy this time. I think of my sisters, who will not yet be in bed. I stay awake for as long as I can, then make myself get up and use the chamber pot, but only a dribble comes out. I go back to bed, more than half afraid, and fall asleep. At some point later in the night—it feels much later—the woman comes in. I grow still and breathe as though I have not wakened. I feel the mattress sinking, the weight of her on the bed. Quietly, she leans over me. “God help you, child. If you were mine, I’d never leave you alone with strangers.” All through the day, I help the woman around the house. She shows me the big white machine that plugs in, a freezer, where what she calls “perishables” can be stored for months without rotting. We make ice cubes, go over every inch of the floors with a hoovering machine, dig new potatoes, make coleslaw and two loaves, and then she takes the clothes in off the line while they are still damp and sets up a board and starts ironing. She does it all without rushing but she never really stops. Kinsella comes in and makes tea for us out of the well water and drinks it standing up, with a handful of Kimberley biscuits, then goes back out. Later, he comes in again, looking for me. “Is the wee girl there?” he calls. I go to the door. “Can you run?” “What?” “Are you fast on your feet?” he says. “Sometimes,” I say. “Well, run down there to the end of the lane, as far as the box, and run back.” “The box?” I say. “The postbox. You’ll see it there. Be as fast as you can.” “Not so fast, Mr. Hodges.”Buy the print » I take off, racing, to the end of the lane and find the box and get the letters and race back. Kinsella is looking at his watch. “Not bad,” he says, “for your first time.” He takes the letters from me. “Do you think there’s money in any of these?” “I don’t know.” “Ah, you’d know if there was, surely. The women can smell money. Do you think there’s news?” “I wouldn’t know,” I say. “Do you think there’s a wedding invitation?” I want to laugh. “It wouldn’t be yours anyhow,” he says. “You’re too young to be getting married. Do you think you’ll get married?” “I don’t know,” I say. “Mammy says I shouldn’t take a present off a man.” Kinsella laughs. “She could be right there. Still and all, there’s no two men the same. And it’d be a swift man that would catch you, Long Legs. We’ll try you again tomorrow and see if we can’t improve your time.” “I’ve to go faster?” “Oh, aye,” he says. “By the time you’re ready for home you’re to be as fast as a reindeer, so there’ll not be a man in the parish will catch you without a long-handled net and a racing bike.” After supper and the nine-o’clock news, when Kinsella is reading his newspaper in the parlor, the woman sits me on her lap and idly strokes my bare feet. “You have nice long toes,” she says. “Nice feet.” She makes me lie down with my head on her lap and, with a hair clip, cleans the wax out of my ears. “You could have planted a geranium in what was there,” she says. When she takes out the hairbrush, I can hear her counting under her breath to a hundred before she stops and plaits it loosely. And so the days pass. I keep waiting for something to happen, for the ease I feel to end, but each day follows on much like the one before. We wake early with the sun coming in and have eggs of one kind or another with porridge and toast for breakfast. Kinsella puts on his cap and goes out to the yard to milk the cows, and myself and the woman make a list out loud of the jobs that need to be done: we pull rhubarb, make tarts, paint the skirting boards, take all the bedclothes out of the hot-press, hoover out the spiderwebs, and put all the clothes back in again, make scones, scrub the bathtub, sweep the staircase, polish the furniture, boil onions for onion sauce and put it in containers in the freezer, weed the flower beds, and, when the sun goes down, water things. Then it’s a matter of supper and the walk across the fields to the well. Every evening, the television is turned on for the nine-o’clock news and then, after the forecast, I am told that it is time for bed. One afternoon, while we are topping and tailing gooseberries for jam, Kinsella comes in from the yard and washes and dries his hands and looks at me in a way he has never looked before. “I think it’s past time we got you togged out, girl.” I am wearing a pair of navy-blue trousers and a blue shirt that the woman pulled out of the chest of drawers. “What’s wrong with her?” the woman says. “Tomorrow’s Sunday, and she’ll need something more than that for Mass,” he says. “I’ll not have her going as she went last week.” “Sure, isn’t she clean and tidy?” “You know what I’m talking about, Edna.” He sighs. “Why don’t you go up and change and I’ll run us into Gorey.” The woman keeps on picking the gooseberries from the colander, stretching her hand out, but a little more slowly each time, for the next one. At one point I think she will stop, but she keeps on until she is finished and then she gets up and places the colander on the sink and lets out a sound I’ve never heard anyone make, and slowly goes upstairs. Kinsella looks at me and smiles a hard kind of a smile. His eyes are not quite still in his head. It’s as though there is a big piece of trouble stretching itself out in the back of his mind. He toes the leg of a chair and looks over at me. “You should wash your hands and face before you go to town,” he says. “Didn’t your father even bother to teach you that much?” I freeze in the chair, waiting for something much worse to happen, but Kinsella just stands there, locked in the wash of his own speech. As soon as he turns, I race for the stairs, but when I reach the bathroom the door won’t open. “It’s all right,” the woman says after a while from inside, and then, shortly afterward, opens it. “Sorry for keeping you.” She has been crying but she isn’t ashamed. “It’ll be nice for you to have some clothes of your own,” she says then, wiping her eyes. “And Gorey is a nice town. I don’t know why I didn’t think of taking you there before now.” Town is a crowded place with a wide main street. Outside the shops, many different things are hanging in the sun. There are plastic nets full of beach balls, blow-up toys, and beds that float. A see-through dolphin looks as though he is shivering in a cold breeze. There are plastic spades and matching buckets, molds for sandcastles, grown men digging ice cream out of tubs with little plastic spoons, a van with a man calling, “Fresh fish!” Kinsella reaches into his pocket and hands me something. “You’ll get a choc-ice out of that.” I open my hand and stare at the pound note. “Couldn’t she buy half a dozen choc-ices out of that,” the woman says. “Ah, what is she for, only for spoiling?” Kinsella says. “What do you say?” the woman says. “Thanks,” I say. “Thank you.” “Well, stretch it out and spend it well,” Kinsella says, laughing. The woman takes me to the draper’s and picks out five cotton dresses and some pants and trousers and a few tops. We go behind a curtain so that I can try them on. “Isn’t she tall?” the assistant says. “We’re all tall,” the woman says. “She’s the spit and image of her mammy. I can see it now,” the assistant says, and then decides that the lilac dress is the best fit and the most flattering. Mrs. Kinsella agrees. She buys me a printed blouse, too, with short sleeves, blue trousers, and a pair of black leather shoes with a little strap and a buckle, some pants, and white ankle socks. The assistant hands her the docket, and she takes out her purse and pays for it all. “Well may you wear,” the assistant says. “Isn’t your mammy good to you?” I don’t know how to answer. Out in the street, the sun feels strong again, blinding. We meet people the woman knows. Some of them stare at me and ask who I am. One has a new baby in a pushchair. The woman bends down and coos, and he slobbers a little and starts to cry. “He’s making strange,” the mother says. “Don’t you mind.” We meet a woman with eyes like picks, who asks whose child I am. When she is told, she says, “Ah, isn’t she company for you all the same, God help you.” Mrs. Kinsella stiffens, then says, “You must excuse me but this man of mine is waiting, and you know what these men are like.” “Like fecking bulls, they are,” the woman says. “Haven’t an ounce of patience.” “God forgive me but if I ever run into that woman again it will be too soon,” Mrs. Kinsella says, when we have rounded the corner. Before we go back to the car she leaves me loose in a sweetshop. I take my time choosing what I want. “You got a right load there,” she says, when I come out. Kinsella has parked in the shade and is sitting with the windows open, reading the newspaper. “Well?” he says. “Did ye get sorted?” “Aye,” she says. “Grand,” he says. I give him the choc-ice and her the Flake and lie on the back seat eating the wine gums, careful not to choke as we cross over bumps in the road. I listen to all the change rattling around in my pocket, the wind rushing through the car, and the little pieces of speech, scraps of gossip, being shared between them in the front. When we turn in to the yard, another car is parked outside the door. A woman is on the front step, pacing, with her arms crossed. “Isn’t that Harry Redmond’s girl?” “I don’t like the look of this,” Kinsella says. “Oh, John,” she says, rushing over. “I’m sorry to trouble you but didn’t our Michael pass away and there’s not a soul at home. They’re all out on the combines and won’t be back till God knows what hour, and I’ve no way of getting word to them. We’re rightly stuck. Would you ever come down and give us a hand digging the grave?” “I don’t know that this’ll be any place for you but I can’t leave you here,” the woman says, later the same day. “So get ready and we’ll go, in the name of God.” I go upstairs and change into my new dress and my ankle socks and shoes. “Don’t you look nice,” she says, when I come down. “John’s not always easy but he’s hardly ever wrong.” Walking down the road, we pass houses with their doors and windows wide open, long, flapping clotheslines, gravelled entrances to other lanes. Outside a cottage, a black dog with curls all down his back comes out and barks at us, hotly, through the bars of a gate. At the first crossroads, we meet a heifer, who panics and races past us, lost. All through the walk, the wind blows hard and soft and hard again, through the tall, flowering hedges, the high trees. In the fields, the combines are out cutting the wheat, the barley, and the oats, saving the corn, leaving behind long rows of straw. Farther along, we meet two bare-chested men, their eyes so white in faces that are tanned and dusty. The woman stops to greet them and tells them where we are going. “Well, it must be a relief to the man, to be out of his misery.” “Sure, didn’t he reach his three score and ten?” the other says. “What more can any of us hope for?” We keep on walking, standing in tight to the hedges, the ditches, letting things pass. “Have you been to a wake before?” the woman asks. “I don’t think so.” “Well, I might as well tell you. There will be a dead man in a coffin and lots of people and some of them might have a little too much taken.” “What will they be taking?” “Drink,” she says. When we come to the house, several men are leaning against a low wall, smoking. There’s a black ribbon on the door, but, when we go in, the kitchen is bright and packed with people who are talking. The woman who asked Kinsella to dig the grave is there, making sandwiches. There are bottles of red and white lemonade and stout, and, in the middle of all this, a big wooden box with a dead old man lying inside it. His hands are joined, as though he had died praying, a string of rosary beads around his fingers. Some of the men are sitting around the coffin, using the part that’s closed as a counter on which to rest their glasses. One of these is Kinsella. “There she is,” he says. “Long Legs. Come over here.” He pulls me onto his lap, and gives me a sip from his glass. “Do you like the taste of that?” “No.” He laughs. “Good girl. Don’t ever get a taste for it. If you start, you might never stop, and then you’d wind up like the rest of us.” He pours red lemonade into a cup for me. I sit on his lap, drinking it and eating queen cakes out of the biscuit tin and looking at the dead man, hoping that his eyes will open. The people drift in and out, shaking hands, drinking and eating and looking at the dead man, saying what a lovely corpse he is, and doesn’t he look happy now that his agony is over, and who was it who laid him out? They talk of the forecast and the moisture content of corn, of milk quotas and the next general election. I feel myself getting heavy on Kinsella’s lap. “Am I getting heavy?” “Heavy?” he says. “You’re like a feather, child. Stay where you are.” I put my head against him but I’m bored and wish there were things to do, other girls who would play. “She’s getting uneasy,” I hear the woman say. “What’s ailing her?” another says. “Ah, it’s no place for the child, really,” she says. “It’s just I didn’t like not to come, and I wouldn’t leave her behind.” “Sure, I’ll take her home with me, Edna. I’m going now. Can’t you call in and collect her on your way?” “Oh,” she says. “I don’t know should I.” “Mine’d be a bit of company for her. Can’t they play away out the back? And that man there won’t budge as long as he has her on his knee.” Mrs. Kinsella laughs. I have never really heard her laugh till now. “Sure, maybe, if you don’t mind, Mildred,” she says. “What harm is in it? And we’ll not be long after you.” “Not a bother,” Mildred says. When we are out on the road, and the goodbyes are said, Mildred strides on into a pace I can just about keep, and as soon as she rounds the bend the questions start. Hardly is one answered before the next is fired: “Which room did they put you into? Did Kinsella give you money? How much? Does she drink at night? Does he? Are they playing cards up there much? Do ye say the Rosary? Does she put butter or margarine in her pastry? Where does the old dog sleep? Is the freezer packed solid? Does she skimp on things or is she allowed to spend? Are the child’s clothes still hanging in the wardrobe?” I answer them all easily, until the last. “The child’s clothes?” “Aye,” she says. “If you’re sleeping in his room you must surely know. Did you not look?” “Well, she had clothes I wore for all the time I was here, but we went to Gorey this morning and bought new things.” “This rig-out you’re wearing now? God Almighty,” she says. “Anybody would think you were going on for a hundred.” “I like it,” I say. “They told me it was flattering.” “Flattering, is it? Well. Well,” she says. “I suppose it is, after living in the dead’s clothes all this time.” “What?” “The Kinsellas’ young lad, you dope. Did you not know?” I don’t know what to say. “That must have been some stone they rolled back to find you. Sure, didn’t he follow that auld hound of theirs into the slurry tank and drown? That’s what they say happened anyhow,” she says. I keep on walking and try not to think about what she has said, even though I can think of little else. The time for the sun to go down is hours from now but the day feels like it is ending. I look at the sky and see the sun, still high, and, far away, a round moon coming out. “They say John got the gun and took the hound down the field but he hadn’t the heart to shoot him, the softhearted fool.” We walk on between the bristling hedges, in which small things seem to rustle and move. Chamomile grows along these ditches, wood sage and mint, plants whose names my mother somehow found the time to teach me. Farther along, the same heifer is still lost, in a different part of the road. Soon we come to the place where the black dog is barking through the gate. “Shut up and get in, you,” she says to him. It’s a cottage she lives in, with uneven slabs of concrete outside the front door, overgrown shrubs and red-hot pokers growing tall. Here I must watch my head, my step. When we go in, the place is cluttered and an older woman is smoking at the cooker. There’s a baby in a high chair. He lets out a cry when he sees the woman and drops a handful of marrowfat peas over the edge. “Look at you,” she says. “The state of you.” I’m not sure if it’s the woman or the child she is talking to. She takes off her cardigan and sits down and starts talking about the wake: who was there, the type of sandwiches that were made, the queen cakes, the corpse who was lying up crooked in the coffin and hadn’t even been shaved properly, how they had plastic rosary beads for him, the poor fucker. I don’t know whether to sit or stand, to listen or leave, but just as I’m deciding what to do the dog barks and the gate opens and Kinsella comes in, stooping under the doorframe. “Good evening all,” he says. “Ah, John,” the woman says. “You weren’t long. We’re only in the door. Aren’t we only in the door, child?” “Yes.” Kinsella hasn’t taken his eyes off me. “Thanks, Mildred. It was good of you to take her home.” “It was nothing,” the woman says. “She’s a quiet young one, this.” “She says what she has to say, and no more. May there be many like her,” he says. “Are you ready to come home, Petal?” I follow him out to the car, where the woman is waiting. “Were you all right in there?” she says. I say I was. “Did she ask you anything?” “A few things, nothing much.” “What did she ask you?” “She asked me if you used butter or margarine in your pastry.” “Did she ask you anything else?” “She asked me was the freezer packed tight.” “There you are,” Kinsella says. “Did she tell you anything?” the woman asks. I don’t know what to say. “What did she tell you?” “She told me you had a little boy who followed the dog into the slurry tank and died, and that I wore his clothes to Mass last Sunday.” When we get home, the hound comes out to the car to greet us, and I realize that I’ve not yet heard either one of them call him by his name. Kinsella sighs and goes off, stumbling a little, to milk. When he comes inside, he says he’s not ready for bed. He puts what I realize is the boy’s jacket on me. “What are you doing now?” the woman says. “I’m taking her as far as the strand.” “You’ll be careful with that girl, John Kinsella,” she says. “And don’t you go without the lamp.” “What need is there for a lamp on a night like tonight?” he says, but he takes it anyhow, as it’s handed to him. There’s a big moon shining on the yard, chalking our way onto the lane and along the road. Kinsella takes my hand in his. As he does it, I realize that my father has never once held my hand, and some part of me wants Kinsella to let me go, so that I won’t have to think about this. It’s a hard feeling but, as we walk along, I settle and let the difference between my life at home and the one I have here be. When we reach the crossroads, we turn right, down a steep hill. The wind is high and hoarse in the trees, tearing fretfully, making the dry boughs rise and swing. It’s sweet to feel the open road falling away under us, knowing that we will, at its end, come to the sea. Kinsella says a few meaningless things along the way, then falls quiet, and time passes without seeming to pass, and then we are in a sandy, open space where people must park their cars. It is full of tire marks and potholes, a rubbish bin that seems not to have been emptied in a long time. “We’re almost there now, Petal.” “I can’t live without you in my life, but I can live without you in my way.”Buy the print » He leads me up a hill, where tall rushes bend and shake. Then we are standing on the crest of a dark place where the land ends and there is a long strand and water, which I know is deep and stretches all the way to England. Far out, in the darkness, two bright lights are blinking. Kinsella lets me go and I race down the dune to the place where the black sea hisses up into loud, frothy waves. I run toward them as they back away, and run back, shrieking, when they crash in. Kinsella catches up and takes my shoes off, then his own. We walk along the edge of the sea as it claws at the sand under our bare feet. At one point, he holds me on his shoulders and we go in until the water is up to his knees. Then he walks me back to the tide line, where the dunes begin. Many things have washed up here: plastic bottles, sticks and floats, and, farther on, a stable door whose bolt is broken. “Some man’s horse is loose tonight,” Kinsella says. “You know the fishermen sometimes find horses out at sea. A man I know towed a colt in once and the horse lay down for a long time and then got up. And he was perfect. “Strange things happen,” he says. “A strange thing happened to you tonight, but Edna meant no harm. It’s too good, she is. She wants to believe in the good in others, and sometimes her way of finding out is to trust them, hoping she’ll not be disappointed, but she sometimes is.” I don’t know how to answer. “You don’t ever have to say anything,” he says. “Always remember that. Many’s the man lost much just because he missed a perfect opportunity to say nothing.” He laughs then, a queer, sad laugh. Everything about the night feels strange: to walk to a sea that’s always been there, to see it and feel it and fear it in the half-dark, to listen to this man telling me things—about horses being towed in from the deep, about his wife trusting others so she’ll learn whom not to trust—things that I don’t fully understand, things that may not even be intended for me. As we turn to head back along the beach, the moon disappears behind a cloud and we cannot see where we are going. At this point, Kinsella lets out a sigh, stops, and lights the lamp. “Ah, the women are nearly always right, all the same,” he says. “Do you know what the women have a gift for?” “What?” “Eventualities. A good woman can look far down the line and smell what’s coming before a man even gets a sniff of it.” He shines the light along the strand to find our footprints and follow them back, but the only prints he can find are mine. “You must have carried me there,” he says. I laugh at the thought of my carrying him, at the impossibility, then realize that it was a joke, and I got it. When the moon comes out again, he turns the lamp off and we easily find the path we took through the dunes. We stop at the top and he puts my shoes back on and then his own and knots the laces. We turn and look at the water. “See, there’s three lights there now, where there was only two before.” I look out across the sea. There, the two lights are still blinking, but with another, steady light, shining in between. “Can you see it?” he says. “I can,” I say. “It’s there.” And that is when he puts his arms around me and gathers me into them as though I were his. After a week of rain, on a Thursday, the letter comes. It is not so much a surprise as a shock. Already I have seen the signs: the shampoo for head lice in the chemist’s shop, the fine-tooth combs. In the gift gallery there are copybooks stacked high, Biros, rulers, mechanical-drawing sets. In the hardware, the lunchboxes and satchels and hurling sticks are left out front, where the women can see them. We come home and take soup, dipping our bread, breaking it, slurping a little, now that we know one another. Afterward, I go with Kinsella out to the hay shed, where he makes me promise not to look while he is welding. I am following him around, I realize, but I cannot help it. It is past the time for the post to come but he does not suggest that I fetch it until evening, after the cows are milked and the milking parlor is swept and scrubbed. “I think it’s time,” he says, washing his boots with the hose. I get into position, using the front step as a starting block. Kinsella looks at the watch and pulls down his handkerchief as if it was a flag. I race down the yard to the lane, make a tight corner, open the box, get the letters, and race back to the step, knowing that my time was not as fast as yesterday’s. “Nineteen seconds faster than your first run,” Kinsella says. “And a two-second improvement on yesterday, despite the heavy ground. It’s like the wind, you are.” He takes the letters and goes through them, but today, instead of making jokes about what’s inside of each, he pauses. “Is that from Mammy?” “You know,” he says, “I think it could be.” “Do I have to go home?” “Well, it’s addressed to Edna, so why don’t we give it in to her and let her read it.” We go into the parlor, where she is sitting with her feet up, looking through a book of knitting patterns. Kinsella slides the letter onto her lap. She opens it and reads it. It’s one small sheet with writing on both sides. She puts it down, then picks it up and reads it again. “Well,” she says, “you have a new brother. Nine pounds two ounces. And school starts on Monday. Your mother has asked us to leave you up at the weekend so she can get you togged out and all.” “I have to go back, then?” “Aye,” she says. “But sure didn’t you know that?” I nod. “You couldn’t stay here forever with us two old forgeries.” I stand there and stare at the fire, trying not to cry. I don’t so much hear as feel Kinsella leaving the room. “Don’t upset yourself,” the woman says. “Come over here.” She shows me pages with knitted jumpers and asks me which pattern I like best, but all the patterns seem to blur together and I just point to one, a blue one, that looks like it might be easy. “Well, you would pick the hardest one in the book,” she says. “I’d better get started on that this week or you’ll be too big for it by the time it’s knitted.” Now that I know I must go home, I almost want to go. I wake earlier than usual and look out at the wet fields, the dripping trees, the hills, which seem greener than they did when I came. Kinsella hangs around all day, doing things but not really finishing anything. He says that he has no disks for his angle grinder, no welding rods, and he cannot find the vise grip. He says that he got so many jobs done in the long stretch of fine weather that there’s little left to do. We are out looking at the calves, who have been fed. With warm water, Kinsella has made up their milk replacement, which they suck from long rubber teats. They look content lying there in a fresh bed of straw. “Could ye leave me back this evening?” “This evening?” Kinsella says. I nod. “Any evening suits me,” he says. “I’ll take you whenever you want, Petal.” I look at the day. It is like any other, with a flat gray sky hanging over the yard and the wet hound on watch outside the front door. “Well, I had better milk early, so,” he says. “Right.” And goes on down the yard past me as though I am already gone. The woman gives me a brown leather bag. “You can keep this old thing,” she says. “I never have a use for it.” We fold my clothes and place them inside, along with the Ladybird books we found on the stand at Webb’s in Gorey: “The Three Billy Goats Gruff,” “The Ugly Duckling,” “Snow-White and Rose-Red.” I can remember how the lines go, can match my memory of the words with the words that are written there. She gives me a bar of yellow soap and my facecloth, and the hairbrush she bought for me. As we gather all these things together, I remember where we got them, what was said, the days we spent, and how the sun, for most of the time, was shining. Just then a car pulls into the yard. I am afraid to look, afraid it is my father, but it’s a neighboring man. “Edna,” he says, in a panic. “Is John about?” “He’s out at the milking,” she says. “He should be finishing up now.” He runs across the yard, heavy in his Wellington boots, and minutes later Kinsella sticks his head around the door. “Joe Fortune needs a hand pulling a calf,” he says. “Would you ever run out and finish the parlor off? I have the herd out.” “I will, surely,” she says. “I’ll be back just as soon as I can.” “Don’t I know you will.” She puts on her anorak and I watch her go down the yard. I wonder if I should go out to help but I come to the conclusion that I’d only be in the way. I sit in the armchair and look out to where a watery light is shining off the zinc bucket in the scullery. I could go to the well for water for her tea. It could be the last thing I do. I put on the boy’s jacket, take up the bucket, and walk down the fields. I know the way, could find the well with my eyes closed. When I cross the stile, the path does not look like the same path we followed on that first evening here. The way is muddy now and slippery in places. I trudge on along toward the little iron gate and down the steps. The water is much higher these days. I was on the fifth step that first evening here, but now I stand on the first and see the surface of the water reaching up and just about sucking the edge of the step that’s one down from me. I bend with the bucket, letting it float then sink, as the woman does, but when I reach out to lift it another hand just like mine seems to come out of the water and pull me in. It is not that evening or the following one but the evening after, on the Sunday, that I am taken home. When I come back from the well, soaked to the skin, the woman takes one look at me and turns very still before she gathers me up and takes me inside and makes up my bed again. The following morning, I do not feel hot, but she keeps me upstairs, bringing me warm drinks with lemon and cloves and honey, aspirin. “ ’Tis nothing but a chill, she has,” I hear Kinsella say. “When I think of what could have happened.” “If you’ve said that once, you’ve said it a hundred times.” “But—” “Nothing happened, and the girl is grand. And that’s the end of it.” I lie there with the hot-water bottle, listening to the rain and looking through my books, making up something slightly different to happen at the end of each, each time. On Sunday, I am allowed to get up, and we pack everything again, as before. Toward evening, we have supper, and wash and change into our good clothes. The sun has come out, is lingering in long, cool slants, and the yard is dry in places. Sooner than I would like, we are ready and in the car, turning down the lane, going up through Gorey and on, along the narrow roads through Carnew and Shillelagh. “That’s where Da lost the red heifer playing cards,” I say. “Wasn’t that some wager?” the woman says. “It was some loss for him,” Kinsella says. When we get to our lane, the gates are closed and Kinsella gets out to open them, then closes them behind us, and drives on very slowly to the house. I feel, now, that the woman is trying to make up her mind whether she should say something to me, but I don’t really have any idea what it is, and she gives me no clue. The car stops in front of the house, the dogs bark, and my sisters race out. I see my mother through the window, with what is now the second youngest in her arms. Inside, the house feels damp and cold. The lino is tracked over with dirty footprints. Mammy stands there with my little brother, and looks at me. “You’ve grown,” she says. “Yes,” I say. “ ‘Yes,’ is it?” she says, and raises her eyebrows. She bids the Kinsellas good evening and tells them to sit down—if they can find a place to sit—and fills the kettle from the bucket under the kitchen table. We move playthings off the car seat under the window, and sit down. Mugs are taken off the dresser, a loaf of bread is sliced, butter and jam left out. “Oh, I brought you jam,” the woman says. “Don’t let me forget to give it to you, Mary.” “I made this out of the rhubarb you sent down,” Ma says. “That’s the last of it.” “I should have brought more,” the woman says. “I wasn’t thinking.” “Where’s the new addition?” Kinsella asks. “Oh, he’s up in the room there. You’ll hear him soon enough.” “Is he sleeping through the night for you?” “On and off,” Ma says. “The same child could crow at any hour.” My sisters look at me as though I am an English cousin, coming over to touch my dress, the buckles on my shoes. They seem different, thinner, and have nothing to say. We sit in to the table and eat the bread and drink the tea. When a cry is heard from upstairs, Ma gives my brother to Mrs. Kinsella, and goes up to fetch the baby. He is pink and crying, his fists tight. He looks bigger than the last, stronger. “Isn’t there a fine child, God bless him,” Kinsella says. Ma pours more tea with one hand and sits down and takes her breast out for the baby. Her doing this in front of Kinsella makes me blush. Seeing me blush, Ma gives me a long, deep look. “No sign of himself?” Kinsella says. “He went out there earlier, wherever he’s gone,” Ma says. A little bit of talk starts up then, little balls of speech they seem to kick uneasily back and forth. Soon after, a car is heard outside. Nothing more is said until my father appears, and throws his hat on the dresser. “Evening, all,” he says. “Dan,” Kinsella says. “Ah, there’s the prodigal child,” he says. “You came back to us, did you?” I say I did. “Did she give trouble?” “Trouble?” Kinsella says. “Good as gold, she was, the same girl.” “Is that so?” Da says, sitting down. “Well, isn’t that a relief.” “You’ll want to sit in,” Mrs. Kinsella says, “and get your supper.” “I had a liquid supper,” Da says, “down in Parkbridge.” I sneeze then, and reach into my pocket for my handkerchief, and blow my nose. “Have you caught cold?” Ma asks. “No,” I say, hoarsely. “You haven’t?” “Nothing happened.” “What do you mean?” “I didn’t catch cold,” I say. “I see,” she says, giving me another deep look. “The child’s been in bed for the last couple of days,” Kinsella says. “Didn’t she catch herself a wee chill.” “Aye,” Da says. “You couldn’t mind them. You know yourself.” “Dan,” Ma says, in a steel voice. Mrs. Kinsella looks uneasy. “You know, I think it’s nearly time that we were making tracks,” Kinsella says. “It’s a long road home.” “Ah, what’s the big hurry?” Ma says. “No hurry at all, Mary, just the usual. These cows don’t give you any opportunity to have a lie-in.” He gets up then and takes my little brother from his wife and gives him to my father. My father takes the child and looks across at the baby suckling. I sneeze and blow my nose again. “That’s a right dose you came home with,” Da says. “It’s nothing she hasn’t caught before and won’t catch again,” Ma says. “Sure, isn’t it going around?” “Are you ready for home?” Kinsella asks. Mrs. Kinsella stands then, and they say their goodbyes. I follow them out to the car with my mother, who still has the baby in her arms. Mrs. Kinsella takes out the cardboard box with the pots of jam. Kinsella lifts a four-stone sack of potatoes out of the boot. “These are floury,” he says. “Queens they are, Mary.” My mother thanks them, saying it was a lovely thing they did, to keep me. “The girl was welcome and is welcome again, anytime,” the woman says. “She’s a credit to you, Mary,” Kinsella says. “You keep your head in the books,” he says to me. “I want to see gold stars on them copybooks next time I come up here.” He gives me a kiss then, and the woman hugs me. I watch them getting into the car and closing the doors and I feel a start when the engine turns and the car begins to move away. “What happened at all?” Ma says, now that the car is gone. “Nothing,” I say. “Tell me.” “Nothing happened.” This is my mother I am speaking to but I have learned enough, grown enough, to know that what happened is not something I need ever mention. It is my perfect opportunity to say nothing. I hear the car braking on the gravel in the lane, the door opening, and then I am doing what I do best. It’s nothing I have to think about. I take off from standing and race on down the lane. My heart feels not so much in my chest as in my hands. I am carrying it along swiftly, as though I have become the messenger for what is going on inside me. Several things flash through my mind: the boy on the wallpaper, the gooseberries, that moment when the bucket pulled me under, the lost heifer, the third light on the water. I think of my summer, of now, of a tomorrow that I can’t entirely believe in. As I am rounding the bend, reaching the point where I daren’t look, I see him there, closing the gate, putting the clamp back on. His eyes are down, and he seems to be looking at his hands, at what he is doing. My feet batter on along the rough gravel, the strip of tatty grass in the middle of our lane. There is only one thing I care about now, and my feet are carrying me there. As soon as he sees me, he grows still. By the time I reach him, the gate is open and I am smack against him and lifted into his arms. For a long stretch, he holds me tight. I feel the thumping of my heart, my breaths coming out, then my heart and my breaths settling differently. At a point, which feels much later, a sudden gust blows through the trees and shakes big, fat raindrops over us. My eyes are closed now and I can feel him, the heat of him coming through his good clothes, can smell the soap on his neck. When I finally open my eyes and look over his shoulder, it is my father I see, coming along strong and steady, his walking stick in his hand. I hold on as though I’ll drown if I let go, and listen to the woman, who seems, in her throat, to be taking it in turns sobbing and crying, as though she is crying not for one but for two now. I daren’t keep my eyes open and yet I do, staring up the lane, past Kinsella’s shoulder, seeing what he can’t. If some part of me wants with all my heart to get down and tell the woman who has minded me so well that I will never, never tell, something deeper keeps me there in Kinsella’s arms, holding on. “Daddy,” I keep calling him, keep warning him. “Daddy.”
William Burns William Burns, from Ventura, California, told this story to my friend Pancho Monge, a policeman in Santa Teresa, Sonora, who passed it on to me. According to Monge, the North American was a laid-back guy who never lost his cool, a description that seems to be at odds with the following account of the events. In Burns’s own words: “I don’t know whether to be mad that you had water this whole time or impressed with your commitment to the joke.”Buy the print » It was a dreary time in my life. I was going through a rough patch at work. I was supremely bored, though up till then I’d always been immune to boredom. I was going out with two women. That I do remember clearly. One of them was getting on a bit—she must have been about my age—and the other wasn’t much more than a girl. Some days, though, they seemed like two ailing, crotchety old women, and other days like two little girls who just wanted to play. The age difference wasn’t so big that you’d mistake them for mother and daughter, but almost. Though that’s the kind of thing a man can only guess at; you never really know for sure. Anyway, these women had two dogs, a big one and a little one. And I never knew which dog belonged to which woman. They were sharing a house on the outskirts of a town in the mountains where people went for summer vacation. When I mentioned to someone, some friend or acquaintance, that I was going up there for the summer, he told me I should take my fishing rod. But I didn’t have a fishing rod. Someone else told me about the stores and the cabins, taking it easy, clearing the mind. But I wasn’t going there for a vacation; I was going to take care of the women. Why did they ask me to take care of them? What they told me was that some guy was out to harm them. They called him the killer. When I asked what his motive was, they didn’t have an answer, or maybe they preferred to keep me in the dark. So I tried to work it out for myself. They were afraid, they believed they were in danger, though maybe it was all a false alarm. But why should I tell people what to think, especially when they’ve hired me? Anyway, I reckoned that after a week or so they’d come around to my point of view. So I went up into the mountains with them and their dogs, and we moved into a little stone-and-timber house full of windows, more windows than I think I’ve ever seen in one house, all different sizes and scattered haphazardly. From the outside, the windows gave you the impression that the house had three floors, but in fact there were only two. Inside, especially in the living room and some of the bedrooms on the first floor, they produced a dizzying, exhilarating, maddening effect. In the bedroom I was given there were only two windows, both quite small, one above the other, the top one almost reaching the ceiling, the lower one just over a foot from the floor. All the same, life up there was pleasant. The older woman wrote every morning, but she didn’t shut herself away, the way they say writers usually do; she set up her laptop on the living-room table. The younger woman spent her time gardening or playing with the dogs or talking with me. I did most of the cooking, and although I’m not an expert the women praised the meals I prepared. I could have gone on living like that for the rest of my life. But one day the dogs ran away and I went out to look for them. I remember searching through a wood nearby, armed only with a flashlight, and peering into the yards of empty houses. I couldn’t find them anywhere. When I got back to the house, the women looked at me as if I were to blame for the dogs’ disappearance in the first place. Then they mentioned a name, the killer’s name. They were the ones who’d been calling him the killer right from the start. I didn’t believe them, but I listened to what they had to say. They talked about high-school romances, money trouble, grudges. I couldn’t get my head around how both of them could have had relationships with the same guy in high school, given the age difference between them. But they didn’t want to say any more. That night, in spite of the reproaches, one of them came to my room. I didn’t switch on the light, I was half asleep, and I never found out which one it was. When I woke up, with the first light of dawn, I was alone. I decided to go into town and pay a visit to the guy they were scared of. I asked them for his address and told them to shut themselves in the house and not to move until I got back. I drove down in the older woman’s pickup. Just before I got to town, I saw the dogs in the yard of an old canning plant. They came over to me looking abashed and wagging their tails. I put them in the cab of the pickup and drove around the town for a while, laughing at how worried I’d been the previous night. I found myself approaching the address the women had given me. Let’s say the guy was called Bedloe. He had a store in the center of town, a store for vacationers, where he sold everything from fishing rods to checked shirts and chocolate bars. For a while I just browsed the shelves. The man looked like a movie actor; he can’t have been more than thirty-five. He was strongly built, had dark hair, and was reading a newspaper spread out on the counter. He was wearing canvas pants and a T-shirt. The store must have been doing good business; it was on one of the central streets, which had trams running down it as well as cars. Bedloe’s stuff was expensive—I checked out the prices. As I was leaving, for some reason I had the impression that the poor guy was lost. I hadn’t gone more than ten yards when I realized that his dog was following me. I hadn’t even seen it in the store: a big black dog, maybe a German shepherd crossed with something else. I’ve never owned a dog, I’ve got no idea what makes the damn things tick, but, for whatever reason, Bedloe’s dog followed me. I tried to get it to go back to the store, of course, but it paid no attention. So I kept walking toward the pickup, with the dog at my side, and then I heard a whistle. The storekeeper was whistling his dog back. I didn’t turn around, but I knew that he had come out looking for us. My reaction was automatic and unthinking: I tried to make sure he didn’t see me, or us. I remember hiding behind a dark-red tram, the color of dried blood, with the dog pressed against my legs. Just when I was feeling safe, the tram moved off and the storekeeper saw me from the opposite sidewalk and moved his hands in a gesture that could have meant “Grab the dog” or “Hang the dog” or “Stay right there till I come over.” Which is exactly what I didn’t do. I turned around and disappeared into the crowd, while he shouted something like “Stop, my dog! Hey buddy, my dog!” Why did I do that? I don’t know. Anyway, the storekeeper’s dog followed me to where I’d parked the pickup, and as soon as I opened the door, before I had time to react, it jumped in and refused to budge. When the women saw me arrive with three dogs, they said nothing and started playing with all of them. The storekeeper’s dog seemed to know them from way back. That afternoon, we talked about all sorts of things. I started by telling them what had happened to me in town, then they talked about their past lives and their work: one had been a teacher, the other a hairdresser, and both had quit their jobs, although from time to time, they said, they looked after kids with problems. At some point, I found myself talking about how the house should be guarded around the clock. The women looked at me and agreed, with a smile. I regretted having put it like that. Then we ate. I hadn’t prepared the meal that night. The conversation lapsed into silence, broken only by the sound of our jaws and teeth working and the scuffling of the dogs outside as they raced around the house. Later, we started drinking. One of the women, I don’t remember which, talked about the roundness of the earth and protection and doctors’ voices. My mind was elsewhere; I wasn’t following. I guess she was referring to the Indians who had once inhabited those mountain slopes. After a while I couldn’t stand it anymore, so I got up, cleared the table, and shut myself in the kitchen to wash the dishes, but I could hear them even there. When I went back to the living room, the younger woman was lying on the sofa, half covered with a blanket, and the other one was talking about a big city; it was as if she were talking up some big city, saying what a great place it was to live, but in fact she was running it down. I could tell, because every now and then both of them would start sniggering. That was something I never got with those two: their humor. I found them attractive, I liked them, but something about their sense of humor always seemed false and forced. The bottle of whiskey I’d opened after dinner was half empty. That bothered me; I had no intention of getting drunk, and I didn’t want them to get drunk and leave me out. So I sat down with them and said that we had to talk a few things through. “What things?” they asked, pretending to be surprised, or maybe they weren’t just pretending. “This house has too many weak points,” I said. “We’ve got to do something about it.” “What are they?” one of the women asked. “O.K.,” I said, and I started by reminding them how far it was from town, how exposed it was, but I soon realized that they weren’t listening. If I were a dog, I thought resentfully, these women would show me a bit more consideration. Later, after I realized that none of us were feeling sleepy, they started talking about children, and their voices made my heart recoil. I have seen terrible, evil things, sights to make a hard man flinch, but, listening to the women that night, my heart recoiled so violently it almost disappeared. I tried to butt in, I tried to find out if they were recalling scenes from childhood or talking about real children in the present, but I couldn’t. My throat felt as if it were packed with bandages and cotton swabs. Suddenly, in the middle of that conversation or double monologue, I had a premonition and I started moving stealthily toward one of the windows in the living room, a ridiculous little bull’s-eye window, in a corner, too close to the main window to serve any useful purpose. I know that at the last moment the women looked at me and realized that something was happening. All I had time to do was put my finger to my lips before pulling back the curtain and seeing Bedloe’s head, the killer’s head, outside. What happened next is hazy. And it’s hazy because panic is contagious. The killer, I realized immediately, had started running around the outside of the house. The women and I started running around inside. Two circles: he was looking for a way in, trying to find a window left open, while the women and I went around checking the doors and shutting the windows. I know I didn’t do what I should have done: gone to my room, got my gun, gone outside, and made him surrender. Instead I found myself thinking that the dogs were still out there and hoping nothing bad would happen to them; one of the dogs was pregnant, I think, I’m not sure—there’d been some talk about it. Anyway, just at that moment, while I was still running around, I heard one of the women say, “Jesus, the bitch, the bitch,” and I thought of telepathy, I thought of happiness, and I was afraid that the woman who had spoken, whichever one it was, would go out to look for the dog. Luckily, neither of them made any move to leave the house. Just as well. Just as well, I thought. And then (I’ll never forget this) I went into a room on the first floor where I’d never been before. It was long, narrow and dark, illuminated only by the moon and by a faint glow coming from the porch lights. And at that moment I knew, with a certitude indistinct from terror, that destiny (or misfortune—the same thing in this case) had brought me to that room. At the far end, outside a window, I saw the storekeeper’s silhouette. I crouched down, barely able to contain my shaking (my whole body was shaking, the sweat was pouring off me), and waited. The killer opened the window with bewildering ease and slipped quietly into the room. There were three narrow wooden beds, each with a bedside table. On the wall, inches above the beds, I could see three framed prints. The killer stopped for a moment. I felt him breathe; the air made a healthy sound as it went into his lungs. Then he groped his way forward, between the wall and the ends of the beds, directly toward where I was crouched, waiting for him. Although it was hard to believe, I knew he hadn’t seen me: I thanked my lucky stars, and when he got close enough I grabbed him by the feet and pulled him down. Once he was on the floor I started kicking him with the aim of doing as much damage as possible. “He’s in here, he’s in here!” I shouted, but the women didn’t hear me (I couldn’t hear them running around, either), and the unfamiliar room was like a projection of my brain, the only home, the only shelter. I don’t know how long I was in there, kicking that fallen body; I only remember someone opening the door behind me, words I couldn’t understand, a hand on my shoulder. Then I was alone again and I stopped kicking him. For a few moments I didn’t know what to do; I felt dazed and tired. Eventually, I snapped out of it and dragged the body to the living room. There I found the women, sitting very close together on the sofa, almost hugging each other. Something about the scene made me think of a birthday party. I could see the anxiety in their eyes, and a spark of residual fear caused not so much by what had happened as by the state of Bedloe after the beating I’d given him. And it was the look in their eyes that made me lose my grip and let his body drop onto the carpet. Bedloe’s face was a blood-spattered mask, garish in the light of the living room. Where his nose had been there was just a bleeding pulp. I checked to see if his heart was beating. The women were watching me without making the slightest movement. “He’s dead,” I said. Before I went out onto the porch, I heard one of them sigh. I smoked a cigarette looking at the stars, thinking about how I’d explain it to the authorities in town. When I went back inside, the women were down on all fours stripping the body, and I couldn’t stifle a cry. They didn’t even look at me. I drank a glass of whiskey and then went out again, taking the bottle, I think. I don’t know how long I was out there, smoking and drinking, giving the women time to finish their task. I went back over the events, piecing them together. I remembered the man looking in through the window, I remembered the look in his eyes, and now I recognized the fear, I remembered when he lost his dog, and finally I remembered him reading a newspaper at the back of the store. I also remembered the light the previous day, the light inside the store and the porch light seen from the room where I’d killed him. Then I started watching the dogs, who weren’t sleeping, either, but running from one end of the yard to the other. The wooden fence was broken in places; someone would have to fix it someday, but it wasn’t going to be me. Day began to dawn on the other side of the mountains. The dogs came up onto the porch looking for a pat, probably tired after a long night of playing. Just the usual two. I whistled for the other one, but it didn’t come. The revelation struck me with the first shiver of cold. The dead man was no killer. We’d been tricked by the real killer, hidden somewhere far away, or, more likely, by fate. Bedloe hadn’t wanted to kill anyone—he was just looking for his dog. Poor bastard, I thought. The dogs went back to chasing each other around the yard. I opened the door and looked at the women, unable to bring myself to go into the living room. Bedloe’s body was clothed again. Better dressed than before. I was going to say something, but there was no point, so I went back to the porch. One of the women followed me out. “Now we have to get rid of the body,” she said behind me. “Yes,” I said. Later, I helped to put Bedloe into the back of the pickup. We drove into the mountains. “Life is meaningless,” the older woman said. I didn’t answer; I dug a grave. When we got back, while they were taking a shower, I washed the pickup and got my stuff together. “What will you do now?” they asked while we were having breakfast on the porch, watching the clouds. “I’ll go back to the city,” I said, “and I’ll pick up the investigation exactly where I got off the track.” And the end of the story, as Pancho Monge tells it, is that six months later William Burns was killed by unidentified assailants.
Fjord of Killary So I bought an old hotel on the fjord of Killary. It was set hard by the harbor wall, with Mweelrea Mountain across the water, and disgracefully gray skies above. It rained two hundred and eighty-seven days of the year, and the locals were given to magnificent mood swings. On the night in question, the rain was particularly violent—it came down like handfuls of nails flung hard and fast by a seriously riled sky god. I was at this point eight months in the place and about convinced that it would be the death of me. “It’s end-of-the-fucking-world stuff out there,” I said. The chorus of locals in the hotel’s lounge bar, as always, ignored me. I was a fretful blow-in, by their mark, and simply not cut out for tough, gnarly, West of Ireland living. They were listening, instead, to John Murphy, our alcoholic funeral director. “I’ll bury anythin’ that fuckin’ moves,” he said. “Bastards, suicides, tinkers,” he said. “I couldn’t give a fuckin’ monkey’s,” he said. Mweelrea is the most depressing mountain you’ve ever seen, by the way, and its gaunt, looming shape filled almost every view from the Water’s Edge Hotel, the lounge bar’s included. The locals drank mostly Bushmills whiskey and Guinness stout, and they drank them to great excess. I wiped their slops from the counter with a bar cloth I had come to hate with a passion verging on the insane. I said, “But, seriously, that’s one motherfucker of a high tide, no?” Barely the toss of a glance I received. The talk had shifted to roads, mileage, general directions. They made a geography of the country by the naming of pubs: “Do you know Madigan’s in Maynooth?” “I do, of course.” “You’d take a left there.” “I have you now.” The hotel had twenty-three bedrooms and listed westward. Set a can of peas on the floor of just about any bedroom and it would roll slowly in the direction of the gibbering Atlantic. The estate agent had gussied up the history of the place in the brochure—a traditional coaching inn, original beams, visited by Thackeray, heritage bleeding out the wazoo, etc.—and I had leaped at it. I was the last of the hopeless romantics. The talk had moved on, briefly, from roads and directions. “If he’s still around when her bandages come off,” Bill Knott, the surveyor, said, “he’s a braver man than me.” “Nice woman,” John Murphy agreed. “As long as you don’t put your hand in the cage.” Behind the bar: the Guinness tap, the Smithwicks tap, the lager taps, the line of optics, the neatly stacked rows of glasses, and a high stool that sat by a wee slit of window that had a view across the water toward Mweelrea. The iodine tang of kelp hung in the air always, and put me in mind of embalming fluid. Bill Knott looked vaguely from his Bushmills toward the water. “Highish, all right,” he said. “But now what’d we be talkin’ about for Belmullet, would you say? Off a slow road?” The primary interest of these people’s lives, it often seemed, was how far one place was from another, and how long it might take to complete the journey, given the state of the roads. Bill had been in haulage as a young man and considered himself expert. “I don’t know, Bill,” I said. “Would we say an hour twenty if you weren’t tailbacked out of Newport?” “I said I really don’t fucking well know, Bill.” “There are those’ll say you’d do it in an hour.” He sipped, delicately. “But you’d want to be grease fuckin’ lightnin’ coming up from Westport direction, wouldn’t you?” “We could be swimming it yet, Bill.” I had made—despite it all—a mild success of myself in life. But on turning forty, the previous year, I had sensed exhaustion rising up in me, like rot. Before forty, you think that exhaustion is something like a long-lasting hangover. But at forty you learn all about it. Even your passions exhaust you. I found that to be alone with the work all day was increasingly difficult. And the city had become a jag on my nerves—there was too much young flesh around. The brochure about the hotel appeared in my life like a revelation. I clutched it in my hands for days on end. I grew feverish with the notion of a westward flight. I lay in bed with the brochure, as the throb of the city sounded a kind of raspy, taunting note, and I moaned as I read: Original beams. Traditional coaching inn. Thackeray. Estd. 1648. The hotel had the promise of an ideal solution. I could distract myself (from myself) with its day-to-day running, its endless small errands, and perhaps, late at night, or very early in the morning, I could continue, at some less intense level, with the poetry. All of my friends, every last one of them, said, “The Shining.” But I was thinking, The West of Ireland . . . the murmurous ocean . . . the rocky hills hard-founded in a greenish light (the light of a sad dream) . . . the cleansing air . . . the stoats peeping shyly from gaps in the drystone walls . . . Yes. It would all do to make a new man of me. Of course, I hadn’t counted on having to listen to my summer staff, a pack of healthily energetic young Belarusians, fucking one another at all angles of the clock. And the ocean turned out to gibber rather than murmur. Gibber gibber—whoosh. Gibber gibber—whoosh. Down the far end of the bar, Mick Harty, distributor of bull semen for the vicinity, was molesting his enormously fat wife, Vivien. “We’re after a meal at the place run by the Dutch faggots,” he said. “Oysters for a starter . . . They have me gone fuckin’ bananas!” Vivien slapped and roared at him as he stroked her massive haunches. She reddened and chortled as he twisted her around and pulled her vast rear side into his crotch area. Nobody apart from me paid a blind bit of attention to the spectacle. And, even as she suffered a pretend butt-rape from her cackling husband, she turned to me and informed me, precisely, what they had paid for the meal at the Dutch couple’s restaurant. “Two starters, two mains, we shared a dessert, two bottles of wine, two cappuccinos,” she said, as Mick grinded slowly behind her, hoarsely yodelling an Alicia Keys ballad. “Hundred thirty-six euros, even—not cheap, Caoimhin.” “Cappuccino is a breakfast drink,” I said. “You’re not supposed to have it after a meal.” I was not well liked out in Killary. I was considered “superior.” Of course, I was fucking superior. I ate at least five portions of fruit and veg daily. I had omega 3 from oily fish coming out my ears. I limited myself to twenty-one units of alcohol a week. I hadn’t written two consecutive lines of a poem in eight months. I was becoming versed, instead, in the strange, illicit practices of the hill country. “Fuckers are washin’ diesel up there again,” John Murphy said. “The Hourigans? Of course, they’d a father a diesel-washer before ’em, didn’t they? Cunts to a man.” “Cunts,” Bill Knott confirmed. Outside, the rain continued to hammer away at our dismal little world, and the sky had shucked the last of its evening gray to take on an intense purplish tone that was ominous, close-in, Biblical. “Sky is weirdin’ up like I don’t know fucking what,” I said. John Murphy grabbed my elbow as I passed along the bar—he was aggressive, always, once the third pint was downed—and he said, “I s’pose you know that possessed fuckin’ she-devil above in the house will put me in the ground?” “John,” I said, “I really don’t want to hear about it.” “I mean literally, Caoimhin! She’ll fuckin’ do for me!” “John, your marriage is your own private business.” “She’s fuckin’ poisoning me! I swear to bleedin’ fuckin’ Jesus! I can taste it off the fuckin’ tea, Caoimh!” “Would you go again, John?” I indicated his emptied stout glass. “Oh, please,” he said. They were all nut jobs. This is what it came down to. This is the thing you learn about habitual country drinkers. They suffer all manner of delusions, paranoia, warped fantasies. It is a most intense world indeed that a hard drinker builds around himself, and it is difficult for him not to assume that everyone else in the place is involved with it. “Mick’s a man of sixty,” Vivien Harty said, awed at the persistence of her husband’s desires, “and he’d still get up on a cracked fuckin’ plate.” Just then a cacophony erupted: From the hillsides, everywhere, came the aggravated howls of dogs. These were amped to an unnatural degree. The talk in the lounge bar stalled for a moment in response but, just as abruptly, it resumed. “The tiramisu?” Mick Harty said. “You wouldn’t know whether to eat it or smear it all over yourself.” Nadia, one of my Belarusians, came through from the supper room and sullenly collected some glasses. “The arse on that,” John Murphy said. “Please, John,” I said. “Two apples in a hankie,” he said. I believed all nine of my summer staff to be in varying degrees of sexual contact with one another. I housed them in the dreary, viewless rooms at the back of the hotel, where I myself lived during what I will laughably describe as high season (the innocence), and my sleepless nights were filled with the sound of their rotating passions. “Thank you, Nadia,” I said. She scowled at me as she placed the glasses in the dishwasher. I was never allowed to forget that I was paying minimum wage. The dogs had stopped; the rain continued. It was by now a hysterical downpour, with great sheets of water steaming down from Mweelrea, and the harbor roared in the fattening light. Visibility was reduced to fourteen feet. This all signalled that the West of Ireland holiday season had begun. “He was thrun down,” John Murphy said, speaking of a man he had lately buried. “He went into himself. He didn’t talk for a year and a half and then he choked on a sausage. You’d visit and he’d say nothin’ to you, but he’d know you were there. The little eyes would follow you around the room.” “Age was he when he went, John?” “Forty-two.” “Youngish?” “Arra. He was better off out of it.” My first weeks out at the Water’s Edge, I had kept a surreptitious notebook under the bar. The likes of “thrun down” would get a delighted entry. I would guess at the likely etymology—from “thrown down,” as in “laid low”? But I had quickly had my fill of these maudlin bastards. This, by the way, was the Monday of the May bank-holiday weekend. Killary was en fête. Local opinion, cheerfully, was that it had been among the wettest bank holidays ever witnessed. The few deluded hill walkers and cyclists who had shown up had departed early, in wordless outrage, and in the library room of the Water’s Edge there was just a pair of elderly couples still enjoying the open fire. I left the bar and took a pass through the library to smile at them, to throw on a few sods of turf, and to make sure they hadn’t died on the premises. They stared into the flames. “That’s some evening?” I tried, but there was no response. Both couples held hands and appeared to be significantly tranquillized. Coming through the lobby again, I looked out through the doors and saw a pair of minks creep over the harbor wall. They crossed the road, in perfect tandem, and headed for the rising fields beyond the hotel. I went back into the bar. I found that I had an odd nausea developing. “They can cut out that particular gland,” Bill Knott said, “but if the wound goes septic after?” He shook his head hopelessly. “That,” he said, “is when the fun and games start.” Mine was one of four licensed premises in a scattered district of three-hundred-odd souls. This is a brutal scarcity, by Irish ratios, so there was enough trade to keep us all tunnelling toward oblivion. The bar was another of the elements that had sold the place to me. It was pleasant, certainly, with an old-fashioned mahogany finish, zinc-topped low tables, and some prints of photo finishes from fabled race meetings at Ballybrit. I always tended bar in the evenings. I’d had a deranged notion that this would establish me as a kind of charming-innkeeper figure. This was despite the fact that not one but two ex-girlfriends (both of them, admittedly, sharp-tongued academics) had described my manner as “funereal.” The bar-side babble continued unchecked: Bill Knott was now reckoning the distance to Derry if you were to go via Enniskillen. Vivien Harty was telling John Murphy that that wasn’t tuppence worth of a coat his wife had on the Tuesday gone, that he was looking after her all the same, and that no woman deserved it more, given what she’d been through with the botched hysterectomy. Mick Harty talked of the cross-border trade in stallions and looked faintly murderous. “Our horses the fuckers are after now,” he said. Nadia, meantime, was singing weird Belarusian pop beneath her breath as she got up on the footstool to polish the optics. A seep of vomit rose in my gullet. I was soul sick. I was failing spectacularly at this whole mine-host lark. I quietly leaned on the bar by the till. I looked out the small window. Watery, it was. “Seriously, lads, we haven’t seen a tide that high, surely?” I said. “Have we?” It was lapping by now at the top of the harbor wall. The estate agent had assured me that the place never flooded. I’d looked the slithery old fuck in the eye and believed him. I had suspected, I had hoped, that the life I found out here would eventually do something for my work. Something would gestate in me. I’d be able to move away from all that obtuse, arrhythmic stuff about the sex heat of cities that had made me mildly famous in provincial English departments. My poetry was known of but was not a difficulty for the Killary locals—there had never been a shortage of poets out there. Every last crooked rock of the place had at some point seated the bony arse of some hypochondriacal epiphany-seeker. Some fucker who’d forever be giving out about his lungs. “You’d do jail time for that,” John Murphy said. He was eying once more the rear quarters of Nadia as she headed for the kitchen. “John, I’ve warned you about this,” I said. “I’m only sayin’,” he said. “You’ll love him. He’s an eighty-per-cent match to your iPod.”Buy the print » He sullenly turned back to his stout. The people of this part of North Galway are oversexed. That is my belief. I had found a level of ribaldry that bordered on the paganistic. It goes back, of course. They lick it up off the crooked rocks. Thackeray, indeed, remarked on the corsetless dress of rural Irish women, and the fact that they kissed perfect strangers in greeting, their vast bosoms swinging. “It’s not,” John Murphy said, “like I’m goin’ to take a lep at the little bitch. My leppin’ days are long fuckin’ over.” If I sold the place for even three-quarters of what I paid for it, I could buy half of Cambodia and do a Colonel fucking Kurtz on it. Lovely, coldhearted Nadia came running from the kitchen. She was as white as the fallen dead. “Is otter!” she cried. “What?” “Is otter in kitchen!” she cried. He was eating soup when I got there. Carrot and coriander from a ten-gallon pot. Normally, they are terribly skittish, otters, but this fellow was languorous as a surfer. Nervously, I shooed him toward the back door. He took his own sweet time about heading there. Once outside, he aimed not for the tide-line rocks, where the otters all lived, but for the higher ground, south. I looked out toward the harbor. The harbor wall was disappearing beneath spilling sheets of water. I came back into the lounge. “A fucking otter is right,” I said. They looked at me, the locals, in quiet disgust, as if I could expect no less than otters in the kitchen, the way I was after letting things go. I pointed to the harbor. “Will it flood?” I asked, and there was a quake in my tone. “You’d make good time coming out of Sligo, normally,” Bill Knott said. “Unless you had a Thursday on your hands. But of course them fuckers have any amount of a road under them since McSharry was minister.” “I said will it flood, Bill? Will it flood? Are you even listening to me?” A gray silence swelled briefly. “Hasn’t in sixteen years,” he said. “Won’t now.” I spent all my waking hours keeping the Water’s Edge on the go. I was short-breathed, tense, out of whack. I was at roughly the midpoint of what, for poets, would be termed “a long silence”—five years had passed since my last collection. Anytime I sat down to page or screen, I felt as if I might weep, and I didn’t always resist the temptation. Mountain bleakness, the lapidary rhythms of the water, the vast schizophrenic skies: these weren’t inspiring poetry in me; they were inspiring hopeless lust and negative thought patterns. Again and again, the truth was confronting me: I was a born townie, and I had made a dreadful mistake in coming here. I set down a fresh Bushmills for Bill Knott. “This place your crowd are from,” he said. “Belarus?” “Yes, Bill?” “What way’d they be for road out there?” “When you think,” Vivien Harty said, “of what this country went through for the sake of Europe, when we went on our hands and fuckin’ knees before Brussels, to be given the lick of a fuckin’ butter voucher, and as soon as we have ourselves even halfways right these bastards from the back end of nowhere decide they can move in wherever they like and take our fuckin’ jobs?” On the Killary hillsides the dogs howled again in fright-night sequence, one curdling scream giving way to another; they were even louder now than before. “Mother of Jesus,” John Murphy said. The dogs were so loud now as to be unignorable. We all went to the windows. The roadway between hotel and harbor wall had in recent moments disappeared. The last of the evening light was an unreal throb of Kermit green. The dogs howled. The rain continued. “The roads,” Bill Knott said, at last impressed, “will be unpassable.” Mick Harty’s hands slipped down over the backs of Vivien’s thighs. The rain came in great, unstoppable drifts on a high westerly from the Atlantic. “That ain’t quittin’ anytime soon,” I said, stating the blindingly obvious. “Water’s up to the second step,” Vivien Harty noted. Four old stone steps led up to the inn’s front porch. “And rising,” Mick Harty said. “I haven’t seen rain the likes of that,” John Murphy said, “since Castlebar, the March of ’73.” “What’d we be talkin’ about for Castlebar?” Bill Knott said. “Forty-five minutes on light road?” We moved back from the windows. Our movement had become curiously choreographed. Quiet calls were made on mobiles. We spoke now in whispers. All along the fjord, word quickly had it, the waters had risen and had breached the harbor walls. The emergency services had been alerted. There was talk—a little late for it—of sandbagging. We were joined in the lounge bar by six of the nine Belarusians—the other three had gone to the cineplex in Westport, fate having put on a Dan Brown adaptation—and by the two elderly couples, who had managed not to die off in the library. I said, “A round of drinks on the house, folks. We may be out here for some time.” Applause greeted this. I felt suddenly that I was growing into the mine-host role. There was a conviviality in the bar, the type that is said to come always with threatened disaster. Great howls of wind echoed down the Doo Lough Valley, and they were answered in volleyed sequence by the howls of the Killary dogs. Four of the six Belarusians wore love bites on their necks as they sipped at their complimentary bottled Heinekens. They were apparently feasting delightedly on one another in my back rooms. The elderlies introduced themselves. We met Alan and Norah Fettle from Limerick, and Jimmy and Janey McAllister from Limavady. They were the least scared among us, the least awed. “Yon wind’s changing,” Jimmy Mac said. “Yon wind’s shiftin’ easterly so ’tis.” “I wouldn’t like the sounds of that,” John Murphy said. “Not much good will ever come out of a swappin’ wind. You’d hear that said.” It was said also in Killary that an easterly wind unseated the mind. I shot a glance outside, and on a low branch of the may tree hanging over the water a black-backed gull had apparently killed its mate and was starting to eat it. This didn’t seem like news that anybody wanted to hear, so I kept it to myself. Alexei, the conspicuously walleyed Belarusian, had gone to survey the scene from an upstairs window and he returned to report that the car park beside the hotel was flooded completely. “Insurance will cover any damage,” Bill Knott soothed. “It’s going to be one of those fuckin’ news clips,” John Murphy said. “Some fuckin’ ape sailin’ down the street on a tea tray.” “Jesus Christ, what’s that gull doing?” Norah Fettle said. It was an inopportune moment to draw attention to the gull situation. The black-back had just at that instant managed to prise its partner’s head off, and was flailing it about. Janey McAllister passed out cold on the floor. There was no getting away from the fact that we were being sucked into the deeps of an emergency. I was getting happy notions. I was thinking, The place gets wiped out, I claim the insurance, and it’s Cambodia here I come. Norah Fettle and Vivien Harty tended to Janey McAllister. She was frothing a little, and moaning softly. They called for brandy. Bill Knott signalled for a fresh Bushmills, John Murphy for a pint of stout. We all looked out the windows. The water had passed the fourth step and was sweeping over the porch. We were on some vague level aware that house lights still burned on the far side of the harbor, along the mountainside of Mweelrea. Then, at once, the lights over there cut out. “Good night, Irene,” Bill Knott said. The worst of the news was that the emergency appeared to be localized. The fjord of Killary was flooding when no other place was flooding. The rest of the country was going about its humdrum Monday-night business—watching football matches, or Dan Brown adaptations, putting out the bins, or putting up with their marriages—while the people of our vicinity prepared for watery graves. I felt, finally, as if I had been accepted. And I felt that the worst possible course would be to close the bar. There was a kind of hilarity to the proceedings still, and this would not be maintained if I stopped serving booze. The pace of the drinking, if anything, quickened now that the waters were rising. You’d never know when you were going to lift your last. “Would we want to be making south?” Mick Harty wondered. Vivien rubbed at his wrist so tenderly that I found myself welling up. “Hush,” she said. “Hush it, babes.” “If we went up past Lough Fee and swung around the far side of her,” Bill Knott said, “we’d nearly make it to the N59.” The Belarusians carted boxloads of old curtains down from the attic to use as sops against the doorways, but the moment the last boxload reached the bottom of the stairs the doors popped and the waters entered. I moved everybody upstairs. There was a function room up there that I used for the occasional wedding. It had a fully stocked bar and operational disco lights. We weren’t a moment too soon. As I trailed up the stairs, keeping to the rear of all my locals and Belarusians, I cast an eye back over my shoulder. It had the look of death’s dateless night out there. “Hup, people!” I cried. “Hup for Jesus’ sake!” The function room was used less often than it should have been—the locals got married in Alghero if they had the price of it at all. More calls were made on mobiles. We were promised that the emergency services were being moved out. I turned off the harsh strip lighting overhead and switched to the mood lighting, which moved in lovely, dreamy, disco swirls. Even yet the rain hammered down on my old hotel at Killary. I opened the bar, and the locals weren’t shy about stepping up to it. We drank. We whispered. We laughed like cats. Bill Knott reckoned the distance to Clare Island oversea, if it should come to it. “Of course, it would not be the first time,” he said, “that the likes of us would be sent hoppin’ for the small boats.” Vivien Harty whispered to Janey McAllister. Janey’s color was returning with frequent nips of my brandy. Vivien swirled it in the glass and fed it to the old lady; her tiny gray head she cradled on a vast lap. “There’s little fear of you now, my sweet,” she said. Thackeray, on visiting the backwoods of Ireland, bemoaned the “choking peat smoke” and the “obstreperous cider” and the diet of “raw ducks, raw pease” and also a particular inn: “No pen can describe that establishment, as no English imagination could have conceived it.” John Murphy told us, loudly, that he loved his wife. “She still excites me,” he said. “It’s been twenty-eight years, and I still get a horn on me when I see that bitch climb a stairs.” I went to the landing outside the function room. I looked down the road. It was a waterway; the hotel’s porch had disappeared, and dozens of cormorants were approaching in formation across the water. It was like the attack on Dresden. I rushed back into the function room just as the cormorants landed on the tarpaulin of the kitchen roof out back, and a weeping Mick Harty was confessing to Vivien an affair of fifteen years’ standing. With her sister. “All the auld filth starts to come out,” Alan Fettle said. Vivien approached her husband, and embraced him, and planted a light kiss on his neck as they held each other against the darkness. Then she bit him on the neck. Blood came in great, angry spurts. I vomited, briefly, and decided to put on some music. I looked out the landing window as I dashed along the corridor to get some CDs from my room—this was a bad move: Seven sheep in a rowing boat were being bobbed about on the vicious waters of Killary. The sheep appeared strangely calm. I picked lots of old familiars, old favorites: Abba, the Pretenders, Bryan Adams. I pelted back to the function room. “We’re here!” I cried. “We might as well have a disco!” Oh, and we danced the night away out on the fjord of Killary. We danced to “Chiquitita,” slowly and sensuously; we danced in great, wet-eyed nostalgia to “Brass in Pocket,” and we had all the old steps still, as if 1979 were only yesterday; we punched the air madly to “Summer of ’69.” I went out to the landing to find the six Belarusians sitting on the top step of the stairs. The waters of Killary were halfway up the stairs. Footstools sailed by in the lobby below, toilet rolls, place mats, phone books. But what could I do? I returned to the function room and served out pints hand over fist. All mobile signals were down. There appeared on the horizon no saviors in hi-viz clothing. The waters were rising yet. And the view was suddenly clear to me. The world opened out to its grim beyonds and I realized that, at forty, one must learn the rigors of acceptance. Capitalize it: Acceptance. I needed to accept what was put before me—be it a watery grave in Ireland’s only natural fjord, or a return to the city and its grayer intensities, or a wordless exile in some steaming Cambodian swamp hole, or poems or no poems, or children or not, lovers or not, illness or otherwise, success or its absence. I would accept all that was put in my way, from here on through until I breathed my last. Electrified, I searched for a notebook. Bill Knott danced. John Murphy danced. The McAllisters and the Fettles waltzed. The Belarusians dry-humped one another in the function room’s darker corners. The Hartys were in deep, emotional conversation in a banquette booth—Mick held to his bleeding neck a wad of napkins. I myself took to the floor, swivelling slowly on my feet, and I closed my eyes against the swirling disco lights. The pink backs of my lids became twin screens for flashing apparitions of my childhood pets. “Are ye enjoyin’ yereselves, lads?” I cried. “Oh, heel up the cart there, now!” “What’d we be talking about for Loughrea, would you say?” “Didn’t I come back from that place one lung half the size of the other?” “Ah, sure, that’s England for you.” I ran out to the landing for a spot-check on the flooding situation, and was met there by Alexei, the walleyed Belarusian. He indicated with a happy jerk of his thumb the water level on the stairs. It had dropped a couple of steps. I patted his back, and winked just the once, and returned to the disco. 1648 was a year shy of Cromwell’s landing in Ireland, and already the inn at Killary fjord was in business—it would see out this disaster, too. Now random phrases and images came at me—the sudden quick-fire assaults that signal a new idea—and I knew that they would come in sequence soon enough, their predestined rhythms would assert. I felt a new, quiet ecstasy take hold. The gloom of youth had at last lifted.
Trailhead The Trailhead Queen was dead. At first, there was no overt sign that her long life was ending: no fever, no spasms, no farewells. She simply sat on the floor of the royal chamber and died. As in life, her body was prone and immobile, her legs and antennae relaxed. Her stillness alone failed to give warning to her daughters that a catastrophe had occurred for all of them. She lay there, in fact, as though nothing had happened. She had become a perfect statue of herself. While humans and other vertebrates have an internal skeleton surrounded by soft tissue that quickly rots away, ants are encased in an external skeleton; their soft tissues shrivel into dry threads and lumps, but their exoskeletons remain, a knight’s armor fully intact long after the knight is gone. Hence the workers were at first unaware of their mother’s death. Her quietude said nothing, and the odors of her life, still rising from her, signalled, I remain among you. She smelled alive. The deception was made easier by the fact that in life she had never given orders or led them in activities of any kind—even though she could have performed all their tasks if she chose. She had taken the only initiatives she ever took all in a burst, at the beginning of her adult life, when she had abandoned the colony of her birth and, along with it, her mother and her sisters. First, she had spread her four membranous wings and flown into the air. There, she’d joined a swarm of flying males and other virgin queens. One of the males had caught her. He’d clamped his legs around her body, and the couple had spiralled down to the ground. On landing, he had used the large claspers at the rear end of his body to hold their genitalia together as he completed the insemination. Within five minutes, the act was finished, and the queen shook the male loose. All the sperm she had received flowed up into a special bag-shaped organ in her abdomen, where it would stay until called on to fertilize her eggs. It might last for years into the future. Each sperm was endowed with a potential life span equal to her own. In contrast, the father of all her children was programmed to die almost immediately after the mating. The only thing that he had ever done was accept meals regurgitated to him by his sisters, as if he were a nestling bird, and wait, and wait some more, and finally take the one short flight from his home, followed by five minutes of copulation. In other words, the male was no more than a guided missile loaded with sperm, his life’s work a single ejaculation. Afterward, he was left with only one instruction, to be enforced if necessary by his sisters: Don’t come back. He had been issued a one-way ticket. He had no chance at all of survival. A delicate creature, he could not find food, or feed himself if he stumbled across some. He would die by dehydration, or crushed in the beak of a bird, or chopped into pieces by the jaws of an enemy ant, or, less quickly, pierced by the bloodsucking proboscis of an assassin bug. To escape the same fate, the newly mated future Queen of the Trailhead Colony, full-brained and powerfully muscled, hurried to find shelter. She had to get back underground as quickly as possible. First, however, she had to take a few minutes to shed her wings. To do that, she simply bent her middle legs forward, pressed them against the base of the wings, and snapped them off. This mutilation caused no injury to the rest of her body; it caused no pain. The Queen was a parachutist who slipped her harness upon landing. Now she could move more quickly to avoid the ants, spiders, and other predators hunting around her in the grassroots jungle. Soon she came upon an open space between grass clumps, a small clearing at the Lake Nokobee trailhead. By luck she had found an ideal site to build a nest. She began at once to dig a vertical tunnel in the sandy clay soil. Her movements were swift and precise, and within minutes she had deepened the shaft to more than her body length. This provided her some degree of protection, but she needed to proceed as quickly as possible. Her life remained in constant danger. At a predetermined depth, which she measured by the time it took her to climb up and down the shaft, the young Queen turned to the side and began to excavate a wider space. She continued until she had fashioned a round chamber about three times wider than the vertical shaft. Her safety was now enhanced but not insured. Predators and marauding ants could still climb down the shaft to attack her. But at least now the enemies would be confined to a narrow space by the walls of the shaft and forced to confront the young Queen’s thrusting stinger and snapping jaws head on before they could reach her vulnerable body. Even with the excavation of the first chamber complete, the Trailhead Queen had heavy work ahead. First, she laid a small cluster of eggs on the earthen floor. These tiny objects she was compelled to lick continuously. It was an urgent task: to the peril from enemies above was now added the threat of bacteria and fungi teeming in the soil all around her. If the eggs were not regularly cleaned and coated with antibiotic saliva, they would soon be overgrown by an invading mold and consumed. From a single bacterium in the soil, millions could proliferate on any ant tissue left unprotected. But the dice fell right for the Queen of the Trailhead Colony. As tiny larvae hatched from her eggs, she fed them food secreted from a large gland that partly filled her head and emptied through her mouth. This baby food was manufactured from her own fat stores and was created by the metabolism of her now useless wing muscles. From the reserves of her own body, the young Queen reared a dozen workers. All were female. They were tiny and weak, barely able to perform the work necessary for the little colony to survive. By necessity, they came into the world as midgets. If each had been larger, fewer of them could have been reared—too few to provide sufficient labor for the survival of the newborn colony. Some of these pioneers, guided entirely by instinct, because no one existed to teach them, set out to forage for food. Others took care of the Queen and reared the next generation of workers to maturity. Still others devoted time to enlarging the nest. Failure to perform all these tasks with exactitude would have meant death for the colony. The young Queen could no longer help. She herself desperately needed help to continue living. Her expendable body tissues were depleted. They had almost all been fed to the larval daughters, and now she was starving. The first foragers venturing timidly away from the nest were able to bring back a few scraps of food. Their prizes included a fallen mosquito, a bit of shed caterpillar skin, and a newly hatched spiderling, which was enough to keep the colony alive and allow the Queen to regain some of her weight and strength. The workers of the next generation, raised on food harvested from terrain outside the nest, were somewhat larger and stronger than the first generation. They began to dig out more tunnels to accommodate the growing population. As the colony expanded, its home became a labyrinth of chambers and connecting galleries—an enemy-proof fortress. A mound of excavated soil formed above it, reinforcing the roof and retaining the warmth of the sun. As the months passed, the Queen, growing heavy with egg-filled ovaries, retreated ever deeper into the earth, distancing herself from the still dangerous nest exterior. She had become an extreme specialist: she laid eggs, while the workers performed all the labor necessary to raise her offspring, their sisters. They were the Queen’s hands and feet and jaws, and increasingly they replaced her brain. They functioned together as a well-organized whole, dividing up the tasks without regard to their own welfare. The Trailhead Colony began to resemble a large, diffuse organism. In a word, it became a superorganism. By the time the colony had reached its full mature size, two years after the nuptial flight of the Queen, it contained more than ten thousand workers. It was able, in the following year, to rear virgin queens, and males, and through them to give birth to new colonies. By that time the Queen was producing eggs at the average rate of one every fifteen minutes. Heavy and torpid, she lay in the royal chamber at the bottom of the subterranean nest, five feet below the surface, a distance of four hundred ant lengths. By human scale, the ant city was the equivalent of two hundred underground stories. The mound of excavated soil capping the nest added another fifty stories aboveground. The Queen may not have been the leader of this miniature civilization, but she was the fountainhead of all its energies and growth, the key to its success or failure. The metronomic pumping out of fertilized eggs from her twenty ovaries was the heartbeat of the colony. The ultimate purpose of all the workers’ labor—their careful construction of the nest, their readiness to risk their lives in daily searches for food, their suicidal defense of the nest entrance—was that she continue to create more altruistic workers like themselves. One worker, or a thousand workers, could die and the colony would go on, repairing itself as needed. But the failure of the Queen would be fatal. Now, after twenty more years, the catastrophe had occurred. The death of the Queen was the greatest challenge the colony had faced since the days of its founding. Yet the workers could not take action until they were certain that the Queen was dead. Already, they knew that something was not right, that something unnamed had settled upon them, but they did not yet realize the extent of the problem. So the Trailhead Colony thrummed on for a while longer with bustle and precision. Like a large ship at sea, it could not be easily diverted from the shoals in front of it. “You tested positive for being negative.”Buy the print » Because ants live most of their lives in underground darkness, they cannot communicate through sight or sound. Pheromonal, they think only in taste and smell. The members of the Trailhead Colony transmitted their messages using about a dozen chemical signals, which they picked up by smelling one another constantly with sweeps of their antennae. An ant who was well fed said to a less well-fed nest mate, Smell this, and if you are hungry eat. If the ant approached and was in fact hungry, she extended her tongue, and the donor ant rewarded her by regurgitating liquid directly into her mouth. When a wood thrush flew by the Trailhead mound carrying a grasshopper to her own nest and dropped part of the crushed insect to the ground, a patrolling worker found it in less than a minute and triggered a chain action. The worker examined the grasshopper, tasted it briefly, then ran back to the nest entrance. On the way, she touched the tip of her abdomen repeatedly to the ground, laying down a thin trail of chemicals. Entering the nest, she rushed up to each nest mate she passed, brushing her face close to theirs. With their antennae, her nest mates detected both the trail substance and the smell of grasshopper. The signals now proclaimed, Food. I have found food. Follow my trail! Soon a mob of ants ran out, followed the trail, and gathered around the delicious grasshopper haunch. Some of the first to arrive ran back to the nest, laying trails of their own, reinforcing the message, saying, Come on, come on, we need help. The ants still by the grasshopper piece began to drag it toward the nest entrance. A catbird perched on the branch of a nearby tree saw the activity and swept down to investigate. She pecked at the grasshopper, scattering the ants and injuring several. The ants expelled a pheromone from a gland that opened at the base of their jaws. A chemical vapor spread fast. It shouted, Danger! Emergency! Run! And so the business of the Trailhead Colony was conducted. Messages were created, sometimes with a single chemical substance, sometimes with the same substance at different concentrations, and on occasion with two or more in combination. Meanings changed according to where the substances were delivered. Some signals, such as the alarm pheromones, spread and faded fast, drawing the attention of nest mates locally, but not persevering long enough to create panic throughout the colony. Some odors spread slowly and lasted a long time. Among these were the royal pheromones of the Trailhead Queen. Even as her body began to decay, the pheromones she had manufactured in life persisted in the minds and bodies of her colony. Her visual appearance, her stillness, meant nothing. The Queen could have lain on her back with her legs held rigidly up in the air. She could have turned red, black, metallic gold, or any other hue or shade—it would not have mattered. The Queen had to smell dead in order to be classified as dead. And not from the blends of substances in corpses which are repellent to the human nose—not, for example, from the loathsome skatole and indole that distinguish human feces, nor the trimethylamine that rises dramatically from spoiled fish. Such chemicals, when encountered alone, would have caused alarm in the ants, but only oleic acid and its ester, which are the products of fat decomposition, were effective messengers of death. These substances, when encountered on the corpse of a nest mate, caused the ants to pick it up and carry it away for disposal. Within a week, the constant licking of the royal corpse in the Trailhead Colony began to break it into pieces. The pheromones that had bonded the Queen to the workers now hastened her funeral. One by one, the fragments, reeking of oleic compounds, were carried out of the royal chamber. Unknowingly, the ants bade farewell to their mother. No ceremony was performed. Instead the workers bearing the body parts wandered alone through the nest galleries in search of the Trailhead cemetery. This place had no special shape, nor did it contain any token of remembrance, even for a queen. It was merely a chamber at the periphery of the underground nest. The ants dumped all kinds of debris into it, including discarded cocoons shed by newly emerged adults, inedible pieces of prey, and deceased colony members. When the corpse carriers came close to the refuse chamber, they turned their burdens over to cemetery workers. These specialists were ants who constantly rearranged and added to the refuse piles. They stayed close to their work and were for the most part avoided by their nest mates. In cemetery work and all other activities, the guiding principle of the Trailhead Colony was self-sacrifice. The dominance of the colony over its individual members was total. A worker’s life story was programmed to be subordinate to the superorganism’s needs. If a worker died, the colony was weakened to some measurable but relatively inconsequential extent; the deficit could be quickly made up by rearing another worker in the nursery. If, on the other hand, a worker behaved selfishly, consuming for a good part of her life more resources than she contributed, this weakened the colony far more than if she had the decency to desert or die. The colony’s members had given up the chance to reproduce, at least as long as the Queen was alive and healthy. They willingly accepted tasks—foraging, soldiering—that would almost certainly lead to early death. The sick and the injured did not seek help; they moved on their own to the outermost nest chambers. Dying workers often left the nest completely, thereby avoiding the spread of infectious diseases. Older workers who were healthy but approaching the end of their natural life span also emigrated to the nest perimeter. From there, they often became foragers, exposing themselves to a much higher risk from enemies. When defending the nest, the elders were among the most suicidally aggressive. They were obedient to a simple truth that separates our two species: humans send their young men to war; ants send their old ladies. Within two weeks, the Queen’s chemical signals had dropped to a hardly detectable level in the outermost reaches of the nest, and the Trailhead myrmidons understood instinctively that they were in trouble. The workers began to change in subtle ways. Even when the Queen was still alive, the thinning of her pheromones had caused alterations in the bodies of the young soldiers headquartered in the nest. The largest members of the worker caste, the soldiers had massive heads with powerful muscles and sharp-toothed jaws like serrated wire cutters. They were the iron, the physical power, the viciousness of the colony. Usually, they served only to defend the nest from intruders or to guard large food sources against rival colonies. But they also had the ability to reproduce. Their capacious abdomens contained half a dozen ovaries that could produce eggs. Amazons all, they could adapt from warriors to mothers. When they were no longer inhibited by the Queen’s pheromones, the soldiers began to release hormones that stimulated growth in their ovaries. Abandoning their regular duties, they moved deeper into the nest, closer to the dwindling piles of larvae and pupae. As the last shards of the old Queen’s body were carried into the cemetery, several of her rival successors began to lay eggs. They were now soldier-queens, and the only hope that the colony had of re-starting its own growth. Their fertility might renew the energy of the Trailheaders, but would it save the colony? The ants could not know. All they could do was react. The ordinary workers accepted the new status of the soldier-queens. Their tolerance represented a profound shift in the behavior of the colony as a whole. If the Queen had remained alive and well, and continued to broadcast her special scent, the response to any usurper would have been swift and violent: to reproduce in the presence of a healthy queen is strictly forbidden. The odds against the success of such an affront to authority are long, the gamble is dangerous, and only a very few make the attempt. When a usurper starts to lay her own eggs and place them among those of a healthy queen, or when she merely becomes capable of doing so, she is harassed by her nest mates. Her sisters refuse to regurgitate food to her. They stand over her, pulling at her legs and antennae. They may use their stingers to cripple or kill her, or spray her with a poisonous secretion. And they eat any eggs that she manages to lay. Only when the queen dies is the taboo lifted—and then only for a few individuals. But now a second crisis arose. The candidate royals began to quarrel among themselves for control. They converged on the brood chambers and jostled for position there. They struggled to climb on top of their rivals. The winners in these encounters seized their opponents’ legs and antennae and dragged them away. Unlike their thousands of ordinary nest mates, they recognized one another as individuals. In time a dominance hierarchy formed, similar to a pecking order among chickens and rank orders among wolves. The Trailhead female who emerged as the alpha contender—in other words, the one who was able to chase away all her rivals—won the reproductive role. Egg-laying and larval growth resumed in a reduced but orderly manner. If the Trailhead Colony could not understand the history of its own species, how much did it understand of its current condition? How could it make the right decisions for survival? In fact, the Trailhead Colony knew a great deal. Worker ants are far more than automated specks running around on the ground. Even with a brain one-millionth the size of a human’s, an ant can learn a simple maze half as fast as a laboratory rat, and remember the directions to as many as five different destinations when she forages away from the nest. After exploring a new terrain, a worker can integrate all the seemingly haphazard twists and loops she made and, amazingly, return to the nest in a straight line. She can learn and recall the special odor of the colony to which she belongs. The Trailhead Colony, when all the learning and thought of its workers came together, was very smart, by insect standards—and, with the unifying power of its Queen lost and its population growth plummeting, it needed to call on that group intelligence to regain its balance. When one of the soldier-queens dominated its rivals and became the new queen, the recovery of the colony seemed to be under way. A stream of eggs was laid. Larvae began to fill the empty brood chambers. Their odor and hunger signals joined with the pheromones of the new Soldier-Queen and spread through the nest. The power was returning. More foragers took the field. The renewed activity was short-lived, however. The colony was doomed by a hereditary trait even more basic than the altruism of the workers and the pheromonal ties that bound them together. The Trailheaders, along with all ants of all kinds that have ever existed, back to the birth of ants, in the late Jurassic period, used a strange but elegant genetic method to fix the sex of an individual at birth. Fertilized eggs develop into females, which can become queens or workers, and unfertilized eggs develop into males, which can do nothing but inseminate females. The Soldier-Queen had never mated. Her children all arose from unfertilized eggs and were therefore male drones, contributing nothing to the welfare of the colony. They had weak mandibles and small brains but huge eyes and genitalia. They were wondrously adapted for mating after flying up in the air with virgin queens, but even if they managed to accomplish this it would do nothing for the Trailhead Colony. The males created by the Soldier-Queen would not mate with her or with other potential soldier-queens. They were programmed to mate only during nuptial flights away from the nest. No way out existed for the Trailhead Colony. The linchpin of its existence was gone and could not be replaced. The colony could for a while contribute, through its production of males, to the gene pool of the population of colonies all around it, and in that way eke out one last bit of Darwinian profit. But it could do nothing more for its own physical existence. With each passing day it became more vulnerable. Its territory and even its flesh were coveted by others. Neighboring colonies were likely to learn of its decline, and when that happened there would be war. For years, the Trailhead nest had been protected by a ten-thousand-member force. Fifteen per cent of its adult members were soldiers. A soldier’s exoskeleton, twice the size of that of an ordinary worker, is literally heavy armor: thick, tough, and pitted in places for resilience and strength. A pair of spines project backward from the midsection of the body to protect the waist. Spikes protect the neck, and the rear margin of the head is curved forward, forming a helmet. When attacked, the soldier can pull in her legs and antennae and tighten up the segments of her body, turning her entire surface into a shield. The ordinary Trailhead workers, while built for labor, were also available for combat. They served as the light infantry, using the swiftness and the agility of their supple bodies to dart in and out of enemy lines, seizing any leg or antenna available, and holding onto it until their nest mates could close in and grab another body part. When the adversary was finally pinned and spread-eagled, others piled on to bite, sting, or spray her with poison. Buy the print » But now the number of able-bodied adults had begun to dwindle, and the survivors were growing old. The decline of the colony was being observed by its closest neighbor, the Streamside Colony, a younger and now more powerful superorganism. Early one morning, an élite Streamside worker, followed by a squad of her nest mates, left her home to assess the strength of the Trailhead Colony. (About ten per cent of the worker force in any colony earns élite status, by initiating more tasks and working harder and more persistently than the other ants.) As the élite scout left on her journey, she remembered the route more or less precisely. She had been to the Trailhead territory before, and she carried a compass in her head, using the sun as a lodestar. This reliance on the sun could have been the source of a huge error for an ant, because the sun travels across the sky, its angle constantly changing. However, each ant also has a biological clock, set to the twenty-four-hour cycle and run with a precision far beyond the capacity of an unaided human brain. Using her clock, the scout was able to adjust her trajectory and stay on track. She was also guided by the prominent features of the landscape that she had memorized during earlier trips. A pair of pine seedlings were one such signpost, a circular opening in the canopy a second, a dark shadow beneath a holly shrub a third. Then there was the odor terrain, parts of which the scout had memorized on earlier trips. As the ground rushed by two millimetres beneath her body, she turned her antennae downward, enough to almost touch the earth, and swung them from side to side. The odors she detected as she ran, specific in their mixture, intensity, and gradient, gave her detailed information about her location and direction of travel. They were her combined field guide and topographic map. The Streamside scout was heading in the direction of the enemy nest but not to the nest itself. She consciously came to a halt at a flat, open area halfway there. On arriving, she mingled with her nest mates and—an extraordinary event for ants—she and the others also mingled freely with some scouts from the Trailhead Colony. After a short time, the representatives from the two colonies began to perform a kind of dance together, though they were not performing in any human sense of the word. The scouts were gathering information that would allow them to assess the strength of the opposing colony; they were also trying to advertise their own strength, without risk of injury or death. The dance, in short, was a highly formalized probe. At the time of this tournament, the Streamside Colony was at its peak. The Streamside Queen was only six years old, the equivalent of thirty years in a human life span. She was in her prime, bursting with eggs, and she reeked of sweet-smelling royal pheromone. Her colony’s nest was on firm, productive ground at the edge of an undisturbed patch of deciduous scrub woodland. Close by in the woods a small stream gave the nest protection on one side. On the other side, a miniature ravine dropped away, too steep to harbor the nests of potential rivals. The Streamsiders had not chosen this site for their own protection. They were just lucky that their Queen had landed there. As the Streamside scouts gathered in the arena, they found their Trailhead counterparts assembling in almost equal numbers. A few climbed up onto pebbles to serve as sentinels. The first scouts on both sides to encounter the enemy ran home to recruit reinforcements, laying odor trails to excite and guide their nest mates and carrying faint smears of the enemy’s odor on their own body surfaces to identify the opposition. Within an hour, hundreds of ants from both colonies were milling around, and the original scouts, all of whom were relatively small and thin, had been joined by contingents of the more massively built soldier ants. The opposing forces were careful not to start a battle. Their displays were the equivalent of military parades, designed to impress the enemy, to persuade her of their numbers and their strength. As the tournament unfolded, the individual performers made themselves appear as large as possible. They inflated their abdomens by pumping them full of fluid. They straightened their legs to form stilts and strutted around every foreign worker they encountered—sometimes bumping against one. Other ants posed on pebbles, exaggerating their size even more. They never threatened to attack. A few small workers served as counters, trying to estimate the size of the enemy’s soldier force. The larger the force, the more intense the effort the counters made to attract others from their own colony to the tournament. A weakness in their recruiting effort was a signal of their colony’s weakness. Even before the death of the Trailhead Queen, and increasingly now that she was gone, the military pomp of the Trailhead Colony was in decline. As the tournaments continued on a daily basis, the Trailheaders gradually and carefully pulled back from the first territorial boundary where the military parades had taken place and tried to start the tournaments closer to home, where their soldiers could be called more quickly to the field. But this tactic did not fool the Streamside scout and her front-line nest mates, who pushed even harder and mounted increasingly conspicuous displays. There was nothing that the Trailheaders could do but continue to pull back, day after day, thereby ceding swathes of their foraging territory. The retreat was not in itself a defeat. There was still a chance that the Trailheaders might eke out a victory, or at least force a draw. Closer to their nest, they could recruit whatever reinforcements were available on a minute-to-minute basis. The Streamsiders were forced, on the other hand, to accept a disadvantage. They had to travel almost the entire distance between the two nests in order to continue the tournaments. With the lines of communication stretched so far, the adjustments made by the Streamsider force were slow and inaccurate. The weaker Trailheaders came close to striking a balance. If that occurred, they might hold their opponents in place indefinitely, perhaps all the way to the end of the foraging season. The loss of part of their territory would be an acceptable price for their own survival. After three weeks, the Trailheaders had surrendered all the territory that lay between them and the Streamside Colony. There was a possibility that this conquest would be enough for the Streamsiders. They had achieved a great victory without the loss of a single life on either side. If they called off the tournaments now, a long standoff—a Pax Formicana, so to speak—might come to the two domains. Peace with honor was not, however, the way of the Nokobee anthills, and the Streamside dancers suddenly switched to an all-out attack on the Trailhead Colony. No more propaganda for them, no more bluffing. The assault began as an unplanned chain reaction among the Streamside players. Increasingly excited by the competition, they came closer and closer to the threshold that separates hostile display from overt combat. They circled around the Trailheaders more tightly, bumping harder and more frequently. Finally, when the Trailheaders had been crowded into a space only several feet wide in front of their nest mound, a Streamside worker—the original élite scout—single-handedly began the war. She attacked the first Trailheader she encountered, spraying her with a combination of alarm pheromones and poisonous secretions. The odor of these materials galvanized the nest mates closest to her. They launched an attack of their own. Two workers in combat quickly led to four, four to eight, and onward, spreading violence exponentially through the assembled Streamsider ranks. Some of the Trailheaders quickly broke away from the battle and rushed back to their nest to recruit reinforcements. Others responded to the attack by fighting back. Soon the battle was a furious and deadly melee. The Trailheaders were too weak to hold their ground. The Streamsiders drove through the dissolving mass of defenders, attacking each one they could catch. All the ants had now abandoned the tournament mode, deflating their abdomens and relaxing the stiltlike stiffness of their legs. Fighters on both sides climbed on top of their opponents, seizing legs and antennae with their sawtooth jaws, gnashing and stinging whatever vulnerable body parts they could reach. Soon dead and dying workers from both sides littered the battlefield. Most of the casualties were Trailheaders. Many of the surviving Trailheaders gave up combat and retreated into the nest. Those who hesitated were run down and killed as though they were prey. They were, in fact, prey. Their bodies were treated like those of subdued grasshoppers and caterpillars. After battle, the dead and the injured were collected and eaten by their conquerors. The defense of the Trailhead Colony collapsed completely within a half hour. A few of the survivors, dodging their pursuers, ran back and forth between their nest and the main battle site, trying to measure the magnitude of the disaster. The last among them finally pulled back into the nest entirely. As they neared the entrance, a few turned and continued the fight, keeping the area immediately around the entrance clear of the enemy. With the help of others, they then dragged in nearby pieces of soil, charcoal, and leaf litter, and piled them up to form a plug in and on top of the entrance until the Trailhead nest was a sealed and hidden bunker. The victorious Streamside army poured over its surface, and some pressed on to explore the newly conquered land beyond. The siege of the Trailhead nest had begun. During the next day, and for days to follow, Trailhead foragers slipped out for brief periods to search for whatever scraps of food had been overlooked by the Streamside patrols combing the area. Some were caught; some were killed. Others retreated too quickly to be successful in their foraging. Within a week, the colony began to starve. The nurse ants killed and cannibalized the last of the larvae and pupae, their own baby nest mates, and regurgitated their liquid and tissue to other adults. Finally, no reserves were left except the dwindling fat in the bodies of the huddled survivors. The end approached quickly for the Trailhead Colony. Streamside scouts converged on the shielded entrance of the Trailhead nest and attacked it. Trailhead soldiers poured out of the entrance in a last desperate effort to protect their home. In the tumult that followed, many fighters on both sides were killed or crippled. Finally, the weakened Trailheaders began to pull back. One by one, the workers gave up their resistance, turning away and running down the main gallery and into the lateral galleries and chambers deep in the nest. The Trailhead soldiers, however, did not retreat. They regrouped instead, forming a tight circle around the nest entrance with their heads facing outward, ready to fight to the last ant. Their snapping jaws held off the attackers into the late-afternoon hours. For a while, it appeared that they had succeeded in reversing the battle. As the light faded, the Streamsiders, true to the biological clock of their species, pulled away and returned home. But the withdrawal was not a retreat by the Streamsiders; nor was it a victory for the Trailheaders. In the confusion that reigned through the night, the Trailhead Colony felt—it knew—that it was in extreme difficulty. It had no conception of defeat, but the nest interior was filled with the odor of alarm and recruitment pheromones released by both sides during the attempted Streamsider break-in. The fighters were contaminated by the alien odor of the invaders. They could see the battle flags of the enemy, so to speak; they could hear the continuous shriek of alarms. Agitated ants ran back and forth through the rooms and galleries of the nest, to no special purpose. The colony was not yet aware of the ultimate meaning of its own mood and actions, but it was instinctively preparing for one last maneuver, a final, almost suicidal response that might yet save some of its members. The only option that remained to them was a burst of flight to the outside, every ant for herself. With luck a few survivors might then reassemble and re-start the colony elsewhere. That is, if they had a real queen. But, of course, they had only their inadequate Soldier-Queen. Lamentation and hope were mingled among the Trailhead inhabitants. The ants were a doomed people in a besieged city. Their unity of purpose was gone, their social machinery halted. No foraging, no cleaning and feeding of larvae, no queen for them to rally around. The order of the colony was dissolving. Out there, indomitable and waiting, were the hated, filthy, unformicid Streamsiders. Finally, all that the Trailheaders knew was terror, and the existence of a choice—they could fight or run from the horror. There was nothing else left in their collective mind.
A Death in Kitchawank Saturday, just after two, the sun a hot compress on her shoulders and scalp, the shrieks and catcalls of the children as they splash in the shallows a kind of symphony of the usual. Behind her, the sharp thwock of the dense black rubber ball as it rockets from the paddle and slaps the wall, regular as a heartbeat till one of the men miscalculates and it freezes in cardiac arrest on the tail of a stifled curse. One beat, two, and here it comes again: thwock. She’s thinking that she should have brought her straw hat with her to the beach—she wouldn’t want a thin red line of sunburn etched into the parting of her hair—but she’ll worry about that later, or maybe not at all. She hasn’t worn her hat in a week or more now—she hates hats, hats are a thing of her mother’s day—and her tan is deep, even at her hairline. She’s wearing a pair of oversized sunglasses, new from the drugstore yesterday, and last year’s black one-piece, which is maybe a little tight around the hips and waist, but so what? She’s not on display here. This is her beach, her community, her lake. These are her friends and neighbors gathered in their beach chairs and sprawled across their fluffed-up towels and beach blankets, with their paperbacks and newspapers and Hebrew National wieners. This is the peace at the center of life. This, this Saturday in July, as her mind runs free and her only worry is to shift the straps on her shoulders and gloss her lips to keep them from drying out. In the house, which she could see if she craned her neck to look back past the concession stand and the paddleball courts and the big open grassy field, where teen-age couples are strolling hand in hand, is the refrigerator, new three years ago and as cluttered as if it had been there a century. In its cool dark depths are the steaks in a covered dish of honey-ginger marinade, the potato salad and coleslaw she put up after breakfast, and the Rose’s lime juice and vodka for the gimlets. All is well. And so what if the warm shifting sand beneath her feet has to be trucked in every other year at the expense of the Kitchawank Colony Association, its hundreds of billions of individual grains disappearing into the high grass, washing into the lake, adhering to toes and arches and tanned sinewy ankles only to wind up on bathroom tiles and beneath the kitchen sink? It’s as essential as air, as the water itself: how could you have a beach without it? When she next opens her eyes it’s to the quick cold shock of Susan, her youngest, snuggling in beside her, everything wet suddenly, as if a whole basket of fish had been upended in her lap. She feels the bunched knees poking at her, the shuddering rib cage and chattering teeth, hears her own voice jump up: “Get off, honey, you’re all wet!” And Susan, freckled, stick-limbed, ten years old, snuggling tighter. “I’m cold, Mommy.” She reaches behind her for the beach bag and the towel, and then she’s wrapping her daughter and holding her close till the shivering stops and Susan springs loose to chase half a dozen other kids to the concession stand. She lifts her sunglasses for a moment to watch her go, and here are the Sollovays, the Greens, the Goldsteins, settling in around her in a wash of greeting and banter and sheer high spirits. Marsha Goldstein, her legs silken and her lips fluttering around her smile, offers a cigarette, but she prefers her own and they both light up and let the tobacco lift them, until in unison, as if they’d rehearsed it, they throw back their heads and exhale in long twin plumes of blue. “What time did you want us tonight?” Marsha asks. “Five-ish?” “Yes,” she says, “yes, that’ll be perfect,” and she glances over her shoulder, past the courts and the chain-link fence and the screen of trees to where her house sits tranquilly on its own little rise—the only house, of the two hundred or more in the Colony, that looks directly onto the lake, a fact of which she tries not to be too sinfully proud. And it’s funny, because with the way the light comes off the lake and the big picture window stands in shadow she can see into her own kitchen and the table there, already set for dinner, the clock on the yellow wall, time ticking by, and it’s almost as if she were in two places at once. [Forgive me for stepping in here but I do want to get this right—the fact is I may have been there that day. The threads of the past are so snarled that, thirty-five years on, I’ve lost the ability to separate them with any clarity. But if I was there I would have been on the paddleball court, playing in a fiercely competitive and very physical foursome with Miriam’s husband, Sid, and her two sons—Alan, who was twenty-six, and Lester, my best friend, who was then twenty-two, like me. And I would have entered the next scene, too, the dinner scene, preceded by cocktails and the long unwinding of a muggy Saturday afternoon, the corded muscles of my legs gone limp in the afterglow of exercise and the slow seep of alcohol.] She’s got both fans going, the one at the kitchen window and the big lazy ceiling fan revolving in a slow slippage of optical illusion over the table, but she’s still dripping. Marsha’s with her, their drinks perspiring on the counter while they stand elbow to elbow at the cutting board, slicing long squared-off strips of carrot and wafer-thin slivers of Vidalia onion for the salad, dicing cucumbers and halving cherry tomatoes still warm from the garden, Marsha, who was the maid of honor at her wedding just as she was the maid of honor when Marsha married David in a time when there were only the four of them. Now the boys are in their twenties, Susan’s ten, and Marsha’s daughter, Seldy, is sixteen, or, no, seventeen. From the living room comes the sound of the men, their voices rich and pleased as they call down the questions of the day, revile Nixon, trade quips with the boys. Les has begun to wear his hair long and dress in bell-bottoms and spangled shirts, in confraternity with his friend T., who looks so satisfied he could be flying across the room on his own magic-carpet ride. She’s had her moments of worry—or not worry, really, just concern—over whether the boys have been experimenting with tea or grass or whatever they call it these days, but she’s never said anything. And won’t. She doesn’t want to harp. They’re just sitting down to dinner—to the artichokes, one per plate, the grill out on the deck sending up smoke under the steaks—when Seldy, in a yellow sundress that shows off the figure she’s been growing into over the past year, drifts into the room, late as usual. Her mother says, “It’s about time,” and her father makes a quip about how she must’ve got lost on the gruelling four-minute drive from their house, but Sid and the three boys are dumbstruck for one thunderous instant. This is the face of beauty, and though they’re all family here, though Seldy’s like a daughter to Sid and a sister to the boys—Miriam’s boys, anyway—none of that matters. Sid’s the first to break the spell, his voice rising to emphasize the joke: “Well, Jesus Christ, we thought we were going to wilt away and starve waiting for you.” And then the boys are falling all over themselves to wave and grin and ante up the wit, and Seldy, flushing, slides into the empty seat between Alan and Les, letting the steam from the artichoke rise gently about her face and the long trailing ends of her hair slip from her shoulders to sway gracefully over her plate. It is then, just as Sid rises to check on the steaks (nobody here wants anything but rare and rarer, and he’d be offended if they did), that the first eruption of thunder rolls across the lake to shake the house and rattle the ice cubes in the drinks that Miriam has just freshened. The sky goes instantly dark, as if a shade had been drawn over the day. She’s wondering if she should go and rummage through the kitchen drawer for the candles left over from Hanukkah when the storm chases a cool breeze through the screens, and Marsha waves her napkin in front of her face, letting out a sigh of relief. “Thank God,” she says. “Oh, yes, bring it on.” The first raindrops, big and slow and widely dispersed, begin to thump at the shingles, and there’s Sid, with his muscled arms and bald head, out on the deck, hustling the lid off the grill and flipping the steaks, the worn boards spotted all around him. “Better hurry, Sid!” David calls, and then it’s really coming down, the original deluge, and this is funny, deeply, infectiously funny—Sid flipping steaks and wet through in an instant—because there’s no harm done, no harm at all. They’ll have candles, they’ll eat, and the evening, with its rising fertile smell of grass and the earth at the edge of the woods, will settle in around them, as cool and sweet as if the whole neighborhood were air-conditioned. [I see I’ve written myself into the scene after all, a refugee from my own fractured family, at peace in the moment. Fair enough. But peace neither lasts nor suffices, and the fact was that Lester and I pursued the available pharmacopoeia far more assiduously than Miriam could ever have imagined. We were stoned at that very moment, I’m sure of it, and not on anything as innocuous as marijuana—stoned, and feeling blessed. Feeling, in the midst of all that radiant love and tranquillity, that we were getting away with something.] Time jumps and jumps again, the maples struck with color, the lake giving up a thin sheet of wrinkled ice along the shore, and then there’s the paucity of winter with its skeletal trees and the dead fringe of reeds stuck like an old man’s beard in the gray jaws of the ice. The months spin out until the pointer stops on a day in March, gray as death, Susan working against the chill in the unheated basement with the girls from the Explorers’ Club at school, building a canoe from a kit shipped in all the way from Minnesota, while Miriam tiptoes around upstairs, arranging warm-from-the-oven oatmeal cookies on a platter and pouring hot cocoa from the thermos into six porcelain teacups, each with its own marshmallow afloat in the center like a white spongy island. When she opens the basement door, there’s an overpowering smell of epoxy and the distilled vinegar that Sid got for cleanup, and she worries about that, about the fumes, but the girls seem oblivious. They cluster around her in a greedy, jostling pack, hands snatching at the cookies and the too-hot cups. Susan already has three cookies clenched in her hand, privilege of the house, as she stabs her tongue at the marshmallow in her cup, a mustache of chocolate sketching itself in above her upper lip. “Shouldn’t you girls have some ventilation in here?” Miriam says, just to hear herself, but they’re fine, they assure her, and it’s going great, it really is. The canoe, lying overturned on a pair of sawhorses, has been a long winter’s project, Sid doing the lion’s share of the work on weekends, though the girls have been fairly diligent about the handsanding, the cutting and fitting of the fibreglass cloth, and the slow smoothing of the epoxy over it. It’s just that they’re at an age when gathering for any purpose outside of school is a lark, and they can’t help frittering away their time gossiping, spinning records, dancing to the latest beat or craze or whatever it is, their thin arms flailing, hair in motion, legs going like pogo sticks. They make fast work of the cookies and chocolate. And now, sated, they watch her warily, wondering why she’s lingering when it’s clear that her motherly duties have been dispensed with, and so she gathers up the cups, sets them on the tray, and starts back up the stairs. Thanks to Sid, who is a father like no other, despite the fact that he has to drag himself home every night after a stifling commute and the kind of hard physical labor on one job site after another that would prostrate a man half his age, the canoe is ready for its maiden voyage by the time the ice shrinks back from the shore and the sun makes its first evanescent return. Miriam sits stiffly on the bench by the playground, Marsha beside her, while the girls divide themselves democratically into two groups of three, roll up their jeans in the icy shallows, and see the first group off in a mad frantic windmilling of forearms and paddles. “Be careful, now!” she calls, and she’s pleased to see that her daughter has been gracious or, at least, patient enough to wait her turn in the second group. As Susan leans forward to push the canoe off, her ankles chapped with the cold, her face long and grave and bursting with expectation, it’s too much for Miriam, and she has to look away to where the paddles flash in the pale depleted sunlight and the canoe cuts back and forth across the black surface like the blades of her pinking shears. Marsha, who has come to lend moral support, lights a second cigarette off the end of her first and flicks the still smoldering butt into the dun grass at their feet, exhaling with a long complicated sigh. “Too cute by half,” she says. Miriam’s on her feet—she wants to let go but just can’t help herself—listening to her own voice skitter over the water and ricochet back again: “Don’t get too far out! Girls! Girls?” “I heard from Seldy last night,” Marsha’s saying as Miriam eases back down on the bench. Seldy’s at Stony Brook. A junior. On scholarship and majoring in math, she’s that smart. “And how is she?” A pause. The canoe, far out now—halfway to the other shore and its dense dead accumulation of shoulder-high weeds—makes a wobbly, long-stemmed turn and starts back, the girls paddling in unison, finally getting it. “Terrible. Worse than”—Marsha’s voice, wadded with grief and anger, chokes in her throat—“I don’t know, anything.” “What? What is it? She isn’t—” “She’s dropping out.” Miriam is so surprised she can’t help repeating the phrase, twisting it with the inflection of disbelief. “She’s dropping out?” Caught up in the moment, she doesn’t stop to consider that both of her own sons dropped out in their time, too. “It’s that boy.” “What boy?” “You know, the one from high school that went to the community college for all of half a semester—Richie?” For a moment, Miriam’s confused, the name caught on her lips like an invocation—Richie, Richie?—and then suddenly she can picture him, tall and rangy in a swimsuit so tight you could see every crease and fold, the washboard stomach, hair that fell across his face like a raven’s wing, Richie Spano, the wise guy, the joker, with his braying laugh and the look on his face when you caught him out that said, I am so far above this. “You’re kidding.” “I wish.” And here’s the canoe, scraping at the sand that will have to be replaced again this spring or they’ll all be hip-deep in mud, and Susan now trading places with the girl in back, the power position, raising her paddle high as if it were the honed glistening spear of a warrior out for conquest. A puff of smoke. A long mournful inhalation and Marsha won’t look her in the eye. “They’re going to get a place in the Village, she says. Live free. Do their thing.” The canoe, Miriam sees, is stuck there under the weight of the girls, and she has to restrain herself from interfering until finally Susan digs her paddle into the bottom to push them off and the canoe rides free in a shimmer of light. “Or some such crap,” Marsha says. Buy the print » [I was already gone by then, trying to redeem myself in grad school, and Les was in San Francisco, managing the first Cajun-style restaurant to appear there, but I knew Richie Spano from the time Les and I had rented a house in the Colony three years earlier. There was a lot of traffic in that house—friends, musicians, druggies, friends of friends, friends of druggies—and Richie drifted in from time to time. He was quick on his feet, cocky, borderline obnoxious, with a mean streak that was something sick. One night, apropos of nothing, he plucked the darts out of the board on the kitchen wall and nailed my girlfriend’s cat with one of them—which stuck there in the stripe of fur along its spine, quivering like a banderilla, until the cat vanished and bled all over the carpet in the back room and cost thirty-five dollars to repair at the vet’s, money I paid out of my own pocket because Richie Spano wasn’t about to pay anybody anything.] Miriam is there at the window one soft mist-hung morning in the spring of a year when the canoe has been all but forgotten, chained to a rail on a grassy strand off to the far side of the beach in a mismatched tumble of upended boats, the girls on to other pursuits now, most of them boyrelated. Susan is seventeen, too nervous by half over her college applications, her A.P. courses, the way Mr. Honer presses her to practice though she’s only third violin and Mr. Davies rides roughshod over the Thespian Club, but her room is decorated with posters of shirtless, long-haired boys posing with guitars in their hands. Miriam’s sipping a cup of tea while her cigarette levitates smoke at her elbow, caught in a recollection of her own seventeen-year-old self, when she first came up from Stelton for the summer to stay with her cousins in a bungalow not three city blocks from where she’s sitting now. No one would have described her as shy back then, and when she went to the beach with her cousin Molly the first afternoon and saw a group of boys sweating over a little black ball on the paddleball court she went right up to them, not five feet away, and watched as they leaped and grimaced and slammed at the ball with all the raw frustrated adolescent power boiling up out of them, until they began to falter, to hit out, to lose the rhythm of the game—and it was no secret why. It was because she was there, with her pretty, dark features, which everyone said were just like Rita Hayworth’s, with her nails freshly done and a white towel slung insouciantly over one shoulder, dressed in the swimsuit she’d spent the better part of an hour admiring in the full-length mirror at Genung’s before she said yes and counted out the money at the cash register. There were four boys playing and half a dozen others sprawled on the grass at the edge of the court, but the one who caught her eye—the tall one, with slicked-back dirty-blond hair, shrinking T-shirt, and black high-top basketball shoes that he wore without socks—was Sid. She shifts in her seat, lifts the cigarette to her lips to consolidate the recollection, but the cigarette is dead. And the tea—the tea’s gone cold. She’s about to push herself up and light the gas under the kettle when a movement on the ball field catches her eye. There’s someone out there—two people, a boy and a girl—and that strikes her as odd, because it’s a school day and though it’s officially spring the leaves of the trees are still wound tight in the grip of their buds and it’s cold, especially with the way the mist is pushing in off the lake. Hardly beach weather. She’s already put up dinner—a pot roast simmering in the Crock-Pot that Les gave her for her birthday last year—and she’s been through the newspaper twice. Is she bored? Lonely? In need of stimulation? She supposes so. She’s been spending an awful lot of time sitting at the window lately, talking on the telephone or just dreaming, and she’s been putting on weight, too. But what are they doing out there? In the next moment she’s in the front hall, shrugging into her faded blue parka, and then she’s out in the air, heading down the path to where her property ends and the single-lane gravel road loops through the high chain-link gate and peters out in the beach area. She veers left, onto the grass of the outfield, and feels it wet on the worn suède moccasins she slipped on at the door. When she gets closer—when she’s halfway to the two figures bent over what looks to be a big gray-green stone protruding from the grass—she recognizes Seldy. Seldy, in bell-bottom jeans and a serape and some sort of leather cowboy hat pulled down so far it masks her eyes. And who’s that with her? Richie. Richie, looking as if he were dressed for Halloween, with his long hair, his tie-dyed shirt, and a ragged cloth overcoat he might have dug out of the pile at the Salvation Army. She’s not thinking, really—and the way she’s dressed and with her hair uncombed and no makeup on she’s not especially in the mood to see anybody at the moment—but she’s here now and that thing on the ground, she sees, is no rock. It’s moving. And the boy—Richie—is stabbing at it with a fallen branch. In the very instant she opens her mouth to say “Hi,” startling them both, she realizes what it is: a turtle. One of the big ridge-backed turtles that come up out of the lake to lay their eggs on the apron of sand at the edge of the ball field. Seldy tries for a smile and only partly succeeds. Richie ignores her. “Are you up visiting?” she hears herself say, even as Richie forces the stick into the animal’s mouth and the jaws clamp down with an audible crack. “See that?” he says. “One of these things can take your hand off if you’re not careful.” Very softly, as if afraid to raise her voice, Seldy says, “Yes,” but that’s puzzling, because Marsha didn’t breathe a word about a visit, and it takes a moment for Miriam to realize that they must be staying with Richie’s parents on the other side of the lake—or not even on the lake, really, but in a development off Amazon Road. And then a scenario from a year ago presents itself, a dinner party she was giving for a new couple, the Abramsons—he’s a doctor in the city—and how Seldy, up for the weekend, had sat rigidly between her parents and barely said a word all night. Except to be negative. At one point, early on, before the Abramsons and the others arrived, Miriam had been rearranging the flowers in the big cut-glass vase she’d inherited from her mother, soliciting Marsha’s opinion, just chattering, that was all, when Seldy, her face sour and her lips drawn down, snapped at her out of nowhere. “Jesus, Miriam, it’s only the Colony, only the sticks,” she said, and her voice was like a saw cutting the house in two. “You’d think you were Mrs. Dalloway or something.” It’s cold—raw—and she tightens the parka around her. She’s about to say something inane like “That’s nice,” when Richie jerks the branch from the turtle’s mouth and brings it down hard on the slick gleaming carapace, not once but twice. He’s lifting it again, lifting it high, when she steps forward and takes hold of the end of it so quickly she surprises herself. “What are you doing?” she demands, her voice gone harsh in her throat. To his credit, he doesn’t resist, and the stick is hers now, to drop in the grass at her feet while the turtle, hissing, thrashes its head back and forth as if it can’t pinpoint the source of the threat. “Thing doesn’t deserve to live,” he says, and his eyes are unfocussed, fully dilated, as if he were dreaming on his feet. “They’re just trash anyway. They kill fish, ducks even. They—” “No,” she says, cutting him off, “no. They belong here. They have a right to live just like everything else.” She wants to go on, wound up all of a sudden, but he’s already turned his back on her, stalking across the grass in his high-heeled boots—purple, purple boots—and she’s left there with Seldy. Who has nothing to say. Her best friend’s daughter, a girl she’s known since she was in the cradle, and she has nothing to say. Miriam wants to invite her up to the house for tea, a bagel, a good long chat about dropping out, about fashion, and respect for nature, and life in the Village—freaks, they call themselves freaks—but she finds, in that moment, that she has nothing to say, either. [I remember stopping by one year during spring break and finding Miriam in a lawn chair out on the fringe of the ball field, wrapped in an old sleeping bag, keeping watch over a pair of nesting turtles while a pickup game went on behind her. I must have spent an hour crouched there beside her, catching up on things, as the turtles patiently extruded their eggs, as if time had gone back a millennium and there were no lawnmowers or automobiles or boys with sticks and rocks and baseball bats poised to annihilate them. And where was Sid? Working. Always working. He’d had his reverses on the stock market and elsewhere, a tough year, but he was still a member of the tin-knockers’ union and always had work. As far as I could tell, he didn’t even know turtles existed.] And it’s another day, a year further on, Susan at Rutgers and loving it, or so she says on the odd nights when she bothers to call, and Miriam has just got off the phone with her cousin Molly, who lives in Connecticut now and whose youngest—Mark, just twenty-four—has had some sort of nervous breakdown. Or worse. He’s been in treatment since he was a teen-ager, and nobody wants to call it schizophrenia, because you don’t come back from that. They say that it runs in families, and, when Miriam comes to think of it, Molly’s father was no mental paragon, scared of his own face in the mirror, hearing voices, talking nonsense half the time. She just thanks her lucky stars her own children turned out normal, though sometimes she wonders about Les, out there on the West Coast, unmarried at thirty and running with a fast crowd, restaurant people, bar people, people who use drugs and don’t go to bed till the sun rises. She pushes herself up from the table, aching in her joints—and there’s a sharp pain in the calf of her left leg, a kind of thrilling or buzzing that goes away almost as soon as she puts a name to it. From the window she can see the wall of the paddleball courts, which are empty at this hour on a weekday, and beyond them Rose Shapiro—eighty and stooped—pacing the beach as if she were making her way across the steppes of Russia like poor Dr. Zhivago, and the sight only depresses her the more. You marry, have children, cook, clean, get sick, get old, pace the beach till you can’t even remember who you are. That’s life. That’s what it is. It is then that she thinks of the canoe. Susan had it out last summer once or twice, but aside from that it has just sat there inert for years. She’s suddenly seized with the idea of it, its smooth white skin pressed to the belly of the water, clouds scudding by overhead, the release of it, gliding, just gliding. She makes herself a sandwich at the kitchen counter, pours juice into the thermos, selects a paperback from the shelf in the den, and goes out into the day and the sunlight, which flares with sudden brilliance, feeling as if she were off on an adventure. She has some trouble with the combination lock—it’s rusty, that’s all—and then, once she’s got the chain free and tries to flip the boat over, she finds it’s unaccountably heavy. There’s no one to see her, really, aside from Mrs. Shapiro, who barely glances up from her own shoelaces, but still she feels embarrassed to think that she can’t even flip over a canoe, a thing she must have done a hundred times when she was a girl. Is she really that old and weak? She sucks in her breath and gives it another try, like one of those puffed-up Russian weight lifters in the Olympics on TV, and there it is, like a miracle, right side up and thumping reverberantly to the ground. The sound echoes out over the water and comes back again, thrilling with the chatter of birds and the soughing of the breeze in the branches overhead. It’s April. She’s fifty-eight years old. And her feet, her bare feet, are in the water now, the canoe hovering before her and threatening to tip first one way and then the other until all at once she’s firmly planted in the seat and the paddle is working in her sure tight grip and the shore retreats behind her. It’s a joy. A lark. And almost immediately she finds her rhythm, the motion—dip and rise and dip again—coming back to her as if it were ingrained in her muscle memory, and maybe it is, though it’s been more years than she can count. She feels the sun on her face and when she shifts position it wraps itself across her shoulders like an electric blanket, warming and gentle. By the time she thinks to look back to where her house sits reduced on the horizon, she’s nearly to the far side of the lake. What she’s thinking is that she should do this more often—get out, enjoy life, breathe the air—and she makes a promise to herself that, starting tomorrow, she will. It’s not even noon yet when she lays the paddle athwart the gunwales and unwraps her sandwich, pastrami on rye, just letting the boat drift, and isn’t this the best pastrami on rye she’s ever had? The canoe rocks. She lies back, for just a moment, and closes her eyes. When she wakes, she can’t imagine where she is, despite the evidence all around her. It takes her a minute to come fully to herself. The sun is gone, the clouds bleeding across the sky. And the wind is stronger now, damper, sweeping out of the south with a scent of rain. She’s not wearing her watch—she left it at home for fear of getting it wet—and that further disorients her, as if knowing the time would put everything back in its place. Nothing for it but to paddle, but which way? She can’t see the shore from here, not through the low-bellied clouds. As well as she can figure, the canoe must have been carried all the way down the lake while she dozed. All right. She’ll just orient herself, that’s all. She swivels around, scanning both shores till she finds a fixed point, the pale white tower of the seminary all the way up on Stony Street emerging suddenly from the clouds and the canopy of the distant trees, which means she has to go in . . . that direction, there, behind her now. She feels the relief wash over her—at least she knows where she is—until she reaches for the paddle, or the place where the paddle was, and finds it gone. [This became a family legend, trotted out at dinner parties over the years, the story of how Miriam used her hands to paddle the boat to the nearest point, which unfortunately lay on the far side of the lake, and how she walked a good mile and a half barefoot before she got to Kitchawank Village and the pay phone in front of the liquor store there and realized she didn’t have a cent to her name, let alone a dime. How she turned around and walked another three blocks on the cold hard unforgiving pavement till she got to Lowenstein’s Deli, and Sy Lowenstein let her use the store phone to call Sid, who was installing heating ducts in a fourplex in Mount Kisco, where, thank God, they had a phone already hooked up on the ground floor, to please come get her before she froze to death. And how Sid let out one of his arpeggiated “Jesus Christ!”s and went twenty miles over the limit all the way back and then had to take her out to Fiorvanti’s because there was no dinner on the table that night.] It’s an autumn day in an advancing year, the trees brilliant around the lake, each leaf painted a distinctive shade and the whole blended as in a Monet, when the phone rings and she picks up to hear from Molly, all the way out in Connecticut, that Seldy is getting married. To Richie Spano. Who, at thirty-four, is assistant manager of some sort of appliance store in Yorktown Heights and apparently making a decent living, though no one would have thought it from the way he was raised. What goes through her mind first is a quick envious accounting—neither Alan nor Les is married yet, nor do they look to be soon, and Susan’s been so busy studying for the bar that she hasn’t had a date in months, or not that Miriam knows of, anyway—and then, as she forms the words “She hasn’t told me anything about it,” the hurt sets in. This is Marsha, her best friend all these years, maid of honor at her own wedding, and she can’t call her with the news? Yes, well, maybe they have been like strangers lately, because things are different now, everybody getting older and more stay-at-home, the Colony breaking down as people die off or move away to Florida, but that doesn’t mean you can’t pick up a telephone. As soon as she hangs up—before it occurs to her that maybe Marsha’s ashamed to have such a son-in-law, not to mention a daughter throwing her life away—she’s dialling. What she wants to say is “Hello, how are you?” so that she can ease into the situation as gracefully as possible, but her lips betray her. “Marsha?” she says. “How come you didn’t tell me the good news?” “Hello, Miriam, is that really you?” Marsha returns, her rasping voice as familiar as Miriam’s own. “It’s been too long, hasn’t it, what with one thing and another. But news? What news are you talking about?” “Seldy. Getting married. Are you planning a spring wedding, then—June? Like you and David? And Sid and me?” There’s a pause. The sound of a match striking and Marsha drawing smoke into her lungs. “No,” she breathes finally, “no, that’s not the way it is anymore.” And then there’s the exegesis, a story stewed in its details and leaning heavily toward Richie and Richie’s feelings. Richie—he grew up Catholic, did she know that?—hates religion, just hates it, and so does Seldy, or that’s what she claims. They don’t want a fuss. Don’t want anybody there—and it was like pulling teeth just to get them to say that she and David could stand as witnesses when they go before the justice of the peace. There’s a pause. Silence on both ends of the line. “Well, could we at least host the reception?” Miriam puts in, feeling nothing but shame and disappointment for Marsha—and for herself, herself, too. Very softly: “No, I don’t think so. I think the Spanos—Rich, Sr., and Carlotta, the parents?—I think they have something planned.” She wants to shout back at her “You think?” but she goes numb all over, the phone pressed to her ear like a weight, like one of the dumbbells Alan has had in the far corner of the basement since he was in junior high. She hears herself peep and chirp back at Marsha as the conversation runs from the sorrows and sicknesses of people they know to the sad state of the Colony, how hardly anybody goes to the Association meetings anymore, how they could barely raise a crew to take the raft out of the water this fall, and then finally stalls. “Call soon,” she hears herself say. “Yes, I will.” “Promise?” “Promise.” There are half a dozen people she wants to call, she’s so wrought up, but for a long while, as the sun softens and the colors fade from the trees on the far side of the lake, she just sits there, feeling as if someone had died. What will Sid think? Sid’s always had a soft spot for Seldy, as if she were his own daughter, and he’s never liked Richie Spano, never liked what he stood for or where he came from or how he managed to get his hooks into her. And then she’s remembering the time, years ago now, down at the lake, when she snapped awake from a sun-soaked dream to a clamor of voices raised in anger. Sid’s voice she recognized right away, a low buzz of outrage that meant he was right on the verge, but the other voice—a high querulous whine that seemed to choke on itself—she didn’t know. It was Richie Spano’s. She turned to look over her shoulder and there he was, incandescent in the light, flailing his arms and screaming in Sid’s face. He didn’t want to wait for a court and he’d been waiting too long already, shouting it out as if he’d been gored, shouting that the whole idea of holding the court when you never lose was just bullshit, that was all. She pushed herself up from the beach chair in the moment that the two of them came at each other—and Sid, though he was slow to anger, could have torn Richie apart, and would have but for the intervention of David, who forced himself between them before the shoves could turn to blows. The next week, at the very next meeting of the Association, she raised her hand and made a motion to ban people from the beach who weren’t members of the Colony—and she named Richie Spano specifically, because whose guest was he, anyway? [My memories of Sid are of a man secure in himself, a big man—huge for his generation, six-three and two-twenty and none of it gone to fat—who gave the impression of power held in reserve. He was quick-witted and light on his feet, as verbally wicked as we ourselves were, and if you were admitted to his inner circle—and I was, I was—he would defend you against all comers. He’d fought the Germans, done a stint as a beat cop in Harlem, and then come home to the house on the lake to raise his family. I remember walking into a bar with him once, an unfamiliar place, down and dirty—he must have been in his mid-sixties then—and feeling untouchable, as safe as if I were sitting in my own living room.] The tragic days of our lives, the days of accounting, begin like any other, with routine, with the bagel in the toaster and the coffee on the stove. So this is a morning. Sunlight streams through the big picture window, though it’s cold, down to zero overnight, and the lake is sealed beneath a hard uneven tegument of ice so thick you could drive a truck across it. Miriam is feeling good, the pain in her hip subsiding under the ministrations of the prescription the doctor gave her, while Sid, home from work because things are slow, is sitting across the table from her, his head bowed to the paper, jaws working at the bagel she’s smeared with cream cheese and decorated with a transparent wafer of lox and a sprinkle of capers. They’re silent, she absorbed in her thoughts, he in the paper. The only sounds are the little ones, the tap of a spoon on the rim of a cup, the sigh of the knife as it divides another bagel. “You want juice?” she says. “Fresh-squeezed, I can make fresh-squeezed, with the oranges Molly sent us from Florida?” He glances up from the paper, his eyes a roving watery blue above the little wire-rimmed reading glasses clamped to the bridge of his nose. His fringe of hair, so thin now that it’s barely there, sticks up awkwardly in back. He’s dressed in bluejeans, moccasins, a thin gray sweatshirt she’s washed so many times it’s almost white. “Yeah,” he breathes, “I guess. But don’t go to any trouble.” She’s already pushing herself up, about to say, “They’re going to go bad soon anyway,” when she glances reflexively out the window, just as she does a hundred times a day. There’s a scattering of snow like dust over the beach, the lake, the long low building that houses the concession stand. Everything is still, not even a bird moving among the stripped black branches of the trees. Susan says that Miriam needs a hobby, needs to get out more, and maybe she does spend too much time at the window, more interested in what’s outside than what’s here inside the house—if this is what old women do, biddies, yentas, then she guesses she’s one of them. But something’s wrong, something’s out of place. She spots it then, a moving shadow in the deeper gloom cast by the overhanging roof of the concession stand, a man there, furtive, jerking back the door and ducking inside. “Sid,” she says, her blood quickening, “there’s somebody out there. I just—I think somebody just broke into the concession stand.” “Who? What are you talking about?” He’s set down the paper now and he’s leaning forward to peer out the window, his lips pursed in concentration. “I don’t see anything.” “He just went inside. I’m telling you. There’s somebody in there.” This is an old story. There’ve always been problems with the place, the lake an irresistible draw for teen-agers looking for trouble, and over the years the outbuildings have periodically been broken into, though there’s not much to steal, not in the off-season. They don’t seem to care. They just want to smash things, carve epithets into the counters, spray-paint their dirty slogans in the corners where children won’t be able to miss them come summer. It’s been that way since the first truckload of sand was laid down, though it’s worse now, always and progressively worse, because the community isn’t what it was. And never will be. Sid doesn’t want to be bothered, she can see that. He thinks she’s crazy, calling him at work every time a strange car pulls into the lot, ringing up the Yorktown cops so many times they don’t even bother to send a patrol car anymore. He’s already turned back to the paper—“It’s nothing, Miriam, nothing, don’t worry yourself”—when she snatches up the binoculars. At first she can’t make out a thing, but then she focusses on the door, and, sure enough, it’s standing open and there’s movement there, a man’s face showing like an image in a slide projector, presented and withdrawn all in the space of an instant. “Sid. Sid!” The look he gives her is not a loving look. He sighs in that way he has when he’s feeling put-upon, a sigh that could contain a novel’s worth of martyrdom and resentment. But then she’s handing him the binoculars and he’s standing there at the window, focussing in. After a moment, he emits a low curse. “Son of a bitch,” he mutters, and he strides across the room to the door even as she calls out “Take a coat!” and tries to fumble into her parka and slip on her boots all at the same time. By the time she reaches the gates he’s already at the paddleball courts, moving swiftly, his shadow jogging on ahead of him. It’s cold and she’s forgotten her glasses. She digs into her pockets, but can come up with only one mitten. The pain in her hip is back, as sharp as a scalpel. She’s forcing herself on, breathing hard, breathing as if she were about to have a heart attack, when she hears the shouts ring out, and she makes the open door just in time to see Richie Spano, in a black peacoat and with a dark slash of a mustache slicing his face in two, standing over Sid, who’s stretched out supine on the gray concrete floor. What she doesn’t know, not yet, because she hardly ever talks to Marsha anymore, is that Vic Janove, who’s run the concession stand for the past twenty years and who’s become as close to the Goldsteins as she and Sid used to be, has asked Richie, as a favor, to look after the place while he’s in Florida. Sid is down on the concrete. He’s sixty-eight years old and he’s just been in a fistfight. And Richie, the breath issuing from his mouth like one of those dialogue balloons in the funny papers, squares his shoulders, swings around, and walks right past her and out the door, and all he says, his voice so fierce and choked he can barely get it out, is “You bitch. You stupid interfering bitch.” [This, too, is family legend, though it’s etched in pain. Sid, who had suffered what the neurologists quaintly call an insult to the brain when his head struck the concrete, was too stubborn to go to the doctor. He’d been knocked down before. It was nothing. He took a fistful of aspirin to quell his headache, asked Miriam to make him a cup of tea and maybe some soup, borscht or chicken noodle, it didn’t matter, because he wasn’t really hungry anyway. Three days later, when he finally relented, and she, unsteady on her feet herself, tried to help him down to the car, he collapsed in the driveway. He was dead before she could get the car door open.] It’s a Saturday in July, another Saturday, the voices of children careering about her and the steady thwock of the dense black rubber ball punctuating her thoughts. These are new children, of course, the children and grandchildren of her friends and of the new people, too. She barely glances at the men on the paddleball court—they’re interchangeable, their bare legs furred in dark swirls, T-shirts glued to their torsos, sweatbands at their wrists. Their voices rise and fall, immemorial. Someone laughs. A radio buzzes, seeking the signal. Thwock. Thwock. She knows it will all be lost, everything we make, everything we love, everything we are. Her eyes close, the sun pressing at her lids like a palpable weight. She can feel everything, every molecule of the hot aluminum slats of the chair and the fading grains of sand. She can taste the air and smell the cold depths of the lake, where no one ever drowns and every child comes home safely. There’s a splashing in the shallows, a dog raising its voice in ecstasy, the sharp tocsin of the lifeguard’s whistle. And then peace, carving out a space where the big green turtles rise lazily from the depths and the geese float free and a little girl, somebody’s daughter, comes wet and shivering to her mother’s sunstruck embrace.
Safari “Remember, Charlie? In Hawaii? When we went to the beach at night and it started to rain?” Rolph is talking to his older sister, Charlene, who despises her real name. But because they’re crouched around a bonfire with the other people on the safari, and because Rolph doesn’t speak up all that often, and because their father, Lou, sitting behind them on a camp chair, is a record producer whose personal life is of general interest, those near enough to hear are listening closely. “Remember? How Mom and Dad stayed at the table for one more drink—” “Impossible,” their father interjects, with a wink at the elderly bird-watching ladies to his left. Both women wear their binoculars even in the dark, as if hoping to spot birds in the firelit tree overhead. “Remember, Charlie? How the beach was still warm, and that crazy wind was blowing?” But Charlie is focussed on her father’s legs, which have intertwined behind her with those of his girlfriend, Mindy. Soon Lou and Mindy will bid the group good night and retreat to their tent, where they’ll make love on one of its narrow rickety cots, or possibly on the ground. From the adjacent tent, which she and Rolph share, Charlie, who is fourteen, can hear them—not sounds, exactly, but movement. Rolph, at eleven, is too young to notice. Charlie throws back her head, startling her father. Lou is in his late thirties, his square-jawed surfer’s face gone a little draggy under the eyes. “You were married to Mom on that trip,” she informs him, her voice distorted by the arching of her neck, which is encircled by a puka-shell choker. “Yes, Charlie,” Lou says. “I’m aware of that.” The bird-watching ladies trade a sad smile. Lou is one of those men whose restless charm has generated a contrail of personal upheaval that is practically visible behind him: two failed marriages and two more kids back home in L.A., who were too young to bring on this three-week safari. The safari is a new business venture of Lou’s old Army buddy Ramsey, with whom he drank and misbehaved, having barely avoided Korea almost twenty years ago. Rolph pulls at his sister’s shoulder. He wants her to remember, to feel it all again: the wind, the endless black ocean, the two of them peering into the dark as if awaiting a signal from their distant, grownup lives. “Remember, Charlie?” “Yeah,” Charlie says, narrowing her eyes. “I do remember that.” The Samburu warriors have arrived—four of them, two holding drums, and a child in the shadows minding a yellow long-horned cow. They came yesterday, too, after the morning game run, when Lou and Mindy were “napping.” That was when Charlie exchanged shy glances with the most beautiful warrior, who has scar-tissue designs coiled like railroad tracks over the rigorous architecture of his chest and shoulders and back. Charlie stands up and moves closer to the warriors: a slender girl in shorts and a raw-cotton shirt with small round buttons made of wood. Her teeth are slightly crooked. When the drummers pat their drums, Charlie’s warrior and the other one begin to sing: guttural noises pried from their abdomens. She sways in front of them. During her ten days in Africa, she has begun to act differently—like one of the girls who intimidate her back home. In a cinder-block town that the group visited a few days ago, she drank a muddy-looking concoction in a bar and wound up trading away her silver butterfly earrings (a birthday gift from her father) in a hut belonging to a very young woman whose breasts were leaking milk. She was late returning to the jeeps; Albert, who works for Ramsey, had to go and find her. “Prepare yourself,” he warned. “Your dad is having kittens.” Charlie didn’t care then, and doesn’t now; there’s a charge for her in simply commanding the fickle beam of her father’s attention, feeling his disquiet as she dances, alone, by the fire. Lou lets go of Mindy’s hand and sits up straight. He has an urge to grab his daughter’s skinny arm and yank her away from the warriors, but does no such thing, of course. That would be letting her win. The warrior smiles at Charlie. He’s nineteen, and has lived away from his village since he was ten. But he has sung for enough American tourists to recognize that, in her world, Charlie is a child. “Son,” Lou says, into Rolph’s ear, “let’s take a walk.” The boy rises from the dust and walks with his father away from the fire. Twelve tents, each sleeping two safari guests, form a circle around it, along with three outhouses and a shower stall, where water warmed on the fire is released from a sack with a rope pull. Out of view are some smaller tents for the staff, and then the black, muttering expanse of the bush, where they’ve been cautioned never to go. “Your sister’s acting nuts,” Lou says, striding into the dark. “Why?” Rolph asks. He hasn’t noticed anything nutty in Charlie’s behavior. But his father hears the question differently. “Women are crazy,” he says. “You could spend a goddam lifetime trying to figure out why.” “Mom’s not.” “True,” Lou reflects, calmer now. “In fact, your mother’s not crazy enough.” The singing and drumbeats fall suddenly away, leaving Lou and Rolph alone under a sharp moon. “What about Mindy?” Rolph asks. “Is she crazy?” “Good question,” Lou says. “What do you think?” “She likes to read. She brought a lot of books.” “Did she?” “I like her,” Rolph says. “But I don’t know if she’s crazy. Or what the right amount is.” Lou puts his arm around Rolph. If he were an introspective man, he would have understood years ago that his son is the one person in the world who has the power to soothe him. And that, although he expects Rolph to resemble him, what he most enjoys in his son is the many ways in which he is different: quiet, reflective, attuned to the natural world and the pain of others. “Who cares,” Lou says. “Right?” “Right,” Rolph says, and the women fall away like the drumbeats, leaving him and his father together, an invincible unit amid the burbling, whispering bush. The sky is crammed with stars. Rolph closes his eyes and opens them again. He is in Africa with his father. He thinks, I’ll remember this night for the rest of my life. And he’s right. When they finally return to camp, the warriors have gone. Only a few diehards from the Phoenix faction (as Lou calls the safari members who hail from there) are still sitting by the fire, comparing the day’s animal sightings. Rolph creeps into his tent, pulls off his pants, and climbs onto his cot in a T-shirt and underwear. He assumes that Charlie is asleep. When she speaks, he can hear in her voice that she’s been crying. “Where did you go?” she says. “What on earth have you got in that backpack?” It’s Cora, Lou’s travel agent. She hates Mindy, but Mindy doesn’t take it personally—it’s structural hatred, a term she coined herself and is finding highly useful on this trip. A single woman in her forties who wears high-collared shirts to conceal the thready sinews of her neck will structurally despise the twenty-three-year-old girlfriend of a powerful male who not only employs said middle-aged female but is paying her way on this trip. “Anthropology books,” Mindy tells Cora. “I’m in the Ph.D. program at Berkeley.” “Why don’t you read them?” “Carsick,” Mindy says, which is plausible, God knows, in the shuddering jeeps, though untrue. She isn’t sure why she hasn’t cracked her Boas or Malinowski or Julian Jaynes, but assumes that she must be acquiring knowledge in other ways that will prove equally fruitful. In bold moments, fuelled by the boiled black coffee that is served each morning in the meal tent, Mindy has even wondered whether her insights on the links between social structure and emotional response amount to more than a rehash of Lévi-Strauss—a refinement, a contemporary application. She’s only in her second year of coursework. Their jeep is the last in a line of five, nosing along a dirt road through grassland whose apparent brown masks a wide internal spectrum of color: purples, greens, reds. Albert, the surly Englishman who is Ramsey’s second-in-command, is driving. Mindy has managed to avoid Albert’s jeep for several days, but he has developed a reputation for discovering the best animals, so although there’s no game run today—they’re relocating to the hills, where they’ll spend the night in a hotel for the first time this trip—the children begged to ride with him. And keeping Lou’s children happy, or as close to happy as is structurally possible, is part of Mindy’s job. Structural resentment: The adolescent daughter of a twice-divorced male will be unable to tolerate the presence of his new girlfriend, and will do everything in her limited power to distract him from said girlfriend’s presence, her own nascent sexuality being her chief weapon. Structural affection: A twice-divorced male’s preadolescent son (and favorite child) will embrace and accept his father’s new girlfriend because he hasn’t yet learned to separate his father’s loves and desires from his own. In a sense, he, too, will love and desire her, and she will feel maternal toward him, though she isn’t old enough to be his mother. Structural incompatibility: A powerful twice-divorced male will be unable to acknowledge, much less sanction, the ambitions of a much younger female mate. By definition, their relationship will be temporary. Structural desire: The much younger temporary female mate of a powerful male will be inexorably drawn to the single male within range who disdains her mate’s power. Albert drives with one elbow out the window. He has been a largely silent presence on this safari, eating quickly in the meal tent, providing terse answers to people’s questions (“Where do you live?” “Mombasa.” “How long have you been in Africa?” “Eight years.” “What brought you here?” “This and that”). He rarely joins the group around the fire after dinner. On a trip to the outhouse one night, Mindy glimpsed him at the other fire, near the staff tents, drinking a beer and laughing with the Kikuyu drivers. With the tour group, he rarely smiles. Whenever his eyes happen to graze Mindy’s, she senses that he feels shame on her behalf: because of her prettiness; because she sleeps with Lou; because she keeps telling herself that this trip constitutes anthropological research into group dynamics and ethnographic enclaves, when really what she’s after is luxury, adventure, and a break from her four insomniac roommates. Next to Albert, in the shotgun seat, Chronos is ranting about animals. He’s the bassist for the Mat Hatters, one of the groups that Lou produces, and has come on the trip as Lou’s guest, along with the Hatters’ guitarist and a girlfriend each. These four are locked in a visceral animal-sighting competition. (Structural fixation: A collective, contextually induced obsession that becomes a temporary locus of greed, competition, and envy.) They challenge one another nightly over who saw more and at what range, invoking witnesses from their respective jeeps and promising definitive proof when they develop their film, back home. Behind Albert sits Cora, the travel agent, and beside her, gazing out his window, is Dean, a blond actor whose genius for stating the obvious—“It’s hot,” or “The sun is setting,” or “There aren’t many trees”—is a staple source of amusement for Mindy. Dean is starring in a movie whose soundtrack Lou is helping to create; the presumption seems to be that its release will bring Dean immediate and stratospheric fame. In the seat behind him, Rolph and Charlie are showing their Mad magazine to Mildred, one of the bird-watching ladies. She or her companion, Fiona, can usually be found near Lou, who flirts with them tirelessly and needles them to take him bird-watching. His indulgence of these women in their seventies (strangers to him before this trip) intrigues Mindy; she can find no structural reason for it. In the last row, beside Mindy, Lou opens the large aluminum case where his new camera is partitioned in its foam padding, like a dismantled rifle, and thrusts his torso from the open roof, ignoring the rule to stay seated while the jeep is moving. Albert swerves suddenly, and Lou is knocked back down, camera smacking his forehead. He swears at Albert, but the words are lost in the jeep’s wobbly jostle through tall grass. After a minute or two of chaotic driving, they emerge a few feet from a pride of lions. Everyone gawks in startled silence—it’s the closest they’ve been to any animal on this trip. The motor is still running, Albert’s hand tentatively on the wheel, but the lions appear so relaxed, so indifferent, that he kills the engine. In the ticking motor silence they can hear the lions breathe: two females, one male, three cubs. The cubs and one of the females are gorging on a bloody zebra carcass. The others are dozing. Buy the print » “They’re eating,” Dean says. Chronos’s hands shake as he spools film into his camera. “Fuck,” he keeps muttering. “Fuck.” Albert lights a cigarette—forbidden in the brush—and waits, as indifferent to the scene as if he had paused outside a rest room. “Can we stand?” the children ask. “Is it safe?” “I’m sure as hell going to,” Lou says. Lou, Charlie, Rolph, Chronos, and Dean all climb onto their seats and jam their upper halves through the open roof. Mindy is now effectively alone inside the jeep with Albert, Cora, and Mildred, who peers at the lions through her bird-watching binoculars. “How did you know?” Mindy asks, after a silence. Albert swivels around to look at her down the length of the jeep. He has unruly hair and a soft brown mustache. There is a suggestion of humor in his face. “Just a guess.” “From half a mile away?” “He probably has a sixth sense,” Cora says, “after so many years here.” Albert turns back around and blows smoke through his open window. “Did you see something?” Mindy says, persisting. She doesn’t expect Albert to turn again, but he does, leaning over the back of his seat, his eyes meeting hers between the children’s bare legs. Mindy feels a jolt of attraction roughly akin to having someone seize her intestines and twist. She understands now that it’s mutual; she sees this in Albert’s face. “Broken bushes,” he says. “Like something got chased. It could have been nothing.” Cora, sensing her exclusion, sighs wearily. “Can someone come down so I can look, too?” she calls to those above the roof. “Coming,” Lou says, but Chronos is faster, ducking back into the front seat and then leaning out his window. Cora rises in her big print skirt. Mindy’s face pounds with blood. Her own window, like Albert’s, is on the jeep’s left side, facing away from the lions. Mindy watches him wet his fingers and snuff out his cigarette. They sit in silence, hands dangling separately from their windows, a warm breeze stirring the hair on their arms, ignoring the most spectacular animal sighting of the safari. “You’re driving me crazy,” Albert says, very softly. The sound seems to travel out his window and back in through Mindy’s, like one of those whispering tubes. “You must know that.” “I didn’t,” she murmurs back. “Well, you are.” “My hands are tied.” “Forever?” She smiles. “Please. An interlude.” “Then?” “Grad school. Berkeley.” Albert chuckles. Mindy isn’t sure what the chuckle means—is it funny that she’s in graduate school, or that Berkeley and Mombasa, where he lives, are irreconcilable locations? “Chronos, you crazy fuck, get back in here.” It’s Lou’s voice, from overhead. But Mindy feels sluggish, almost drugged, and reacts only when she hears the change in Albert’s voice. “No,” he hisses. “No! Back in the jeep.” Chronos is skulking among the lions, holding his camera close to the faces of the sleeping male and female, taking pictures. “Walk backward,” Albert says, with hushed urgency. “Backward, Chronos, gently.” Movement comes from a direction that no one is expecting: the lioness gnawing at the zebra. She vaults at Chronos in an agile, gravity-defying spring that anyone with a house cat would recognize. She lands on his head, flattening him instantly. There are screams, a gunshot, and those overhead tumble back into their seats so violently that at first Mindy thinks they’ve been shot. But it’s the lioness; Albert has killed her with a rifle he’d secreted somewhere, maybe under his seat. The other lions have scattered; all that’s left is the zebra carcass and the body of the lioness, Chronos’s legs splayed beneath her. Albert, Lou, Dean, and Cora bolt from the jeep. Mindy starts to follow, but Lou pushes her back, and she realizes that he wants her to stay with his children. She leans over the back of their seat and puts an arm around each of them. As they stare through the open windows, a wave of nausea rolls through Mindy; she feels in danger of passing out. Mildred is still in her spot beside the children, and it occurs to Mindy, vaguely, that the elderly bird-watcher was inside the jeep the whole time that she and Albert were talking. “Is Chronos dead?” Rolph asks flatly. “I’m sure he’s not,” Mindy says. “Why isn’t he moving?” “The lion is on top of him. See, they’re pulling her off. He’s probably fine under there.” “There’s blood on the lion’s mouth,” Charlie says. “That’s from the zebra. Remember, she was eating the zebra?” It takes enormous effort to keep her teeth from chattering, but Mindy knows that she must hide her terror from the children—her belief that whatever turns out to have happened is her fault. They wait in pulsing isolation, surrounded by the hot, blank day. Mildred rests a knobby hand on Mindy’s shoulder, and Mindy feels her eyes fill with tears. “He’ll be fine,” the old woman says gently. “You watch.” By the time the group assembles in the bar of the mountain hotel after dinner, everyone seems to have gained something. Chronos has won a blistering victory over his bandmate and both girlfriends, at the cost of thirty-two stitches on his left cheek that you could argue are also a gain (he’s a rock star, after all) and several huge antibiotic pills administered by an English surgeon with hooded eyes and beery breath—an old friend of Albert’s, whom he unearthed in a cinder-block town about an hour away from the lions. Albert has gained the status of a hero, though you wouldn’t know it to look at him. He gulps a bourbon and mutters his responses to the giddy queries of the Phoenix faction. No one has yet confronted him on the damning basics: Why were you in the bush? How did you get so close to the lions? Why didn’t you stop Chronos from getting out of the jeep? But Albert knows that Ramsey, his boss, will ask these questions, and that they will likely lead to his being fired: the latest in a series of failures brought on by what his mother, back in Minehead, calls his “self-destructive tendencies.” The passengers in Albert’s jeep have gained a story that they’ll tell for the rest of their lives. They are witnesses, to be questioned endlessly about what they saw and heard and felt. A gang of children, including Rolph, Charlie, a set of eight-year-old twin boys from Phoenix, and Louise, a chubby twelve-year-old, leave the bar and stampede along a slatted path to a blind beside a watering hole: a wooden hut full of long benches with a slot they can peek through, invisible to the animals. It’s dark inside. They rush to the slot, but no animals are drinking at the moment. “Did you actually see the lion?” Louise asks, with wonder. “Lioness,” Rolph says. “There were two, plus a lion. And three cubs.” “She means the one that got shot,” Charlie says, impatiently. “Obviously we saw it. We were inches away!” “Feet,” Rolph says, correcting her. “Feet are made out of inches,” Charlie says. “We saw everything.” Rolph has already started to hate these conversations—the panting excitement behind them, the way Charlie seems to revel in it. A thought has been troubling him. “I wonder what will happen to the cubs,” he says. “The lioness who got shot must have been their mom—she was eating with them.” “Not necessarily,” Charlie says. “But if she was.” “Maybe the dad will take care of them,” Charlie says, doubtfully. The other children are quiet, considering the question. “Lions tend to raise their cubs communally”—a voice comes from the far end of the blind. Mildred and Fiona were already there or have just arrived; being old and female, they’re easily missed. “The pride will likely take care of them,” Fiona says, “even if the one killed was their mother.” “Which it might not have been,” Charlie adds. “Which it might not have been,” Mildred agrees. It doesn’t occur to the children to ask Mildred, who was also in the jeep, what she saw. “I’m going back,” Rolph tells his sister. He follows the path up to the hotel. His father and Mindy are still in the smoky bar; the strange, celebratory feeling unnerves Rolph. His mind bends again and again to the jeep, but his memories are a muddle: the lioness springing; a jerk of impact from the gun; Chronos moaning during the drive to the doctor, blood collecting in an actual puddle under his head on the floor of the jeep, like in a comic book. All of it is suffused with the feel of Mindy holding him from behind, her cheek against his head, her smell: not bready, like his mom’s, but salty, bitter almost—a smell that seems akin to that of the lions themselves. He stands by his father, who pauses in the middle of an Army story he’s telling with Ramsey. “You tired, son?” “Want me to walk you upstairs?” Mindy asks, and Rolph nods: he does want that. The blue, mosquito-y night pushes in from the hotel windows. Outside the bar, Rolph is suddenly less tired. Mindy collects his key from the front desk, then says, “Let’s go out on the porch.” They step outside. Dark as it is, the silhouettes of mountains against the sky are even darker. Rolph can dimly hear the voices of the other children, down in the blind. He’s relieved to have escaped them. He stands with Mindy at the edge of the porch and looks at the mountains. Rolph senses her waiting for something and he waits, too, his heart stamping. There is a cough farther down the porch. Rolph sees the orange tip of a cigarette move in the dark, and Albert comes toward them with a creak of boots. “Hello there,” he says to Rolph. He doesn’t speak to Mindy, and Rolph decides that the one hello must be for both of them. “Hello,” he greets Albert. “What are you up to?” Albert asks. Rolph turns to Mindy. “What are we up to?” “Enjoying the night,” she says, still facing the mountains, but her voice is tense. “We should go up,” she tells Rolph, and walks abruptly back inside. Rolph is troubled by her rudeness. “Are you coming?” he asks Albert. “Why not?” As the three of them ascend the stairs, Rolph feels an odd pressure to make conversation. “Is your room up here, too?” he asks. “Down the hall,” Albert says. “Room 3.” Mindy unlocks the door to Rolph’s room and steps in, leaving Albert in the hall. Rolph is suddenly angry with her. “Want to see my room?” he asks Albert. “Mine and Charlie’s?” Mindy emits a single syllable of laughter—the way his mother laughs when things have annoyed her to the point of absurdity. Albert steps into his room. It’s plain, with wooden furniture and dusty flowered curtains, but after ten nights in tents it feels lavish. “Very nice,” Albert says. Mindy crosses her arms and stares out the window. There is a feeling in the room that Rolph can’t identify. He’s angry with Mindy and thinks that Albert must be, too. Women are crazy. Mindy’s body is slender and elastic; she could slip through a keyhole, or under a door. Her thin purple sweater rises and falls quickly as she breathes. Rolph is surprised by how angry he is. Albert taps a cigarette from his pack, but doesn’t light it. It is unfiltered, tobacco emerging from both ends. “Well,” he says. “Good night, you two.” Rolph had imagined Mindy tucking him into bed, her arm around him as it was in the jeep. Now this seems out of the question. He can’t change into his pajamas with Mindy there; he doesn’t even want her to see his pajamas, which have small blue elves all over them. “I’m fine,” he tells her, hearing the coldness in his voice. “You can go back.” “O.K.,” she says. She turns down his bed, plumps the pillow, adjusts the open window. Rolph senses her finding reasons not to leave the room. “Your dad and I will be just next door,” Mindy says. “You know that, right?” “Duh,” he mutters. Then, chastened, he says, “I know.” Five days later, they take a long, very old train overnight to Mombasa. Every few minutes, it slows down just enough for people to leap from the doors, bundles clutched to their chests, and for others to scramble on. Lou’s group and the Phoenix faction install themselves in the cramped bar car, which they share with African men in suits and bowler hats. Charlie is allowed to drink one beer, but she sneaks two more with the help of handsome Dean, who stands beside her narrow barstool. “You’re sunburned,” he says, pressing a finger to Charlie’s cheek. “The African sun is strong.” “True,” Charlie says, grinning as she swigs her beer. Now that Mindy has pointed out Dean’s platitudes, Charlie finds him hilarious. “You have to wear sunscreen,” he says. “I know—I did.” “Once isn’t enough. You have to reapply.” Charlie catches Mindy’s eye and succumbs to giggles. Her father moves close. “What’s so funny?” “We’re out of flu shots.”Buy the print » “Life,” Charlie says, leaning against him. “Life!” Lou snorts. “How old are you?” He hugs her to him. When Charlie was little, he did this all the time, but as she grows older it happens less. Her father is warm, almost hot, his heartbeat like someone banging on a heavy door. “Ow,” Lou says. “Your quill is stabbing me.” It’s a black-and-white porcupine quill—she found it in the hills and uses it to pin up her long hair. Her father slides it out, and the tangled golden mass of Charlie’s hair collapses onto her shoulders like a shattered window. She’s aware of Dean watching. “I like this,” Lou says, squinting at the quill’s translucent point. “It’s a dangerous weapon.” “Weapons are necessary,” Dean says. By the next afternoon, the safari-goers have settled into a hotel a half hour up the coast from Mombasa. On a white beach traversed by knobby-chested men selling beads and gourds, Mildred and Fiona gamely appear in floral-print swimsuits, binoculars still at their necks. The livid Medusa tattoo on Chronos’s chest is less startling than his small potbelly—a disillusioning trait he shares with a number of the men, though not Lou, who is lean, a little ropy, tanned from occasional surfing. He walks toward the cream-colored sea with his arm around Mindy, who looks even better than expected (and expectations were high) in her sparkling blue bikini. After a swim, Lou goes in search of spears and snorkeling gear, resisting the temptation to follow Mindy back to their room, though clearly she’d like him to. She’s gone bananas in the sack since they left the tents—hungry for it now, pawing Lou’s clothes off at odd moments, ready to start again when he’s barely finished. He feels tenderly toward Mindy, now that the trip is winding down. She’s studying at Berkeley, and Lou has never travelled for a woman. It’s doubtful that he’ll lay eyes on her again. Rolph and Charlie are reading in the sand under a palm tree when Lou gets back with the snorkeling equipment, but Rolph puts aside “The Hobbit” without protest and stands. Charlie ignores them, and Lou wonders momentarily if he should have included her. He and Rolph walk to the edge of the sea and pull on their masks and flippers, hanging their spears from belts at their sides. Rolph looks thin; he needs more exercise. He’s timid in the water. His mother is a reader and a gardener, and Lou is constantly having to fight her influence. He wishes that Rolph could live with him, but his lawyer just shakes his head whenever he mentions it. The fish are beautiful, easy targets, nibbling at coral. Lou has speared seven by the time he realizes that Rolph hasn’t killed a single one. “What’s the problem, son?” he asks, when they surface. “I just like watching them,” Rolph says. They’ve drifted toward a spit of rocks extending into the sea. Carefully they climb from the water. The tide pools throng with starfish and urchins and sea cucumbers; Rolph crouches, poring over them. Lou’s fish hang from a netted bag at his waist. From the beach, Mindy is watching them through Fiona’s binoculars. She waves, and Lou and Rolph wave back. “Dad,” Rolph asks, lifting a tiny green crab from a tide pool, “what do you think about Mindy?” “Mindy’s great. Why?” The crab splays its little claws; Lou notes with approval that his son knows how to hold it safely. Rolph squints up at him. “You know. Is she the right amount of crazy?” Lou gives a hoot of laughter. He’d forgotten the earlier conversation, but Rolph forgets nothing—a quality that delights his father. “She’s crazy enough. But crazy isn’t everything.” “I think she’s rude,” Rolph says. “Rude to you?” “No. To Albert.” Lou turns to his son, cocking his head. “Albert?” Rolph releases the crab and begins to tell the story. He remembers each thing—the porch, the stairs, “Room 3”—realizing as he speaks how much he has wanted to tell his father this, as punishment to Mindy. Lou listens keenly, without interrupting. But as Rolph goes on he senses the story landing heavily, in a way he doesn’t understand. When he finishes talking, his father takes a long breath and lets it out. He looks back at the beach. It’s nearly sunset, and people are shaking the fine white sand from their towels and packing up for the day. The hotel has a disco, and the group plans to go dancing there after dinner. “When exactly did this happen?” Lou asks. “The same day as the lions—that night.” Rolph waits a moment, then asks, “Why do you think she was rude like that?” “Women are cunts,” his father says. “That’s why.” Rolph gapes at him. His father is angry, a muscle jumping in his jaw, and without warning Rolph is angry, too: assailed by a deep, sickening rage that stirs in him very occasionally—most often when he and Charlie come back from a riotous weekend around their father’s pool, rock stars jamming on the roof, guacamole and big pots of chili, to find their mother alone in her bungalow, drinking peppermint tea. Rage at this man who casts everyone aside. “They are not—” He can’t make himself repeat the word. “They are,” Lou says tightly. “Pretty soon you’ll know it for sure.” Rolph turns away from his father. There is nowhere to go, so he jumps into the sea and begins slowly paddling his way back toward the shore. The sun is low, the water choppy and full of shadows. Rolph imagines sharks just under his feet, but he doesn’t turn or look back. He keeps swimming toward that white sand, knowing instinctively that his struggle to stay afloat is the most exquisite torture he can concoct for his father—knowing also that, if he sinks, Lou will jump in instantly and save him. That night, Rolph and Charlie are allowed to have wine at dinner. Rolph dislikes the sour taste, but enjoys the swimmy blur it makes of his surroundings: the giant beaklike flowers all over the dining room; his father’s speared fish cooked by the chef with olives and tomatoes; Mindy in a shimmery green dress. His father’s arm is around her. He isn’t angry anymore, so neither is Rolph. Lou has spent the past hour in bed, fucking Mindy senseless. Now he keeps one hand on her slim thigh, reaching under her hem, waiting for that cloudy look she gets. Lou is a man who cannot tolerate defeat—can’t perceive it as anything but a spur to his own inevitable victory. He doesn’t give a shit about Albert—Albert is invisible, Albert is nothing. (In fact, Albert has left the group and returned to his Mombasa apartment.) What matters now is that Mindy understand this. He refills Mildred’s and Fiona’s wineglasses until their cheeks are patchy and flushed. “You still haven’t taken me bird-watching,” he chides them. “I keep asking, but it never happens.” “We could go tomorrow,” Mildred says. “There are some coastal birds we’re hoping to see.” “Is that a promise?” “A solemn promise.” “Come on,” Charlie whispers to Rolph. “Let’s go outside.” They slip from the crowded dining room and skitter onto the silvery beach. The palm trees make a slapping, rainy sound, but the air is dry. “It’s like Hawaii,” Rolph says, wanting it to be true. The ingredients are there: the dark, the beach, his sister. But it doesn’t feel the same. “Without the rain,” Charlie says. “Without Mom,” Rolph says. “I think Dad’s going to marry Mindy,” Charlie says. “No way! He doesn’t love her.” “So? He can still marry her.” They sink onto the sand, still faintly warm, radiating a lunar glow. The ghost sea tumbles against it. “She’s not so bad,” Charlie says. “I don’t like her. And why are you the world’s expert?” Charlie shrugs. “I know Dad.” Charlie doesn’t yet know herself. Four years from now, at eighteen, she’ll join a cult across the Mexican border whose charismatic leader promotes a diet of raw eggs; she’ll nearly die from salmonella poisoning before Lou rescues her. A cocaine habit will require partial reconstruction of her nose, changing her appearance, and a series of feckless, domineering men will leave her solitary in her late twenties, trying to broker peace between Rolph and Lou, who will have stopped speaking. But Charlie does know her father. He’ll marry Mindy because that’s what winning means, and because Mindy’s eagerness to finish this odd episode and return to her studies will last until precisely the moment when she unlocks the door to her Berkeley apartment and walks into the smell of simmering lentils: one of the cheap stews that she and her roommates survive on. She’ll collapse onto the swaybacked couch they found on the sidewalk and unpack her many books, realizing that in the weeks of lugging them through Africa she has read virtually nothing. And when the phone rings her heart will flip. Structural dissatisfaction: Returning to circumstances that once pleased you, after having experienced a more thrilling or opulent way of life, and finding that you can no longer tolerate them. Suddenly, Rolph and Charlie are galloping up the beach, drawn by the pulse of light and music from the open-air disco. They run barefoot into the crowd, trailing powdery sand onto a translucent dance floor overlaid on lozenges of flashing color. The shuddering bass line seems to interfere with Rolph’s heartbeat. “C’mon,” Charlie says. “Let’s dance.” She begins to undulate in front of him—the way the new Charlie is planning to dance when she gets home. But Rolph is embarrassed; he can’t dance that way. The rest of the group surrounds them. Louise, the twelve-year-old, is dancing with Dean, the actor. Ramsey flings his arms around one of the Phoenix-faction moms. Lou and Mindy dance close together, their whole bodies touching, but Mindy is thinking of Albert, as she will, periodically, after marrying Lou and having two daughters, Lou’s fifth and sixth children, in quick succession, as if sprinting against the inevitable drift of his attention. On paper he’ll be penniless, and Mindy will end up working as a travel agent to support her little girls. For a time, her life will be joyless; the girls will seem to cry too much, and she’ll think longingly of this trip to Africa as the last perfect moment of her life, when she still had a choice, when she was free and unencumbered. She’ll dream senselessly, futilely, of Albert, wondering what he is doing at particular moments, and how her life would have turned out if she’d run away with him as he suggested, half joking, when she visited him in Room 3. Later, of course, she’ll recognize “Albert” as nothing more than a focus of regret for her own immaturity and disastrous choices. When both her children are in high school, she’ll finally resume her studies, complete her Ph.D. at U.C.L.A., and begin an academic career at forty-five, spending long periods doing social-structures field work in the Brazilian rain forest. Her youngest daughter will go to work for Lou, become his protégée, and inherit his business. “Look,” Charlie tells Rolph, over the music. “The bird-watchers are watching us.” Mildred and Fiona are sitting on chairs beside the dance floor, waving in their long print dresses. It’s the first time the children have seen them without binoculars. “Maybe we remind them of birds,” Charlie says. “Or maybe when there are no birds they watch people,” Rolph says. “Come on, Rolphus,” Charlie says. “Dance with me.” She takes hold of his hands. As they move together, Rolph feels his self-consciousness miraculously fade, as if he were growing up right there on the dance floor, becoming a boy who dances with girls like his sister. Charlie feels it, too. In fact, this particular memory is one she’ll return to again and again, for the rest of her life, long after Rolph has shot himself in the head in their father’s house at twenty-eight: her brother as a boy, hair slicked flat, eyes sparkling, shyly learning to dance. But the woman who remembers won’t be Charlie; after Rolph dies, she’ll revert to her real name—Charlene—unlatching herself forever from the girl who danced with her brother in Africa. Charlene will cut her hair short and go to law school. When she gives birth to a son, she’ll want to name him Rolph, but her parents will still be too shattered for her to do this. So she’ll call him that privately, just in her mind, and years later she’ll stand with her mother among a crowd of cheering parents beside a field, watching him play, a dreamy look on his face as he glances at the sky. “Charlie!” Rolph says. “Guess what I just figured out.” Charlie leans toward her brother, who is grinning with his news. He cups both hands into her hair to be heard above the thudding beat. His warm, sweet breath fills her ear. “I don’t think those ladies were ever watching birds,” Rolph says.
Baptizing the Gun A female passenger starts to scream in the molue, or you-beat-me-I-beat-you bus, in front of my battered red Volkswagen Beetle, introducing another ripple of confusion into the midmorning Lagos traffic. She jumps out. Squatting by the roadside, she tilts her head so that the blood dripping from her torn ear won’t soil her yellow onyonyo dress. Someone had reached into the bus to steal her earring, tearing her ear in the process. A group of child hawkers, whose schools are on strike, gather around her, drumming consolations into the other ear. Each time I try to move my car, there are at least two motorcycles ahead of me. The traffic stops. Up front, there’s a throng of people chanting and dancing. They carry amulets, clubs, and locally made hunting rifles. They’re members of the Oodua People’s Congress, or O.P.C. They say that Lagos belongs to the Yorubas, so all others should understand that they’re just guests. They say they will not tolerate armed robbers or corrupt police anymore in Eko City, and that this year, 1999, it is their turn to rule Nigeria. Well, this madness could have happened in Onitsha or Abuja or Ugborodo, I console myself after waiting thirty minutes for them to pass. Besides, this isn’t my first time in Lagos. After an oil fire killed hundreds of my fellow swamp-dwellers in the Niger Delta, after the mass burials, after negotiating with the leaders of the scores of tribes that make up our church to insure that everybody’s burial ritual was represented during our week of mourning, I came to Lagos two days ago to visit some rich parishes and beg for aid. Now I’m staying at my brother’s place in Ikotun and driving his car. This morning, to my brother’s surprise, I had already sniffed out the black-market petrol crooks. I told him the fuel scarcity wasn’t going to stop me. I dipped my fingers into the liquid they were selling out of huge jars and smelled it—before buying. I sure know Lagosians, and Grandpa used to say, “If you know the people, you know the place.” Now, suddenly, people—even the drivers—are jumping out of molues, to see a boy struggling in a bonfire on the road. The earring thief has been caught, ringed with tires, doused in petrol, and set ablaze. There’s great rejoicing by the mob, as if a goal had been scored in a soccer match. No matter how scarce fuel is, there’s always enough for the thief. My dashboard clock says 10:30. All the vehicles on the road attempt to turn at once. I should have listened to my brother and waited to go with his driver at the weekend. I should have put on my Roman collar, as my bishop likes his priests to do. Perhaps some Lagosian Catholic would have had mercy on me. Ah, no, such thoughts won’t help me now. I smile to myself, to ward off the Area Boys who are beginning to take an interest in my confused driving. I wrangle my way through poor Isolo to St. Dominic’s Parish, in crowded Yaba; and then to the Parish of Assumption, in highbrow Ikoyi. I see the blue tides of the Atlantic wash up in white effervescent bubbles. I come to industrial Apapa, to the Ajegunle slums, and popular Surulere. My journey has been fruitful; many parishes have promised to send money and materials to the Niger Delta. There are posters everywhere, heralding democracy. Even I can’t suppress the excitement that in two months’ time our country is going to have its first civilian election in sixteen years. When I am on my way back from St. Leo’s, in Ikeja, my car begins to choke in a gloomy, noisy suburb. Lord Jesus, please, don’t let this car die on me here; I know very little about cars. The Beetle dies—it’s 18:03. Around me, twilight begins to smoke upward like a ground mist, undoing the afternoon’s saffron rays. People move very fast on the streets, their gaits self-aware. The residential area has a sprinkling of industrial complexes. All the compounds are surrounded by high fences, most of the walls wearing garlands of electric barbed wire. I look up and down the street—no immediate danger. I get out and push the dead Beetle off the road. Then a rusty iron gate creaks open and a huge man pops into the twilight. This six-footer isn’t hurrying home like other Lagosians. He’s broad-shouldered and square-jawed. His head is shaved, big and bumpy, his neck powerfully built. Although the sun has gone down, he’s wearing round dark glasses. He has on a black pin-striped suit, a blue hand-woven tie, and a Rolex watch, like my own. The triangular edge of his white handkerchief shows from his breast pocket. He bounces toward me. I move away, getting the car in between us, pretending to be checking the tires, craftily hiding my Rolex. I beg God to take him away from me. “It’s like you got a problem, man,” he says in a husky voice. “Hmm . . . actually, no,” I manage to say, looking away. I can feel his eyes all over my car. I know immediately that he’s a swindler. “Man, you sure need help.” I smile. “No, please. I can manage.” When he returns my smile, I see that he has two gold lower teeth, which light up the gloom. “Got petrol?” “More than half a tank.” “No problem, then. Let’s push.” He offers to get into the driver’s seat, but I get in fast, to be on the safe side. He goes to the back and pushes the car, sweating, hissing obscenities, yet the car doesn’t start. I try to catch his accent, to work out what tribe or part of the country he’s from. But a streak of an American accent in his voice makes it impossible. “Please, where can I get a mechanic?” I ask when he gives up on pushing. “Lagos mechanics? Don’t trust any Lagosian. I’m a Lagosian. Once they see you’re a stranger, they’ll cheat you or dismember and sell your car piecemeal, no matter how old. Just listen to me.” He pushes the Beetle again. “O.K., let’s see your engine,” he says when we come to a junction. Fearfully, I open the hood. He bends down and disconnects a tube and hands it to me. “Suck this, man. The problem must be the fuel filter.” Suck? I’ve never fixed anything in a car before. Back at my parish, I have a driver. “I think we should get a mechanic.” “Damn it, man, you don’t need a fucking mechanic!” He takes off his sunglasses to reveal small, angry eyes. I grab the tube. Petrol gushes into my throat, and I let go of the tube, coughing. I puke on the front of my blue-and-white buba shirt. The petrol soaks into my clothes, its cold sting reaching the zipper of my jeans. Ignoring my state, he bends down again to study the engine. I see a pistol bulging in the right pocket of his trousers. Why didn’t I wear my priestly habit? Why didn’t I borrow one of those church vehicles with “Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos” emblazoned on its sides? I begin to plead with the Lagosian. “Please, I’m a Roman Catholic priest and . . .” “So? You Nigerian clerics just want everything free! You flash your status at every chance.” When he talks, the two gold teeth burn in the night, as if he were chewing flames. “Please, sir, don’t be angry.” “Just suck this stuff, Father, man. It’s very easy. Then close the opening with your thumb. Would have done it for you, but I don’t want any dirt on my suit, O.K.?” I reconnect the line with trembling hands. He beckons to a mallam, which is what Lagosians call the Hausa Muslim gatekeepers. The mallam is an old man, tall and skinny. He’s sitting on a mat outside his wood-and-wire kiosk by a residential gate, selling cheap sweets, mosquito coils, pens, and chewing sticks, and listening to the BBC Hausa Service on a tiny transistor radio. The mallam removes his radio from his shoulder as delicately as if it were a parrot, and comes over, barefoot, his long white gown sweeping the ground. Together, they push the Beetle, down this street, up that street, into and out of potholes. The car starts. I want to drive away, but the road is a dead end. The Lagosian lumbers over and pokes his big head into my passenger seat’s window and advises me never to turn the engine off. His eyes are scanning everything in the car. “Thanks very much, sir,” I say. “Very, very much. May Christ lead you home.” “Don’t mention, Father.” He doesn’t go away. As I slowly put the car in reverse, he says, “Man, please, give a little something for Mallam. . . .” “Oh, I’m sorry. I forgot. Thanks for reminding me.” I scramble and give him a twenty-naira bill. “Oh, man.” He chuckles, collecting the money. “Your bills are so fresh and new. You priests are having a ball in this hard country! You need to lose weight.” The mallam smiles heartily and declines the money, saying his help is free. The Lagosian returns it to me. His hands are rough and wide, with big bony fingers and chewed nails. I thank him again. But he still doesn’t go away. He smiles and moves his tongue over his gold teeth as if it were being roasted. He reaches into the passenger seat and grabs my folded map of Lagos. He switches on the ceiling light. “This map is outdated,” he says with a suppressed laugh. “I’ll manage, I’ll manage.” He wants to say something but is reluctant. He looks at his watch and sighs, tapping my front tire with his shoe. God, don’t let him harm me. It’s 20:14. “Father, do you know your way home, man?” “Yes.” “Where?” “Ikotun . . . Ikotun Egbe.” “That’s far from here.” “Yeah. I’m positive I’ll do just fine. You have a good night. You’re very kind.” He opens the door, squeezing his huge frame into my passenger seat, like a child in undersized clothes. “I’m coming with you,” he says. “This oldie will give you hell tonight, man.” He tells me how his mother-in-law’s cousin’s husband can’t afford to buy tires for his old Beetle. “Father, do you know the difference between rich Lagos and poor Lagos, according to one standup comedian?” He doesn’t wait for an answer: “The billboards!” “Really?” “Yes. In Ikoyi, they’re huge, impressive. You see a happy family advertising Kellogg’s cereals, flat-screen TVs, Benson & Hedges and stuff.” His fingers are tapping playfully on the dashboard. But I’m not deceived by this or by the way he tries to be friendly, pouring out every thought like a child. “But come to Amukoko and Ajegunle slums, man, and, apart from cigarette adverts, the native doctors and the fake prophets take over! You see: ‘AIDS? Unemployment? Infertility? Our Herbal Home Has the Absolute Weapon!’ Or ‘Prophet General Something—Spiritual Warlord—Will Bomb Witches, Incessant Examination Failures, Infidelity Out of Your Life.’ ” He allows himself a chuckle and then stops abruptly, turning to me. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to upset you. Just trying to make you relax.” I ignore him and pick up speed. I can’t let him catch me off guard. I know he’s one of those sleek 419ers or Yahoo-Yahoo Boys who spend their days writing fake business letters to Americans and Europeans, assuring them of millions of petrodollars in profit if they’ll only release their credit-card and bank details. My eyes are on the road, my mind on him. My Beetle begins to sound like a wretched cassava mill. But I don’t care anymore. The car ahead of me swerves and climbs over something. I see a bundle of clothes and try to dodge it, almost ramming into another car, but my wheels still roll over part of it. The bundle feels soft, as if the car were climbing over a felled banana tree. The car behind me screeches and I see it swerving in the rearview mirror, but it drives over the bundle, too. “That was a corpse, man.” “A corpse? What corpse?” I slow down to stop and switch on my indicators. “Move on, damn it. Switch off your indicators!” He’s chuckling cynically and patting my shoulder. “Calm down, Father.” “A hit-and-run?” “Maybe. Or it might be a ritual corpse. These ritualists cut off the parts they want and toss the remains on the road. This city is unpredictable. Do you want me to drive?” “No, thanks.” “Sure?” “Positive.” “And that’s when I realized that I much preferred making frothy desserts.”Buy the print » “Then stop looking in the rear mirror, so we don’t have an accident!” I feel guilty about the corpse, and my bladder becomes heavy, pressing against my groin like a sack of stones. Laughing, he tells me that different body parts are required for different types of rituals, but that kidneys are useless, except as exports to rich countries for transplant. He warns me to be careful about using commercial vehicles, because body-part agents abduct their passengers. He says human asses are in hot demand now because the military generals are afraid of losing the seat of power to civilians; the sacrifice of many asses at the right shrine could glue the generals’ asses to their offices and destroy our hopes for democracy. I try to stop again. “What the fuck are you doing? Keep going, Father, man!” “Please, I want to pee. Please, sir.” “And where are the public toilets? If you stop, we’re screwed anyway! Hear how the Beetle is sounding?” He apologizes for using an obscenity, and proceeds to talk, in a serious tone now, about providing his extended family member with new tires like mine. He tells me how your tribesmen make demands on you once you’re rich. O.K., I see—he wants my Pirellis so that he’ll be seen as a generous extended-family man. That’s fine. I relax a bit now that he’s no longer laughing his cynical laugh. For him, car tires are more important than human life or the dignity of a corpse. Well, he can take the whole car—everything. I can walk back to my brother’s, or even the two hundred and fifty miles to the heart of the Niger Delta. He looks at his watch, shrugs, and gives me a thumbs-up. “Father, oh-oh, I thought I saw you with a Rolex, just like mine.” So the bastard saw my Rolex before I could hide it! I pretend not to hear him. “Why are you so afraid? I said I saw you with a watch!” “You didn’t.” “Really?” “Positive.” He’s quiet now and looks straight ahead, his eyes squinting to become two angry arrowheads. Occasionally he grimaces, as if he were biting down on the golden flames in his mouth. His fingers are no longer tapping on the dashboard but draped around his pointed knees. Sweat dribbles down his face. He reaches for the gun but changes his mind. With his left hand, he retrieves his breast-pocket handkerchief and wipes his face. He puts his shades back on. Now he looks like General Sani Abacha, who as head of state would sometimes begin his office hours at 22:00, always behind dark glasses. General Abacha died last year. Am I going to die tonight? Maybe I should apologize and hand over the watch. What’s a watch compared with life? Maybe I shouldn’t have accepted the watch from the oil-company executive who attends my church in the first place. My stomach feels like a grater, and my insides hurt as if they’d been shredded. Silently, I start saying the Rosary to calm myself down. First decade. Second decade. Third decade . . . This is a bad silence. The watch in my left back pocket is a malignant tumor, an unripe boil. It feels cold and quiet against my butt, yet I know it’s ticking away, a countdown to my death and my corpse on the road. I shouldn’t have lied. St. Christopher, Patron of Travellers, what do I tell this man? I see a group of policemen and soldiers ahead, setting up a roadblock. They’re well armed, members of Operation Sweep, the Lagos State anti-crime unit. They’re flagging down cars. Thank God, I’m not wearing my Roman collar and I won’t be automatically waved on. I slow down, working the accelerator and the clutch to insure that the engine doesn’t cough out. Lord, I bless you for sending me these Good Samaritans! “I’ll kill you if you stop this car, damn it!” I point up ahead. “Operation Sweep.” “Shit, man. They’ve blocked the road completely!” He removes his sunglasses again. I pull up but leave the engine running. Passengers from other cars get out to catch some fresh air until the officers release the cars, one here, two there, like chickens set free at a shrine. A soldier and a policeman approach us. The former has no shirt on, and his huge stomach hangs over his belt; the latter is as tall and powerfully built as my companion. They’re so close to me that I can smell the gunpowder in the nozzles of their AK-47s. My passenger is more uncomfortable than I am. “Please, Officers, check everything,” I say, inviting them. “I mean everything—everywhere. Search both of us. You’re doing a great job in Lagos. By the way, please, back there, there’s a corpse on the road!” “I look like vulture to you?” the soldier says, slurring his words. “Wetin concern me if corpse dey road?” the policeman says, the last part of the sentence exploding in a sneeze. A thick smell of alcohol sweeps my face. He staggers as if the sneeze has made him dizzy, his rifle nozzle clattering against my door. He raises his rifle again and smiles, as if to prove that he’s sober. The Lagosian is paying close attention to them now. He’s got one hand on his thigh, close to the pistol; the other is fidgeting with the side window, to let in more air. I just hope he doesn’t shoot them first. I’d be caught in the crossfire. They’d probably toss my body into the road. How many cars would it take to flatten me—for the pulp of my corpse to be squeezed out of my clothes like toothpaste? “To Allah, your car too old and cheap o!” the policeman sneers, stumbling away to more promising cars. But the soldier stays. “Gimme money, jo o!” he growls, thrusting his palm forward. “I want money for my tithe dis Sunday!” For my safety, I quickly hand him a twenty-naira bill. “Thank you, Officer!” I say. “Greedy man!” he tells me, burping and bending down to hold his knee with one hand as if he’s going to vomit. The other hand clasps the rifle like a walking stick, the nozzle planted on the ground. “Only twenty naira? Two big men no go give only twenty naira to two officers! How can you give us twenty naira in 1999? Shame on you! Oya, gimme money, or you want argue wid my gun?” I give him another bill. He turns his rifle upside down and blows into the nozzle to clear the dirt and then lurches over to other vehicles. I breathe normally again, pulling in lungfuls of humid Lagos air. The urge to pee gradually returns. We’ve been driving now for three, four miles, the longest stretch since the Lagosian kidnapped me. Still grumbling about Operation Sweep, he shows me the way. He seems humiliated and agitated, his fingers often moving toward his weapon. I must look for a way to distract him. He mustn’t know that I’m afraid. “You know, sir, they could have burst the tires.” “No way, man!” he says, sitting up, his big head almost grazing the folded sun protector. “You really love Pirellis, then?” “Are you kidding? They’re wonderful. If I have to buy any tires, that’s the brand. This old Beetle is worth a million with Pirellis. I even love their advert.” “Really?” “ ‘Power without control is nothing’ is the line. Have you seen that advert, man?” “No.” He’s beginning to laugh again, but my mind is really on the corpse, which has become a picture of my immediate future. I should never have driven over it. It was my Pirelli tires that crushed it. Meanwhile, the Lagosian’s passion for my tires seems to have expunged the Operation Sweep encounter from his mind. Occasionally, he taps my thigh with his fist, a needle to my bladder. “We have to do something about our military and police,” I say, hoping to temper his excitement a bit so I don’t pee in my car. “They’re better only than Kenyan police, who flogged a member of Parliament on TV,” he says, laughing even more. He’s capricious! “When I visited Kenya once, the police almost beat me blind for not producing my I.D. instantly! Kenyan police love their toa kitu kidogo—their small bribe. That saved me. But you have no problems if you’re a white tourist! Ah, how they worship the whites! But black African tourists?” “Really?” “Really what? Oh-oh, you’re not listening!” “Sorry, sir.” “I just wish all cops were like the ones I met in Zimbabwe back in 1990. Even if you were from Nigeria, they still treated you well. They seemed to be the only people who didn’t believe Transparency International’s verdict that we’re the new Nineveh! When I had the money, I travelled everywhere. . . .” His voice trails off. “Operation Sweep, Operation Sweep!” he suddenly shouts, as our headlights pick out another jeep by an intersection. Soldiers and cops are lounging on it, drinking Star and Gulder beers and playing cards. “I swear when I have the money,” he says, banging the dashboard and grating his teeth on “money,” “anybody who humiliates me . . . kai . . . Father, don’t even try to talk me out of it! The Bible says thou shall not judge! You priests are always judging us!” “No, no, I’m not.” “I’m being up front with you.” I nod. “I understand, sir.” “Father, they’re saying that General Abacha stole four billion dollars in his five-year robbery of our oil money! How can one man steal this much, when my village in the Niger Delta has more oil wells than flush toilets? The government has connived with foreign oil companies to enslave us.” “Oh, you’re from the Niger Delta?” I ask, relieved. “Of course, man.” I smile a toothless smile. “Well, that’s my place, too!” He smiles in turn and is as relaxed as he was before I lied to him about the Rolex. Now he may let me off. He’s not sweating anymore, and his back is resting against the seat. He’s at home with me now, and this time his silence is serene, as if he were going to sleep. His face is turned up, his nose almost touching the roof of the car, his throat arched and vulnerable, his eyes closed. He puts his left arm around my seat, and starts whistling, a soft pulsing sound that calms the heart and flows into the chaos outside. “You’re my brother, then!” the Lagosian finally exclaims, nudging me and opening his eyes as if waking from a peaceful dream. He extends his arm. “Did you have a good day?” he asks, as he vigorously shakes my hand. “A good day? Yes, yes.” “Mine was trashy. Nothing worked for me—which is why I must get something out of this trip.” “Really?” “I must. I won’t give up on you.” I wonder what he means by that. I shrug and say, “Sometimes we take things out on innocent people.” “No, no, no, I hate those who exploit others!” He sits up again, as if the Devil had just tickled his spine. “Man, you know something then about injustice and exploitation. You know something about your environment being destroyed. God has cursed us with oil, man. Never again will our people suffer as they did these forty years of oil drilling. We’ll go to war! What do you think?” I decide that it’s best to agree with him. “We will,” I say. “Good, Father! These days, every month I send money back home to our militia, so they can defend our fatherland. Those youths putting their lives on the line need better guns, and they need our support against Mobil and Shell and our government.” “My brother, definitely we must fight back.” He relaxes again, like a man who has convinced his opponent. “Father, I doubt you know about the recent clashes between our militia and O.P.C. in Ajegunle slums.” “I didn’t.” “Heavy casualties on both sides. That’s why I’m escorting you home,” he says, chuckling. “On a more serious note, if O.P.C. thinks Lagos belongs to them alone, we’ll see. I hate O.P.C.! Our fearless Egbesu Boys will avenge every drop of Ijaw blood shed in Lagos.” “Bad news, hon. I got replaced by an app.”Buy the print » At the mention of the dreaded Egbesu Boys, my palms become sweaty. His accent has deceived me. Now I know he’s Ijaw—a rival tribe in the Delta. Once he knows that I’m Itsekiri, God, he may not look kindly on me. We’re finished in this country. Two pupils can’t fight anymore without the parents introducing the tribal agenda. If someone can’t pay her rent, she appeals to her tribal militia. Every tribe in Nigeria is forming a militia. And, within these militias, splinter groups have emerged, making life very complex and dangerous, especially in a place like Lagos, crammed as it is with migrants from all over the country. I pray that my fate will not be like that of a priest friend of mine who was kidnapped and killed because he attempted to mediate between two tribes. Here in Lagos, my kidnapper just has to pop me in the head and toss my body on the road and laugh his cynical laugh. He doesn’t have to do what our youths fighting in the tribal wars back home do: tie the corpses to big stones and sink them in rivers already killed by oil spillage. I must escape. I’ll beg the Lagosian to let me stop and pee. I’ll outsmart him. I’ll run along the columns of cars and mingle with the restless commuters and disappear into the night. I’ll ask for the nearest Catholic parish. My brother can come for his car tomorrow. The Beetle dies again in another traffic jam. I decide to make my move, and study the surroundings carefully. The shoulderless road is tight, and there are neon signs on some shops and loud music in the air. People stream out of the buses to walk home. A swarm of child hawkers thrust their wares in our faces. “Uncle, buy democracy flyer!” a little girl calls, waving a bunch of tiny plastic Nigerian flags, her thick multicolored braids gathered up in a ponytail. “Vitamin C for good health!” a shirtless boy with a clean-shaven head says. He carries sachets of yellow-blue vitamin capsules in a wide white metal tray. “Rat killer, twenty naira,” another boy says. “Holy Bible and Koran, five hundred naira! Rat killer plus Holy Bible plus Koran, four hundred naira!” “Let us push your car, and you’ll pay us whatever you want,” they all say in a practiced chorus, coming closer to me. “We’ve not eaten today!” I say no—nothing must distract me now. Some roadside mechanics have also surfaced, sitting on their toolboxes, waiting for a car to need them. They’re drumming on their boxes with spanners, like beggars rattling their bowls. Part of the road has been claimed by refuse from a dump, and cars drive around it as if it were a construction site. The refuse rises into a gentle hill and then flattens out in a plateau. There are a few people up there, scavenging still. Their silhouettes look like those of hunchbacks, because of the treasure sacks slung over their backs. On the other side of the road, there’s a long row of shops. A crowded mobile eatery, catering to the needs of traffic-jam victims, flourishes in front of one of them. Customers are sitting on white plastic chairs in a circle, eating dodo, and rice and stew, and amala and ewedu. The chef, sporting stretch jeans, a T-shirt, and a Grace Jones coiffure, is dancing for the crowd. One of her children is washing plates; another is stirring a cauldron over a large fire with a long spoon, as if every customer were Satan. The bass guitar of Awilo Longomba’s “Coupe Bibamba” begins to bludgeon the night from two loudspeakers. The mother stoops in a bowlegged pose, turns her feet outward, and heaves her huge muscular frame toward the toes of her canvas shoes. She sticks out her big buttocks and cocks her head. Then she advances toward the edge of the circle in a Ndombolo wobble, scoops the night repeatedly with her groin, then wobbles back. Onlookers clap. As Awilo’s voice rustles the night and the lead guitar takes over, the entertainer executes the fake kick and the stagger-and-freeze. The crowd explodes in excitement, spilling over onto the road. And yet next to this frenzy there are two men hunkered over a low table on the veranda of the shop next door—no shoes, no shirts—playing draughts. A handful of spectators are as transfixed by the game as the players. One of them has a hunting rifle slung over his shoulder. A couple have sticks. The players are sweating. One is so old and gaunt that the hair on his body is white, and the sweat on his chest hangs like drops of the first rains on dry blades of grass. The younger man is lean, with dreadlocks, and is wearing a necklace of assorted talismans. No drinking, no talking, no movement, except the occasional calculating hands of the two players. The square pieces on the worn-out board have lost their edges to age and usage. Slowly, the younger player picks up a piece and puts it down in another square. Before his hand can retreat, the old man storms through his lines, smacking the board so hard that other pieces jump in fright. The spectators gasp in celebration or sadness, depending on their allegiance. The old man receives his winnings from a neutral spectator, and the loser puts his shirt and shoes back on and disappears in a huff, his fans in tow. “Father?” “Ye . . . yes,” I stammer, turning to the Egbesu Boy—my unwelcome passenger. “It’s your turn to push the car.” He points to a two-car gap that has opened up between us and a white Peugeot wagon in front. It’s 21:56. “I’m tired. This city wears you out.” “Of course, it’s my turn,” I say, my heart leaping, celebrating the chance to escape. “Don’t worry, I’ll push. You’ve been an incredible Good Samaritan to me. Just rest.” I love this traffic jam. Lord, may he be tired forever. I get out and begin to push the car, maneuvering the steering wheel through the window. When I have closed the gap, I remove the keys and smile and tell the Egbesu Boy that I’m going to pee. He tells me to do it by the roadside, in front of the refuse, but I ignore him and walk across the road, around the dancing mob, and through a gap between two shops. Before me opens up, in the semi-darkness, a field of rubbish and stones and elephant grass. A defunct train track cuts through it, parallel to the road. Suddenly someone rises from the field, startling me. Before I know it, another person heads past me into the field. Then my eyes adjust and I can see many people squatting in the field, defecating, some of them on the old railroad. The people look like little anthills. I pee hard, emptying my full bladder in the shortest possible time. The sudden loss of pressure gives me a little dull pain in my groin, but my legs are strong again. Also, a strange comfort has descended on me: at least, I’m just peeing, not shitting in the open on a train track. I turn around and sneak away behind the shops, hurrying in the direction we came from. I can’t move as fast as I want because I’m peering at the ground carefully, leaping over this patch of elephant grass, that dark spot on the ground. When you’re tired of sitting in my car, I think, you’ll find your way home. We’ll see how you must “get something out of this trip,” Satan! “Stop there, you shitter!” someone screams. Two men appear in front of me as I come to the end of the row of shops. One of them is the old draughts player; in the semi-darkness, the tough white hair on his arms looks as if it had been chalked on. They stoop to catch me, their legs and hands spread out like a goalkeeper’s. “Please, what’s the problem?” I whisper. I turn, and notice two more men looming behind me. When they get closer, I see their native hunting rifles and sticks. One of them tries to charm me by touching me with a talisman, a snake head. I know I have been captured by O.P.C. members. “We be vigilante for dis part of Lagos,” the old man says. “Why you shit for train track?” “No, I didn’t defecate.” “You no suppose shit for train track!” the snake-head man shouts at me. “You must pay for all de shit for de field!” “Please, I did not shit. We Itsekiris have a strong culture of hygiene—like the Yorubas.” I look them in the eye with the hope that my appeal to tribe will save me. “O.K., Mr. Itsekiri Hygiene, we go carry you go crime scene to take evidence,” the third person says. “We no care about your tribe!” “You go use your hand carry your igbe to our headquarters,” the fourth adds. “How dare you shit on Yorubaland!” “But look at these other people,” I say. The men start shoving me and poking me with their sticks. The talisman fellow keeps hitting my knees with the snake head. Then the other two men haul me off my feet toward the tracks, far away from where I urinated. Seeing that they’re determined to hang someone’s shit around my neck, as it were, I manage to hand some money to the old man. “Let me handle this fake Reverend Father Red Beetle, O.K.,” he says to his people, who drop me. I’m shocked that he already knows my identity. Now I know that they must be working hand in hand with the Lagosian. But didn’t my passenger say he hated O.P.C., that his militia of choice was Egbesu Boys? All the same, I’m relieved that my money has stopped them from sticking my hand in someone else’s shit. “He doesn’t understand our English,” the old man says. “He’s a V.I.P. criminal. Let me handle him.” “Sorry, egbon!” The snake-head man apologizes and salutes him. “Carry on, Commander!” the other men say in agreement. “Know that anything you say can be used against you at our headquarters,” the old man says to me. “Did you vote for Abiola, our Yoruba President that never was? The Yoruba man who was admired all over the country, but whose election was cancelled by General Babangida?” “I voted, Commander!” “Good. You’re a friend of O.P.C., then. Nothing to fear!” I hear people running toward us. Three grim faces pop up around us; I immediately recognize the young dreadlocked draughts player. “Don’t argue with the rich shitter!” he shouts at the old man. “Just seize his wallet!” “No talk to Commander like dat o!” one of the men warns him. “Learn to be a democrat. Democracy dey come.” “He’s too old to handle these things,” the dreadlocked man says, taking off his necklace of talismans. He moves menacingly toward me, trying to put it around my neck, to hypnotize me. But Commander and his lieutenants block him and his men. For a while, they circle each other, like two packs of hyenas angling for the same carcass—mine—until the dreadlocked player and his followers leave, as abruptly as they arrived, in search of better prey. “You’re shivering like a coward!” Commander admonishes me. “They’re gone. Be a man! Anyway, as they say, a coward is a chicken: peeing and shitting are the same thing.” “I only urinated, but not on the track,” I say, balling my fists to check the tremble. “I promise never to pee in public again.” Commander chuckles. “Good, you’re now admitting guilt.” “Yes, I’m sorry.” “But, see, one little thing. The bribe you gave me a few minutes ago will be used as evidence against you at our headquarters, unless—” He stops and wrings his hands, as if he were trying to wash the white hairs from his skin. “Unless you buy back the bribe. It’s called ‘bribe servicing,’ as in ‘debt servicing.’ Itsekiri or not, you must service the bribe!” I give him another five hundred naira, hoping that he’ll release me. But after putting the money in his pocket he says to me, “And, by the way, why abandon your car in a traffic jam? Don’t you have jams where you come from?” “I didn’t want to be killed for Pirelli tires,” I start to say. “It’s O.K., I’m here, I’m here, please o!” It’s the Lagosian’s merry voice. He runs to us and shakes hands with the O.P.C. folks but avoids my eyes. “Thanks for finding him for me. We’re disrupting traffic; we must go back immediately.” “O.P.C. is more efficient than Nigerian police!” Commander says. “I promised you we’d find him.” It’s 22:34, and in my absence the jam has become worse. Many cars have overtaken us, driving around my Beetle as if it were a huge pothole. I try the ignition and the car re-starts, though I have to keep revving to sustain it. The darker the night the more aggressive the child hawkers become, but they ignore me, as if a man who abandons his car in traffic were a pariah. Buy the print » The Lagosian keeps mumbling that he has to get more out of the trip than the forty naira he just paid the old O.P.C. man to find me. But nothing matters to me anymore. If he asks me why I ran away, I won’t say a thing. Let him kill me, auction off or sacrifice my essential organs, and crush my corpse under cars, I think. How different is my corpse, anyway, from the one I drove over or the hundreds I periodically bury back home or the ones weighted with stones in the black Delta rivers? All these deaths, day in, day out. Why bother? Why even bother to bring together the tribes in my parish? Why bother raising funds for the displaced and the wounded? This is a horrible trip. My car dies again, in spite of my revs, at a roundabout. Half a mile down the road, there’s a petrol station. Cars are lined up in pairs, bumper to bumper, coated with a week-old layer of dust. Drivers lounge around, with no idea when fuel will come. The queue has formed a tightening noose around the roundabout, reducing three lanes of traffic to the one that contains my dead Beetle. The Lagosian arranges for some of the child hawkers to push it as the traffic inches along; it doesn’t worry me anymore to pay them to do this. “Father, I’m killing a goat to usher in this democracy!” the Lagosian says excitedly. “God won’t let any number of ritual butts curse us with another military government!” “Really.” I wish they were sacrificing your butt! How do I get you to shut your trap and leave me to my thoughts? You’re denouncing the military, yet you’re kidnapping me for my Pirellis and a roll of new naira bills. I wish you dead. “Our pumps are dry! The generals have blocked the refinery so that they can import fuel to make money!” He’s tapping the dashboard again. His chortle bottoms out into a relentless guffaw. “I get so mad I want to carry a big, big gun and pop soldiers. Sometimes, I just laugh. Father, man, I just laugh. Well, God is helping us survive these military thieves. What do you think?” “Me?” “Yeah. Are you really close to God, man?” “Yes.” “Well, good for you, man, good for you. Nobody believes in anything in this damn country. God this, God that. Yet the place is hell, you know.” “I’m in hell in this car.” He glances sideways at me. “Are you O.K., man?” “Well, does it matter? Stop questioning me. Just leave me alone. What the hell do you believe in?” He leaves his eyes on me but continues to laugh cynically. “Oh, come on, don’t let this military kleptomania get to you, my friend! As I was saying, I mean, what’s four billion dollars compared to the twelve and a half billion they say we lost under General Babangida in the eighties? This is the only country I know where people who pinch five naira are burned, while those who steal billions of dollars are revered! When these generals go, we must sit together and figure out what kind of country we want to bequeath our kids, man.” “Look, I don’t really care.” Being Nigerian means nothing to me now. I just want to be free of you. I wish you dead, dead, dead. If I hadn’t met you, I would be home by now. You coldhearted bastard who connived with O.P.C. bullies and robbed me at shit point. If you had access to billions of dollars, you would connive with the Swiss banks and stash it away. You’re Commander and Babangida and Abacha combined. Now a motorcycle, with three passengers atop, begins to make its way like a giant spider through the tiny space between my car and an articulated lorry. The motorcycle, fitted with a radio, is screeching gospel music. “Pull in your side mirror so dat my Mercedes-Benz can pass, o jare!” the motorcyclist commands. I ask him to be patient, tell him that there’s no space yet. He starts calling me names in a language I don’t understand, leaving his finger permanently on his horn. He spits on my windscreen, but it still doesn’t worry me. My companion asks the boy selling Vitamin C, who is helping to move my car, to push in the side mirror. The spider staggers ahead, with all three passengers dragging their legs to stabilize it. The children are singing and pushing, their lilting voices competing with the loudspeakers. They get the car into a side street, and the Lagosian pays them off. “But on top of all this,” the Lagosian says, “General Abacha and his friends still grabbed, as the Kenyans would say, tons of government fertilizer! Why hoard government fertilizer for your friends?” He’s not laughing anymore, and the contempt in his voice almost overturns my guarded hatred of him. “As our people say, ‘How can a man who has killed an elephant and carries the meat on his head be distracted by a roasted cricket?’ That man has disgraced us!” “Really.” My life, my tires, my money. Which one is elephant meat or roasted cricket to you? In the dark, his thievish eyes glow with unshed 419 tears. He sits there, as gloomy as if his business empire had just lost billions to swindlers. Then his husky voice climbs six bars to an angry rant that sounds almost convincing: “I’d go nowhere near someone’s fertilizer! How did we come by this sort of decay?” “Decay?” He excuses himself and gets out of the car. When I look in the rearview mirror, he’s behind the car, chatting with a mechanic he’s found, one hand in his pocket, holding the gun. This tightens the cloth around his groin and jacks up the leg of the trousers. The mechanic is a tall wiry man with a youthful face and a ready smile. He’s carrying two spanners and a piece of wire. I join them. The mechanic is anxious to begin work and is telling the Lagosian that he can fix anything, and that he offers the cheapest service around. Two of the hawkers, the ponytailed girl and the shirtless boy, come closer, hand in hand. “Please, sir, hire Daddy,” the boy says. “He won’t disappoint you!” “We need to eat tonight!” the girl adds. “Jesus will bless you, sir.” “God shall elect you the new President of our country!” the boy says. “Shut up!” the Lagosian commands, hushing them. “Get out of here, little manipulators!” Then he turns to me and asks whether we should hire the mechanic. I shrug to show my indifference: who knows what sinister plans he has already made with him. I get inside the car, and the two men and the children push it back to the main road. It’s 23:37. My companion’s white shirt is dirtied by sweat and by the dust whipped up by molues. Even his tie is soaked with sweat. The electricity goes out, the city dissolving into a noisy darkness. He hands the mechanic a tiny torch that he pulls from a pocket. It’s 23:58. Hawkers are still selling, their lanterns illuminating the streets like a stalled candlelight procession. Molues are still moving. Nearby, the Commodore Jesus Ministries has begun a “Democracy Victory Vigil” in a packed compound. Over powerful loudspeakers, the congregants sing and scream and bomb out demons. The pastor is telling them that witches are responsible for our national woes, that only well-placed spiritual explosives can help. He says those who are waiting to obtain their rights from the new government have pagan thoughts, that God’s people thrive not on human rights but on spiritual vows to Heaven’s dictator. He warns that America and Europe are the new Babylons because they believe in every religion, when the Bible clearly says that God wants Pentecostal Christianity alone. The Lagosian keeps laughing at the church’s name, saying that the military has stained everything in our culture. He says that the pastor is a lunatic who doesn’t understand democracy. “Are you calling my pastor a madman?” the mechanic says, stopping his work. “It’s not funny at all!” “Oh, I’m sorry,” the Lagosian says. “What’s democracy?” the mechanic continues, still offended, banging his two spanners together. “Is it more difficult than the miracles our pastor has wrought, huh?” “Bullshit. You guys must come out and vote!” The Lagosian seems angry now that the mechanic hasn’t accepted his apology. “Show me democracy in the Bible! Look, we’re spiritual commodores! Our pastor has set up spiritual polling stations.” “Then quit messing around with my car and join the fucking vigil.” “No, I need the money bad,” the mechanic says, his face relaxing again into a smile. But the Lagosian is upset. “An asshole like you does no one any good. Don’t touch my car again!” I can tell that he wants to pull out the gun, but looking at the children he changes his mind. The kids are tired, sitting by the side of the road, giggling and playing with pebbles. I wink at the mechanic, warning him not to provoke the Lagosian again. But he can’t see my eyes in the night. With all the noise around, who would even hear a gunshot? God, it would be better for me to die than this poor mechanic. Have mercy, for the sake of these children. The mechanic continues, “If your two wives gave you five children in five years, you’d understand how tough life is.” “You should be castrated!” the Lagosian says. “My first job in two days. If God hadn’t given me children to sell goods in traffic, my family would have starved.” “Child abuse,” he says. “Child abuse?” the mechanic says, laughing. “My children have just helped you push your car. Weren’t you happy with that? If they hadn’t brought me to you tonight, what would you have done? For their sake, don’t be angry with me.” My companion doesn’t speak anymore. He bends over, returning his attention to the engine of the car. And suddenly, as if hit by a new idea, he says, “By the way, mechanic, have you checked the coil?” The problem is the coil—it’s overheated, and the mechanic buys three small plastic bags of water from a roadside stall. But there’s no container to soak the coil in. The Lagosian sighs and thrusts his hand firmly—Oh, Christ!—into his gun pocket. My legs become numb. “Are you O.K.?” the mechanic asks, catching me as I stumble. The children come and hold me, too. “Daddy, he’s shaking,” the boy says. “Daddy, he has malaria,” the girl whispers, and then she begins crying, feeling my forehead with the back of her hand. My kidnapper pulls out a handkerchief the size of a hand towel—and his gun pocket goes flat. It’s empty. “I hope you’re not ashamed of the size of my hanky,” he says, apologizing. “I sweat a lot.” Then he rushes to my side and, together with the mechanic and his family, leads me over to sit on the Beetle’s mudguard. My embarrassment is boundless as I watch the mechanic soak the “gun” and wrap it around the coil. The boy suggests that I need some vitamins, which he can give me at a discount. “So, what do you do, sir?” I finally ask the Lagosian. “I have a company that imports iron rod, back where I found you. I used to travel abroad a lot, but now business is slow. Hey, at last you’re relaxed, Father.” He smiles and nudges my ribs. “You must be Itsekiri, yes?” “I am, sir.” “I had to stop talking about Egbesu Boys once I noticed you were uncomfortable.” My eyes are teary with shame and gratitude as I pay the mechanic. “I just don’t know how to thank you, sir,” I say to the Lagosian. “Oh no, thank you, Father, man, for allowing me to dump all my frustrations at this country of ours on you,” he says, laughing again, his teeth glowing. “You know, we need to start trusting each other. I’m tired of blaming it all on our leaders—we’ve become a difficult lot to help. I was praying hard that I’d connect with you somehow.” I reach into my back pocket to show him my watch. I hold it with two hands, an offering to a god of guilt, before putting it back on. As my passenger fades into the night, his laugh is my absolution.
Diary of an Interesting Year My thirtieth birthday. G. gave me this little spiral-bound notebook and a Biro. It’s a good present, hardly any rust on the spiral and no water damage to the paper. I’m going to start a diary. I’ll keep my handwriting tiny to make the paper go further. February 15th. G. is really getting me down. He’s in his element. They should carve it on his tombstone: “I Was Right.” February 23rd. Glad we don’t live in London. The Hatchwells have got cousins staying with them—they trekked up from Peckham (three days). Went round this afternoon and the cousins were saying the thing that finally drove them out was the sewage system—when the drains backed up, it overflowed everywhere. They said the smell was unbelievable. The pavements were swimming in it, and of course the hospitals are down, so there’s nothing to be done about the cholera. Didn’t get too close to them in case they were carrying it. They lost their two sons like that last year. “You see,” G. said to me on the way home, “capitalism cared more about its children as accessories and demonstrations of earning power than for their future.” “Oh, shut up,” I said. March 2nd. Can’t sleep. I’m writing this instead of staring at the ceiling. There’s a mosquito in the room, I can hear it whining close to my ear. Very humid, air like filthy soup, plus we’re supposed to wear our face masks in bed, too, but I was running with sweat, so I ripped mine off just now. Got up and looked at myself in the mirror on the landing—ribs like a fence, hair in greasy rats’ tails. Yesterday the rats in the kitchen were busy gnawing away at the bread bin, they didn’t even look up when I came in. March 6th. Another quarrel with G. O.K., yes, he was right, but why crow about it? That’s what you get when you marry your tutor from Uni—wall-to-wall pontificating from an older man. “I saw it coming, any fool could see it coming, especially after the Big Melt,” he brags. “Thresholds crossed, cascade effect, hopelessly optimistic to assume we had till 2060, blahdy blahdy blah, the plutonomy as lemming, democracy’s massive own goal.” No wonder we haven’t got any friends. He cheered when rationing came in. He’s the one who volunteered first as car-share warden for our road; one piddling little Peugeot for the entire road. He gets a real kick out of the camaraderie round the standpipe. —I’ll swap my big tin of chickpeas for your little tin of sardines. —No, no, my sardines are protein. —Chickpeas are protein, too, plus they fill you up more. Anyway, I thought you still had some tuna. —No, I swapped that with Violet Huggins for a tin of tomato soup. Really sick of bartering, but hard to know how to earn money since the Internet went down. “Also, money’s no use unless you’ve got shedloads of it,” as I said to him in bed last night. “The top layer hanging on inside their plastic bubbles of filtered air while the rest of us shuffle about with goiters and tumors and bits of old sheet tied over our mouths. Plus, we’re soaking wet the whole time. We’ve given up on umbrellas, we just go round permanently drenched.” I stopped ranting only when I heard a snore and clocked that he was asleep. April 8th. Boring morning washing out rags. No wood for hot water, so had to use ashes and lye again. Hands very sore, even though I put plastic bags over them. Did the face masks first, then the rags from my period. Took forever. At least I haven’t got to do nappies, like Lexi or Esmé—that would send me right over the edge. April 27th. Just back from Maia’s. Seven months. She’s very frightened. I don’t blame her. She tried to make me promise I’d take care of the baby if anything happens to her. I havered (mostly at the thought of coming between her and that throwback Martin—she had a new black eye, I didn’t ask). I suppose there’s no harm in promising if it makes her feel better. After all, it wouldn’t exactly be taking on a responsibility—I give a new baby three months max in these conditions. Diarrhea, basically. May 14th. Can’t sleep. Bites itching, trying not to scratch. Heavy thumps and squeaks just above, in the ceiling. Think of something nice. Soap and hot water. Fresh air. Condoms! Sick of being permanently on knife edge re pregnancy. Start again. Wandering round a supermarket—warm, gorgeously lit—corridors of open fridges full of tiger prawns and fillet steak. Gliding off down the fast lane in a sports car, stopping to fill up with thirty litres of petrol. Online, booking tickets for “The Mousetrap,” click, ordering a crate of wine, click, a vacation home, click, a pair of patent-leather boots, click, a gap year, click. I go to iTunes and download “The Marriage of Figaro,” then I chat face to face in real time with G.’s parents in Sydney. No, don’t think about what happened to them. Horrible. Go to sleep. May 21st. Another row with G. He blew my second candle out, he said one was enough. It wasn’t, though. I couldn’t see to read anymore. He drives me mad—it’s like living with a policeman. It always was, even before the Collapse. “The earth has enough for everyone’s need, but not for everyone’s greed” was his favorite. Nobody likes being labelled greedy. I called him Killjoy and he didn’t like that. “Every one of us takes about twenty-five thousand breaths a day,” he told me. “Each breath removes oxygen from the atmosphere and replaces it with carbon dioxide.” Well, pardon me for breathing! What was I supposed to do—turn into a tree? June 6th. Went round to the Lumleys’ for the news last night. Whole road there squashed into front room, straining to listen to radio—batteries very low (no new ones in the last government delivery). Big news, though: compulsory billeting imminent. The Shorthouses were up in arms, Kai shouting and red in the face, Lexi in tears. “You work all your life,” etc., etc. What planet is he on? None of us too keen, but nothing to be done about it. When we got back, G. checked our stash of tins under the bedroom floorboards. A big rat shot out and I screamed my head off. G. held me till I stopped crying, then we had sex. Woke in the night and prayed not to be pregnant, though God knows who I was praying to. June 12th. Visited Maia this afternoon. She was in bed, her legs have swollen up like balloons. On at me again to promise about the baby, and this time I said yes. She said Violet Huggins was going to help her when it started—Violet was a nurse once, apparently, not really the hands-on sort but better than nothing. Nobody else on the road will have a clue what to do now that we can’t Google it. “All I remember from old films is that you’re supposed to boil a kettle,” I said. We started to laugh, we got a bit hysterical. Knuckle-dragger Martin put his head round the door and growled at us to shut up. July 1st. First billet arrived today by Army truck. We’ve got a Spanish group of eight, including one old lady, her daughter, and twin toddler grandsons (all pretty feral), plus four unsmiling men of fighting age. A bit much, since we have only two bedrooms. G. and I tried to show them round but they ignored us. The grandmother bagged our bedroom straight off. We’re under the kitchen table tonight. I might try to sleep on top of it because of the rats. We couldn’t think of anything to say—the only Spanish we could remember was “Muchas gracias,” and, as G. snapped, we’re certainly not saying that. July 2nd. Fell off the table in my sleep. Bashed my elbow. Covered in bruises. July 3rd. G. depressed. The four Spaniards are bigger than him, and he’s worried that the biggest one, Miguel, has his eye on me (with reason, I have to say). July 4th. G. depressed. The grandmother found our tins under the floorboards and all but danced a flamenco. Miguel punched G. when he tried to reclaim a tin of sardines and since then his nose won’t stop bleeding. July 6th. Last night under the table G. came up with a plan. He thinks we should head north. Now that this lot are in the flat and a new group from Tehran promised next week, we might as well cut and run. Scotland’s heaving—everyone else has already had the same idea—so he thinks we should get on one of the ferries to Stavanger, then aim for Russia. “I don’t know,” I said. “Where would we stay?” “I’ve got the pop-up tent packed in a rucksack behind the shed,” he said. “Plus our sleeping bags and my windup radio.” “Camping in the mud,” I said. “Look on the bright side,” he said. “We have a huge mortgage and we’re just going to walk away from it.” “Oh, shut up,” I said. July 17th. Maia died yesterday. It was horrible. The baby got stuck two weeks ago, it died inside her. Violet Huggins was useless, she didn’t have a clue. Martin started waving his Swiss Army knife around on the second day and yelling about a Cesarean—he had to be dragged off her. He’s round at ours now drinking the last of our precious brandy with the Spaniards. That’s it. We’ve got to go. Now, says G. Yes. August 1st. Somewhere in Shropshire, or possibly Cheshire. We’re staying off the beaten track. Heavy rain. This notebook’s pages have gone all wavy. At least Biro doesn’t run. I’m lying inside the tent now. G. is out foraging. We got away in the middle of the night. G. slung our two rucksacks across the bike. We took turns wheeling it, then on the fourth morning we woke up and looked outside the tent flap and it was gone, even though we’d covered it with leaves the night before. “Could be worse,” G. said. “We could have had our throats cut while we slept.” “Oh, shut up,” I said. August 3rd. Rivers and streams all toxic—fertilizers, typhoid, etc. So we’re following G.’s D.I.Y. system. Dip billycan into stream or river. Add three drops of bleach. Boil up on camping stove with T-shirt stretched over billycan. Only moisture squeezed from the T-shirt is safe to drink; nothing else. “You’re joking,” I said, when G. first showed me how to do this. But no. August 9th. Radio news in muddy sleeping bags—skeleton government obviously struggling, they keep playing the “Enigma Variations.” Last night they announced the end of fuel for civilian use and the compulsory disabling of all remaining civilian cars. From now on we must all stay at home, they said, and not travel without permission. There’s talk of martial law. We’re going cross-country as much as possible—less chance of being arrested or mugged—trying to cover ten miles a day, but the weather slows us down. Torrential rain, often horizontal in gusting winds. August 16th. Rare dry afternoon. Black lace clouds over yellow sky. Brown grass, frowsty gray mold, fungal frills. Dead trees come crashing down without warning—one nearly got us today, it made us jump. G. was hoping we’d find stuff growing in the fields, but all the farmland round here is surrounded by razor wire and armed guards. He says he knows how to grow vegetables from his gardening days, but so what. They take too long. We’re hungry now—we can’t wait till March for some old carrots to get ripe. August 22nd. G. broke a front crown cracking a beechnut, there’s a black hole and he whistles when he talks. “Damsons, blackberries, young green nettles for soup,” he said at the start of all this, smacking his lips. He’s not so keen now. No damsons or blackberries, of course—only chickweed and ivy. He’s just caught a lame squirrel, so I suppose I’ll have to do something with it. No creatures left except squirrels, rats, and pigeons, unless you count the insects. The news says they’re full of protein—you’re meant to grind them into a paste—but so far we haven’t been able to face that. August 24th. We met a pig this morning. It was a bit thin for a pig, and it didn’t look well. G. said, “Quick! We’ve got to kill it.” “Why?” I said. “How?” “With a knife,” he said. “Bacon. Sausages.” I pointed out that even if we managed to stab it to death with our old kitchen knife, which seemed unlikely, we wouldn’t be able just to open it up and find bacon and sausages inside. “Milk, then!” G. said wildly. “It’s a mammal, isn’t it?” Meanwhile, the pig walked off. August 25th. Ravenous. We’ve both got streaming colds. Jumping with fleas, itching like crazy. Weeping sores on hands and faces—unfortunate side effects from cloud seeding, the news says. What with all this and his toothache (back molar, swollen jaw) and the malaria, G. is in a bad way. August 27th. Found a dead hedgehog. Tried to peel off its spines and barbecue it over the last briquette. Disgusting. Both sick as dogs. Why did I moan about the barter system? Foraging is MUCH MUCH worse. August 29th. Dreamed of Maia and the Swiss Army knife and woke up crying. G. held me in his shaky arms and talked about Russia, how it’s the new land of milk and honey since the Big Melt. “Some really good farming opportunities opening up in Siberia,” he said through chattering teeth. “We’re like in ‘Three Sisters,’ ” I said. “ ‘If only we could get to Moscow.’ Do you remember that production at the National? We walked by the river afterward, we stood and listened to Big Ben chime midnight.” Hugged each other and carried on like this until sleep came. August 31st. G. woke up crying. I held him and hushed him and asked what was the matter. “I wish I had a gun,” he said. September 15th. Can’t believe this notebook was still at the bottom of the rucksack. And the Biro. Murderer wasn’t interested in them. He’s turned everything else inside out (including me). G. didn’t have a gun. This one has a gun. September 19th. M. speaks another language. Norwegian? Dutch? Croatian? We can’t talk, so he hits me instead. He smells like an abandoned fridge, his breath stinks of rot. What he does to me is horrible. I don’t want to think about it. I won’t think about it. There’s a tent and cooking stuff on the ground, but half the time we’re up a tree with the gun. There’s a big plank platform and a tarpaulin roped to the branches above. At night he pulls the rope ladder up after us. It’s quite high—you can see for miles. He uses the platform for storing stuff he brings back from his mugging expeditions. I’m surrounded by tins of baked beans. October 3rd. M. can’t seem to get through the day without at least two blow jobs. I’m always sick afterward (sometimes during). October 8th. M. beat me up yesterday. I’d tried to escape. I shan’t do that again, he’s too fast. October 14th. If we run out of beans I think he might kill me for food. There were warnings about it on the news a while back. This one wouldn’t think twice. I’m just meat on legs to him. He bit me all over last night, hard. I’m covered in bite marks. I was literally licking my wounds afterward when I remembered how nice the taste of blood is, how I miss it. Strength. Calves’ liver for iron. How I haven’t had a period for ages. When that thought popped out I missed a beat. Then my blood ran cold. October 15th. Wasn’t it juniper berries they used to use? As in gin? Even if it was, I wouldn’t know what they looked like—I remember only mint and basil. I can’t be pregnant. I won’t be pregnant. October 17th. Very sick after drinking rank juice off random stewed herbs. Nothing else, though, worse luck. October 20th. Can’t sleep. Dreamed of G. I was moving against him, it started to go up a little way, so I thought he wasn’t really dead. Dreadful waking to find M. there instead. October 23rd. Can’t sleep. Very bruised and scratched after today. They used to throw themselves downstairs to get rid of it. The trouble is the gravel pit just wasn’t deep enough, plus the bramble bushes kept breaking my fall. There was some sort of body down there, too, seething with white vermin. Maybe it was a goat or a pig or something, but I don’t think it was. I keep thinking it might have been G. October 31st. This baby will be the death of me. Would have been. Let’s make that a subjunctive. “Would have been,” not “will.” November 7th. It’s all over. I’m still here. Too tired to November 8th. Slept for hours. Stronger. I’ve got all the food and drink, and the gun. There’s still some shouting from down there but it’s weaker now. I think he’s almost finished. November 9th. Slept for hours. Fever gone. Baked beans for breakfast. More groans started up just now. Never mind. I can wait. November 10th. It’s over. I got stuck into his bottle of vodka—it was the demon drink that saved me. He was out mugging—left me up the tree as usual—I drank just enough to raise my courage. Nothing else had worked, so I thought I’d get him to beat me up. When he came back and saw me waving the bottle he was beside himself. I pretended to be drunker than I was and I lay down on the wooden platform with my arms round my head while he got the boot in. It worked. Not right away but that night. Meanwhile, M. decided he fancied a drink himself, and very soon he’d polished off the rest of it—more than three-quarters of a bottle. He was singing and sobbing and carrying on, out of his tree with alcohol, and then, when he was standing pissing off the side of the platform, I crept along and gave him a gigantic shove and he really was out of his tree. Crash. November 13th. I’ve wrapped your remains in my good blue shirt; sorry I couldn’t let you stay on board, but there’s no future now for any baby aboveground. I’m the end of the line! This is the last page of my thirtieth-birthday present. When I’ve finished it I’ll wrap the notebook up in six plastic bags, sealing each one with duct tape against the rain, then I’ll bury it in a hole on top of the blue shirt. I don’t know why, as I’m not mad enough to think anybody will ever read it. After that I’m going to buckle on this rucksack of provisions and head north with my gun. Wish me luck. Last line: Good luck, good luck, good luck, good luck, good luck.
All That Once when I was a little boy I received as a gift a toy cement mixer. It was made of wood except for its wheels—axles—which, as I remember, were thin metal rods. I’m ninety per cent sure it was a Christmas gift. I liked it the same way a boy that age likes toy dump trucks, ambulances, tractor-trailers, and whatnot. There are little boys who like trains and little boys who like vehicles—I liked the latter. It was (“it” meaning the cement mixer) the same overlarge miniature as many other toy vehicles—about the size of a breadbox. It weighed three or four pounds. It was a simple toy—no batteries. It had a colored rope, with a yellow handle, and you held the handle and walked pulling the cement mixer behind you—rather like a wagon, although it was nowhere near the size of a wagon. For Christmas, I’m positive it was. It was when I was the age where you can, as they say, “hear voices” without worrying that something is wrong with you. I “heard voices” all the time as a small child. I was either five or six, I believe. (I’m not very good with numbers.) I liked the cement mixer and played with it as much as or more than I played with the other toy vehicles I owned. At some point, several weeks or months after Christmas, however, my biological parents led me to believe that it was a magic and/or highly unusual cement mixer. Probably my mother told me this in a moment of adult boredom or whimsy, and then my father came home from work and joined in, also in a whimsical way. The magic—which my mother likely reported to me from her vantage on our living room’s sofa, while watching me pull the cement mixer around the room by its rope, idly asking me if I was aware that it had magical properties, no doubt making sport of me in the bored half-cruel way that adults sometimes do with small children, playfully telling them things that they pass off to themselves as “tall tales” or “childlike inventions,” unaware of the impact those tales may have (since magic is a serious reality for small children), though, conversely, if my parents believed that the cement mixer’s magic was real, I do not understand why they waited weeks or months before telling me of it. They were a delightful but often impenetrable puzzle to me; I no more knew their minds and motives than a pencil knows what it is being used for. Now I have lost the thread. The “magic” was that, unbeknown to me, as I happily pulled the cement mixer behind me, the mixer’s main cylinder or drum—the thing that, in a real cement mixer, mixes the cement; I do not know the actual word for it—rotated, went around and around on its horizontal axis, just as the drum on a real cement mixer does. It did this, my mother said, only when the mixer was being pulled by me and only, she stressed, when I wasn’t looking. She insisted on this part, and my father later backed her up: the magic was not just that the drum of a solid wood object without batteries rotated but that it did so only when unobserved, stopping whenever observed. If, while pulling, I turned to look, my parents sombrely maintained, the drum magically ceased its rotation. How was this? I never, even for a moment, doubted what they’d told me. This is why it is that adults and even parents can, unwittingly, be cruel: they cannot imagine doubt’s complete absence. They have forgotten. The point was that months were henceforward spent by me trying to devise ways to catch the drum rotating. Evidence bore out what they had told me: turning my head obviously and unsubtly around always stopped the rotation of the drum. I also tried sudden whirls. I tried having someone else pull the cement mixer. I tried incremental turns of the head while pulling (“incremental” meaning turning my head at roughly the rate of a clock’s minute hand). I tried peering through a keyhole as someone else pulled the cement mixer. Even turning my head at the rate of the hour hand. I never doubted—it didn’t occur to me. The magic was that the mixer seemed always to know. I tried mirrors—first pulling the cement mixer straight toward a mirror, then through rooms that had mirrors at the periphery of my vision, then past mirrors hidden such that there was little chance that the cement mixer could even “know” that there was a mirror in the room. My strategies became very involved. I was in kindergarten and home half the day. The seriousness with which I tried must have caused my parents no little anguish of conscience. My father had not yet even received tenure; we were barely middle class, and lived in a rented house whose carpets were old and thin—the mixer made a noise as I pulled it. I begged my mother to take photographs as I pulled the mixer, staring with fraudulent intensity straight ahead. I placed a piece of masking tape on the drum and reasoned that if the tape appeared in one photo and not in the other this would provide proof of the drum’s rotation. (Video cameras had not yet been invented.) During Talk Time, before bed, my father sometimes told me stories of his own childhood adventures. He, an intellectual, had been, according to his stories, the sort of child who set traps for the Tooth Fairy (pyramids of tin cans at the door and windows of his room, string tied from his finger to the tooth below his pillow so that he would wake when the Fairy tried to take the tooth) and other “mythical” figures of childhood, such as Santa Claus. (Talk Time meant fifteen minutes of direct conversation—not stories or songs—with a parent as I lay tucked into bed. Four nights per week Talk Time was with my mother and three nights with my father. They were very organized about it.) I was, at this age, unfamiliar with Matthew 4:7, and my father, a devout atheist, was in no way alluding to Matthew 4:7 or using the tales of his fruitless childhood traps as parables or advice against my trying to “test” or “defeat” the magic of the cement mixer. In retrospect, I believe that my father was charmed by my attempts to “trap” the mixer’s drum rotating because he saw them as evidence that I was a chip off the block of ad-hoc intellectual mania for empirical verification. In fact, nothing could have been farther from the truth. As an adult, I realize that the reason I spent so much time trying to “catch” the drum rotating was that I wanted to verify that I could not. If I had ever been successful in outsmarting the magic, I would have been crushed. I know this now. My father’s tales of snares for the Easter Bunny or strings for the Tooth Fairy often made me feel sad, and when I cried over them sometimes my parents guiltily believed that I was crying over my frustration at not being able to catch sight of the rotating drum. I’m positive that this caused them anguish. In fact, I was crying with sadness, imagining how devastated my father would have felt as a child had he been successful in trapping the Tooth Fairy. I was not, at the time, aware that this was why the Talk Time stories made me sad. What I remember feeling was an incredible temptation to ask my father a question as he delightedly described these traps, and at the same time a huge and consuming but amorphous and nameless fear that prevented my asking the question. The conflict between the temptation and my inability to ask the question (owing to a fear of ever seeing pain on my father’s pink, cheerful, placid face) caused me to weep with an intensity that must have caused my parents—who saw me as an eccentric and delicate child—no little guilt over their “cruel” invention of the cement mixer’s magic. Under various pretexts, they bought me an exceptional number of toys and games in the months following that Christmas, trying to distract me from what they saw as a traumatic obsession with the toy cement mixer and its “magic.” The toy cement mixer is the origin of the religious feeling that has informed most of my adult life. The question, which I (sadly) never did ask, was what my father proposed to do with the Tooth Fairy if he were ever successful in catching it. Possibly, though, another cause for the sadness was that I realized, on some level, that my parents, when they watched me trying to devise schemes for observing the drum’s rotation, were wholly wrong about what they were seeing—that the world they saw and suffered over was wholly different from the childhood world in which I existed. I wept for them far more than any of the three of us knew at the time. I, of course, never “caught” the drum of the cement mixer rotating. (The chassis and cab of the cement mixer were painted the intense orange of real public-works vehicles; the drum was painted in alternating stripes of the orange and a deep green, and I often envisioned the hypnotic swirl of the stripes as the drum rotated unobserved by me. I should have included this fact earlier, I realize.) I pulled the cement mixer around so much that my mother, after giving up on trying guiltily to distract me with other toys, banished me to the basement with the cement mixer so that its wheels would not wear further grooves in the living-room carpet. I never found a way to observe the drum’s rotation without stopping that rotation. It never once occurred to me that my parents might have been putting me on. Nor did it ever bother me that the striped drum itself was glued or nailed to the orange chassis of the cement mixer and could not be rotated (or even budged) by hand. Such is the power of the word “magic.” The same power accounts for why the “voices” I heard as a child never worried me or caused me to fear that something was wrong with me. And, in fact, the free rotation of an unpowered and securely fastened drum was not the “magic” that drove me. The magic was the way it knew to stop the instant I tried to see it. The magic was how it could not, not ever, be trapped or outsmarted. Though my obsession with the toy cement mixer had ended by the next Christmas, I have never forgotten it, or the feeling in my chest and midsection whenever yet another, even more involved attempt to trap the toy’s magic met with failure—a mix of crushing disappointment and ecstatic reverence. This was the year, at five or six, that I learned the meaning of “reverence,” which, as I understand it, is the natural attitude to take toward magical, unverifiable phenomena, the same way that “respect” and “obedience” describe the attitude one takes toward observable physical phenomena, such as gravity or money. Among the qualities that made my parents see me as eccentric and mysterious was religion, for, without any prompting or even understanding, I was a religious child—meaning I was interested in religion and filled with feelings and concerns that we use the word “religious” to describe. (I’m not putting any of this well. I am not and never have been an intellectual. I am not articulate, and the subjects that I am trying to describe and discuss are beyond my abilities. I am trying, however, the best I can, and will go back over this as carefully as possible when I am finished, and will make changes and corrections whenever I can see a way to make what I’m discussing clearer or more interesting without fabricating anything.) My parents were intellectuals and devout atheists, but they were tolerant and largehearted, and when I began to ask “religious” questions and to express interest in “religious” themes they freely allowed me to seek out religiously oriented people with whom I could discuss these themes, and even to attend church services and Mass with the families of other children from school and our neighborhood who were religious. If you consider the usual meaning of “atheism,” which, as I understand it, is a kind of anti-religious religion, which worships reason, skepticism, intellect, empirical proof, human autonomy, and self-determination, my parents’ open tolerance of my religious interests and my regular attendance of services with the family next door (by this time my father had tenure, and we had our own home in a middle-class neighborhood with a highly rated school system) was exceptional—the sort of nonjudgmental, respectful attitude that religion itself (as I see it) tries to promulgate in its followers. None of this occurred to me at the time; nor did the connection between my feelings for the “magic” toy cement mixer and, later, my interest in and reverence for the “magic” of religion become apparent to me until years later, when I was in the second year of seminary, during my first adult crisis of faith. The fact that the most powerful and significant connections in our lives are (at the time) invisible to us seems to me a compelling argument for religious reverence rather than skeptical empiricism as a response to life’s meaning. It is difficult to stay on what feels like the “track” of this discussion in an orderly, logical way. Some of the adults my parents allowed me to approach with religious questions and issues included teachers, a religion professor whom my father knew and respected from an interdepartmental university committee they had served on together, and the father and mother of the family next door, who were both deacons (a type of élite lay minister) in the church two blocks from our home. I will forgo a description of the issues, questions, and themes that my parents allowed me to discuss with these religious adults; they were entirely unexceptional and universal and average, the sorts of questions that everyone eventually confronts in his own time and his own individual way. My surfeit of religious interest also had to do with the frequency and tenor of the “voices” I regularly heard as a child (meaning up until roughly age thirteen, as I recall it). The major reason that I was never frightened about the voices or worried about what “hearing voices” indicated about my possible mental health involved the fact that the childhood “voices” (there were two of them, each distinct in timbre and personality) never spoke of anything that wasn’t good, happy, and reassuring. I will mention these voices only in passing, because they are both not directly vital to this and also very hard to describe or convey adequately to anyone else. I should emphasize that, although “make-believe” and “invisible friends” are customary parts of childhood, these voices were—or appeared to me as—entirely real and autonomous phenomena, unlike the voices of any “real” adults in my experience, and with manners of speech and accent that nothing in my childhood experience had exposed me to or prepared me in any way to “make up” or combine from outside sources. (I realized just now that another reason that I do not propose to discuss these childhood “voices” at length is that I tend to fall into attempts to argue that the voices were “real,” when in fact it is a matter of indifference to me whether they were truly “real” or not or whether any other person can be forced to admit that they were not “hallucinations” or “fantasies.” Indeed, one of the voices’ favorite topics consisted in their assuring me that it was of no importance whether I believed they were “real” or simply parts of myself, since—as one of the voices in particular liked to stress—there was nothing in the whole world as “real” as I was. I should concede that in some ways I regarded—or “counted on”—the voices as another set of parents (meaning, I think, that I loved them and trusted them and yet respected or “revered” them: in short, I was not their equal), and yet also as fellow-children: meaning that I had no doubt that they and I lived in the very same world and that they “understood” me in a way that biological adults were incapable of.) (Probably one reason that I fall automatically into the urge to “argue for” the voices’ ”reality” is that my “real” parents, though they were wholly tolerant of my believing in the voices, obviously viewed them as the same sort of “invisible friend” fantasies I mentioned above.) At any rate, the best analogy for the experience of hearing these childhood “voices” of mine is that it was like going around with your own private masseur, who spent all his time giving you back—and shoulder—rubs (which my biological mother also used to do whenever I was sick in bed, using rubbing alcohol and baby powder and also changing the pillowcases, so that they were clean and cool; the experience of the voices was analogous to the feeling of turning a pillow over to the cool side). Sometimes the experience of the voices was ecstatic, sometimes so much so that it was almost too intense for me—as when you first bite into an apple or a confection that tastes so delicious and causes such a flood of oral juices that there is a moment of intense pain in your mouth and glands—particularly in the late afternoons of spring and summer, when the sunlight on sunny days achieved moments of immanence and became the color of beaten gold and was itself (the light, as if it were taste) so delicious that it was almost too much to stand, and I would lie on the pile of large pillows in our living room and roll back and forth in an agony of delight and tell my mother, who always read on the couch, that I felt so good and full and ecstatic that I could hardly bear it, and I remember her pursing her lips, trying not to laugh, and saying in the driest possible voice that she found it hard to feel too much sympathy or concern for this problem and was confident that I could survive this level of ecstasy, and that I probably didn’t need to be rushed to the emergency room, and at such moments my love and affection for my mother’s dry humor and love became, stacked atop the original ecstasy, so intense that I almost had to stifle a scream of pleasure as I rolled ecstatically between the pillows and the books on the floor. I do not have any real idea what my mother—an exceptional, truly lovable woman—made of having a child who sometimes suffered actual fits of ecstasy; and I do not know whether she herself had them. Nevertheless, the experience of the real but unobservable and unexplainable “voices” and the ecstatic feelings they often aroused doubtless contributed to my reverence for magic and my faith that magic not only permeated the everyday world but did so in a way that was thoroughly benign and altruistic and wished me well. I was never the sort of child who believed in “monsters under the bed” or vampires, or who needed a night-light in his bedroom; on the contrary, my father (who clearly “enjoyed” me and my eccentricities) once laughingly told my mother that he thought I might suffer from a type of benign psychosis called “antiparanoia,” in which I seemed to believe that I was the object of an intricate universal conspiracy to make me so happy I could hardly stand it. The specific instance traceable as the origin of my religious impulse after my interest in the cement mixer passed (to my parents’ great relief) involved a nineteen-fifties war movie that my father and I watched together on television one Sunday afternoon with the curtains drawn to prevent the sunlight from making it hard to see the screen of our black-and-white television. Watching television together was one of my father’s and my favorite and most frequent activities (my mother disliked television), and usually took place on the couch, with my father, who read during the commercials, sitting at one end and me lying down, with my head on a pillow on my father’s knees. (One of my strongest sensory memories of childhood is the feel of my father’s knees against my head and the joking way he sometimes rested his book on my head when the commercial interruption occurred.) The movie in question’s subject was the First World War and it starred an actor who was much lauded for his roles in war movies. At this point my memory diverges sharply from my father’s, as evidenced by a disturbing conversation we had during my second year at seminary. My father apparently remembers that the film’s hero, a beloved lieutenant, dies when he throws himself on an enemy grenade that has been lobbed into his platoon’s trench (“platoon” meaning a small military grouping of infantrymen with close ties from being constant comrades in arms). According to my father, a platoon is usually commanded by a lieutenant. Whereas I remember clearly that the hero, played by an actor who was noted for his portrayal of conflict and trauma, suffers private anguish over the moral question of killing in combat and the whole religious conundrum of a “just war” and “justified killing,” and finally undergoes a total psychological breakdown when his own comrade successfully lobs a grenade into a crowded enemy trench and leaps screaming (the hero does, fairly early in the film) into the enemy’s trench and falls on the grenade and dies saving the enemy platoon, and that much of the rest of the film (albeit constantly interrupted by commercials when I saw it) depicts the hero’s platoon struggling to interpret the action of their formerly beloved lieutenant, with many of them bitterly denouncing him as a traitor, many others holding that battle fatigue and a traumatic letter from “Stateside” received earlier in the film exculpated his act as a kind of temporary insanity, and only one shy, idealistic recruit (played by an actor I have never seen in another movie of that era) secretly believing that the lieutenant’s act of dying for the enemy was actually heroic and deserved to be recorded and dramatized for posterity (the shy, anonymous recruit is the narrator, in “voice-overs” at the film’s beginning and end), and I never forgot the movie (whose title both my father and I missed because we didn’t turn on the television until after the movie had begun, which is not the same as “forgetting” the title, which my father jokingly claims is what we both did) or the impact of the lieutenant’s act, which I, too (like the shy, idealistic narrator), regarded as not only “heroic” but also beautiful in a way that was almost too intense to bear, especially as I lay across my father’s knees.
The Use of Poetry It surprised no one to learn that Michael Beard had been an only child, and he would have been the first to concede that he’d never quite got the hang of brotherly feeling. His mother, Angela, was an angular beauty who doted on him, and the medium of her love was food. She bottle-fed him with passion, surplus to demand. Some four decades before he won the Nobel Prize in Physics, he came top in the Cold Norton and District Baby Competition, birth-to-six-months class. In those harsh postwar years, ideals of infant beauty resided chiefly in fat, in Churchillian multiple chins, in dreams of an end to rationing and of the reign of plenty to come. Babies were exhibited and judged like prize marrows, and, in 1947, the five-month-old Michael, bloated and jolly, swept all before him. However, it was unusual at a village fête for a middle-class woman, a stockbroker’s wife, to abandon the cake-and-chutney stall and enter her child for such a gaudy event. She must have known that he was bound to win, just as she later claimed always to have known that he would get a scholarship to Oxford. Once he was on solids, and for the rest of her life, she cooked for him with the same commitment with which she had held the bottle, sending herself in the mid-sixties, despite her illness, on a Cordon Bleu cookery course so that she could try new meals during his occasional visits home. Her husband, Henry, was a meat-and-two-veg man, who despised garlic and the smell of olive oil. Early in the marriage, for reasons that remained private, Angela withdrew her love from him. She lived for her son, and her legacy was clear: a fat man who restlessly craved the attentions of beautiful women who could cook. Henry Beard was a lean sort with a drooping mustache and slicked-back brown hair, whose dark suits and brown tweeds seemed a cut too large, especially around the neck. He provided for his miniature family well and, in the fashion of the time, loved his son sternly and with little physical contact. Though he never embraced Michael, and rarely laid an affectionate hand on his shoulder, he supplied all the right kinds of present—Meccano and chemistry sets, a build-it-yourself wireless, encyclopedias, model airplanes, and books about military history, geology, and the lives of great men. He had had a long war, serving as a junior officer in the infantry in Dunkirk, North Africa, and Sicily, and then, as a lieutenant colonel, in the D Day landings, where he won a medal. He had arrived at the concentration camp of Belsen a week after it was liberated, and was stationed in Berlin for eight months after the war ended. Like many men of his generation, he did not speak about his experiences and he relished the ordinariness of postwar life, its tranquil routines, its tidiness and rising material well-being, and, above all, its lack of danger—everything that would later appear stifling to those born in the first years of the peace. In 1952, when Michael was five, the forty-year-old Henry Beard gave up his job at a merchant bank in the City and returned to his first love, which was the law. He became a partner in an old firm in nearby Chelmsford and stayed there for the rest of his working life. To celebrate the momentous change and his liberation from the daily commute to Liverpool Street, he bought himself a secondhand Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud. This pale-blue machine lasted him thirty-three years, until his death. From the vantage of adulthood, and with some retrospective guilt, his son loved him for this grand gesture. But the life of a small-town solicitor, absorbed by matters of conveyancing and probate, settled on Henry Beard an even greater tranquillity. At weekends, he mostly cared for his roses, or his car, or golf with fellow-Rotarians. He stolidly accepted his loveless marriage as the price he must pay for his gains. It was about this time that Angela Beard began a series of affairs that stretched over eleven years. Young Michael registered no outward hostilities or silent tensions in the home, but, then, he was neither observant nor sensitive, and was often in his room after school, building, reading, gluing, and later took up pornography and masturbation full time, and then girls. Nor, at the age of seventeen, did he notice that his mother had retreated, exhausted, to the sanctuary of her marriage. He heard of her adventures only when she was dying of breast cancer, in her early fifties. She seemed to want his forgiveness for ruining his childhood. By then he was nearing the end of his second year at Oxford and his head was full of maths and girlfriends, physics and drinking, and at first he could not take in what she was telling him. She lay propped up on pillows in her private room on the nineteenth floor of a tower-block hospital, with views toward the industrialized salt marshes by Canvey Island and the south shore of the Thames. He was grownup enough to know that it would have insulted her to say that he had noticed nothing. Or that she was apologizing to the wrong person. Or that he could not imagine anyone over thirty having sex. He held her hand and squeezed it to signal his warm feelings, and said that there was nothing to forgive. It was only after he had driven home, and drunk three nightcap Scotches with his father, then gone to his old room and lain on the bed fully dressed and considered what she had told him, that he grasped the extent of her achievement. Seventeen lovers in eleven years. Lieutenant Colonel Beard had had all the excitement and danger he could stand by the age of thirty-three. Angela had to have hers. Her lovers were her desert campaign against Rommel, her D Day, and her Berlin. Without them, she had told Michael from her hospital pillows, she would have hated herself and gone mad. But she hated herself anyway, for what she thought she had done to her only child. He went back to the hospital the next day and, while she sweatily clung to his hand, told her that his childhood had been the happiest and most secure imaginable, that he had never felt neglected or doubted her love or eaten so well, and that he was proud of what he called her appetite for life and hoped to emulate it. It was the first time that he had ever given a speech. These half and quarter truths were the best words he had ever spoken. Six weeks later, she was dead. Naturally, her love life was a closed subject between father and son, but for years afterward Michael could not drive through Chelmsford or the surrounding villages without wondering whether this or that old fellow tottering along the pavement or slumped near a bus stop was one of the seventeen. By the standards of the day, he was a precocious lad when he arrived at Oxford. He had already made love to two girls, he owned a car, a split-screen Morris Minor, which he kept in a lockup garage off the Cowley Road, and he had an allowance from his father that was far in excess of what other grammar-school boys received. He was clever, sociable, opinionated, unimpressed by and even a little scornful of boys from famous schools. He was one of those types, infuriating and indispensable, who were at the front of every queue, had tickets to key events in London, within days knew strategically important people and all kinds of shortcuts, social as well as topographic. He looked much older than eighteen, and was hardworking, organized, tidy, and actually owned and used a desk diary. People sought him out because he could repair radios and record-players and kept a soldering iron in his room. For these services he never asked for money, of course, but he had the knack of calling in favors. Within weeks of settling in, he had a girlfriend, a “bad” girl from Oxford High named Susan Doty. Other boys studying maths and physics tended to be closed, mousy types. Outside of lab work and tutorials, Beard kept well clear of them, and he also avoided the arty sort of people—they intimidated him with literary references he did not understand. He preferred instead the engineers, who gave him access to their workshops, and the geographers, zoologists, and anthropologists, especially the ones who had already done field work in strange places. Beard knew many people but had no close friends. He was never exactly popular, but he was well known, talked about, useful to people, and faintly despised. At the end of his second year, while he was trying to accustom himself to the idea that his mother would soon die, Beard overheard someone in a pub refer to a student at Lady Margaret Hall named Maisie Farmer as a “dirty girl.” The phrase was used approvingly, as though it were a well-established category of some clinical accuracy. Her bucolic name in this connection intrigued him. He thought of a generous strapping lass, manure-streaked, astride a tractor—and then did not think about her again. The term ended, he went home, his mother died, and the summer was lost to grief and boredom and numbing, inarticulate silences at home with his father. They had never discussed feelings before, and had no language for them now. Once, when he saw from the house his father at the bottom of the garden, examining the roses too closely, he was embarrassed, no, horrified, to realize from the tremors of his father’s shoulders that he was weeping. It did not occur to Michael to go out to him. Knowing about his mother’s lovers, and not knowing whether his father knew—he guessed he did not—was another impossible obstacle. He returned to Oxford in September and took a third-floor room in Park Town, a down-at-heel mid-Victorian crescent arranged around a central garden. His walk to the physics buildings each day took him past the front gates of the “dirty girl” ’s college, by the narrow passageway to University Parks. One morning, on impulse, he wandered in and established at the porter’s lodge that a student by the name of Maisie Farmer indeed existed. He discovered later in the same week that she was in her third year, doing English, but he did not let that put him off. For a day or two he wondered about her, and then work and other matters took over and he forgot all about her again, and it was not until late October that a friend introduced him to her and another girl outside the Museum of Natural History. She was not as he had imagined, and at first he was disappointed. She was small, almost frail, intensely pretty, with dark eyes and scant eyebrows and a musical voice with a surprising accent, a hint of Cockney, which was unusual in a woman at university in those days. When, in answer to her question, he told her what his subject was, her face went blank and soon she walked on with her friend. He bumped into her alone two days later and asked her to come for a drink and she said no, and said it immediately, before he had quite finished his sentence. It was a measure of Beard’s self-confidence that he was surprised. But what did she see in front of her? A stout fellow with an accountant’s look and an earnest manner, wearing a tie (in 1967!), with short hair, side-parted, and, the damning detail, a pen clipped into the breast pocket of his jacket. And he was studying science, a non-subject for fools. She said goodbye politely enough and went on her way, but Beard walked after her and asked if she was free the next day, or the day after that, or at the weekend. No, no, and no. Then he said brightly, “How about ever?,” and she laughed pleasantly, genuinely amused by his persistence, and seemed on the point of changing her mind. But she said, “There’s always never? Can you make never?,” to which he replied, “I’m not free,” and she laughed again and made a sweet little mock punch to his lapel with a child-size fist and walked off, leaving him with the impression that he still had a chance, that she had a sense of humor, that he might wear her down. He did. He researched her. Someone told him that she had a special interest in John Milton. It did not take long to discover the century to which this man belonged. A third-year literature student in Beard’s college who owed him a favor (for procuring tickets to a Cream concert) gave him an hour on Milton, what to read, what to think. He read “Comus” and was astounded by its silliness. He read through “Lycidas,” “Samson Agonistes,” and “Il Penseroso”— stilted and rather prissy in parts, he thought. He fared better with “Paradise Lost” and, like many before him, preferred Satan’s party to God’s. He, Beard, that is, memorized passages that appeared to him intelligent and especially sonorous. He read a biography, and four essays that he had been told were pivotal. The reading took him one long week. He came close to being thrown out of an antiquarian bookshop in the Turl when he casually asked for a first edition of “Paradise Lost.” He tracked down a kindly tutor who knew about buying old books and confided to him that he wanted to impress a girl with a certain kind of present, and was directed to a bookshop in Covent Garden where he spent half a term’s money on an eighteenth-century edition of “Areopagitica.” When he speed-read it on the train back to Oxford, one of the pages cracked in two. He repaired it with Sellotape. Then, naturally enough, he bumped into her again, this time by the gates of her college, where he had been waiting for two and a half hours. He asked if he could at least walk with her across the Parks. She didn’t say no. She was wearing an Army-surplus greatcoat, over a yellow cardigan, and a black pleated skirt and patent-leather shoes with strange silver buckles. She was even more beautiful than he had thought. As they went along he politely inquired about her work, and she explained, as though to a village idiot, that she was writing about Milton, a well-known English poet of the seventeenth century. He asked her to be more precise about her essay. She was. He ventured an informed opinion. Surprised, she spoke at greater length. To elucidate some point of hers, he quoted the lines “from morn / To noon he fell,” and she breathily completed them: “from noon to dewy eve.” Making sure to keep his tone tentative, he spoke of Milton’s childhood, and then of the Civil War. There were things she did not know and was interested to learn. She knew little of the poet’s life, and, amazingly, it seemed that it was not part of her studies, to consider the circumstances of his times. Beard steered her back onto familiar ground. They quoted more of their favorite lines. He asked her which Milton scholars she had read. He had read some of them, too, and gently proved it. He had glanced over a bibliography, and his conversation far outran his reading. She disliked “Comus” even more than he did, so he ventured a mild defense and allowed himself to be demolished. Then he spoke of “Areopagitica” and its relevance to modern politics. At this she stopped on the path and asked significantly what a scientist was doing, knowing so much about Milton, and he thought he had been rumbled. He pretended to be just a little insulted. All knowledge interested him, he said; the demarcations between subjects were mere conveniences or historical accidents or the inertia of tradition. To illustrate his point, he drew on tidbits that he had picked up from his anthropologist and zoologist friends. With a first touch of warmth in her voice, she began to ask him questions about himself, though she did not care to hear about physics. And where was he from? Essex, he said. But so was she! From Chingford! That was his lucky break, and he seized his chance. He asked her to dinner. She said yes. He was to count that misty, sunny November afternoon, along the Cherwell river by the Rainbow Bridge, as the point at which the first of his marriages began. Three days later he took her to dinner at the Randolph Hotel, by which time he had completed another whole day of Milton. It was already clear that his own special study would be the physics of light, and he was naturally drawn to the poem of that name, and learned its last dozen lines by heart. Over the second bottle of wine, he talked to her of its pathos, a blind man lamenting what he would never see, then celebrating the redeeming power of the imagination. Over the starched tablecloth, wineglass in hand, he recited it to her, ending, “thou Celestial light / Shine inward, and the mind through all her powers / Irradiate, there plant eyes, all mist from thence / Purge and disperse, that I may see and tell / Of things invisible to mortal sight.” At these lines he saw the tears well in Maisie’s eyes, and reached under his chair to produce his gift, “Areopagitica,” bound in calf leather in 1738. She was stunned. A week later, illicitly in her room, to the sound of “Sgt. Pepper’s” playing on the Dansette record-player he had repaired for her that afternoon with smoking soldering iron, they were lovers at last. The term “dirty girl,” with its suggestion that she was general property, was now obnoxious to him. Still, she was far bolder and wilder, more experimental and generous in lovemaking, than any girl he had known. She also cooked a fine steak-and-kidney pie. He decided he was in love. Going after Maisie was a relentless, highly organized pursuit, and it gave him great satisfaction, and it was a turning point in his development, for he knew that no third-year arts person, however bright, could have passed himself off, after a week’s study, among the undergraduate mathematicians and physicists who were Beard’s colleagues. The traffic was one way. His Milton week made him suspect a monstrous bluff. The reading was a slog, but he encountered nothing that could remotely be construed as an intellectual challenge, nothing on the scale of difficulty he encountered daily in his course. That very week of the Randolph dinner, he had studied the Ricci scalar and finally understood its use in general relativity. At least, he thought he could grasp these extraordinary equations. The theory was no longer an abstraction; it was sensual. He could feel the way the seamless fabric of space-time might be warped by matter, and how this fabric influenced the movement of objects, how gravity was conjured by its curvature. He could spend half an hour staring at the handful of terms and subscripts of the crux of the field equations and understand why Einstein himself had spoken of its “incomparable beauty,” and why Max Born had said that it was “the greatest feat of human thinking about nature.” This understanding was the mental equivalent of lifting very heavy weights—not possible at first attempt. He and his lot were at lectures and lab work nine till five every day, attempting to grasp some of the hardest things ever thought. The arts people fell out of bed at midday for their two tutorials a week. He suspected that there was nothing they talked about at those meetings that anyone with half a brain could fail to understand. He had read four of the best essays on Milton. He knew. And yet they passed themselves off as his superiors, these lie-abeds, and he had let them intimidate him. No longer. From the moment he won Maisie, he was intellectually free. Many years later, Beard told this story and his conclusions to an English professor in Hong Kong, who said, “But, Michael, you’ve missed the point. If you had seduced ninety girls with ninety poets, one a week in a course of three academic years, and remembered them all at the end—the poets, I mean—and synthesized your reading into some kind of aesthetic overview, then you would have earned yourself a degree in English literature. But don’t pretend that it’s easy.” But it seemed so at the time, and he was far happier during his final year, and so was Maisie. She persuaded him to grow his hair, to wear jeans instead of flannels, and to stop repairing things. It wasn’t cool. And they became cool, even though they were both rather short. He gave up Park Town and found a tiny flat in Jericho, where they set up together. Her friends, all literature and history students, became his. They were wittier than his other friends, and lazier, of course, and had a developed sense of pleasure, as though they felt they were owed. He cultivated new opinions—on the distribution of wealth, Vietnam, the events in Paris, the coming revolution, and LSD, which he declared to be important, though he refused to take it. When he heard himself sounding off, he was not at all convinced, and was amazed that no one took him for a fraud. He tried pot and disliked it intensely for the way it interfered with his memory. Despite the usual parties, with howling music and terrible wine in sodden paper cups, he and Maisie never stopped working. Summer came, and finals, and then, to their stupid surprise, it was all over and everyone dispersed. They both got firsts. Beard was offered the place he wanted at the University of Sussex, to do a Ph.D. They went to Brighton together and found a fine place to move into in September, an old rectory in an outlying village on the Sussex Downs. The rent was beyond them and so, before returning to Oxford, they agreed to share with a couple studying theology, who had newborn identical twins. The Chingford newspaper ran a story about the local working-class girl who had “soared to the heights,” and it was from these heights, and to hold together their disintegrating milieu, that they decided to get married—not because it was the conventional thing to do but precisely because it was the opposite, it was exotic, it was hilarious and camp and harmlessly old-fashioned, like the tasselled military uniforms the Beatles wore in promotional pictures for their sensational LP. For that reason, the couple did not invite or even inform their parents. They were married in the Oxford registry office, and got drunk on Port Meadow with a handful of friends who came for the day. The new age dawned, the arrogant, shameless, spoiled generation turned its back on the fathers who had fought the war, dismissing them for their short hair and tidy ways and their indifference to rock and roll. Lieutenant Colonel (retired) Henry Beard D.S.O., living alone in the old house at Cold Norton, did not learn of his son’s marriage until after the divorce. The name of the married theology students was Gibson, Charlie and Amanda, and they were devout and intellectual, against the fashion of the time, and studied at an institute in Lewes. Their god, by way of mysterious love, or an urge to punish, had conferred on them two babies of a giant size and type who would easily have snatched the prize from Beard in ’47, twins who never slept and rarely ceased their identical piercing wails, who set each other off if they ever failed to start up in step, and who jointly propelled a miasma through the elegant house, as penetrative as a curry on the stove, a prawn vindaloo, but rank like sea swamp, as though they were confined for reasons of religion to a diet of guano and mussels. Young Beard, working in the bedroom on the early calculations that would lead him to his life’s work—his life’s free ride—stuffed wads of blotting paper in his ears and kept the windows open, even in midwinter. When he went downstairs to make himself coffee, he would encounter the couple in the kitchen, in some aspect of their private hell, dark-eyed and irritable from lack of sleep and mutual loathing, as they divvied up their awful tasks, which included prayer and meditation. The generous hallway and living spaces of the Georgian rectory were rendered charmless by the hundred protruding metal and plastic tools and devices of modern child care. Neither adult nor infant Gibsons expressed any pleasure in their own or one another’s existence. Why would they? Beard privately swore to himself that he would never become a father. And Maisie? She changed her mind about a doctorate on Aphra Behn; she turned down a job in the university library and signed on instead for social-security benefits. In another century she would have been considered a woman of leisure, but in the twentieth she was “active.” She read up on social theory, attended a group run by a collective of Californian women, and started up a “workshop” herself, a new concept at the time, and though, in conventional terms, she no longer soared, her consciousness was raised, and within a short time she confronted the blatant fact of patriarchy and her husband’s role in a network of oppression that extended from the institutions that sustained him as a man, even though he could not acknowledge the fact, to the nuances of his small talk. It was, as she said at the time, like stepping through a mirror. Everything looked different, and it was no longer possible to be innocently content, not for her, and, therefore, not for him. Certain matters were settled after serious discussion. He was too much of a rationalist to think of many good reasons that he should not help out around the house. He believed that it bored him more than it did her, but he did not say so. And washing a few dishes was the least of it. There were profoundly entrenched attitudes that he needed to examine and change, there were unconscious assumptions of his own “centrality,” his alienation from his own feelings, his failure to listen, to hear, really hear what she was saying, and to understand how the system that worked in his favor in both trivial and important ways always worked against her. One example was this: he could go to the village pub for a pleasant pint on his own, while she could not do so without being stared at by the locals and made to feel like a whore. There was his unexamined belief in the importance of his work, in his objectivity, and in rationality itself. He failed to grasp that knowing himself was a vital undertaking. There were other ways of knowing the world, women’s ways, which he treated dismissively. Though he pretended not to be, he was squeamish about her menstrual blood, which was an insult to the core of her womanhood. Their lovemaking, blindly enacting postures of dominance and submission, was an imitation of rape and was fundamentally corrupt. Months passed, and many evening sessions, during which Beard mostly listened and, in the pauses, thought about work. During that period, he was thinking a good deal about photons, from a radically different angle. Then, one night, he and Maisie were woken, by the twins as usual, and lay side by side on their backs in the dark while she broke the news that she was leaving him. She had thought this through and did not want an argument. There was a commune forming in the sodden hills of mid-Wales and she intended to join it and did not think she would ever return. She knew, in ways that he could never understand, that this must be her course now. There were issues of her self-realization, her past, and her identity as a woman that she felt bound to follow through. It was her duty. At this point, Beard felt himself overtaken by a powerful and unfamiliar emotion that tightened his throat and forced from his chest a sob that he was powerless to contain. It was a sound that surely all the Gibsons heard through the wall. It could easily have been confused with a shout. What he experienced was a compound of joy and relief, followed by a floating, expansive sensation of lightness, as if he were about to drift free of the sheets and bump against the ceiling. Suddenly, it was all before him, the prospect of freedom, of working whenever he wanted, of inviting home some of the women he had seen on the Falmer campus, lolling on the steps outside the library, of returning to his unexamined self and being guiltlessly shot of Maisie. All this caused a tear of gratitude to roll down his cheek. He also felt fierce impatience for her to be gone. It crossed his mind to offer to drive her to the station now, but there were no trains from Lewes at 3 A.M., and she had not packed. Hearing his sob, she reached for the bedside light and, leaning over to look into his face, saw the dampness around his eyes. Firmly and deliberately she whispered, “I will not be blackmailed, Michael. I will not, repeat not, be emotionally manipulated by you into staying.” Was ever a marriage dissolved so painlessly? Within a week she had left for the hill farm in Powys. In the course of a year they exchanged a couple of postcards. Then one came from an ashram in India, where she remained for three years and from where she sent one day her cheery acceptance of a divorce, all papers duly signed. He did not see her until his twenty-sixth birthday, at which she appeared with a shaved head and a jewel in her nose. Many years later, he spoke at her funeral. Perhaps it was the ease of their parting in the old rectory that made him so incautious about marrying again, and again.
Midnight in Dostoevsky We were two sombre boys hunched in our coats, grim winter settling in. The college was at the edge of a small town way upstate, barely a town, maybe a hamlet, we said, or just a whistle stop, and we took walks all the time, getting out, going nowhere, low skies and bare trees, hardly a soul to be seen. This was how we spoke of the local people: they were souls, they were transient spirits, a face in the window of a passing car, runny with reflected light, or a long street with a shovel jutting from a snowbank, no one in sight. We were walking parallel to the tracks when an old freight train approached and we stopped and watched. It seemed the kind of history that passes mostly unobserved, a diesel engine and a hundred boxcars rolling over remote country, and we shared an unspoken moment of respect, Todd and I, for times past, frontiers gone, and then walked on, talking about nothing much but making something of it. We heard the whistle sound as the train disappeared into late afternoon. This was the day we saw the man in the hooded coat. We argued about the coat—loden coat, anorak, parka. It was our routine; we were ever ready to find a matter to contest. This was why the man had been born, to end up in this town wearing that coat. He was well ahead of us and walking slowly, hands clasped behind his back, a smallish figure turning now to enter a residential street and fade from view. “A loden coat doesn’t have a hood. A hood isn’t part of the context,” Todd said. “It’s a parka or an anorak.” “There’s others. There’s always others.” “Name one.” “Duffel coat.” “There’s duffel bag.” “There’s duffel coat.” “Does the word imply a hood?” “The word implies toggles.” “The coat had a hood. We don’t know if the coat had toggles.” “Doesn’t matter,” I said. “Because the guy was wearing a parka.” “ ‘Anorak’ is an Inuit word.” “So what.” “I say it’s an anorak,” he said. I tried to invent an etymology for the word “parka” but couldn’t think fast enough. Todd was on another subject—the freight train, laws of motion, effects of force, sneaking in a question about the number of boxcars that trailed the locomotive. We hadn’t stated in advance that a tally would be taken, but each of us had known that the other would be counting, even as we spoke about other things. When I told him now what my number was, he did not respond, and I knew what this meant. It meant that he’d arrived at the same number. This was not supposed to happen—it unsettled us, it made the world flat—and we walked for a time in chagrined silence. Even in matters of pure physical reality, we depended on a friction between our basic faculties of sensation, his and mine, and we understood now that the rest of the afternoon would be spent in the marking of differences. We headed back for a late class. “An anorak is substantial. The thing he was wearing looked pretty flimsy,” I said. “And an anorak would have a fur-lined hood. Consider the origin of the word. You’re the one who brought up the Inuits. Wouldn’t an Inuit use fur to line his hood? They have polar bear. They have walrus. They need coats with bulk and substance top to bottom.” “We saw the guy from behind,” he said. “How do you know what kind of hood it was? From behind and from a distance.” Consider the origin of the word. I was using his Inuit lore against him, forcing him to respond reasonably, a rare sign of weakness on his part. Todd was a determined thinker who liked to work a fact or an idea to the seventh level of interpretation. He was tall and sprawling, all bony framework, the kind of body not always in synch with its hinges and joints. Somebody said that he seemed the love child of storks, others thought ostriches. He did not seem to taste food; he consumed it, absorbed it, ingestible matter of plant or animal origin. He spoke of distances in metres and kilometres, and it took me a while to understand that this was not an affectation so much as a driving need to convert units of measurement more or less instantaneously. He liked to test himself on what he knew. He liked to stop walking to emphasize a point as I walked on. This was my counterpoint, to let him stand there talking to a tree. The shallower our arguments, the more intense we became. I wanted to keep this one going, to stay in control, to press him hard. Did it matter what I said? “Even from a distance the hood looked too small to be fur-lined. The hood was snug,” I said. “A true anorak would have a hood that’s roomy enough to fit a woollen cap underneath. Isn’t that what the Inuits do?” The campus appeared in fragments, through ranks of tall trees on the other side of a country road. We lived in a series of energy-efficient structures with solar panels, turfed rooftops, and red cedar walls. Classes were held in the original buildings, several massive concrete units known collectively as the Cellblock, a bike ride or long walk away from the dorms, and the flow of students back and forth in tribal swarms seemed part of the architecture of the place. This was my first year here, and I was still trying to interpret the signs and adapt to the patterns. “They have caribou,” I said. “They have seal meat and ice floes.” At times, abandon meaning to impulse. Let the words be the facts. This was the nature of our walks—to register what was out there, all the scattered rhythms of circumstance and occurrence, and to reconstruct it as human noise. The class was Logic, in Cellblock 2, thirteen of us seated along both sides of a long table, with Ilgauskas at the head, a stocky man, late forties, beset this day by periodic coughing. He spoke from a standing position, bent forward, hands set on the table, and often stared for long moments into the blank wall at the other end of the room. “The causal nexus,” he said, and stared into the wall. He stared; we glanced. We exchanged glances frequently, one side of the table with the other. We were fascinated by Ilgauskas. He seemed a man in a trance state. But he wasn’t simply absent from his remarks, another drained voice echoing down the tunnel of teaching years. We’d decided, some of us, that he was suffering from a neurological condition. He was not bored but simply unbound, speaking freely and erratically out of a kind of stricken insight. It was a question of neurochemistry. We’d decided that the condition was not understood well enough to have been given a name. And if it did not have a name, we said, paraphrasing a proposition in logic, then it could not be treated. “The atomic fact,” he said. Then he elaborated for ten minutes while we listened, glanced, made notes, riffled the textbook to find refuge in print, some semblance of meaning that might be roughly equivalent to what he was saying. There were no laptops or handheld devices in class. Ilgauskas didn’t exclude them; we did, sort of, unspokenly. Some of us could barely complete a thought without touch pads or scroll buttons, but we understood that high-speed data systems did not belong here. They were an assault on the environment, which was defined by length, width, and depth, with time drawn out, computed in heartbeats. We sat and listened or sat and waited. We wrote with pens or pencils. Our notebooks had pages made of flexible sheets of paper. I tried to exchange glances with the girl across the table. This was the first time we’d been seated face to face, but she kept looking down at her notes, her hands, maybe the grain of the wood along the edge of the table. I told myself that she was averting her eyes not from me but from Ilgauskas. “F and not-F,” he said. He made her shy, the blunt impact of the man, thick body, strong voice, staccato cough, even the old dark suit he wore, unpressed, to every class, his chest hair curling up out of the open shirt collar. He used German and Latin terms without defining them. I tried to insert myself into the girl’s line of sight, scrunching down and peering up. We listened earnestly, all of us, hoping to understand and to transcend the need to understand. Sometimes he coughed into his cupped hand, other times into the table, and we imagined microscopic life forms teeming toward the tabletop and ricocheting into breathable space. Those seated nearest him ducked away with a wince that was also a smile, half apologetic. The shy girl’s shoulders quivered, even though she was sitting at some distance from the man. We didn’t expect Ilgauskas to excuse himself. He was Ilgauskas. We were the ones at fault, for being there to witness the coughing, or for not being adequate to the seismic scale of it, or for other reasons not yet known to us. “Can we ask this question?” he said. We waited for the question. We wondered whether the question he’d asked was the question we were waiting for him to ask. In other words, could he ask the question he was asking? It was not a trick, not a game or a logical puzzle. Ilgauskas didn’t do that. We sat and waited. He stared into the wall at the far end of the room. It felt good to be out in the weather, that wintry sting of approaching snow. I was walking down a street of older houses, some in serious need of repair, sad and handsome, bay window here, curved porch there, when he turned the corner and came toward me, slightly crouched, same coat, face nearly lost inside the hood. He was walking slowly, as before, hands behind his back, as before, and he seemed to pause when he saw me, almost imperceptibly, head lowered now, path not quite steady. There was no one else on the street. As we approached each other, he veered away, and then so did I, just slightly, to reassure him, but I also sent a stealthy look his way. The face inside the hood was stubbled—gray old man, I thought, large nose, eyes on the sidewalk but also noting my presence. After we’d passed each other, I waited a moment and then turned and looked. He wasn’t wearing gloves, and this seemed fitting, I’m not sure why, no gloves, despite the unrelenting cold. About an hour later, I was part of the mass movement of students going in opposite directions, in wind-whipped snow, two roughly parallel columns moving from old campus to new and vice versa, faces in ski masks, bodies shouldering into the wind or pushed along by it. I saw Todd, long-striding, and pointed. This was our standard sign of greeting or approval—we pointed. I shouted into the weather as he went by. “Saw him again. Same coat, same hood, different street.” He nodded and pointed back, and two days later we were walking in the outlying parts of town. I gestured toward a pair of large trees, bare branches forking up fifty or sixty feet. “Norway maple,” I said. He said nothing. They meant nothing to him, trees, birds, baseball teams. He knew music, classical to serial, and the history of mathematics, and a hundred other things. I knew trees from summer camp, when I was twelve, and I was pretty sure the trees were maples. Norway was another matter. I could have said red maple or sugar maple, but Norway sounded stronger, more informed. We both played chess. We both believed in God. Houses here loomed over the street, and we saw a middle-aged woman get out of her car and take a baby stroller from the rear seat and unfold it. Then she took four grocery bags from the car, one at a time, and placed each in the stroller. We were talking and watching. We were talking about epidemics, pandemics, and plagues, but we were watching the woman. She shut the car door and pulled the stroller backward over the hard-packed snow on the sidewalk and up the long flight of steps to her porch. “What’s her name?” “Isabel,” I said. “Be serious. We’re serious people. What’s her name?” “O.K., what’s her name?” “Her name is Mary Frances. Listen to me,” he whispered. “Mar-y Fran-ces. Never just Mary.” “O.K., maybe.” “Where the hell do you get Isabel?” He showed mock concern, placing a hand on my shoulder. “I don’t know. Isabel’s her sister. They’re identical twins. Isabel’s the alcoholic twin. But you’re missing the central questions.” “No, I’m not. Where’s the baby that goes with the stroller? Whose baby is it?” he said. “What’s the baby’s name?” We started down the street that led out of town and heard aircraft from the military base. I turned and looked up and they were there and gone, three fighter jets wheeling to the east, and then I saw the hooded man a hundred yards away, coming over the crest of a steep street, headed in our direction. I said, “Don’t look now.” Todd turned and looked. I talked him into crossing the street to put some space between the man and us. We watched from a driveway, standing under a weathered backboard-and-rim fastened to the ridge beam above the garage door. A pickup went by, and the man stopped briefly, then walked on. “See the coat. No toggles,” I said. “Because it’s an anorak.” “It’s a parka—it was always a parka. Hard to tell from here, but I think he shaved. Or someone shaved him. Whoever he lives with. A son or daughter, grandkids.” He was directly across the street from us now, moving cautiously to avoid stretches of unshovelled snow. “He’s not from here,” Todd said. “He’s from somewhere in Europe. They brought him over. He couldn’t take care of himself anymore. His wife died. They wanted to stay where they were, the two elderly people. But then she died.” He was speaking distantly, Todd was, watching the man but talking through him, finding his shadow somewhere on the other side of the world. The man did not see us, I was sure of this. He reached the corner, one of his hands behind his back, the other making small conversational gestures, and then he turned onto the next street and was gone. “Did you see his shoes?” “They weren’t boots.” “They were shoes that reach to the ankle.” “High shoes.” “Old World.” “No gloves.” “Jacket below the knees.” “Possibly not his.” “A hand-me-down or hand-me up.” “Think of the hat he’d be wearing if he was wearing a hat,” I said. “He’s not wearing a hat.” “But if he was wearing a hat, what kind of hat?” “He’s wearing a hood.” “But what kind of hat, if he was wearing a hat?” “He’s wearing a hood,” Todd said. We walked down to the corner now and started across the street. He spoke an instant before I did. “There’s only one kind of hat he could conceivably wear. A hat with an earflap that reaches from one ear around the back of the head to the other ear. An old soiled cap. A peaked cap with a flap for the ears.” I said nothing. I had nothing to say to this. There was no sign of the man along the street he’d entered. For a couple of seconds, an aura of mystery hovered over the scene. But his disappearance simply meant that he lived in one of the houses on the street. Did it matter which house? I didn’t think it mattered, but Todd disagreed. He wanted a house that matched the man. We walked slowly down the middle of the street, six feet apart, using rutted car tracks in the snow to make the going easier. He took off a glove and extended his hand, fingers spread and flexing. “Feel the air. I say minus nine Celsius.” “We’re not Celsius.” “But he is, where he’s from, that’s Celsius.” “Where is he from? There’s something not too totally white about him. He’s not Scandinavian.” “Not Dutch or Irish.” I wondered about Andalusian. Where was Andalusia exactly? I didn’t think I knew. Or an Uzbek, a Kazakh. But these seemed irresponsible. “Middle Europe,” Todd said. “Eastern Europe.” He pointed to a gray frame house, an ordinary two-story, with a shingled roof and no sign of the fallen grace that defined some of the houses elsewhere in town. “Could be that one. His family allows him to take a walk now and then, provided he stays within a limited area.” “The cold doesn’t bother him much.” “He’s used to colder.” “Plus, he has very little feeling in his extremities,” I said. There was no Christmas wreath on the front door, no holiday lights. I didn’t see anything about the property that might suggest who lived there, from what background, speaking which language. We approached the point where the street ended in a patch of woods, and we turned and headed back. We had class in half an hour, and I wanted to speed up the pace. Todd was still looking at houses. I thought of the Baltic states and the Balkan states, briefly confused—which was which and which was where. I spoke before he did. “I see him as a figure who escaped the war in the nineteen-nineties. Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia. Or who didn’t leave until recently.” “I don’t feel that here,” he said. “It’s not the right model.” “Or he’s Greek, and his name is Spyros.” “I wish you a painless death,” he said, not bothering to look my way. “German names. Names with umlauts.” This last had nothing but nuisance value. I knew that. I tried walking faster, but he paused a moment, standing in his skewed way to look at the gray house. “In a few hours, think of it, dinner’s over, the others are watching TV, he’s in his little room sitting on the edge of a narrow bed in his long johns, staring into space.” I wondered if this was a space that Todd expected us to fill. We waited through the long silences and then nodded when he coughed, in collegial approval. He’d coughed only twice so far today. There was a small puckered bandage at the edge of his jaw. He shaves, we thought. He cuts himself and says shit. He wads up a sheet of toilet paper and holds it to the cut. Then he leans into the mirror, seeing himself clearly for the first time in years. Ilgauskas, he thinks. We never took the same seats, class after class. We weren’t sure how this had started. One of us, in a spirit of offhand mischief, may have spread the word that Ilgauskas preferred it this way. In fact the idea had substance. He didn’t want to know who we were. We were passersby to him, smeary faces, we were roadkill. It was an aspect of his neurological condition, we thought, to regard others as displaceable, and this seemed interesting, seemed part of the course, displaceability, one of the truth functions that he referred to now and then. But we were violating the code, the shy girl and I, seated face to face once again. This happened because I had entered the room after she did and had simply fallen into the empty chair directly across from her. She knew I was there, knew it was me, same gaping lad, eager to make eye contact. “Imagine a surface of no color whatsoever,” he said. We sat there and imagined. He ran a hand through his dark hair, a shaggy mass that flopped in several directions. He did not bring books to class, never a sign of the textbook or a sheaf of notes, and his shambling discourses made us feel that we were becoming what he saw before him, an amorphous entity. We were basically stateless. He could have been speaking to political prisoners in orange jumpsuits. We admired this. We were in the Cellblock, after all. We exchanged glances, she and I, tentatively. Ilgauskas leaned toward the table, eyes swimming with neurochemical life. He looked at the wall, talked to the wall. “Logic ends where the world ends,” he said. The world, yes. But he seemed to be speaking with his back to the world. Then again the subject was not history or geography. He was instructing us in the principles of pure reason. We listened intently. One remark dissolved into the next. He was an artist, an abstract artist. He asked a series of questions, and we made earnest notes. The questions he asked were unanswerable, at least by us, and he was not expecting answers, in any case. We did not speak in class; no one ever spoke. There were never any questions, student to professor. That steadfast tradition was dead here. He said, “Facts, pictures, things.” What did he mean by “things”? We would probably never know. Were we too passive, too accepting of the man? Did we see dysfunction and call it an inspired form of intellect? We didn’t want to like him, only to believe in him. We tendered our deepest trust to the stark nature of his methodology. Of course, there was no methodology. There was only Ilgauskas. He challenged our reason for being, what we thought, how we lived, the truth or falsity of what we believed to be true or false. Isn’t this what great teachers do, the Zen masters and Brahman scholars? He leaned toward the table and spoke about meanings fixed in advance. We listened hard and tried to understand. But to understand at this point in our study, months along, would have been confusing, even a kind of disillusionment. He said something in Latin, hands pressed flat to the tabletop, and then he did a strange thing. He looked at us, eyes gliding up one row of faces, down the other. We were all there, we were always there, our usual shrouded selves. Finally, he raised his hand and looked at his watch. It didn’t matter what time it was. The gesture itself meant that class was over. A meaning fixed in advance, we thought. We sat there, she and I, while the others gathered books and papers and lifted coats off chair backs. She was pale and thin, hair pinned back, and I had an idea that she wanted to look neutral, seem neutral in order to challenge people to notice her. She placed her textbook on top of her notebook, centering it precisely, then raised her head and waited for me to say something. “O.K., what’s your name?” “Jenna. What’s yours?” “I want to say Lars-Magnus just to see if you believe me.” “I don’t.” “It’s Robby,” I said. “I saw you working out in the fitness center.” “I was on the elliptical. Where were you?” “Just passing by, I guess.” “Is that what you do?” “Pretty much all the time,” she said. The last to leave were shuffling out now. She stood and dropped her books into her backpack, which dangled from the chair. I remained where I was, watching. “I’m curious to know what you have to say about this man.” “The professor.” “Do you have insights to offer?” “I talked to him once,” she said. “Person to person.” “Are you serious? Where?” “At the diner in town.” “You talked to him?” “I get off-campus urges. I have to go somewhere.” “I know the feeling.” “It’s the only place to eat, other than here, so I walked in and sat down and there he was in the booth across the aisle.” “That’s incredible.” “I sat there and thought, It’s him.” “It’s him.” “There was a big foldout menu that I hid behind while I kept sneaking looks. He was eating a full meal, something slopped in brown gravy from the center of the earth. And he had a Coke with a straw bending out of the can.” “You talked to him.” “I said something not too original, and we talked off and on. He had his coat thrown onto the seat opposite him, and I was eating a salad, and there was a book lying on top of his coat, and I asked him what he was reading.” “You talked to him. The man who makes you lower your eyes in primitive fear and dread.” “It was a diner. He was drinking Coke through a straw,” she said. “Fantastic. What was he reading?” “He said he was reading Dostoevsky. I’ll tell you exactly what he said. He said, ‘Dostoevsky day and night.’ ” “Fantastic.” “And I told him my coincidence, that I’d been reading a lot of poetry and I’d read a poem just a couple of days earlier with a phrase I recalled. ‘Like midnight in Dostoevsky.’ ” “What did he say?” “Nothing.” “Does he read Dostoevsky in the original?” “I didn’t ask.” “I wonder if he does. I have a feeling he does.” There was a pause, and then she said that she was leaving school. I was thinking about Ilgauskas in the diner. She told me that she wasn’t happy here, that her mother always said how accomplished she was at being unhappy. She was heading west, she said, to Idaho. I didn’t say anything. I sat there with my hands folded at my belt line. She left without a coat. Her coat was probably in the coatrack on the first floor. At the winter break I stayed on cam pus, one of the few. We called ourselves the Left Behind and spoke in broken English. The routine included zombie body posture and blurred vision, lasting half a day before we’d all had enough. At the gym I did my dumb struts on the elliptical and lapsed into spells of lost thought. Idaho, I thought. Idaho, the word, so vowelled and obscure. Wasn’t where we were, right here, obscure enough for her? The library was deserted during the break. I entered with a key card and took a novel by Dostoevsky down from the shelves. I placed the book on a table and opened it and then leaned down into the splayed pages, reading and breathing. We seemed to assimilate each other, the characters and I, and when I raised my head I had to tell myself where I was. I knew where my father was—in Beijing, trying to wedge his securities firm into the Chinese century. My mother was adrift, possibly in the Florida Keys with a former boyfriend named Raúl. My father pronounced it raw-eel, like a thing you eat with your eyes closed. In snowfall, the town looked ghosted over, dead still at times. I took walks nearly every afternoon, and the man in the hooded coat was never far from my mind. I walked up and down the street where he lived, and it seemed only fitting that he was not to be seen. This was an essential quality of the place. I began to feel intimate with these streets. I was myself here, able to see things singly and plainly, away from the only life I’d known, the city, stacked and layered, a thousand meanings a minute. On the stunted commercial street in town, there were three places still open for business, one of them the diner, and I ate there once and stuck my head in the door two or three times, scanning the booths. The sidewalk was old, pocked bluestone. In the convenience store, I bought a fudge bar and talked to the woman behind the counter about her son’s wife’s kidney infection. At the library, I devoured about a hundred pages a sitting, small cramped type. When I left the building the book remained on the table, open to the page where I’d stopped reading. I returned the next day, and the book was still there, open to the same page. Why did this seem magical? Why did I sometimes lie in bed, moments from sleep, and think of the book in the empty room, open to the page where I’d stopped reading? On one of those midnights, just before classes resumed, I got out of bed and went down the hall to the sun parlor. The area was enclosed by a slanted canopy of partitioned glass, and I unlatched a panel and swung it open. My pajamas seemed to evaporate. I felt the cold in my pores, my teeth. I thought my teeth were ringing. I stood and looked, I was always looking. I felt like a child now, responding to a dare. How long could I take it? I peered into the northern sky, the living sky, my breath turning to little bursts of smoke, as if I were separating from my body. I’d come to love the cold, but this was idiotic, and I closed the panel and went back to my room. I paced awhile, swinging my arms across my chest, trying to roil the blood, warm the body, and twenty minutes after I was back in bed, wide awake, the idea came to mind. It came from nowhere, from the night, fully formed, extending in several directions, and when I opened my eyes in the morning it was all around me, filling the room. Those afternoons the light died quickly and we talked nearly non-stop, race-walking into the wind. Every topic had spectral connections, Todd’s congenital liver condition shading into my ambition to run a marathon, this leading to that, the theory of prime numbers to the living sight of rural mailboxes set along a lost road, eleven standing units, rusted over and near collapse, a prime number, Todd announced, using his cell phone to take a picture. One day, we approached the street where the hooded man lived. This was when I told Todd about the idea I’d had, the revelation in the icy night. I knew who the man was, I said. Everything fit, every element, the man’s origins, his family ties, his presence in this town. He said, “O.K.” “First, he’s a Russian.” “A Russian.” “He’s here because his son is here.” “He doesn’t have the bearing of a Russian.” “The bearing? What’s the bearing? His name could easily be Pavel.” “No, it couldn’t.” “Great name possibilities. Pavel, Mikhail, Aleksei. Viktor with a ‘k.’ His late wife was Tatiana.” We stopped and looked down the street toward the gray frame house designated as the place where the man lived. “Listen to me,” I said. “His son lives in this town because he teaches at the college. His name is Ilgauskas.” I waited for him to be stunned. “Ilgauskas is the son of the man in the hooded coat,” I said. “Our Ilgauskas. They’re Russian, father and son.” I pointed at him and waited for him to point back. He said, “Ilgauskas is too old to be the man’s son.” “He’s not even fifty. The man is in his seventies, easy. Mid-seventies, most likely. It fits, it works.” “Is Ilgauskas a Russian name?” “Why wouldn’t it be?” “Somewhere else, somewhere nearby, but not necessarily Russian,” he said. We stood there looking toward the house. I should have anticipated this kind of resistance, but the idea had been so striking that it had overwhelmed my cautious instincts. “There’s something you don’t know about Ilgauskas.” He said, “O.K.” “He reads Dostoevsky day and night.” I knew that he would not ask how I’d come upon this detail. It was a fascinating detail, and it was mine, not his, which meant that he would let it pass without comment. But the silence was a brief one. “Does he have to be Russian to read Dostoevsky?” “That’s not the point. The point is that it all fits together. It’s a formulation, it’s artful, it’s structured.” “He’s American, Ilgauskas, same as we are.” “A Russian is always Russian. He even speaks with a slight accent.” “I don’t hear an accent.” “You have to listen. It’s there,” I said. I didn’t know whether it was there or not. The Norway maple didn’t have to be Norway. We worked spontaneous variations on the source material of our surroundings. “You say the man lives in that house. I accept this,” I said. “I say he lives there with his son and his son’s wife. Her name is Irina.” “And the son. Ilgauskas, so called. His first name?” “We don’t need a first name. He’s Ilgauskas. That’s all we need,” I said. His hair was mussed, suit jacket dusty and stained, ready to come apart at the shoulder seams. He leaned into the table, square-jawed, sleepy-looking. “If we isolate the stray thought, the passing thought,” he said, “the thought whose origin is unfathomable, then we begin to understand that we are routinely deranged, everyday crazy.” We loved the idea of being everyday crazy. It rang so true, so real. “In our privatest mind,” he said, “there is only chaos and blur. We invented logic to beat back our creatural selves. We assert or deny. We follow ‘M’ with ‘N.’ ” Our privatest mind, we thought. Did he really say that? “The only laws that matter are laws of thought.” His fists were clenched on the tabletop, knuckles white. “The rest is devil worship,” he said. We went walking but did not see the man. The wreaths were mostly gone from the front doors and the occasional bundled figure scraped snow off a car’s windshield. Over time, we began to understand that these walks were not casual off-campus rambles. We were not looking at trees or boxcars, as we normally did, naming, counting, categorizing. This was different. There was a measure to the man in the hooded coat, old stooped body, face framed in monkish cloth, a history, a faded drama. We wanted to see him one more time. We agreed on this, Todd and I, and collaborated, in the meantime, on describing his day. He drinks coffee black, from a small cup, and spoons cereal out of a child’s bowl. His head practically rests in the bowl when he bends to eat. He never looks at a newspaper. He goes back to his room after breakfast, where he sits and thinks. His daughter-in-law comes in and makes the bed, Irina. Although Todd did not concede the binding nature of the name. Some days we had to wrap scarves around our faces and speak in muffled voices, only our eyes exposed to the street and the weather. There are two schoolchildren and one smaller girl, Irina’s sister’s child, here for reasons not yet determined, and the old man often passes the morning fitfully watching TV cartoons with the child, though not seated beside her. He occupies an armchair well away from the TV set, dozing now and then. Mouth open, we said. Head tilted and mouth hanging open. We weren’t sure why we were doing this. But we tried to be scrupulous, adding new elements every day, making adjustments and refinements, and all the while scanning the streets, trying to induce an appearance through joint force of will. Soup for lunch, every day it’s soup, homemade, and he holds his big spoon over the soup bowl, the old-country bowl, in a manner not unlike the child’s, ready to plant a trowel and scoop. Todd said that Russia was too big for the man. He’d get lost in the vast expanse. Think about Romania, Bulgaria. Better yet, Albania. Is he a Christian, a Muslim? With Albania, he said, we deepen the cultural context. “Context” was his fallback word. When he is ready for his walk, Irina tries to help him button his parka, his anorak, but he shakes her off with a few brusque words. She shrugs and replies in kind. I realized I’d forgotten to tell Todd that Ilgauskas read Dostoevsky in the original. This was a feasible truth, a usable truth. It made Ilgauskas, in context, a Russian. He wears trousers with suspenders. Until we decided that he didn’t; it was too close to stereotype. Who shaved the old man? Did he do it himself? We didn’t want him to. But who did it and how often? This was my crystalline link: the old man to Ilgauskas to Dostoevsky to Russia. I thought about it all the time. Todd said it would become my life’s work. I would spend my life in a thought bubble, purifying the link. He doesn’t have a private toilet. He shares a toilet with the children but never seems to use it. He is as close to being invisible as a man can get in a household of six. Sitting, thinking, disappearing on his walk. We shared a vision of the man in his bed, at night, mind roaming back—the village, the hills, the family dead. We walked the same streets every day, obsessively, and we spoke in subdued tones even when we disagreed. It was part of the dialectic, our looks of thoughtful disapproval. He probably smells bad, but the only one who seems to notice is the oldest child, a girl, thirteen. She makes faces now and then, passing behind his chair at the dinner table. It was the tenth straight sunless day. The number was arbitrary, but the mood was beginning to bear down, not the cold or the wind but the missing light, the missing man. Our voices took on an anxious cadence. It occurred to us that he might be dead. We talked about this all the way back to campus. Do we make him dead? Do we keep assembling the life posthumously? Or do we end it now, tomorrow, the next day, stop coming to town, stop looking for him? One thing I knew: he does not die Albanian. The next day, we stood at the end of the street where the designated house was located. We were there for an hour, barely speaking. Were we waiting for him to appear? I don’t think we knew. What if he came out of the wrong house? What would this mean? What if someone else came out of the designated house, a young couple carrying ski equipment toward the car in the driveway? Maybe we were there simply to show deferential regard, standing quietly in the presence of the dead. No one emerged, no one went in, and we left feeling unsure of ourselves. Minutes later, approaching the railroad tracks, we saw him. We stopped and pointed at each other, holding the pose a moment. It was enormously satisfying, it was thrilling, to see the thing happen, see it become three-dimensional. He made a turn into a street at a right angle to the one we were on. Todd hit me on the arm, turned, and started jogging. Then I started jogging. We were going back in the direction we’d just come from. We went around one corner, ran down the street, went around another corner, and waited. In time, he appeared, walking now in our direction. This was what Todd wanted, to see him head on. We moved toward him. He seemed to walk a sort of pensive route, meandering with his thoughts. I pulled Todd toward the curb with me so that the man would not have to pass between us. We waited for him to see us. We could almost count off the footsteps to the instant when he would raise his head. It was an interval drawn taut with detail. We were close enough to see the sunken face, heavily stubbled, pinched in around the mouth, jaw sagging. He saw us now and paused, one hand gripping a button at the front of his coat. He looked haunted inside the shabby hood. He looked misplaced, isolated, someone who could easily be the man we were in the process of imagining. We walked on past and continued for eight or nine paces, then turned and watched. “That was good,” Todd said. “That was totally worthwhile. Now we’re ready to take the next step.” “There is no next step. We got our close look,” I said. “We know who he is.” “We don’t know anything.” “We wanted to see him one more time.” “Lasted only seconds.” “What do you want to do, take a picture?” “My cell phone needs recharging,” he said seriously. “The coat is an anorak, by the way, definitely, up close.” “The coat is a parka.” The man was two and a half blocks from the left turn that would put him on the street where he lived. “I think we need to take the next step.” “You said that.” “I think we need to talk to him.” I looked at Todd. He wore a fixed smile, grafted on. “That’s crazy.” “It’s completely reasonable,” he said. “We do that, we kill the idea, we kill everything we’ve done. We can’t talk to him.” “We’ll ask a few questions, that’s all. Quiet, low key. Find out a few things.” “It’s never been a matter of literal answers.” “I counted eighty-seven boxcars. You counted eighty-seven boxcars. Remember.” “This is different, and we both know it.” “I can’t believe you’re not curious. All we’re doing is searching out the parallel life,” he said. “It doesn’t affect what we’ve been saying all this time.” “It affects everything. It’s a violation. It’s crazy.” I looked down the street toward the man in question. He was still moving slowly, a little erratically, hands folded behind his back now, where they belonged. “If you’re sensitive about approaching him, I’ll do it,” he said. “No, you won’t.” “Why not?” “Because he’s old and frail. Because he won’t understand what you want.” “What do I want? A few words of conversation. If he shies away, I’m out of there in an instant.” “Because he doesn’t even speak English.” “You don’t know that. You don’t know anything.” He started to move away, and I clutched his arm and turned him toward me. “Because you’ll scare him,” I said. “Just the sight of you. Freak of nature.” He looked straight into me. It took time, this look. Then he pulled his arm away, and I shoved him into the street. He turned and started walking, and I caught up with him and spun him around and struck him in the chest with the heel of my hand. It was a sample blow, an introduction. A car came toward us and veered away, faces in windows. We began to grapple. He was too awkward to be contained, all angles, a mess of elbows and knees, and deceptively strong. I had trouble getting a firm grip and lost a glove. I wanted to hit him in the liver but didn’t know where it was. He began flailing in slow motion. I moved in and punched him on the side of the head with my bare hand. It hurt us both, and he made a sound and went into a fetal crouch. I snatched his cap and tossed it. I wanted to wrestle him down and pound his head into the asphalt, but he was too firmly set, still making the sound, a determined hum, science fiction. He unfolded then, flushed and wild-eyed, and started swinging blind. I stepped back and half circled, waiting for an opening, but he fell before I could hit him, scrambling up at once and starting to run. The hooded man was about to move out of sight, turning into his street. I watched Todd run, long, slack, bouncy strides. He would have to go faster if he expected to reach the man before he disappeared into the gray frame house, the designated house. I saw my lost glove lying in the middle of the street. Then Todd running, bareheaded, trying to skirt areas of frozen snow. The scene empty everywhere around him. I couldn’t make sense of it. I felt completely detached. His breath visible, streams of trailing vapor. I wondered what it was that had caused this thing to happen. He only wanted to talk to the man.
Indianapolis (Highway 74 I’ve been crisscrossing the country again, without much reason. Sometimes a place will just pop into my head and I’ll take off. This time, down through Normal, Illinois, from high up in white Minnesota, dead of winter, icy roads, wind blowing sideways across the empty cornfields. Find myself stopping for the night outside Indianapolis, off 74, just before it makes its sweeping junction with 65 South to Louisville. I randomly pick a Holiday Inn, more for its familiar green logo and predictability than anything else. Plus, I’m wiped out. Evidently there’s some kind of hot-rod convention going on in town, although I seem to remember those always taking place at the height of summer, when people can run around in convertible coupés with the tops down. Anyway, there are no rooms available, except possibly one, and that one is “Smoking,” which I have nothing against. The desk clerk tells me she’ll know in about ten minutes if there’s going to be a cancellation. I’m welcome to wait, so I do, not wanting to face another ninety-some miles down to Kentucky through threatening weather. I collapse into one of the overstuffed sofas in the lobby, facing two plasma-screen TVs in opposite corners, both tuned to the same “reality” channel, showing surveillance footage of convenience-store robberies: teen-agers in hooded sweatshirts, holding up their baggy jeans with one hand while the other pumps 9-mm. slugs into screaming victims, who claim they have no access to the safe. I ask the desk clerk if she can please turn the TVs off, or change the channel, but she says that she has no control over it. The TVs are on some kind of preordained computer system, much like sprinklers in Los Angeles or garage security lights everywhere else. I ask her if she can at least mute the sound, so that I don’t have to listen to the agonized groans of the victims or the raging insanity of the gunmen, but she says that she has no control over that, either. I pick up a travel magazine featuring Caribbean vacations from the glass table and leaf through it, pausing at every picture of a bikini-clad woman lounging beachside holding a tall icy cocktail and staring smugly at the camera. The screams and groans and gunfire from the TVs keep repeating in looped cycles and soon lose all sense of being connected to murder. I find myself anticipating the next scream the way you would a familiar lyric in a pop song. (Here comes the high, shrieking temper-tantrum sequence just after he pops off a rapid spray of shots.) I’m not sure how long I hang there in limbo in the lobby, but it feels like far more than ten minutes. A tall, skinny woman in a cloth Pat Nixon-type coat and a blue bandanna comes through the revolving doors, pulling a small suitcase on wheels. She smiles at me as she passes, and I feel immediately sad for no reason that I can put my finger on. She pauses at the desk to get her key, then continues toward the elevators, giving me a quick glance over her shoulder as she disappears down the hallway. Again, I feel this little stab of melancholy, or emptiness—maybe that’s it. I stand and stretch, then walk over to the desk and ask the girl if she knows anything more about the cancellation. Not yet, she says, but reassures me that the possible guests will be calling any second now. They’re coming in from Tupelo, Mississippi, with a trailerload of hot rods, and everything depends on the weather, she says. I return to the squashy sofa and collapse again. (Isn’t Tupelo where Elvis was born?) I notice the yellow spine of a National Geographic at the bottom of a stack on the glass table and dig it out. The feature story is titled “The Black Pharaohs—Conquerors of Ancient Egypt.” A man who looks very much like the young James Earl Jones is on the cover, his muscular arms crossed over his chest, with a leopard-skin cape, thick gold necklaces, and a gold-leaf skullcap with two shining cobras on the crown, staring stoically out. I am flipping through the glossy pages when I feel a tall presence beside me and hear a high-pitched female voice saying my name with a question mark behind it: “Stuart?” I turn to see the same skinny woman in her cloth coat but without the suitcase. “You don’t remember me, do you?” she asks. I stare into her green eyes, searching for something to recognize, but the same tinge of melancholy is all I get. “Nineteen-sixty-five,” she says with a little sigh. “Tenth Street and Second Avenue? St. Mark’s Church.” “I’m drawing a blank,” I confess. “I’ve been driving for days. What seems like days, anyway.” She laughs nervously, half-embarrassed, then stares at the carpet. “We lived together for a while. Don’t you remember? We’d get up every morning and sit on the edge of my mattress eating bowls of wheat germ with brown honey all over it.” “Oh,” I say, and keep staring into her eyes with mounting desperation, wondering if maybe I’ve snapped some fragile synapse in my brain from too much driving; the final breakdown of road madness, right here in Indianapolis. Then she does an amazing thing. She whips off the blue bandanna and shakes out a mane of red hair that topples almost to her waist. Now it all comes back. “Oh—it’s you,” I say, still unable to attach a name. “Who?” She giggles. “You don’t remember me at all, do you?” “Of course I do.” “You’re just saying that.” “No—” “Then what’s my name? Come on, it wasn’t that long ago.” “Nineteen-sixty-five,” I say. “Or six—” “No, it couldn’t have been.” “Maybe ’68. That was it.” “That’s still forty years ago!” “No!” She laughs. “Add it up.” “Yeah, I guess it was, wasn’t it?” “Beth, right?” I blurt out. “No. See? You don’t remember.” “Betty?” “Close.” “What, then? This is wearing me out.” “Becky!” she announces with a beaming smile and her arms wide open, as if I were about to jump up and embrace her. “Sure—Becky. That’s right. Becky. Of course.” “What’s my last name?” “Oh, please—I can’t keep up with this. I’m really wiped out—” “Thane,” she says. “Thane?” “Thane. Becky Marie Thane.” “Right,” I say. “You really don’t have any recollection at all, do you?” she says in almost a whisper, then stifles a little chuckle. She crosses her long arms and holds her shoulders softly, as though filling the blank of affection she wishes were coming from me. “I was so in love with you, Stuart,” she says, sighing, and her eyes drift down to the pink wall-to-wall carpeting with pizza stains and Pepsi splashes. The violent sounds of the surveillance loop keep mercilessly repeating. I notice the girl behind the desk giving us a sideways glance, then returning to the bright-green glow of her computer screen. There is no escape. Becky Marie Thane lets her long arms fall to her sides in surrender, the blue bandanna dangling from her right hand. I return the National Geographic to the glass table and then I do suddenly get a picture of that time, a fleeting memory of a morning facing a New York window with a bowl clenched between my naked knees, and I say, just to be saying something, “Your hair is even redder than I remember,” which makes her burst out laughing, happy that I haven’t abandoned the game. “It’s not real,” she says. “What?” I say, thinking she’s referring to something metaphysical. “The color. Clairol. Out of a bottle.” “Oh—well, it looks great.” “Thanks.” “Very . . . festive.” “Festive?” She giggles and fluffs the back of her head like a movie star. Then she gets embarrassed again and twists herself from side to side. “So, how old were we then?” I stumble on without really wanting to. “We were kids,” she says. “We were barely in our twenties.” “Were we?” “I was, anyway. I know that much.” “Kids—yeah, I guess.” “How many do you have?” she asks. Her green eyes meet mine, and the little twinge of sadness I was feeling turns into an undertow. “You mean children?” She nods and her eyes stay hooked to me. “I’ve got a whole bunch,” I say. “How many?” she insists. “Five. But not all with the same woman.” “That doesn’t surprise me.” She smiles. “How about you?” I ask. “Two. I have two girls.” “Two. That’s great. Where are they?” I say. “Here. Well, I mean—” “That’s right. You’re from Indianapolis, aren’t you?” “Yes, I am. You remember that!” She smiles. “I remember your dad calling, back then. When we were sitting on the bed eating that stuff.” “Wheat germ.” “Right. He called to tell you there was a riot going on in your front yard. So it must have been ’68, wasn’t it? That was when there was a riot every other day.” “Must’ve been.” “Martin Luther King and—” “Right.” “Everything exploding. Detroit. L.A.” “The whole world on fire.” “Seemed like.” “Well.” She pauses, fishing for something more. “I didn’t mean to—I mean, I was so shocked when I walked through the door and saw you sitting here. I couldn’t believe it. I knew it was you as soon as I saw you, but . . . I thought, I can’t just walk on by and not say anything. You know—just go on up to my room and pretend it wasn’t you. I had to come back down and say something. I mean—all this time.” “No, I’m glad you did. It’s great to see you.” “What in the world are you doing here? In Indianapolis.” “Just passing through.” “Oh.” “How about you? I mean, if you live here how come you’re in a Holiday Inn?” Everything stops. She goes suddenly numb and her lips start to tremble. For some reason, the background seems to have gone silent. The girl at the desk stares at us now, as though she suspects that something illegal is going on. “My husband—” Becky says, and halts on the words. “My husband disappeared a month and a half ago. He—just took off.” “Oh, no,” I say. “He took the girls.” “No—” “He may have left the country.” I find myself standing and making a feeble gesture toward comforting her, but I’d rather be running out the door. “Have you—I mean, do you have help?” My mouth has gone dry. “Police? Lawyers?” “Yes, I’ve gone through all that.” “That’s a pretty serious—I mean, that’s considered kidnapping, isn’t it?” “It is kidnapping.” “Have you got any clues? I mean—” “We’ve followed some credit-card debits—you know, gas stations, restaurants—but they all led to dead ends. Everything winds up in Florida and just stops.” “Florida?” “He has some family down there.” “What about the girls? How old are they?” “Fifteen and seventeen. There’s still some investigation going on at the house, so that’s why I can’t stay there.” “Oh.” “I just took a room here for the time being. I’m kind of in limbo, I guess.” She casts an arm out limply, and the blue bandanna flutters up like a distant flag of truce. Her eyes scan the two plasma screens as the screaming and the gunfire start up again. “I’m sorry,” she says. “I didn’t mean to lay all this on you. I just saw you sitting here when I came in and thought—” “No, that’s O.K. I’m glad you—it’s just great to see you again.” She laughs, then breaks down, but quickly recovers herself and turns her shoulder to me. I move to console her, but she turns her back completely and crosses her arms again. The desk clerk is heading straight for me across the lobby, with her laminated nametag pinned to her chest and an apologetic face. “I’m sorry, sir,” she says, “but they’ve just confirmed that room I was telling you about. That ‘Smoking’ room with two beds.” “Oh,” I say. “Yeah, they just phoned in to confirm it. They’re on their way. I’m sorry about that.” “That’s O.K.” “There’s a Motel 6 just off 465. They usually might have a vacancy. If you want, I can call down there, see if they’ve got something.” “Would you mind doing that? I’d appreciate it very much.” “No problem. I’ll let you know.” She heads back to her post. Becky seems to have pulled herself together now. Her arms drop, and she starts brushing off the front of her coat as though she’d just discovered lint. She turns to me with a smile and rubs her eyes with the back of her hand. “Well, I’m so glad I ran into you, Stuart. You look the same as always.” She steps toward me with her hand extended, which I find slightly ineffectual, under the circumstances, but I go along with it. Her hand feels icy and slim, and she slides it back out of my grip almost immediately. Then she gives me a little peck on the cheek, like a sister might. It all comes back to me now, the smell of her soft breath. “Bye,” she says abruptly, and walks away, disappearing down the hallway again. If I had a gun right now, I’d shoot both the plasma TV screens and maybe the overstuffed sofa, and then maybe I’d start in on the glass coffee table and the Caribbean-vacation brochure and all the Time and Newsweek magazines with men of the year on their covers. Instead, I wander back over to the desk, where the girl with the laminated name is being surprisingly helpful. I get close enough to read the tag as she squishes the phone between her chin and her collarbone while scratching down a note. “Lashandra,” the tag says, and it has a little yellow happy face to go with it. “Lashandra,” I say to her, not knowing exactly which syllable to emphasize. She squints at me and holds a blue-lacquered fingernail to her lips, as though she were about to land a luxury suite down at the Motel 6. I signal to her that I no longer want the room by drawing my index finger across my throat, then head for the revolving doors. Lashandra calls out to me in dismay, “Sir! Excuse me, sir!” I turn back to her. “Don’t you want the room? I think I might have found you something.” “No, thanks, but I do appreciate your efforts. You’re very kind.” “Oh, no problem at all, sir. Sorry it didn’t work out.” “Lashandra, could I ask you a quick question?” “Sure, sir. Anything at all.” “Don’t you ever go crazy listening to that TV all night long? That—murder?” “Oh, I don’t even hear it anymore. You know—it’s just always on.” She smiles, and I pass through the revolving doors. The pistol shots fade behind the glass. Outside, it’s dark, snowflakes floating through orange light. I completely forgot that I left the car running, and my yellow dog is clawing frantically at the windows, seeing me approach. I let her out the back. She slides across a patch of ice as she hits the asphalt. Her tail is wagging wildly in circles, as though she’d picked up the scent of quail. She dashes off toward a little square of brown grass to take a leak. The temperature feels like it’s dropped down into the low twenties now, and the flying snow makes my eyes tear up. The dog must be taking the longest piss on earth. She just squats there with one hind leg weirdly raised, staring straight at me, as though I might run off without her. Steam rises behind her. The hollow moan of the highway makes me wonder if I’ve finally broken all connections, without even really wanting to. I pop my dog back in the car and slide into the driver’s seat, which is now red hot, since I also left the seat warmer on. I’m about to drop the gearshift down into drive when I look up through the snow and there she is—Becky Marie Thane—standing directly between the headlights, staring at me with a look not unlike my dog’s. She’s standing there shivering, without her coat, and the snow catches hold of her red hair and it glows in the backlight, like a halo. Am I now having a religious experience? She comes running up to the window as I roll it down, amazed. “I’m sorry,” she says. “I just thought maybe you’d want to stay in my room since you can’t—I mean, I have a couch and everything. A separate couch. It’s a foldout, you know—in an alcove with a sink. Not a whole room, exactly, but I just thought it would save you a trip in this weather. I’m not trying to—you know—” “Oh, thanks, Becky,” I say, cutting her off. “I really appreciate it, but I ought to be getting on down the road.” “All right, that’s fine. That’s fine.” She smiles. “I just thought I’d offer. I wasn’t trying to—” “No, thanks so much, though. It was really great to see you again.” “Bye,” she says sweetly, and gives me a little fluttering wave, then blows me a kiss as I drive off. I watch in the rearview mirror as she darts back into the lobby, stomping the snow off her shoes at the entrance. I’m trying to think of what old movie this reminds me of. One of those corny black-and-white forties Air Force films with tearful goodbyes as Jimmy Stewart flies off into the wild blue yonder. Why is everything I’m conjuring up in black-and-white? The snow is really assaulting the windshield as I head for the Louisville junction, the dog turning tight circles in the back, then dropping down into a ball and tucking her nose into her tail, resigning herself to yet another hundred miles of bleak highway. I start drifting off into the past as the world gets dimmer and whiter. Maybe there’s a correlation between external blindness and internal picturing. I can see the edge of the mattress now, and our gray bowls side by side, our knees touching. These are some of the other things that go sailing through my head as I strain to keep the car between the lines: Leaving the desert on a clear day. Boarding the Greyhound. Getting off in Times Square. Huge poster of a pop group from England with Three Stooges haircuts. Blood bank with a sign in the window offering five dollars a pint. Black whores with red hair. Chet Baker standing in a doorway on Avenue C. Tompkins Square Park, with its giant dripping American elms. Cabbage-and-barley soup. Hearing Polish for the first time. Old World women in bandannas and overcoats. Cubans playing chess. Rumors of acid and TCP. Crowds gathered around a black limo, listening to a radio report of Kennedy’s killing. Jungles burning with napalm. Caskets covered in American flags. Mules hauling Martin Luther King, Jr.,’s coffin. Stanley Turrentine carrying his axe in a paper sack. I’m turning around. I’m in the middle of a blizzard and I’m turning around. I come up on a giant tractor-trailer rig, jackknifed in the ditch. No sign of a driver. I’m up over the median now, with the hazard lights flashing, hoping that nothing is roaring down on top of me from the opposite lanes. I’m driving blind. I’d get over to the shoulder, but I can’t tell where it is. Something is happening to my eyesight in the constant oncoming flow and swirl of snow. I feel as if I’m suddenly falling through space and the wheels have somehow lost all contact with the earth. I really am coming completely apart now, shaking, terrible shivers, gripping the wheel as if any second I could just go plunging off into the abyss and never be found. Somehow I instinctively poke my way back through the gray to the looping exit, and limp into the Holiday Inn parking lot. The family from Tupelo are unloading their huge crew-cab diesel in the whirling storm, sliding their coolers and luggage across the icy blacktop. I just sit there for a while, watching them through the wipers, my hazard lights still flashing, and my dog getting very nervous about what may lie ahead. Maybe I’ll just spend the night in the car, I think. Wait it out. That would mean leaving the engine running so that I wouldn’t freeze to death. That would mean that the dog would be whining and turning in circles. I snap on my satellite radio for some possible clue. The angelic voice of Sam Cooke. I can’t take it. I turn it off, not wanting to provoke a total emotional breakdown. Can I just sit here all night like this? Engine running. Dog spinning. Lights blinking. Snow falling. What will happen when the sun finally comes out and the snow stops and the ice melts and the whole landscape is transformed into spring and stuff is blooming and farmers are running their gigantic combines up and down the long rows? What will happen then? Will I still be sitting here like this with the car running? What will happen when they discover that someone is trying to live in his car in the Holiday Inn parking lot? I’ve got to get this car parked! So I do, and then one thing leads to another and I’m heading back into the lobby, not really looking forward to encountering Lashandra again, not really looking forward to waiting in line behind the Tupelo hot-rod family, but there I am. Thank God the TV channel has changed. Now it’s news with some distinguished-looking dude in a suit, parading back and forth in front of a huge electronic map of the United States, magically touching it and brushing it in different areas, causing it to light up red in the South, blue in the North, giving the impression that the whole damn country is a cartoon show, divided up like apple pie, and no one actually lives here, trying to score a simple room at the Holiday Inn in the middle of a blizzard, somewhere on the outskirts of Indianapolis. The Tupelo family finally trundle off with all their gear toward the “Smoking” room I once coveted. Lashandra’s face is unsure what expression to make when she sees me pathetically standing there again. It’s a cross between smiling politeness and sheer terror at what she must see in my eyes. “Lashandra, hi,” I say meekly. She says nothing. “I was wondering if you could do me a favor. I—the storm is really bad out there. You wouldn’t believe it.” “That’s what they were saying,” she says. “Those folks from Tupelo.” “It’s unbelievable. Whiteout. I could barely see the hood in front of me.” “They’ve got it on the news,” she says. “All the way down into New Orleans, I guess.” “Really? Well—I couldn’t—I had to turn back around.” “I still haven’t got any vacancy, though,” she says. “No, I know. I know that. But what I was wondering is—I have an old friend here. That woman—you know, that woman I was talking to before? That tall skinny woman with the red hair?” “Right,” she says. “I was wondering if you could give me her room number, because she offered to let me stay in her room and—” “We’re not allowed to give out the names of guests, sir.” “No, I know. I mean—I know her name. Her name is Becky Marie Thane and we used to live together in New York City. Way back, I mean.” “Well, I still can’t just give out the room number, sir. That’s our policy.” “I understand that, but do you think I could call her, then, on the house phone? Would that be all right?” “Sure. I can let you do that. Let me get you connected.” She slides the house phone toward her, looks up Becky’s room number, punches it in, then hands me the receiver. I’m holding it to my ear, hoping that Lashandra will stop staring at me and turn her back discreetly, but she stays right there, eyes boring into mine. Becky picks up. “Hello,” she says, and the simple innocence of her voice starts me weeping and I can’t stop, and Lashandra finally turns away.
Alone When the waitress came to take the order, she asked how Suchen was doing with the smoke. Suchen replied vaguely that all was well with her, though she had no idea what smoke the waitress was talking about. The man sitting at the next table, an elbow away—the patio was barely large enough for the six tables it held, three of them unoccupied—must have been observing the exchange; he leaned over after the waitress had left and explained that up north the wildfire was just a few miles from the state highway. The October sky was blue, empty but for some still wisps of cloud. The restaurant, Mony’s, was the last on the block, and the road running past the patio narrowed into an unpaved footpath that vanished into an open field. Apart from the bushes and the grass, green and unaffected by the season, there was not much between the town and the mountains. Ski lifts idled above aspens, their leaves just beginning to show a tinge of yellow. Suchen could sense no trace of smoke in the air. An old couple, sitting at a third table on the patio, were also discussing the fire, their voices loud enough to be an invitation, and the man next to Suchen wasted no time chiming in. The couple wore matching polo shirts the pale yellow of newborn chicks, and their hair had faded to a similar sandy shade. They lived two valleys north, the wife explained, where fall was already descending with all its colors, and what a beautiful season it would be if it weren’t for this fire. The man eating alone expressed sympathy, and then began musing about fire control: wildfires had existed long before America—or, for that matter, the earth—was claimed by human beings, he said, and there was no point in trying to beat something that was part of nature. The old couple listened, neither agreeing with the man nor withdrawing their smiles, careful not to embarrass a stranger. Suchen looked at the slice of lemon floating among the ice cubes in her glass and blushed, as though the man were her companion. She imagined what the couple would say to each other on their drive home. A husband and wife who behaved so courteously toward the world must have ways of dealing with awkwardness like this—a subtle reference to someone similar they’d encountered, or perhaps just a benign dismissal of the man’s opinions. Suchen wondered what it would be like to be understood without having to speak, the comfort of silence without the threat of misunderstanding or estrangement. Pure greed, Lei had said, shaking his head mockingly when she had told him that this was what she had dreamed of for their marriage. Of course, he was right, Suchen had readily agreed. If a woman did not desire clothes or jewels or children, she’d said, taking up his tone, although she was the target of its mockery, she would harbor some other form of unreasonable greed, no? He did not reply but poured more wine for her, and then for himself. It was the night before his flight back to China. When they spoke again, it was about his trip, the few things he needed to pack in the morning in his carry-on, and what she should do with the clothes and other belongings he was leaving behind. What they had not talked about at their last dinner was that they would be taking the most natural and least hurtful course to becoming strangers: their marriage would no longer be on his conscience when he went with his business associates to the night clubs and karaoke bars of Beijing, where young women blossomed under the dimmed lights, eager to be chosen. In time, he would choose a woman, not one he’d met in a night club but someone more companionable and trustworthy, who would not oppose the idea of having children with him, and whose greed—if she had any—would be easier for him to understand and to satisfy. The divorce papers had arrived six months later, mailed to the cottage that Suchen had rented, not far from their old house. She had signed them at once and mailed them back. She had wondered what to do with the wedding ring—a thin, unadorned band; when they had married, sixteen years earlier, they had not been able to afford a more lavish one—and in the end she had put it in the plastic folder where she kept her passport and her green card. She had brought the folder with her, in the car trunk. After the couple left, the man told Suchen that his name was Walter. When the waitress came with Suchen’s salad, he asked for a refill of coffee. He appeared to be in his late sixties or early seventies; his hair and beard, both patchily grayed, were bushy. He had on a light-blue shirt, buttoned to the top and wrinkled by sweat—it was a warm day, and there was not much of a breeze on the patio. He was in town from Seattle for an event organized by the alumni association of his alma mater, he said; he and his wife had been invited as the top donors from their region. Suchen stabbed at a slice of pear and wondered if there was a death or a divorce she would learn about. But what difference did it make? A change of circumstance had led the man to eat alone at a ski resort before the first snowfall. Outside the town, there were trails to hike and rivers to fish, but those activities were for people with companions, or for those with solitary souls. It was loneliness that had led him to seek a conversation on a restaurant patio long past the lunch hour, as it was loneliness that had made her empty the refrigerator in the cottage and pack her belongings into five mega-sized black plastic garbage bags and drop them outside a Goodwill early one morning. Suchen had left a check in the cottage to cover an extra month’s rent and a note apologizing for breaking the lease. The landlady, who lived next door, was a widow in her seventies. On holidays, her children and grandchildren would visit her, their cars crowding the driveway and spilling onto the street, the lights in the house burning late into the night. Suchen wondered what the landlady would tell her children about the runaway tenant at the next Thanksgiving dinner—or perhaps the incident would have been forgotten by then, and an ad would already have brought a replacement for Suchen. Walter asked Suchen where she was from. Los Angeles, she said, although she knew he’d meant where she was from originally. China was not an answer Suchen gave people these days; there was no point in making unnecessary connections to strangers, in discovering whose neighbors, friends, or acquaintances had travelled to her country. The last time she had been there was for her mother’s funeral, eight years ago, and before that, two years earlier, for her father’s. She had not kept in touch with her siblings—a brother and a sister, both younger than she—whose attitude toward her had gone from intimidation in their youth to indignation as adults. They must have been given some explanation after the accident, as their parents had insisted on calling it, when Suchen’s picture was printed in the county and province newspapers, alongside the pictures of five other girls, hers the only one not framed in black. The pictures had been taken the previous year, when the girls had entered middle school, the standard one-inch black-and-white photos for school registration. Suchen’s mother had immediately thrown out any newspapers that had come into their house, though Suchen later read about the incident at the town center, where newspapers were displayed in glass cases. A senseless tragedy, it was called, and she was described as a reticent and prematurely aged survivor. Her report card, which demonstrated neither excellence nor deficiency, was reprinted, a proof, along with her neighbors’ comments confirming that her family was a respectable one and she a normal child, that the tragedy had been beyond any adult’s ability to foresee. Information about the five other girls was given, too, but in a less detailed manner, as if the dead deserved respect rather than understanding. Had it happened now, Suchen thought, she would have been sent to a psychologist, but the talk twenty-nine years ago had been whether she should be allowed to return to school or whether other options—a reform school, for instance, or an asylum for the disturbed—were more suitable. In the eyes of her neighbors and her schoolmates, Suchen had seen fear and awe, as if she carried a rare infectious disease, and in the end it was her family’s move to another province that had ended the episode. Suchen had always wondered if her siblings remembered their childhood as severed because of her; their parents, after the move, had forbidden them to talk about their old home. When Suchen asked the waitress for her check, Walter finally picked up his. The waitress gave Suchen a sympathetic look, but did not make any comment. He had been in town for two days, Walter said as he followed Suchen into the street. The waitress’s name was Antoinette, he continued, and she was from Boise, one of those kids who would never leave their home state. The manager was the niece of the owner, who lived in Colorado. Come to think of it, Walter added, it was funny that a man would choose to live in a skiing state and open a restaurant at a ski resort in another state. At the corner, Suchen paused, waiting for Walter to step into the crosswalk first so that she could choose another direction. Walter stopped, too, and pointed at the broad, unmarked street. “See how the streets of the wild Wild West are different from the streets of your Los Angeles. Imagine a hundred, a hundred and fifty years ago: folks drove their horse carriages down this same street, and they were probably too busy to think about us.” Suchen had driven along the Pacific Coast for five days before turning inland. She had originally planned to cross the border into Vancouver, where years ago, on her first trip to North America, she’d spent an eight-hour layover on the way to Austin, Texas. She had looked up the schedules of ferries, and was certain that at this time of year night would have fallen by the time the last ferry left Horseshoe Bay. She was planning to leave her car in the parking lot, along with her suitcase and her legal papers. It would appear to be an accident at first, a woman slipping into the dark sea and never surfacing again. After a while, the police would gather the other pieces of the puzzle, the easy parts, but by then she would be beyond reach, and would not be expected to explain her decision, as had been the case years earlier, when, as the one who had lived, she was made to account not only for her own survival but also for the deaths of the other five girls. Suchen hung the “Do Not Disturb” tag on her hotel-room door and let herself out onto the balcony, where two chairs and a small table, made to look like solid wood but with less weight, fitted snugly. She imagined a vacationing couple sitting where she was now, a bottle of wine left untouched for as long as the silence lasted. She and Lei could have ended their marriage on a balcony like this—on a mild day during the snow season, their last shared memories the white mountains close by, the ski lifts moving tirelessly and smoothly uphill and downhill, and small colorful dots sliding down the slopes: actions viewed from afar. When they had first come to America, Lei had insisted that they be active in their local Chinese community. Later, when he had secured a position at an investment bank, he had pushed for a more mainstream American life. For years, Suchen had felt as though she were standing at the edge of a beach, holding a line that flew Lei into life like a kite over the sea—or was it the other way around? But even the most trustworthy hand could eventually find it difficult to keep its grip on a taut line. Suchen had continued watching from afar while couples their age began to have children, and when Lei had joined the other overseas Chinese returning to the mother country to make their fortunes she had not accompanied him on his trips. Soon he had begun to spend more time in Beijing, flying back to Los Angeles every other month, out of some sense of duty. An autumn breeze drove a few leaves across the street. Suchen tried to imagine this sleepy town engulfed by a raging fire, but she couldn’t picture it. There were places that would never be destroyed by a fire or a tornado or an earthquake, just as there were those lucky people who escaped disasters unscathed. Once upon a time, she had been considered one of those people, by her husband and the few friends to whom she had revealed her version of the story. A boating accident, she had told Lei when he was courting her in college. A boating accident that had killed five girls aged twelve and thirteen and left another feeling forever on the verge of drowning—she could see, from the look of concern and pity in his eyes, that he had interpreted her melancholy air that way. Any man who’d had a happy childhood and an uncomplicated adolescence could mistake the initial shock of encountering the senselessness of life as a sign of falling in love, the desire to protest and protect confused with a desire to love. He had been worn out by her, Lei had said toward the end of the marriage, not without bitterness. Sixteen years was a long time for anyone to endure a wife who had neither faith nor interest in the worldliness of marital life, he said, and she wondered if, by letting her go, he had finally outgrown his youth. His next wife would certainly not stand as a trophy in the tug-of-war between Lei and fate, death, and any mystery beyond his understanding. A man stopped on the other side of the street and waved up at Suchen. She recognized the bushy hair and the blue shirt, yet for a moment she willed her face to stay expressionless, hoping that Walter would think that he had waved at the wrong woman. But, without a trace of doubt, he crossed the empty street. Would she care for a cup of coffee, he called up. From where she stood, her elbows resting on the railing three floors above, he looked, despite his gray hair and beard, like a small child waiting for permission that he was almost certain would not be granted. She would have refused him politely had they been standing together on the ground, but, looking down at his upturned face, she felt that any excuse would be trivial. She signalled for him to wait, and when she entered the bedroom the air-conditioned atmosphere made her shiver as though she had just stepped into a pool of cold water. Suchen thought of Walter wandering the strange town, searching for a friendly face on a restaurant patio or a hotel balcony, and tried to convince herself that she had agreed to the coffee because of the helplessness that an old man could not erase from his face. Walter took her to a café at the back of a gift shop. Apart from an idle man halfheartedly flipping through a book of local attractions, there was no one in the front of the shop, where miniature carved boats and model fish aged unwanted on the shelves. At the back of the shop, dim but for a single lamp hanging from the ceiling, there were a few unvarnished wooden tables. An old man at the counter nodded in greeting when he saw Walter. It was three o’clock in the afternoon, the best time for those in the mountains to revel in the joys of hiking and fishing before the sunshine thinned into dusk, but in the shop time seemed to be stranded, day taking forever to turn into night. The browser picked up a snow globe and shook it; when his cell phone beeped he perked up and left abruptly. Out of reflex, Suchen fumbled in her purse and found her phone. “Are you waiting for a call?” Walter asked. Suchen nodded and then shook her head. For a year, when she had not yet given up trying to be the wife Lei had hoped her to be, she had let herself be absorbed into a group of women who met one Saturday a month at a local café for brunch and gossip. After a while, she began to set an alarm on her cell phone; when it rang she would apologize for having to take an important phone call and leave. She could see the suspicion in the other women’s eyes: she, a childless woman whose husband was enjoying a round of golf with their husbands—what urgency could she have but a secret love affair? If any of the women had ever mentioned this to their husbands, or if any of the husbands had mentioned it to Lei, Suchen would never know. Soon afterward, she had stopped replying to the group e-mails, and eventually the invitations had stopped coming. The waiter came over to take their order: iced tea for Suchen, a strangely named energy drink for Walter. The waiter’s face, tanned to a dark brown and deeply wrinkled, reminded Suchen of a walnut shell, yet his eyes, even in the dim light, glimmered with alertness, like the eyes of a mountain lion. He was wearing a T-shirt that was too big for his skinny body, and his hair, grayish white, was pulled up into a bun on top of his head. When he talked, his tone was unhurried. He did not chat with Walter as a waiter would with a returning customer, yet there was something in his manner that showed friendliness. “He spent forty-plus years in India and only came back two years ago,” Walter said when the man had gone back behind the counter. “Grew up in Connecticut and was a hippie for a while, but look at him now—all you see is an old sage, something this country could never produce.” Suchen wondered why the man, after spending almost a lifetime in India, had chosen to return. Once you knew a slice of someone’s story, you wanted to understand more, she thought. Yet when Walter walked around town gathering other people’s stories, his curiosity led him not to understand the world better but only to marvel at it. “Are you in town just for tonight?” Walter asked. “Yes.” “I’m leaving tomorrow, too,” Walter said. “The event is this evening, but I came early to have a bit of time to myself. It’s a nice place when it’s not busy.” There was not much to say to this, so Suchen agreed that indeed the town was quiet and lovely. Walter waited a moment and then said that the hosts were a couple who produced a popular HBO show. Suchen apologized and said she did not watch TV, and Walter seemed disappointed. Not that he watched much TV, either, he said, but he thought that she, being from Los Angeles, would be familiar with these things. When Suchen did not speak, he asked her where she was going. It was the most natural question to ask a traveller. A waitress with her hair dyed purple, in a town called Fortuna, had called Suchen “honey” and asked her where she was headed; a mechanic in a coastal town, whose name Suchen had forgotten, had changed a flat tire for her and then asked, too. Vancouver, she had replied both times, and both times her questioners had seemed impressed by the distance she had travelled. She was not in a particular hurry, she had said when the waitress asked how many hours she had to put in each day. More of a road trip than seeing the city, she had replied unconvincingly when the mechanic, with a mild stutter, commented that he wouldn’t care for that long of a drive, even though Vancouver was said to be a fine city. She did not tell anyone that she spent much of her time looking out at the Pacific from empty beaches, some of them narrow with coarse sand, though farther north many of the beaches were rocky, desolate in the falling dusk, when seagulls circled hungrily and waves deposited dead seaweed. These beaches made Suchen think of a ragged shoreline in Ireland or the clashing waves of the North Sea at the mouth of a Norwegian fjord. She did not know why she thought of these places, only that she would never have a chance to visit them, along with many other places on many other continents, to confirm or correct her imaginings. The morning before, she had decided to leave the coast, convincing herself that she wanted to drive across the Rockies and see the big sky in the Western states. She would always be able to find a patch of water, she told herself, but even when she was studying the rivers and lakes in the road atlas she knew she was procrastinating. “Say, do you want to come with me to the event this evening?” Suchen looked up quickly, but there did not seem to be a trace of guile in Walter’s face. She didn’t have the right outfit for a social gathering, Suchen said—not the best excuse but the first to occur to her. Walter glanced at Suchen, and she knew he wanted to say that she would look just fine in her blouse and skirt; she knew, too, that he could tell she was inventing an excuse. “Is there anything that’s bothering you?” he asked in a gentle voice, leaning over his dark-green drink. Travelling alone must have made her sink too easily into her own thoughts, she said. “My wife died earlier this year,” Walter said. “Leukemia. We were married for thirty-five years.” “It must be hard for you,” Suchen said, looking into her iced tea. She wondered if he had informed the townspeople he had met of his loss: the waitress at the restaurant, who was too far removed from death to be sympathetic; the old man here at the café, who, despite his kindness, would not feel sufficiently attached to this ephemeral world to acknowledge the loss as irreplaceable. “She asked for a divorce when she knew she wouldn’t live long.” “Why?” Suchen said, though as she spoke she realized that she might already know the answer. She imagined the wife watching Walter and herself aging, waiting to endure his death, aware that the solitude afterward would be enough of a compensation. Her illness must have come as a disappointment; life had not been lenient enough to let her keep her secret. Her desire to be alone while still alive must have ultimately trumped the guilt that came from making an incomprehensible request of a husband who would soon lose his wife. “If only I knew the answer,” Walter said, his voice hoarse; but when Suchen looked up he was studying his palms, dry-eyed. On his ring finger was a wedding band, aged though not dulled. “My children told me that sometimes illness makes people act strangely.” “Did you agree to divorce her?” “No,” he said, his tone defensive. “How could I?” “I thought that was what she wanted.” She had asked twice in one week, Walter said, but when he had said no both times she had not mentioned it again. Why dwell on a minor episode when death was the more lasting tragedy, Suchen wanted to ask, although she knew that long after he accepted his wife’s death he would remain tormented by her request for a divorce. When the dead departed, they took away any falsehoods that they might have allowed us to believe while alive; we who are left behind have to embark on a different life, since the dead are no longer here to help us deceive ourselves. Suchen had often wondered how she and the five girls would have turned out if the others had not drowned. They would have drifted apart, she suspected, becoming wives and mothers, and if they had ever reunited they would have been too occupied with their earthly duties to let the memory of their scheme surface. Yet through their absence the girls had made themselves more present than anyone else in Suchen’s world, and she had lived not only for herself but for their unconsumed lives: when she sat in a movie theatre on a weekday afternoon, the tears she shed were not for the romance on the screen but for a love story that might have broken the heart of one of the girls; when she reluctantly mingled with strangers at a party, she was convincing the girls that they had not missed much in this life; at the farmers’ market, she picked up fruits with exotic names and fragrances because the girls had not heard of or tasted them in their small home town; when she was having sex with Lei, she watched them watch him with pity in their eyes, because only they knew that he would never be able to touch her the way their deaths had touched her. “You should feel lucky you are the one alive,” Suchen said. “There are many things in life that are stranger than death.” Walter looked up, stung, Suchen thought, by the cruelty of her words. She unfolded her white paper napkin and began to dab her straw on it, leaving faint tea-colored dots. “When I was thirteen, five friends and I decided to commit suicide together,” she said, and, without meeting Walter’s eyes, she shook her head. “You want to ask why. Everyone did. The truth is I could not answer that question at the time and I still can’t answer it. All I can tell you is that it was not an impulsive action. We talked and we planned and we carried it out almost to the end.” Almost: Suchen watched Walter flinch at the word and then let hope flicker in his eyes. A scheme like theirs could have failed easily. They could have stopped it at any moment: When they had looked in the almanac to choose the date (there was no day described as good for killing oneself, so they had settled for a day on which it was good to take a journey). Or when they had pooled their allowances to buy an expensive bottle of liquor and hidden it in the tall weeds on the far shore of the reservoir the day before the chosen date. The field had been awash with May sunshine when they set out after lunch, their schoolmates returning to classes while they, buoyant in their truancy, gathered nameless blue and white flowers that they later scattered carelessly near the dock. An adult bicycling on his way out of town could have yelled at them from the road, asking why they were not in school. Uncle Liang, the town’s hermit, who lived in a shack by the reservoir, could have woken from his midday nap early and caught the young thieves clumsily rowing his boat into the open water. They had taken turns rowing in pairs until they were out of immediate sight of the town and the road, and when they stopped, the boat rocked slightly under their shifting weight, the water almost even with the rim. For a while they sat, and Suchen remembered the splash of a fish breaking the surface of the water, and two egrets taking off with unhurried elegance, one after the other. The girls could have decided to row back and face the questions from their parents and teachers, spending an extra Saturday afternoon in school for their misdemeanor; such a possibility, however, had not occurred to Suchen, and if any of the other girls had thought of it they hadn’t brought it up. They had giggled as they divided the liquor among six identical enamel cups, their school registration numbers printed in red on the bottoms, and when they had encouraged one another to drink they’d done so with laughter and coughing and, later, tears. Why, her parents had asked her when it was all over; so had the parents of the five girls, wishing her dead, no doubt, so that their own daughters could be revived; the schoolteachers and the reporters had asked, and now, too, sitting across from her, a man whom she barely knew. “Why?” Walter said, his voice faraway, as if coming to her in a dream. “What happened?” “The other five girls drowned,” Suchen said. She did not say that none of them had known how to swim; nor did she say that after they had swallowed the liquor they had cried, not out of fear or regret but because there was nothing left, by then, for them to do. When they had stepped into the water, the boat had overturned, and the chaos afterward seemed to last only a few seconds—not much of a chaos, because Suchen did not remember any of her friends making a noise or struggling. For years, she had tried in vain to make sense of that moment of farewell, but all she could recall was two heads bobbing before vanishing under the boat, the linked arms of two other friends, and a wave from Meimei, the youngest of the six, as she sank beneath the surface. Suchen never understood what had driven her to grasp the oar at the last moment. The water had been cold, her teeth had chattered, but her hands had not let go of the oar—perhaps she had been a true coward, or perhaps she had been overcome by animal instinct, hanging on to life blindly. We had to, she had replied when her questioners would not leave her alone, although no one had understood her. At the border of life and death, said a folktale, there was a river called the River of Forgetting, and on the bridge an old woman called Mrs. Dream offered tea to travellers; once you drank her tea and crossed the bridge, you would forget everything on this side of the world. Many times, in the five weeks during which their talk had gone from a hazy idea to a concrete plan, they had promised one another that they would not drink Mrs. Dream’s tea. They would travel together in the next world as they had in this world, their love and understanding of one another free from families and other earthly burdens. “But why? Why did six young girls want to do a crazy thing like that?” Walter said, the gentle concern in his eyes replaced by an angry and disapproving look. “If only I knew the answer,” Suchen said. Afterward, while the girls’ parents and teachers groped for any possible explanation—divorced parents for one of the girls; an older sister’s failed affair that had ended with the birth of an illegitimate baby; difficult schoolwork; the unhealthy influence of cheap romance novels; hormones and adolescent mood swings—Suchen had remained contemptuously silent, the last warrior standing between the world and her felled comrades. Walter fidgeted in his seat, unable to find the right words for his curiosity—or perhaps he was simply eager to end the conversation. People would have shaken their heads in pity had one young girl decided to kill herself, but when six girls took a journey like that together people felt threatened and rejected by a bond they could not understand. Suchen imagined what Lei would have said had she told him the truth; over the years, she had thought of making the confession, thinking that a man who shared his life with her deserved more than a lie, more than silence. But how could she have explained to him that she had never guessed the meaning of Meimei’s wave, that she would never know if Meimei had been beckoning her to come along on a joyous journey or begging her, the last one afloat, to save her? Lei had insisted that a new life in a new country—marriage, friendship, children—would save her from her despair, but why would she want to be saved when her friends and their memories would become the casualties of her battle to live on? Suchen looked up at the afternoon sunshine, framed by the rectangular door, waiting to claim Walter and herself. Perhaps Walter would invite her once more to join him for the evening; perhaps she would say yes, another procrastination, like the detour from the coast. When they parted, both would feel vaguely comforted, he by the momentary warmth he had offered another human being whose senseless tragedy had eclipsed his bewilderment, she by the knowledge that it had been good of her to let Lei go, that he would not become an old man seeking companionship among the strangers in the world.
Premium Harmony They’ve been married for ten years and for a long time everything was O.K.—swell—but now they argue. Now they argue quite a lot. It’s really all the same argument. It has circularity. It is, Ray thinks, like a dog track. When they argue, they’re like greyhounds chasing the mechanical rabbit. You go past the same scenery time after time, but you don’t see it. You see the rabbit. He thinks it might be different if they’d had kids, but she couldn’t. They finally got tested, and that’s what the doctor said. It was her problem. A year or so after that, he bought her a dog, a Jack Russell she named Biznezz. She’d spell it for people who asked. She loves that dog, but now they argue anyway. They’re going to Wal-Mart for grass seed. They’ve decided to sell the house—they can’t afford to keep it—but Mary says they won’t get far until they do something about the plumbing and get the lawn fixed. She says those bald patches make it look shanty Irish. It’s because of the drought. It’s been a hot summer and there’s been no rain to speak of. Ray tells her grass seed won’t grow without rain no matter how good it is. He says they should wait. “Then another year goes by and we’re still there,” she says. “We can’t wait another year, Ray. We’ll be bankrupts.” When she talks, Biz looks at her from his place in the back seat. Sometimes he looks at Ray when Ray talks, but not always. Mostly he looks at Mary. “What do you think?” he says. “It’s going to rain just so you don’t have to worry about going bankrupt?” “We’re in it together, in case you forgot,” she says. They’re driving through Castle Rock now. It’s pretty dead. What Ray calls “the economy” has disappeared from this part of Maine. The Wal-Mart is on the other side of town, near the high school where Ray is a janitor. The Wal-Mart has its own stoplight. People joke about it. “Penny wise and pound foolish,” he says. “You ever hear that one?” “A million times, from you.” He grunts. He can see the dog in the rearview mirror, watching her. He sort of hates the way Biz does that. It occurs to him that neither of them knows what they are talking about. “And pull in at the Quik-Pik,” she says. “I want to get a kickball for Tallie’s birthday.” Tallie is her brother’s little girl. Ray supposes that makes her his niece, although he’s not sure that’s right, since all the blood is on Mary’s side. “They have balls at Wal-Mart,” Ray says. “And everything’s cheaper at Wally World.” “The ones at Quik-Pik are purple. Purple is her favorite color. I can’t be sure there’ll be purple at Wal-Mart.” “If there aren’t, we’ll stop at the Quik-Pik on the way back.” He feels a great weight pressing down on his head. She’ll get her way. She always does on things like this. He sometimes thinks marriage is like a football game and he’s quarterbacking the underdog team. He has to pick his spots. Make short passes. “It’ll be on the wrong side coming back,” she says—as if they are caught in a torrent of city traffic instead of rolling through an almost deserted little town where most of the stores are for sale. “I’ll just dash in and get the ball and dash right back out.” At two hundred pounds, Ray thinks, your dashing days are over. “They’re only ninety-nine cents,” she says. “Don’t be such a pinchpenny.” Don’t be so pound foolish, he thinks, but what he says is “Buy me a pack of smokes while you’re in there. I’m out.” “If you quit, we’d have an extra forty dollars a week. Maybe more.” He saves up and pays a friend in South Carolina to ship him a dozen cartons at a time. They’re twenty dollars a carton cheaper in South Carolina. That’s a lot of money, even in this day and age. It’s not like he doesn’t try to economize. He has told her this before and will again, but what’s the point? In one ear, out the other. “I used to smoke two packs a day,” he says. “Now I smoke less than half a pack.” Actually, most days he smokes more. She knows it, and Ray knows she knows it. That’s marriage after a while. The weight on his head gets a little heavier. Also, he can see Biz still looking at her. He feeds the damn dog, and he makes the money that pays for the food, but it’s her he’s looking at. And Jack Russells are supposed to be smart. He turns into the Quik-Pik. “You ought to buy them on Indian Island if you’ve got to have them,” she says. “They haven’t sold tax-free smokes on the rez for ten years,” he says. “I’ve told you that, too. You don’t listen.” He pulls past the gas pumps and parks beside the store. There’s no shade. The sun is directly overhead. The car’s air-conditioner only works a little. They are both sweating. In the back seat, Biz is panting. It makes him look like he’s grinning. “Well, you ought to quit,” Mary says. “And you ought to quit those Little Debbies,” he says. He doesn’t want to say this—he knows how sensitive she is about her weight—but out it comes. He can’t hold it back. It’s a mystery. “I don’t eat those no more,” she says. “Any, I mean. Anymore.” “Mary, the box is on the top shelf. A twenty-four-pack. Behind the flour.” “Were you snooping?” A flush rises in her cheeks, and he sees how she looked when she was still beautiful. Good-looking, anyway. Everybody said she was good-looking, even his mother, who didn’t like her otherwise. “I was hunting for the bottle opener,” he says. “I had a bottle of cream soda. The kind with the old-fashioned cap.” “Looking for it on the top shelf of the goddam cupboard!” “Go in and get the ball,” he says. “And get me some smokes. Be a sport.” “Can’t you wait until we get home? Can’t you even wait that long?” “You can get the cheap ones,” he says. “That off-brand. Premium Harmony, they’re called.” They taste like homemade shit, but all right. If she’ll only shut up about it. “Where are you going to smoke, anyway? In the car, I suppose, so I have to breathe it.” “I’ll open the window. I always do.” “I’ll get the ball. Then I’ll come back. If you still feel you have to spend four dollars and fifty cents to poison your lungs, you can go in. I’ll sit with the baby.” Ray hates it when she calls Biz the baby. He’s a dog, and he may be as bright as Mary likes to boast when they have company, but he still shits outside and licks where his balls used to be. “Buy a few Twinkies while you’re at it,” he tells her. “Or maybe they’re having a special on Ho Hos.” “You’re so mean,” she says. She gets out of the car and slams the door. He’s parked too close to the concrete cube of a building and she has to sidle until she’s past the trunk of the car, and he knows she knows he’s looking at her, seeing how she’s now so big she has to sidle. He knows she thinks he parked close to the building on purpose, to make her sidle, and maybe he did. “Well, Biz, old buddy, it’s just you and me.” Biz lies down on the back seat and closes his eyes. He may stand up on his back paws and shuffle around for a few seconds when Mary puts on a record and tells him to dance, and if she tells him (in a jolly voice) that he’s a bad boy he may go into the corner and sit facing the wall, but he still shits outside. He sits there and she doesn’t come out. Ray opens the glove compartment. He paws through the rat’s nest of papers, looking for some cigarettes he might have forgotten, but there aren’t any. He does find a Hostess Sno Ball still in its wrapper. He pokes it. It’s as stiff as a corpse. It’s got to be a thousand years old. Maybe older. Maybe it came over on the Ark. “Everybody has his poison,” he says. He unwraps the Sno Ball and tosses it into the back seat. “Want that, Biz?” Biz snarks the Sno Ball in two bites. Then he sets to work licking up bits of coconut off the seat. Mary would pitch a bitch, but Mary’s not here. Ray looks at the gas gauge and sees it’s down to half. He could turn off the motor and roll down the windows, but then he’d really bake. Sitting here in the sun, waiting for her to buy a purple plastic kickball for ninety-nine cents when he knows they could get one for seventy-nine cents at Wal-Mart. Only that one might be yellow or red. Not good enough for Tallie. Only purple for the princess. He sits there and Mary doesn’t come back. “Christ on a pony!” he says. Cool air trickles from the vents. He thinks again about turning off the engine, saving some gas, then thinks, Fuck it. She won’t weaken and bring him the smokes, either. Not even the cheap off-brand. This he knows. He had to make that remark about the Little Debbies. He sees a young woman in the rearview mirror. She’s jogging toward the car. She’s even heavier than Mary; great big tits shuffle back and forth under her blue smock. Biz sees her coming and starts to bark. Ray cracks the window an inch or two. “Are you with the blond-haired woman who just came in? She your wife?” She puffs the words. Her face shines with sweat. “Yes. She wanted a ball for our niece.” “Well, something’s wrong with her. She fell down. She’s unconscious. Mr. Ghosh thinks she might have had a heart attack. He called 911. You better come.” Ray locks the car and follows her into the store. It’s cold inside. Mary is lying on the floor with her legs spread and her arms at her sides. She’s next to a wire cylinder full of kickballs. The sign over the wire cylinder says “Hot Fun in the Summertime.” Her eyes are closed. She might be sleeping there on the linoleum. Three people are standing over her. One is a dark-skinned man in khaki pants and a white shirt. A nametag on the pocket of his shirt says “MR. GHOSH MANAGER.” The other two are customers. One is a thin old man without much hair. He’s in his seventies at least. The other is a fat woman. She’s fatter than Mary. Fatter than the girl in the blue smock, too. Ray thinks by rights she’s the one who should be lying on the floor. “Sir, are you this lady’s husband?” Mr. Ghosh asks. “Yes,” Ray says. That doesn’t seem to be enough. “Yes, I am.” “I am sorry to say, but I think she might be dead,” Mr. Ghosh says. “I gave the artificial respiration and the mouth-to-mouth, but . . .” Ray thinks of the dark-skinned man putting his mouth on Mary’s. French-kissing her, sort of. Breathing down her throat right next to the wire cylinder full of plastic kickballs. Then he kneels down. “Mary,” he says. “Mary!” Like he’s trying to wake her up after a hard night. She doesn’t appear to be breathing, but you can’t always tell. He puts his ear by her mouth and hears nothing. He feels air on his skin, but that’s probably just the air-conditioning. “This gentleman called 911,” the fat woman says. She’s holding a bag of Bugles. “Mary!” Ray says. Louder this time, but he can’t quite bring himself to shout, not down on his knees with people standing around. He looks up and says, apologetically, “She never gets sick. She’s healthy as a horse.” “You never know,” the old man says. He shakes his head. “She just fell down,” the young woman in the blue smock says. “Not a word.” “Did she grab her chest?” the fat woman with the Bugles asks. “I don’t know,” the young woman says. “I guess not. Not that I saw. She just fell down.” There’s a rack of souvenir T-shirts near the kickballs. They say things like “My Parents Were Treated Like Royalty in Castle Rock and All I Got Was This Lousy Tee-Shirt.” Mr. Ghosh takes one and says, “Would you like me to cover her face, sir?” “God, no!” Ray says, startled. “She might only be unconscious. We’re not doctors.” Past Mr. Ghosh, he sees three kids, teen-agers, looking in the window. One has a cell phone. He’s using it to take a picture. Mr. Ghosh follows Ray’s look and rushes at the door, flapping his hands. “You kids get out of here! You kids get out!” Laughing, the teen-agers shuffle backward, then turn and jog past the gas pumps to the sidewalk. Beyond them, the nearly deserted downtown shimmers. A car goes by pulsing rap. To Ray, the bass sounds like Mary’s stolen heartbeat. “Where’s the ambulance?” the old man says. “How come it’s not here yet?” Ray kneels by his wife while the time goes by. His back hurts and his knees hurt, but if he gets up he’ll look like a spectator. The ambulance turns out to be a Chevy Suburban painted white with orange stripes. The red jackpot lights are flashing. “CASTLE COUNTY RESCUE” is printed across the front, only backward, so you can read it in your rearview mirror. The two men who come in are dressed in white. They look like waiters. One pushes an oxygen tank on a dolly. It’s a green tank with an American-flag decal on it. “Sorry,” he says. “Just cleared a car accident over in Oxford.” The other one sees Mary lying on the floor. “Aw, gee,” he says. Ray can’t believe it. “Is she still alive?” he asks. “Is she just unconscious? If she is, you better give her oxygen or she’ll have brain damage.” Mr. Ghosh shakes his head. The young woman in the blue smock starts to cry. Ray wants to ask her what she’s crying about, then knows. She has made up a whole story about him from what he just said. Why, if he came back in a week or so and played his cards right, she might toss him a mercy fuck. Not that he would, but he sees that maybe he could. If he wanted to. Mary’s eyes don’t react to the ophthalmoscope. One E.M.T. listens to her nonexistent heartbeat, and the other takes her nonexistent blood pressure. It goes on like that for a while. The teen-agers come back with some of their friends. Other people, too. Ray guesses they’re being drawn by the flashing red lights on top of the Suburban the way bugs are drawn to a porch light. Mr. Ghosh takes another run at them, flapping his arms. They back away again. Then, when Mr. Ghosh returns to the circle around Mary and Ray, they come back. One of the E.M.T.s says to Ray, “She was your wife?” “Right.” “Well, sir, I’m sorry to say that she’s dead.” “Mary, Mother of God,” the fat lady with the Bugles says. She crosses herself. “Oh.” Ray stands up. His knees crack. “They told me she was.” Mr. Ghosh offers one of the E.M.T.s the souvenir T-shirt to put over Mary’s face, but the E.M.T. shakes his head and goes outside. He tells the little crowd that there’s nothing to see, as if anyone’s going to believe a dead woman on the Quik-Pik floor isn’t interesting. The E.M.T. yanks a gurney from the back of the rescue vehicle. He does it with a single flip of the wrist. The legs fold down all by themselves. The old man with the thinning hair holds the door open and the E.M.T. pulls his rolling deathbed inside. “Whoo, hot,” the E.M.T. says, wiping his forehead. “You may want to turn away for this part, sir,” the other one says, but Ray watches as they lift her onto the gurney. A sheet has been tucked down at the end of it. They pull it up all the way, until it’s over her face. Now Mary looks like a corpse in a movie. They roll her out into the heat. This time, the fat woman with the Bugles holds the door for them. The crowd has retreated to the sidewalk. There must be three dozen people standing in the unrelieved August sunshine. When Mary is stored, the E.M.T.s come back. One is holding a clipboard. He asks Ray about twenty-five questions. Ray can answer all but the one about her age. Then he remembers she’s three years younger than he is and tells them thirty-five. “We’re going to take her to St. Stevie’s,” the E.M.T. with the clipboard says. “You can follow us if you don’t know where that is.” “I know,” Ray says. “What? Do you want to do an autopsy? Cut her up?” The girl in the blue smock gives a gasp. Mr. Ghosh puts his arm around her, and she puts her face against his white shirt. Ray wonders if Mr. Ghosh is fucking her. He hopes not. Not because of Mr. Ghosh’s brown skin but because he’s got to be twice her age. “Well, that’s not our decision,” the E.M.T. says, “but probably not. She didn’t die unattended—” “I’ll say,” the woman with the Bugles interjects. “—and it’s pretty clearly a heart attack. You can probably have her released to the mortuary almost immediately.” Mortuary? An hour ago they were in the car, arguing. “I don’t have a mortuary,” Ray says. “Not a mortuary, a burial plot, nothing. What the hell? She’s thirty-five.” The two E.M.T.s exchange a look. “Mr. Burkett, there’ll be someone to help you with all that at St. Stevie’s. Don’t worry about it.” The E.M.T. wagon pulls out with the lights still flashing but the siren off. The crowd on the sidewalk starts to break up. The countergirl, the old man, the fat woman, and Mr. Ghosh look at Ray as though he’s someone special. A celebrity. “She wanted a purple kickball for our niece,” he says. “She’s having a birthday. She’ll be eight. Her name is Talia. Tallie for short. She was named for an actress.” Mr. Ghosh takes a purple kickball from the wire rack and holds it out to Ray in both hands. “On the house,” he says. “Thank you, sir,” Ray says, trying to sound equally solemn, and the woman with the Bugles bursts into tears. “Mary, Mother of God,” she says. She likes that one. They stand around for a while, talking. Mr. Ghosh gets sodas from the cooler. These are also on the house. They drink their sodas and Ray tells them a few things about Mary. He tells them how she made a quilt that took third prize at the Castle County fair. That was in ’02. Or maybe ’03. “That’s so sad,” the woman with the Bugles says. She has opened them and shared them around. They eat and drink. “My wife went in her sleep,” the old man with the thinning hair says. “She just laid down on the sofa and never woke up. We were married thirty-seven years. I always expected I’d go first, but that’s not the way the good Lord wanted it. I can still see her laying there on the sofa.” Finally, Ray runs out of things to tell them, and they run out of things to tell him. Customers are coming in again. Mr. Ghosh waits on some, and the woman in the blue smock waits on others. Then the fat woman says she really has to go. She gives Ray a kiss on the cheek before she does. “Now you need to see to your business, Mr. Burkett,” she tells him. Her tone is both reprimanding and flirtatious. He looks at the clock over the counter. It’s the kind with a beer advertisement on it. Almost two hours have gone by since Mary went sidling between the car and the cinder-block side of the Quik-Pik. And for the first time he thinks of Biz. When he opens the door, heat rushes out at him, and when he puts his hand on the steering wheel to lean in he pulls it back with a cry. It’s got to be a hundred and thirty in there. Biz is dead on his back. His eyes are milky. His tongue is protruding from the side of his mouth. Ray can see the wink of his teeth. There are little bits of coconut caught in his whiskers. That shouldn’t be funny, but it is. Not funny enough to laugh at, but funny. “Biz, old buddy,” he says. “I’m sorry. I forgot you were in here.” Great sadness and amusement sweep over him as he looks at the baked Jack Russell. That anything so sad should be funny is just a crying shame. “Well, you’re with her now, ain’t you?” he says, and this is so sad that he begins to cry. It’s a hard storm. While he’s crying, it comes to him that now he can smoke all he wants, and anywhere in the house. He can smoke right there at her dining-room table. “You’re with her now, Biz,” he says again through his tears. His voice is clogged and thick. It’s a relief to sound just right for the situation. “Poor old Mary, poor old Biz. Damn it all!” Still crying, and with the purple kickball still tucked under his arm, he goes back into the Quik-Pik. He tells Mr. Ghosh he forgot to get cigarettes. He thinks maybe Mr. Ghosh will give him a pack of Premium Harmonys on the house as well, but Mr. Ghosh’s generosity doesn’t stretch that far. Ray smokes all the way to the hospital with the windows shut and the air-conditioning on.
While the Women Are Sleeping For three weeks, I saw them every day, and now I don’t know what has become of them. I’ll probably never see them again—at least, not her. Summer conversations, and even confidences, rarely lead anywhere. I nearly always saw them at the beach, where it’s difficult to get a good look at people. Especially so for me, because I’m nearsighted and would rather see everything through a haze than return to Madrid with a kind of white mask on my otherwise perfectly tanned face, and I never wear my contact lenses when I go to the beach or into the sea, where they might be lost forever. Nevertheless, I was tempted to rummage around in the bag in which my wife, Luisa, keeps my glasses case—well, the temptation came from her, really, because she, if I may put it this way, was constantly transmitting to me the more peculiar activities of the more peculiar bathers around us. “Yes, I can see him, but only vaguely. I can’t make out his actual features,” I’d say when she pointed out some character she found particularly amusing. I’d squint in that direction, reluctant to get my glasses out only to have to return them to their hiding place once my curiosity was satisfied. Then one day Luisa, who knows the strangest and most insignificant things and is always surprising me with scraps of useful knowledge, passed me her straw hat and advised me to look through the gaps. And I discovered that by peering through the hat I could see almost as well as if I were wearing contact lenses—better, in fact, although my field of vision was greatly reduced. From that point on, I myself must have seemed like one of the more eccentric beachgoers, since I often had a woman’s straw hat, complete with ribbons, clamped to my face while I scanned the length and breadth of the beach near Fornells, where we were staying. Luisa, without a word of complaint or a flicker of annoyance, bought another hat, which she didn’t like as much, to shade her face—her fine-featured, open, and as yet unlined face. One afternoon, we entertained ourselves with the exploits of a small Italian sailor—that is, an insubordinate one-year-old wearing nothing but a sailor’s hat, who, as we kept reporting to each other, was going around destroying not only the fortifications built in the sand by his siblings and older cousins but doubtless also some of his progenitors’ long-term friendships, and doing so with the same aplomb with which he drank the salt water (he seemed to swallow gallons of the stuff), to the complete indifference of the adults accompanying him. His sailor’s hat kept falling off, leaving him completely naked, lying on the shore like a spurned cupid. Another day, we followed the despotic comments and idle comings and goings of a middle-aged Englishman—the island was heaving with English people—who kept up a kind of running commentary on the temperature, the sand, the wind, and the waves, speaking as emphatically and grandiloquently as if he were uttering a series of deep, long-pondered aphorisms. He had the virtue, one that is becoming increasingly rare, of believing that everything was important, or, rather, that everything that came from him was unique. He never swam, and when he did wade into the sea, never very far, he did so only in pursuit of one of his offspring so as to photograph him or her. With his stomach—but not his chest—wet from the waves, he would return to the shore, muttering further unforgettable pronouncements, which the wind promptly scattered, and pressing his camera to his ear, as if it were a radio, concerned, apparently, that it might have got splashed, a primitive way, I suppose, of checking that it had come to no harm. Then one day we saw them. I mean, they came to our attention—well, to Luisa’s first and then to mine, through my seeing hat. From then on, they became our favorites, and each morning, without realizing that we were doing so, we’d look for them before choosing a spot. On one occasion, we arrived at the beach before them, but shortly afterward we saw them roar up on a gigantic Harley-Davidson, with him at the handlebars wearing a black helmet, the straps hanging loose, and her clinging to him, her long hair streaming behind her. I think what drove us to seek them out was the fact that they offered us a rare sight, the kind it’s always hard to look away from: the spectacle of one human being adoring another. In accordance with the old and still valid rule, it was he, the man, who did the adoring, and she, the woman, who was the appropriately indifferent idol. She was beautiful, indolent, passive, and, by nature, languid. Throughout the three hours a day that we spent at the beach (they stayed longer, perhaps taking their siesta there and, who knows, staying until sunset), she barely moved and was, of course, concerned only with her own beautification. She dozed or was, at any rate, usually lying down, eyes closed, on her front, on her back, on one side, on the other, covered in sunscreen, her gleaming arms and legs always fully extended so that no part of her would remain untanned, no fold in her skin, not even her armpits or her groin (or, it goes without saying, her buttocks), because her bikini bottom was minuscule and revealed an area entirely free of hair. Now and then she would raise herself into a sitting position and then spend a long time with her knees drawn up while she painted her nails or, with a small hand mirror, scrutinized herself for blemishes or unwanted hair. It was odd to see her holding the mirror to the most unlikely parts of her body (it must have been a magnifying mirror), not just to her head and shoulders, I mean, but to her elbows, her calves, her hips, her breasts, the insides of her thighs, even her navel. In addition to her tiny bikini, she wore bracelets and various rings, never fewer than eight of the latter covering her fingers. I rarely saw her go into the water. It would be easy to say that she was a conventional beauty, but that would be a poor description—too broad and too vague. Rather, her beauty was unreal, which is to say ideal. It was what children think of as beauty, which is almost always (unless the children are already deviants) an immaculate beauty, unmarked, in repose, docile, gestureless, with very white skin and large breasts, round—or at least not almond-shaped—eyes, and with identical lips, that is, upper and lower lip identical, as if they were both lower lips: the kind of beauty you get in cartoons or in advertisements, and not in just any advertisements but in those you see in pharmacies, deliberately devoid of any hint of sensuality. Her male companion was what you might call fat, or even obese, and he must have been more than thirty years older than her. Like many bald men, he believed that he could make up for his lack by wearing what hair he had brushed forward, Roman style—which never works—and by cultivating an abundant mustache. He also believed that he could disguise his age, in this particular setting, by wearing a two-tone swimsuit—with the right leg lime green, the left leg purple. The suit was as small as his bulbous body allowed—it was inaccurate to speak of it as having legs, really—and this meant that his movements were always slightly constrained by the ever-present threat of the suit’s ripping. For he was in constant, agile motion, video camera in hand. Whereas his companion remained completely immobile for hours on end, he never ceased circling her, tirelessly filming her. He would stand on tiptoe, bend double, lie on the ground, on his back or his stomach, take pan shots, medium shots, closeups, tracking shots, and panoramic shots, from above and from below, full face, from the side, from behind. He filmed her inert face, her softly rounded shoulders, her voluminous breasts, her rather wide hips, her firm thighs, her far from tiny feet, her carefully painted toenails, her soles, her calves, her hairless groin and armpits. He filmed the beads of sweat provoked by the sun, probably even her pores—although that smooth, uniform skin seemed to have no pores, no folds or bumps, and not a single stretch mark marred her buttocks. The fat man filmed her every day for hours at a time, with few breaks, always recording the same scene: the stillness and tedium of the unreal beauty who accompanied him. He wasn’t interested in the sand or the water, which changed color as the day wore on, or the trees or the rocks in the distance, or a kite flying or a boat far off, or other women, the little Italian sailor, the despotic Englishman, or Luisa. He didn’t ask the young woman to do anything—to play games, to make an effort, or to pose. He seemed content with making a visual record, day after day, of that naked, statuary figure, of that slow, docile flesh, of that inexpressive face and those closed or, perhaps, fastidious eyes, of a knee bending or a breast tilting or a forefinger slowly removing a speck from a cheek. Where Luisa or I or anyone else saw only repetition and tedium, he must, at every moment, have seen a remarkable spectacle, as multiform, varied, and absorbing as a painting can be when the viewer forgets about the other paintings waiting for him and loses all notion of time, and loses, too, therefore, the habit of looking, which is replaced or supplanted—or, perhaps, excluded—by the capacity to see, which is what we almost never do, because it’s so at odds with the purely temporal. They spoke little and only occasionally, in short sentences that never became conversation or dialogue, any hint of which died a natural death, interrupted by the attention that the woman was giving to her body, in which she was utterly absorbed, and by the indirect attention that the man, too, was giving to her body, through his camera lens. In fact, I don’t recall his ever stopping to look at her directly, with his own eyes, with nothing between his eyes and her. In that respect, he was like me, for I, in turn, viewed them either through the veil of my myopia or through my magnifying hat. Of the four of us, only Luisa could see everything without difficulty or mediation. I don’t think the woman saw or even looked at anyone; she used her mirror only to scrutinize and inspect, and often put on a pair of extravagant space-age sunglasses. “The sun’s hot today, isn’t it? You should put on more sunscreen—you don’t want to burn,” the fat man would say, pausing in his circular tours of his adored one’s body, and when he didn’t receive an immediate answer he’d say her name, the way mothers say their children’s names: “Inés. Inés.” “Yes, it’s definitely hotter than yesterday, but I’ve put on some S.P.F. ten,” Inés replied, reluctantly and barely audibly, while, with a pair of tweezers, she plucked a tiny hair from her chin. And there the conversation would end. One day, Luisa—because she and I did have conversations—said, “To be honest, I don’t know whether I’d enjoy being filmed like poor Inés. It would make me nervous, although I suppose I’d get used to it in the end if someone was doing it all the time, like the fat man. And then perhaps I’d take as much care of myself as she does, although she probably takes so much care only because she’s constantly being filmed and knows she’ll see herself later on film—or perhaps just for posterity.” Luisa rummaged around in her bag, took out a small mirror, and studied her eyes, which, in the sun, were the color of plums, with iridescent flecks in them. “Then again what kind of posterity would want to waste its time watching those tedious videos? Do you think he films her the rest of the day, too?” “Probably,” I said. “Why limit himself to the beach? I doubt he needs it as an excuse to see her naked.” “I don’t think he films her just because she’s naked. I bet he does it all the time, perhaps even when she’s sleeping. It’s touching, really. He obviously thinks only of her. Poor Inés. Not that she seems to mind.” That night, after we got into our double bed at the hotel, both at once, each on our own side, I lay thinking about the things we’d said, which I’ve just set down in writing, and, unable to sleep, I spent a long time watching Luisa sleeping, in the dark, with only the moon to light her. “Poor Inés,” she had said. Her breathing was very soft, but still audible in the silence of the room, the hotel, and the island. Her body was immobile, apart from her eyelids, beneath which her eyes were doubtless moving about, as though they couldn’t get used to not doing at night what they did during the day. Perhaps the fat man is awake, too, I thought, filming the beautiful Inés’s perfectly still eyelids, or maybe he is pulling the sheets off her and very carefully arranging her body in different positions to film in her sleep. With her nightgown pushed up, perhaps, or with her legs apart, if she isn’t wearing a nightgown or pajamas. Luisa didn’t wear a nightgown or pajamas in the summer, but she did wrap the sheet around her like a toga, clasping it to her with both hands, though a shoulder or the nape of her neck would sometimes come uncovered, and then, if I noticed it, I would cover her up again. I got up and went over to the balcony to kill time until sleep came, and from there, leaning on the balustrade, I looked up at the sky and then down, and that was when I thought I saw the fat man sitting alone by the swimming pool, in the dark, the water reflecting the stars. I didn’t recognize him at first, because he didn’t have his mustache. His clothes were as ugly and incongruous as his two-tone swimsuit—a baggy shirt, which looked black from my balcony but was probably patterned, and a pair of light-colored slacks that appeared to be a very pale blue, though that was possibly a reflection from the nearly invisible water. On his feet he wore a pair of red moccasins, and his socks (imagine wearing socks on the island) seemed to be the same color as his trousers, but, again, that might have been the effect of the moonlight on the water. He was resting his head on one hand and the corresponding elbow on the arm of a floral-patterned lounge chair. He didn’t have his camera with him. I hadn’t realized that they were staying at the same hotel as us, since we had only ever seen them at the beach, to the north of Fornells, in the mornings. He was alone, as motionless as Inés on the beach, although now and then he switched from that drowsy, relaxed pose of head and elbow to another, apparently contrary position, his face buried in his hands, his feet tucked under him, as if he were exhausted or tense or possibly laughing to himself. At one point, he took off a shoe or accidentally dropped it, but he didn’t immediately reach out his foot to recover it—he just stayed like that, his stockinged foot on the grass, which gave him a helpless look, at least from my fourth-floor perspective. I got dressed in the dark, taking care not to make any noise, and checked that Luisa was well wrapped in her sheet-cum-toga. She hadn’t woken up when I got out of bed but had somehow sensed my absence in her sleep, for she was lying diagonally now, her legs invading my space. I went down in the elevator, not having checked the time, past the night porter, who was sleeping uncomfortably, his head on the counter, like a future decapitee; I had left my watch upstairs, and everything lay in silence, apart from the slight noise made by my black moccasins. (I wasn’t wearing socks.) I slid open the glass door that led to the swimming pool and, once I was outside on the grass, closed it again. The fat man raised his head, glanced over at the door, and immediately noticed my presence, although he couldn’t identify me in the dim light. “You’ve shaved off your mustache,” I said, running my index finger over my upper lip. I was not quite sure that I should be making such a comment. Before he could reply, I had reached his side and sat down on a lounge chair next to him, a striped one. I think that this was the first time I had seen his face without a camera to his eye or a hat to mine. He had an affable face, alert eyes, and his features weren’t ugly, simply fat. He struck me as one of those handsome bald men, like the actor Michel Piccoli or the pianist Richter. He looked younger without his mustache, or perhaps it was the red moccasins, one of which still lay upturned on the grass. He must have been at least fifty. “Oh, it’s you. I didn’t recognize you at first with your clothes on. We usually only see each other in our swimming gear. Can’t you sleep?” “No,” I said. “The air-conditioning in the room doesn’t always help. You’re better off out here, I think. Do you mind if I join you for a while?” “No, of course not. My name’s Alberto Viana,” and he shook my hand. “I’m from Barcelona.” “I’m from Madrid,” I said and told him my name. Then there was a silence, and I wondered whether I should make some trivial remark about the island or about holidays or some other almost equally trivial remark about the activities we had observed on the beach. It was my curiosity about those activities that had led me to his side by the pool—well, that and my insomnia, although I could have continued to struggle with it upstairs or even woken Luisa, but I hadn’t. I was speaking almost in a whisper. It was unlikely that anyone could hear us, but the sight of Luisa and of the night porter sound asleep had given me the feeling that if I raised my voice I would disturb their slumber, and my hushed tones immediately infected or influenced the way Viana spoke. “I’ve noticed that you’re very keen on video cameras,” I said after that pause, that hesitation. “Video cameras?” he said, slightly surprised or as if to gain time. “Ah, I see. No, not really, I’m not a collector. It isn’t the camera itself that interests me, although I do use it a lot. It’s my girlfriend, whom you’ve seen, I’m sure. I film only her, nothing else. I don’t experiment with it at all. That’s fairly obvious, I suppose.” And he gave a short laugh, half amused, half embarrassed. “Yes, of course, my wife and I have both noticed. I think she feels slightly envious of the attention you lavish on your girlfriend. It’s very unusual. I don’t even have a regular camera. But then we’ve been married for some time.” “You don’t have a camera? Don’t you like to be able to remember things?” Viana asked me this with genuine confusion. As I had suspected, his shirt did have a pattern, a multicolored blend of palm trees and anchors and dolphins and ships’ prows, but nevertheless the predominant color was the black I had seen from above. His trousers and socks still appeared to be pale blue. “Yes, of course I do, but you can remember things in other ways, don’t you think? Memory is a kind of camera, except that we don’t always remember what we want to remember or forget what we want to forget.” “What nonsense,” Viana said. He was a frank fellow, not at all the reserved type, and he could say what he had said without causing offense. He gave another short laugh. “How can you compare what you can remember with what you can see, with what you can see again, just as it happened? With what you can watch over and over, ad infinitum, and even freeze? What nonsense,” he repeated. “Yes, you’re right,” I agreed. “But you’re not telling me that you film your girlfriend all the time so that you can remember her later? Is she perhaps an actress? Though she wouldn’t have time, would she, given that you appear to film her every day. And if you film her every day there isn’t time for what you’ve shot even to begin to be forgotten or for you to feel the need to recall her in that faithful manner by watching her again on film. Unless you’re keeping the films for when you’re both old and want to relive your stay here in Minorca hour by hour.” “Oh, I don’t keep them all, no, only a few brief fragments, maybe one tape every three or four months. And, no, she isn’t an actress. What I do here, and at home, too, is wait a day before I erase the previous day’s tape, if you see what I mean. All this time, I’ve used only two tapes, always the same ones. I use one today, then use another one tomorrow, and then, the day after, I tape over the first one and erase it that way. I won’t have time to tape much tomorrow, because we’re going back to Barcelona. My holiday’s over.” “I see. But then, once you’re home, what will you do? Make a montage of everything you’ve filmed?” “No, you don’t see. Artistic videos are one thing, made in order to be filed away. They get put aside, one cassette every four months or so. The daily tapings are a separate matter. Those get erased every other day.” It may have been the lateness of the hour, but I still didn’t entirely understand, especially the second part of his explanation. And I wasn’t that interested in the direction the conversation had taken—about artistic videos (that’s what he said) and erased tapes, the day-to-day ones. I considered saying good night and going back up to my room, but I wasn’t sleepy, and I thought that if I did go back I would probably end up waking Luisa just so that she would talk to me. “But,” I said, “why do you film her every day if you erase it afterward?” “I film her because she’s going to die,” Viana said. He had stretched out his stockinged foot and dipped his big toe into the water, moving it slowly back and forth, his leg fully extended, for he could only just reach far enough to touch the surface. I fell silent for a few seconds, and then, as I watched him stirring the water, I asked, “Is she ill?” Viana pursed his lips and ran his hand over his bald head, as if he still had hair and was smoothing it, a gesture from the past. He was thinking. Finally, he spoke again, to answer not my last question but the previous one. “I film her every day because she’s going to die, and I want to have a record of her last day, of what might be her last day, so that I can really remember it, so that when she’s dead I can see it again as often as I wish, along with the artistic videos. Because I do like to remember things.” “But is she ill?” I asked again. “No, she’s not ill,” he said, this time without pausing to think. “At least as far as I know. But she’ll die one day. You know that. Everyone knows that. Everyone is going to die, and I want to preserve her image. The last day in anyone’s life is important.” “Of course,” I said, looking at his foot. “You’re being cautious. She might have an accident, for example.” And I thought (but only briefly) that if Luisa were to die in an accident I wouldn’t have many pictures to remember her by, hardly any images at all. I certainly didn’t have any videos of her. Without thinking, I glanced up at the balcony from which I had observed Viana. There were no lights on anywhere. Viana was again immersed in thought, although now he had removed his foot from the water and placed it again—with the tip of the sock wet and dark—on the grass. I began to think that he didn’t like the direction the conversation had taken, and again I considered saying good night and going up to my room. Yes, I suddenly wanted to go up to my room and see Luisa, asleep—not dead—wrapped in her sheet, with one shoulder perhaps uncovered. But conversations, once begun, can’t be abandoned just like that. Viana was saying something, not in a whisper now, but as if muttering to himself. “I’m sorry, what did you say?” I asked. “No, I’m not thinking that she might have an accident,” he replied, his voice suddenly too loud, as if he had miscalculated the shift in tone between talking to himself and talking to someone else. “Lower your voice,” I said, alarmed, although there was no reason to feel alarmed; it was unlikely that anyone would hear us. I glanced again at the balconies, but they all still lay in darkness. No one had woken up. Viana was startled by my order and immediately lowered his voice, but he wasn’t startled enough not to continue what he had begun to say. “I said that I’m not thinking she might have an accident. But she’ll definitely die before me, if you see what I mean.” “Why are you so sure of that if she isn’t ill? You’re much older. The normal thing would be for you to die before her.” Viana laughed again and, stretching his leg out farther, dipped his whole stockinged foot into the water and began to move it slowly, heavily around, more heavily than before because now his whole foot—that wide, obese foot—was submerged. “Normal,” he said, laughing. “Normal,” he repeated. “Nothing is normal between her and me. Or, rather, nothing is normal as regards my relationship with her, and never has been. I’ve known her since she was a child. Don’t you see? I adore her.” “Yes, I see that. It’s obvious that you adore her. I adore my wife, Luisa, as well,” I added, in order to counter what he clearly considered to be the extraordinary nature of his adoration of Inés. “But we are more or less the same age, so who knows which of us will die first?” “You adore her? Don’t make me laugh. You don’t even own a camera. You have no interest in remembering her exactly as she was, were you to lose her, or in seeing her again when it will no longer be possible to see her.” This time, fat Viana’s remark did bother me a little; I found it impertinent. I noticed this because I felt that there was something wounded and involuntary about my ensuing silence, something fearful, too, as if I suddenly no longer dared ask him anything and had no option but to listen to whatever he chose to tell me. It was as if that abrupt, indelicate remark had entirely taken over the conversation. And I realized that my fear came also from his use of the past tense. He had said “exactly as she was” when referring to Luisa, when he should have said “exactly as she is.” I decided to leave him and go back up to my room. I was feeling rather angry. However, after a few seconds Viana continued talking, and by then it was too late not to continue to listen. “What you say is very true, but it hardly takes a genius to work that out,” he said. “It’s actually quite difficult to know who will die first. To know that, you have to be a part of it, if you know what I mean. Not to disrupt the order of our dying—that would be impossible—but to be a part of it. Listen, when I said that I adore Inés, I meant it literally: I adore her. It’s not just a turn of phrase, a meaningless, garden-variety expression that you and I can share, for example. What you call ‘adoring’ has nothing whatever to do with what I call ‘adoring.’ We share the word because there is no other, but we don’t share its meaning. I adore her and have adored her ever since I first met her, and I know that I’ll continue to adore her for many years to come. That’s why it can’t last much longer—because that feeling has been the same inside me for too many years now, unvarying. Soon, it will become unbearable—it already is. And because, one day, it will all become unbearable to me, she will have to die before me, when I can no longer stand my adoration of her. One day, I’ll have to kill her, do you see?” Having said that, Viana lifted his dripping foot out of the water and rested it and its sodden silk sock carefully and distastefully on the grass. “You’ll catch cold,” I said. “You’d better take off your sock.” Viana did as I suggested and removed the drenched sock, mechanically, indifferently. For a few seconds, he held it, again distastefully, between two fingers, and then he draped it over the back of his chair, where it began to drip, with the smell of wet cloth. Now he had one bare foot and the other still covered by a pale-blue sock and a rabidly red moccasin. The bare foot was wet, and the covered foot very dry. I found it hard to look away from the former, but perhaps fixing my gaze on something was a way of deceiving my ears, of pretending that what mattered were Viana’s feet and not what he had said: that one day he would have to kill Inés. “What are you saying? Are you crazy?” I didn’t want to continue the conversation, but I said precisely the words that obliged him to do so. “Crazy? What I’m going to tell you now is, in my view, totally logical,” Viana replied, and he again smoothed his nonexistent hair. “I’ve known Inés since she was a child, since she was seven years old. Now she’s twenty-three. She’s the daughter of a couple who were great friends of mine until five years ago, but who no longer are, because, as is perfectly normal, they’re angry that their eighteen-year-old daughter went off to live with a friend of theirs, and they want nothing more to do with me or, almost, with her. I used to go to my friends’ house often, and there I would see Inés, and I adored her. She adored me, too, but in a different way, of course. She couldn’t know it at the time but I knew at once, and I decided to prepare myself, to wait the eleven years until she came of age. I didn’t want to act in haste and ruin everything, and during the last few months I was the one who had to hold her back. It’s what some people call ‘fixation,’ and I call ‘adoration.’ I worked out that by the time she was eighteen I would be nearly fifty, and so I took good care of myself, for her sake. I took enormous care of myself, although I couldn’t do anything about my weight—your metabolism changes as you get older—or about my baldness. There’s still no satisfactory remedy for that, and, as I’m sure you’ll agree, a toupee is too undignified. But I spent eleven years going to gyms and eating healthily and having checkups every three months—I have an absolute horror of operations—avoiding other women, avoiding diseases, and, of course, preparing myself mentally: listening to the same records she listened to, learning games, watching TV, children’s shows and years of ads. I know all the jingles by heart. As for reading matter, well, you can imagine. First I read comic books, then adventure books, a few romantic novels, the Spanish literature she was studying at school, as well as the Catalan, Manelic and the wolf, and all that. I still read whatever she happens to be reading, American writers, mainly—there are hundreds of them. I’ve played a lot of tennis and squash, done a bit of skiing, and, on weekends, I’ve often had to travel to Madrid or San Sebastián just so that she could go to the races, and here we’ve been to all the fiestas in all the villages to see the horses and their riders. You may also have noticed me riding a motorcycle. And you’ve seen how I dress, although, of course, in summer anything goes.” Viana made an eloquent gesture with his right hand, as if taking in his whole outfit. “Do you see what I’m saying? All these years, I’ve led a parallel existence—I’m a lawyer, by the way, specializing in divorce. First a childhood existence, then an adolescent one—I was the king of video games—and, since I couldn’t go to the movies with her, I’d go on my own to see all those teen movies about thugs and extraterrestrials. I’ve led a parallel existence, but one with no continuity, because it’s incredibly hard to stay up to date—young people’s interests change all the time. You said that you and your wife are about the same age, so your fields of reference must be very similar. It’s easy for you. Just imagine if it weren’t like that—imagine the long silences there would be in your conversations. And the worst thing would be having to explain everything, every reference, every allusion, every joke about your own past or your own era. Best not to bother. I had a long wait, and, what’s more, I had to reject my own past and create, as much as possible, another one that coincided with hers, with what would become her past.” Viana paused for a moment, very briefly. Our eyes were accustomed now to the darkness and to the light from the water. We were on an island. I had no watch. Luisa was sleeping and Inés was sleeping, too, each in her own room, lying diagonally across a double bed. Perhaps they missed us in their sleep. Or perhaps not, perhaps they felt relieved. “But all that effort is over now. It no longer matters. What matters is my adoration, my immutable adoration. So identical to what it was sixteen years ago that I can’t see it changing in the near future. And it would be disastrous if it did change. I’ve been devoted to her for too long now, devoted to her growing up, to her education. I couldn’t live any other way. For her, though, it’s different. She has fulfilled her childhood dream, her childhood fixation, and five years ago, when she came to live with me, she was as happy as or even happier than I was, because my house had been entirely designed for her. But her character is still developing. She’s very dependent on novelty; she’s drawn to the outside world; she’s looking around to see what else there is and what awaits her beyond me. Don’t think I don’t understand that. On the contrary. I foresaw that it would happen, but the fact that I understand doesn’t help one iota. We all have to lead our own life, and we have only the one life, and the only people who can live life not according to their own desires are those who have no desires—which is the majority, actually. People can say what they like, they can speak of abnegation, sacrifice, generosity, acceptance, and resignation, but it’s all false. The norm is for people to think that they desire whatever comes to them, whatever they achieve along the way or whatever is given to them—they have no preconceived desires. My adoration is excessive. That’s what makes it adoration. The length of time I had to wait was excessive, too. And now I continue to wait, but the nature of my waiting has been turned on its head. Before, I was waiting to gain something; now all I can expect is for it to end. Before, I was waiting to be given a gift; now I expect only loss. Before, I was waiting for growth; now I expect decay. Not just mine, you understand, but hers, too, and that’s something that I’m not prepared for. You’re probably thinking that I’m making too many assumptions, that nothing is entirely foreseeable, just as the order of our dying is unforeseeable, as I said before. And perhaps we will grow old together. But if that were the case, if all those years together did lie ahead of us, my adoration would still lead me to the same situation. Or do you imagine that I could allow my adoration to die? Do you think I could watch her age and deteriorate without resorting to the sole remedy that exists, namely, that she should die first? Do you imagine that, having known her as a seven-year-old (a seven-year-old), I could bear to see Inés in her fifties or even her forties, with no trace of her childhood left? Don’t be absurd. It’s like asking some particularly long-lived father to celebrate the old age of his own children. Parents refuse to see their children transformed into old people. They hate them. They jump over them, and see only their grandchildren, if they have any. Time is always opposed to what it originated, to what is.” Viana buried his face in his hands, as I had seen him do from above. And I saw then that this gesture had nothing to do with suppressed laughter but was evidence of a kind of panic that nevertheless failed to ruffle his serenity. I glanced up at my balcony again and at the other balconies, but all still lay in silence, dark and empty, as if beyond the balconies, beyond the windows and the net curtains, inside the numerous identical rooms, there was no one sleeping—no Luisa, no Inés, no one. He went on speaking, his face still covered. “That’s why time offers no solution. I would rather kill her than allow my adoration to die, you understand. I would rather kill her than allow her to leave me, than allow my adoration to continue without its object. I can delay it for as long as possible, but it’s only a matter of time. And just in case, you see, I film her every day.” “Haven’t you ever considered killing yourself?” I blurted out. I had been listening to him not because I wanted to but because I could do nothing else. I felt that the best way of not taking part in the conversation was to say nothing, to behave as if I were the mere repository of his confidences, without offering any objections or advice, without refuting or agreeing or being shocked. My eyes felt itchy. I wished that Luisa’s sheets would slide off her and wake her up, that she would notice my absence and, like me, go out onto the balcony, that she would see me down below, by the swimming pool, in the feeble glow cast by the moon on the water, and summon me upstairs. I’ll have to read the newspapers closely from now on, I thought, as I sat listening to him. Each time there’s a headline about a woman who has died at the hands of a man, I’ll have to read the whole article until I find their names. What a drag. Now I’ll always fear that Inés is the dead woman and Viana the man who killed her. Although it might all be lies, everything he’s telling me, here on this island, while the women are sleeping. “Kill myself? That wouldn’t be right,” Viana answered, removing his hands from his face. He looked at me with an expression more of amusement than of surprise, or so it seemed in the darkness. “It would be even less right for you to kill Inés just so that you can continue to adore her on tape once she’s dead.” “No, you haven’t understood. It would be right for me to kill her for the reasons I’ve explained. No one willingly gives up his way of life if he has a fairly good idea of how he wants to live it, and I do, which is unusual. And—how can I put it?—murder is a very male practice, just as execution is, but not suicide, which is as common among women as it is among men. Earlier, I mentioned that Inés has a glimmering of what lies beyond me, but beyond me there is nothing. For her, at least, there is nothing. She may not realize it yet, but she should. If I were to kill myself, that wouldn’t be the case, and beyond me there must be nothing, do you see?” Viana’s foot appeared to have dried off, but the sock on the back of the lounge chair was still dripping rapidly onto the grass. I could almost feel its dampness on my own shod feet. I could imagine what it would be like to put that wet sock on. I took off my left shoe so as to scratch the sole of that foot with the black moccasin on my right foot. “Why are you telling me all this? Aren’t you afraid I’ll report you? Or talk to Inés in the morning?” Viana laced his fingers behind his neck and leaned back in his lounge chair, and his bald head touched the wet sock. He reacted at once and sat up again, as you do when a fly brushes your skin. He put on the red moccasin that he had taken off some time before, when I was still standing on our balcony, and this somehow dissipated any air of helplessness he might have had, and it occurred to me suddenly that the conversation might end. “You can’t report intentions,” he said. “We leave for Barcelona tomorrow. You and I will never see each other again. We leave early—there’ll be no time to go to the beach. Tomorrow, you’ll have forgotten all about this. You won’t want to remember. You won’t take it seriously. You won’t try to find out anything. You won’t even tell your wife what we talked about—why worry her?—because deep down you don’t want to believe me. You’ll manage, don’t worry.” Viana hesitated, then went on, “You may not think so, but if you were to warn Inés you would simply accelerate the process, and I would have to kill her tomorrow, do you understand?” He hesitated again, looked up at the sky, at the moon, and down at the water, then repeated that gesture of panic, covering his face, and continued speaking. “And who’s to say that you would be able to speak to her tomorrow? Who’s to say that I didn’t kill her already—tonight, before coming down here? Who’s to say that she isn’t already dead and that’s why I’m talking to you now? Anyone can die at any moment. We’ve known this since we were children. You left your own wife sleeping, but how do you know that she hasn’t died while you’ve been down here talking to me? Perhaps she’s dying right now. How do you know that Inés didn’t die, at my hands—and that’s why I shaved off my mustache—before you came down, before I came down? Or Inés and your wife? How do you know that both of them haven’t died while they were sleeping?” I didn’t believe him. Inés’s ideal beauty was resting, her eight rings on the bedside table, her voluminous breasts safely under the sheets, her breathing regular, her identical lips half open like a child’s, her hairless pubis leaving a slight stain, that strange nocturnal secretion women make. Luisa was asleep, I had seen her, her fine-featured, open, and as yet unlined face, her restless eyes moving beneath her eyelids, as if they couldn’t get used to not doing at night what they did during the day—unlike Inés’s eyes, which were probably quite still now, during the sleep she needed to maintain her immutable beauty. Both were sleeping—that’s why they hadn’t come out onto their balconies. Luisa hadn’t died in my absence, however long it had been. Instinctively, I glanced up toward the rooms, toward my balcony and toward all the balconies, and on one of them I saw a figure wrapped in a sheet toga and heard it call to me twice, say my name, as mothers say their children’s names. I stood up. But on Inés’s balcony, whichever it was, there was no one.
Procedure in Plain Air Later, after the men in jumpsuits had driven up and begun digging the hole, Stevick would remember that the guy on the bench beside him had been gazing puzzledly into the cone of his large coffee and had tried to interest him in the question of whether the café’s brew aftertasted of soap or not. This day was gray, with heavy portents of rain. Not the best for sitting on the coffee shop’s bench, but the interior of the café had become insufferable in all ways to Stevick: the shop’s ambience and fancy name, its well-programmed iPod and fake-industrial chairs and tables and counters succeeding too completely, the room seething with overdressed-dishevelled types, nerve-rackedly Web surfing or doing the real-world equivalent with eye orbits through the room, every last one of whom made him feel mossy, corroded, replaced. Add to that the danger of running into his ex, Charlotte, and he never even glanced within in hope of a seat—he didn’t want one. Just black, to go. He was an outdoor-bencher, he’d take his chances with the others here, backs to the shop’s window, and if rain drove them off he’d have it to himself. Nor did he care to consider whether the coffee tasted of soap or not. He was getting his morning thrill on, his eye-opener, and this place, besides being on the right corner of the right block for him to stumble in, made a fine, joltingly strong concoction strictly from the addict’s point of view. It could taste of lysergic acid or oysters, for all he cared. Maybe every cup of coffee he’d ever drunk had tasted of soap, so he couldn’t discern soap from coffee—who knew? Stevick, meant to be job hunting, wasn’t. Too generous severance had blurred his motivation in the months when it would have mattered. Now, season slanting to Memorial Day, the flag of Manhattan’s office life was at half-mast until September. So Stevick was propped like a morning crow on that bench when the truck arrived. His front-row seat recalled to him memories of childhood puppet shows, of gazing up at the slotted stage from which Punch and Judy and their like protruded. The soapy-coffee theorist was curled over some device, brow knit, thumbs-deep in a text-message campaign, making Stevick the only witness to the disembarkment of the truck’s occupants. They parked, apparently heedlessly, in the space in front of a hydrant, but without coming nearer than three feet to the curb. Cars slowed to pass. Stevick doubted that a garbage truck could have made it through. Surely a temporary placement, a compromise, then. The vehicle was an ungainly bolted-iron thing, resembling some reconfigured laundry or diaper truck, not massive like those used for transport of money, but solid enough in its way. Two men in jumpsuits popped out of the cab, and within a minute had orange traffic cones up to claim the territory that extended a few feet behind the truck, as well as between it and the curb. One contemplated the hydrant and then wryly topped it with a cone, which perched there like a dunce cap. It made an effective preëmption of any indigenous neighborhood protest, an easy trump: the men in jumpsuits seemed to have some official function, even if their truck was unmarked. The tools with which the two men dug the hole were notably quiet and efficient. After first marking a square of asphalt with yellow spray paint, using a band saw of daunting size and intensity they carved the blacktop along the lines of drying paint. At this point, Stevick’s might still have been the only eyes attending. Perhaps these activities had drawn distracted, unsustained glances from a passing postal worker or nanny. Certainly nobody emerged into the chill morning from the café’s interior, where those not obliviously earbudded were likely hunkered in routine annoyance against the saw’s zip, much as they’d be for a passing siren or the clunk of a truck’s axle in a pothole—nothing off the ordinary urban-decibel scale. The soap complainer had wandered away when Stevick wasn’t looking. The jackhammers, though, drew complaint. Several exasperated café denizens packed their laptops and muttered in the loose direction of the truck and its jumpsuited operatives as they fled the scene, like birds flitting to another treetop, and no more courageous. One of the café’s counterpersons, a chubby guy in an apron, seeing business spooked, made a more forthright protest, even shaking his fist. But the small dimension of the task blunted his protest: by the time the jumpsuited pair had ignored the counterperson for a minute or two, minute smiles perhaps rippling their lips—or was this an effect of the device’s vibration?—they were shifting the jackhammer back into the truck, in favor of shovels and picks, with which they deftly cleared the hole of shattered black chunks. Stevick nodded consolation to the counterperson, who had, after all, poured his soapy coffee forty-five minutes before. What remained of it was cold. The excavation was complete by the time Stevick wandered by half an hour later, having picked up his dry cleaning from the Korean and used his own bathroom before circling back to the café. Rain still threatened, hadn’t arrived. Stevick couldn’t say why he was enthralled by the activities that had commenced with the truck’s arrival; some intimation, he supposed in retrospect, though it wasn’t uncommon for him to buzz the café two or three times in a procrastinating morning. The hole was steep and accurate, hewing to the spray-painted plan still visible in two corners where the lines of paint, meeting, had pooled and blurred: an inverted phone booth of emptied dirt and rubble. Three fat fitted planks lay stacked beside the hole, sized to make a rough cover, Stevick guessed. The hole’s former contents had been heaped precariously at the curb—the hydrant wasn’t likely to be back in commission too soon, at this rate. The orange cone remained, like an ill-fitted condom stuck on its head. The truck, however, was gone. And then it was back, jerking to a halt at the curb before him, as if responsive to Stevick’s own presence, to his attentions; however absurd this notion might be, Stevick had conceived it. With an unhurried persistence, the jumpsuited men emerged again and opened the van’s rear, then stepped inside to wrangle out what at first might have seemed another object but then revealed itself to be a man, a human captive. The man was dressed in the same uniform, as though recently demoted from their company. But his skin, Stevick noted wearily, as if this fact beckoned to outrage he ought to feel rising within him but didn’t, was darker than theirs. His head shaved, where their hair was intact; his two-or-three-day beard rough, where theirs were, in one case, trimmed into a goatee and, in the other, shaved clean. So the jumpsuits, rather than suggesting equivalence between the three, framed difference. A cruddy cloth gagged the captive’s mouth; another bound his wrists in front of him. His eyes didn’t trouble to plead as his captors led him to the fresh hole and lowered him within, taking care not to scuff his elbows on the crumbled lip. They’d measured well: the captive nestled just underneath the three fat boards when these were fitted over his head. One of the jumpsuited operatives stood atop the boards, testing their firmness with apparent satisfaction, while the other quickly loaded the cones into the back of the truck. Now, at last, the rain began to fall. “How—?” Stevick began, then faltered, unsure of his question. “How long are you going to leave him in there?” The two could barely be bothered to hesitate, in their hurry for the shelter of the truck’s cab. “We’re on installation and delivery,” the clean-shaven one said as he assumed the driver’s seat. “Pick-up’s another department.” “Are we talking hours or days or weeks?” Stevick said, locating, perhaps belatedly, some faint civic courage, a notion that he’d absorbed certain duties as a local witness to the open-air procedure, perhaps by default, but no less legitimately for that. Besides, others inside the café might be watching through the window. His question was perhaps a feeble one, but, for anyone observing, the fact that he’d stood up from the bench and begun some sort of stalling interrogation could be seen as crucial, either in a deeper intervention to be conducted by more effective or informed members of the community or in some later accounting of Stevick’s comportment and behavior. “I really didn’t look at the schedule in this case,” the driver said. “But they’re rarely installed for more than three or four days in a single location.” “Anything longer wouldn’t be seen as humane, I suppose?” “More like these measures simply aren’t effective beyond a certain point. Listen, we’ve got to go.” “Those boards are in no way tight enough to keep the rain from falling on him,” Stevick pointed out. By placing their hole so near the hydrant, they’d prevented a parked car from giving shelter to the hole. On the other hand, perhaps they’d spared the hole’s inhabitant something terrifying in being doubly pinned by the low ceiling of a vehicle’s undercarriage. Probably Stevick was guilty of overthinking: it was impossible to find a parking space in this neighborhood, so they’d settled on the obvious solution. “That’s generous of you to notice, citizen,” the driver said. He gestured to the occupant of the passenger seat, the goateed man, who’d been sitting with his arms crossed and rolling his eyes, miming impatience. Now this silent partner produced something from the floor of the truck’s cab: a compact black umbrella—the inexpensive double-hinged kind you might purchase at a shoe-repair shop, having ducked in during a gale. He handed it to the driver, who passed it through the open window to Stevick. “This is why we’re grateful you came along when you did,” the driver said, nodding to indicate the hole. “Don’t be afraid to stand on top—it’ll easily support your weight.” With that they were gone, and for the last time. Stevick never saw them again; the driver hadn’t been misleading him when he alluded to the narrow specialization of their tasks. Now there was only the hole, its occupant, and Stevick, with his own duties. For, when freed by the truck’s departure he turned to face the café, no one in fact was regarding him from the window, now streaked with rain and curtained by a dripping overhang. Stevick opened the umbrella. The hole was silent. Stevick could easily have gone home, but instead he stepped over, tested the soundness of the footing on top—there was little doubt, he’d watched them work—and sheltered both himself and the sturdy boards from the rain as well as he could beneath the feeble rigging of black cloth and wire. In a lull the aproned counterman stepped outside the café’s doors for a cigarette break. He nodded curtly at Stevick, exhaled smoke rising into the rain. “So you’re in charge now, huh?” he said. “I didn’t want to leave him completely alone.” There had been no sound, barely a detectable motion from the hole beneath his feet, where the captive now sat braced, knees wedged in dirt. “I wouldn’t say I’m in charge in any wider sense,” Stevick continued. “I’m something of a stopgap or placeholder, really.” “I more than understand,” the café employee said. “We’re in a similar situation. Just a gig between real jobs, that’s what I keep telling myself.” He tossed his fuming butt into the gutter, quite near. “There’s a million stories like yours and mine.” “That’s not what I was getting at,” Stevick began, but, uninterested, the counterman had returned inside. The café’s population had never completely recovered from the jackhammer exodus; that, combined with the rain, kept Stevick’s vigil a lonely one. He preferred it, actually. The usual early-afternoon dog-walkers passed by, hunched in tented plastic ponchos, their smaller dogs, the terriers and dachshunds, sheathed in sleeveless plaid coats, but Stevick had always regarded the walkers as ships on a distant sea, some passing flotilla. Even on days of bright sunshine, they were too occupied with canine herding and the management of plastic-bagged turds to engage in the human life of the street. Though few other humans acknowledged him, Stevick liked to believe that he was still a participant in this mainstream. Whether his relation to the man beneath the boards qualified as a human transaction was another question. Toward evening, the rain tailed, though not enough so that Stevick lowered the umbrella. The café’s clientele turned over; the tables were set for dinner, decorated with lit candles, menus in place; the staff even switched off the WiFi, in order to chase out the most tenacious of the afternoon Googlers. Others of Stevick’s neighbors, the professionally dressed, beleaguered rush-hour subwayers, slavers in financial offices, trudged past the corner with their own umbrellas. Though Stevick always thought of them as upright sheep, some were surprisingly bold in their muttering. “What did you say?” Stevick shouted back. “You heard me, friend. You’re lowering property values for the rest of us.” “Not in my back yard, eh?” Stevick said. “Boy, when something like this arrives in your midst you learn pretty fast who’s who in this neighborhood, you yuppie.” Stevick spoiled for a fight, feeling now all the insurgent defiance he ought to have summoned for the diggers of the hole. But what was done was done. Defense of what should never have been in the first place had become Stevick’s province. “You artists need to grow up and learn the difference between an installation piece and a hole in the ground,” the man sneered. Surely Stevick’s age or younger, yet dressed like Stevick’s grandfather, he added, “Slack-ass.” Stevick was incensed. “There’s a man in this hole!” “Don’t bore me with your disgusting personal situation!” “It’s not a personal situation, you fucker!” “Roll up and die, grubbie!” “Yaaaaarrrr!” They charged with umbrellas outheld, Stevick feeling he’d abandoned his station but unable to stem the urge to gore the man on the sidewalk and see him plead for mercy in the rain. Yet the two men essentially missed, failed to engage, the broad opened umbrellas merely grazing in a rubbery wet shudder as they passed. The single thrust having apparently exhausted his neighbor as much as it did Stevick, the man regathered his briefcase tightly beneath his elbow. “I need to go pay the nanny,” he murmured as he slunk off. Stevick retreated to his task. It was night, and inside the café the menus at several of the tables had been taken up, wine poured, little plates delivered by the time another specialist made contact with Stevick. He wasn’t, as Stevick might have hoped, a sentry arriving to relieve Stevick of a duty that, now that he contemplated it, he had to admit was self-assigned. Rather, the jumpsuited man, a sturdy, almost fat one this time, with heavy, black-rimmed eyeglasses and a Yankees cap shielding him from the rain, appeared to be some kind of inspector, charged with insuring the rightness of the site and recording in cryptic shorthand, with a ballpoint pen on a clipboarded sheet, certain impressions. The man double-parked his car, the blinking hazard lights of which gave clear evidence of the passing nature of his visit, and suggested to Stevick a long itinerary of random checks still ahead of him. He then politely asked Stevick for assistance in drawing aside the cover of planks. Stevick, in turn, extended the umbrella to help protect the operative’s clipboard while he wrote. The captive, Stevick noted with relief, didn’t appear any more—or less—uncomfortable than when he’d first been lowered into his hole. He stood, as if to acknowledge the inspector’s attentions, but didn’t glance upward, possibly not wishing to incur rebuke, or perhaps he had merely grown incurious about what were, for him, routine operations. When the inspector went back to his car and returned bearing a wax-paper cup with a straw and a pair of plastic-wrapped sandwiches, Stevick understood that he intended to feed the man in the hole, and saw also that the captive had at some point spat the dirty cloth from his mouth, so that it now encircled his throat like a necklace. Probably it had never been secure to begin with, and the captive had not wished to embarrass the men who’d dug the hole by flaunting their ineffectual knotting skills. The inspector lowered both the cup with the straw and half a sandwich to within range of the captive’s mouth, and the man in the hole quietly and efficiently fed and drank. Stevick considered the fact that the captive could have cried out at any point and had chosen not to. Perhaps he’d learned that it led only to more punishment, if punishment was the right word. Stevick had begun to realize that he ascribed a certain strength, a gravity and authenticity, to the man in the hole, or perhaps to the hole itself, with which he wished to be associated, as in the sense of a shared undertaking. The passerby with whom he’d crossed umbrellas had been, in a manner, right: this was a kind of personal situation. Stevick helped the inspector replace the wooden planks over the hole, then gratefully accepted the gift of the second wrapped sandwich, which turned out to contain pleasantly peppery chicken salad, albeit on soggy white bread. Stevick had been hungrier than he realized. Before departing, the inspector went back to his car one last time, returning now with an olive-green duffel, which he chucked gently to the edge of the hole, just beside Stevick. “What’s that?” “Standard issue,” the inspector explained obscurely. “It’ll be there when you need it.” He offered Stevick a quick salute and was off. It was only after the café had closed for the night, the chairs overturned on the tables, that the rain ceased completely, leaving Stevick with the question of whether his shift here ought to conclude. He shook out and shuttered the umbrella, and had just reached for the enigmatic duffel when he was greeted by the sound of his own name in the familiar voice of his ex, Charlotte. It was perhaps inevitable that she’d pass by if he camped out here all day. In another lifetime, which was what even yesterday seemed to be after this present occurrence, he might have been guilty of doing exactly that. As it happened, he’d overlooked completely the possibility of her wandering past. Charlotte was dressed and scented for a night on the town, clacking in her heels toward the subway entrance, most likely to undertake her usual carrousel of Stevick’s former favorite bars in the company of his lately-out-of-touch friends. “Well, now, look at you,” she joshed. “Keeping busy, as usual.” Stevick guiltily withdrew his hand from the duffelbag and stood alert to indicate his vigilance, though now, rain cleared, umbrella folded, it was hardly evident what his duties were. He’d always had to straighten his posture in Charlotte’s presence, her height and perfect carriage a kind of warning or rebuke to him, and now he found himself wishing that she’d step off the curb, down to his level. The three planks that covered the hole were too expertly flush to the asphalt to be any help to him. “There’s a man in this hole, Charlotte.” It was the second time he’d tried to even the field by stating this absolute truth, almost as if he needed to hear it himself to believe it, though he’d been presiding there all day. He wanted acknowledgment of his effort, but first he had to establish the basic situation. “Sure,” Charlotte said. “I’ve heard of this sort of thing.” “I guess I’d heard of it, too, though it’s different to have it right in front of you. Still, I guess it has to be somewhere.” “True enough,” Charlotte said. “I just hadn’t pictured you getting involved. But by your logic, I suppose, someone had to step forward.” Stevick couldn’t really improve on this sentiment, so he let it stand. “So, what’s in the bag?” Nothing was lost on Charlotte, he had to give her that. “More sandwiches, I suspect,” Stevick said, surprising himself with the guess. Should they be called rations, or provisions? It depended on who was eating them, he supposed. “They’re not bad, if you like chicken salad. Take one, if you’re hungry.” Charlotte had by this time poked inside the bag, assuming her usual privileges in regard to Stevick’s boundaries, and pulled out a plastic-wrapped jumpsuit, identical, except for its virgin state, to those worn by the operatives, and by the captive below. There appeared to be four or five of these stacked within the small duffel. “You’re hired!” Charlotte exclaimed. “You’ve been promoted from a temp position to staff.” Stevick found himself pleasingly able to ignore her goading. In many ways, Charlotte, like much else, was receding from view. The new conditions made irony a luxury. Was he meant to hoard the jumpsuits for his own use or to recruit other operatives from the neighborhood? Or, for that matter, were they intended for future incarcerees? Stevick considered the possibility that he’d eventually be fitted for a hole himself. The beauty of the uniform was that it settled nothing. “Do you want to see him?” he asked Charlotte, and immediately regretted a question that seemed inappropriate, even somewhat craven on his part. He knew only after he’d said it that he would never again let himself use the man in the hole as a token or a bargaining chip. He was a person! Charlotte’s cavalier reply felt predestined. “No, thank you,” she said. “I should go, I’m running late. But it’s really good to see you doing so well, Stevick.” Her voice was like a pat on a baby’s downy skull. The hint of tenderness cloaking Charlotte’s dismissal disgusted Stevick. Talk about your passing connections! Stevick felt closer after a single day to the man in the hole, though they’d exchanged not a word. As he watched Charlotte make her way up the street, Stevick experienced only relief that she’d refused his suggestion. To pry up the planks when he had nothing to offer was a small indignity he had spared the captive below. The last thing Stevick wished to do, after all, was annoy him with inessentials. Success in an endeavor like this one lay in the details. Stevick was certain he was going to do a good job.
Complicity When I was a hiccupping boy, my mother would fetch the back-door key, pull my collar away from my neck, and slip the cold metal down my back. At the time, I took this to be a normal medical—or maternal—procedure. Only later did I wonder if the cure worked merely by creating a diversion, or whether, perhaps, there was some more clinical explanation, whether one sense could directly affect another. When I was a twenty-year-old, impossibly in love with a married woman who had no notion of my attachment and desire, I developed a skin condition whose name I no longer remember. My body turned scarlet from wrist to ankle, first itching beyond the power of calamine lotion, then lightly flaking, then fully peeling, until I had shed myself like some transmuting reptile. Bits of me fell into my shirt and trousers, into the bedclothes, onto the carpet. The only parts that didn’t burn and peel were my face, my hands and feet, and my groin. I didn’t ask the doctor why this was the case, and I never told the woman of my love. When I divorced, my doctor friend, Ben, had me show him my hands. I asked if modern medicine was going back to palmistry, as well as to leeches; and, if so, whether astrology and magnetism and the theory of humors could be far behind. He replied that he could tell from the color of my hands and fingertips that I was drinking too much. Later, wondering if I had been duped into cutting down, I asked him if he had been joking, or guessing. He turned my hands palm uppermost, nodded in approval, and said that he would now look out for unattached female medics who might not find me too repugnant. The first time I met her was at a party of Ben’s; she had brought her mother. Have you watched mothers and daughters at parties together, and tried to work out who is taking care of whom? The daughter giving Mum a bit of an outing, Mum watching for the sort of men her daughter attracts? Or both at the same time? Even if they’re playing at best friends, there’s often an extra flicker of formality in the relationship. Disapproval either goes unexpressed or is exaggerated, with a roll of the eye and a theatrical moue and a “She never takes any notice of me, anyway.” We were standing there, in a tight circle with a fourth person my memory has blanked out. She was opposite me, and her mother was on my left. I was trying to be myself, whatever that might be, and at the same time trying to make that self acceptable, if not actually pleasing. Pleasing to her mother, that is; I wasn’t bold enough to try to please her directly—at least, not in company. I can’t remember what we talked about, but it seemed to be going O.K.; perhaps the forgotten fourth helped. What I do remember was this: she had her right arm down by her side, and when she caught me looking in her general direction she inconspicuously made the smoking gesture—you know, the first two fingers extended and slightly parted, the other fingers and the thumb bent away out of sight. I thought, A doctor who smokes, that’s a good sign. While the conversation continued, I got out my packet of Marlboro Lights, and without looking—my activity, too, was at waist level—extracted a single cigarette, returned the pack to my pocket, took the cigarette by the filter tip, passed it around her mother’s back, and felt it being taken from my fingers. Noting a slight pause on her part, I went back to my pocket, took out a book of matches, held it by the striking end, felt it being taken from my fingers, watched her light up, exhale, close the book of matches, then pass it back behind her mother. I received it, delicately, by the same end as I had given it out. I should add that it was perfectly obvious to her mother what we were doing. But she didn’t say anything, sigh, give a prim glance, or rebuke me for being a drug peddler. I instantly liked her for this, assuming that she approved of the complicity between me and her daughter. She could, I suppose, have been deliberately holding back for strategic reasons. But I didn’t care, or, rather, didn’t think to care, preferring to assume approval. But this isn’t what I was trying to tell you. The point wasn’t about her mum. The point was those three moments when an object passed from one set of fingertips to another. That was the nearest I got to her that evening, and for weeks to come. Have you ever played that game where you sit in a circle and close your eyes, or are blindfolded, and have to guess what an object is just from the feel of it? And then you pass it on and the next person has to guess? Or you keep your guesses to yourselves until you’ve all made up your minds, and then announce them at the same time? Ben claims that once, when he played it, a mozzarella cheese was passed around and three people guessed that it was a breast implant. That may just be medical students for you, but there’s something about closing your eyes that makes you more vulnerable, or drives your imagination to the gothic—especially if the object being passed is soft and squishy. In all the times I’ve played the game, the most successful mystery item, the one guaranteed to freak somebody out, was a peeled lychee. Some years ago—ten, fifteen?—I went to a production of “King Lear” played against a bare brick backdrop, with brutalistic staging. I can’t remember who directed it, or who played the title role, but I do remember the blinding of Gloucester. This is usually done with the Earl pinioned and bent back over a chair. Cornwall says to his servants, “Fellows, hold the chair,” and then to Gloucester, “Upon these eyes of thine I’ll set my foot.” One eye is put out, and Regan chillingly comments, “One side will mock another; the other too.” Then, a moment later, the famous “Out, vile jelly!” and Gloucester is pulled upright, with stage gore dripping down his face. In the production I saw, the blinding was done offstage. I seem to remember Gloucester’s legs flailing from one of the brick wings, though perhaps that is a later invention. I do remember Gloucester’s screams, and finding them all the more terrifying for being offstage: perhaps what you can’t see frightens you more than what you can. And then, after the first eye was put out, it was lobbed onto the stage. In my memory—in my mind’s eye—I see it rolling down the rake, faintly glistening. More screams, and another eye was tossed from the wings. They were—you guessed—peeled lychees. And then this happened: Cornwall, lanky and brutish, stamped back onstage, tracked down the lychees, and set his foot on Gloucester’s eyes a second time. Another game, from back when I was a hiccupping boy at primary school: In the morning break, we used to race model cars on the asphalt playground. They were about four inches long, made from cast metal, and had real rubber tires, which you could roll off the wheels if you felt like simulating a pit stop. They were painted in the bright colors worn by the racing marques of the day: a scarlet Maserati, a green Vanwall, a blue . . . perhaps something French. The game was simple: the car that went the farthest won. You pressed your thumb down onto the middle of the long bonnet, pulling your fingers up into a loose fist, and then, at a signal, transferred the pressure swiftly from a downward to a forward direction, sending your car off into the distance. There was a certain technique involved in obtaining maximum propulsion, the danger being that the knuckle of your middle finger, held a fraction of an inch above the playground’s surface, would scrape against the asphalt, tearing skin and costing you the race. The wound would scab up, and you’d have to adjust your hand, dropping the knuckle of the fourth finger into the danger area instead. But this never produced the same velocity, so you quickly went back to the usual, third-finger technique, often ripping off the newly formed scab. Your parents never warn you about the right things, do they? Or perhaps they can warn you only about the immediate, local stuff. They bandage the knuckle of your right middle finger and warn against getting it infected. They explain about the dentist, and how the pain will wear off afterward. They teach you the highway code—at least, as it applies to junior pedestrians. My brother and I were once about to cross a road when our father put on a firm voice and instructed us to “pause on the curb.” We were at the age when a primitive understanding of language is intersected by a kind of giddiness about its possibilities. We looked at each other, shouted, “Paws on the curb!,” then squatted down with our hands flat on the edge of the roadway. Our father thought this was very silly; no doubt he was already calculating how long the joke would run. Nature warned us; our parents warned us. We understood about knuckle-scabbing and traffic. We learned to look out for loose carpet on the stairs, because Grandma had once nearly taken a tumble when one of her brass stair rods, removed for annual polishing, hadn’t been replaced properly. We learned about thin ice, and frostbite, and evil boys who put pebbles and sometimes even razor blades into snowballs—though none of these warnings were ever justified by events. We learned about nettles and thistles, and how grass, which seemed such harmless stuff, could give you a sudden burn, like sandpaper. We were warned about knives and scissors and the danger of the untied shoelace. We were warned about strange men who might try to lure us into cars or lorries, though it took us years to work out that “strange” did not mean “bizarre,” “hunchbacked,” “dribbling,” “goitered”—or however we defined strangeness—but merely “unknown to us.” We were warned about bad boys and, later, bad girls. An embarrassed science master warned us against V.D., misleadingly informing us that it was caused by “indiscriminate sexual intercourse.” We were warned about gluttony and sloth and letting down our school, about avarice and greed and letting down our family, about envy and wrath and letting down our country. We were never warned about heartbreak. I used the word “complicity” a bit ago. I like the word. To me, it indicates an unspoken understanding between two people, a kind of pre-sense, if you like. The first hint that you may be suited, before the nervous trudgery of finding out whether you “share the same interests,” or have the same metabolism, or are sexually compatible, or both want children, or however it is that we argue consciously about our unconscious decisions. Later, looking back, we will fetishize and celebrate the first date, the first kiss, the first holiday together, but what really counts is what happened before this public story: that moment, more of pulse than of thought, which goes, Yes, perhaps her, and Yes, perhaps him. I tried to explain this to Ben, a few days after his party. Ben is a crossword-doer, a dictionary lover, a pedant. He told me that “complicity” means a shared involvement in a crime or a sin or a nefarious act. It means planning to do something bad. I prefer to keep the term as I understand it. For me, it means planning to do something good. She and I were both free adults, capable of making our own decisions. And nobody plans to do anything bad at that moment, do they? We went to a film together. I had as yet no clear sense of her temperament and habits. Whether she was punctual or unpunctual, easygoing or quick-tempered, tolerant or severe, cheerful or depressive, sane or mad. That may sound like a crude way of putting it; besides, understanding another human being is hardly a matter of box-ticking, in which the answers stay the answers. It’s perfectly possible to be cheerful and depressive, easygoing and quick-tempered. What I mean is, I was still working out the default setting of her character. It was a cold December afternoon; we arrived at the cinema in separate cars, as she was on call and might be bleeped back in to the hospital. I sat there, watching the film yet equally alert to her reactions: a smile, silence, tears, a shrinking from violence—all would be like silent bleeps for my information. The heating in the cinema was underpowered, and as we sat there, elbow to elbow on the armrest, I found myself thinking outward from me to her. Sleeve of shirt, sweater, jacket, raincoat, pea jacket, jumper—and then what? Nothing more before flesh? So, six layers between us, or perhaps seven if she was wearing something with sleeves under her sweater. The film passed; her mobile didn’t pulse; I liked the way she laughed. It was already dark when we got outside. We had walked halfway to our cars when she stopped and held up her left hand, palm toward me. “Look,” she said. I didn’t know what I was meant to be looking for: proof of alcoholism, her line of life? I moved closer, and noticed, with the help of passing headlights, that the tips of her first, second, and third fingers had turned a pale-yellowish color. “Twenty yards without gloves,” she said. “It just happens like that.” She told me the name of the syndrome. It was a question of poor circulation, of the cold making the vessels constrict and cutting off the blood supply. She dug in her pockets for gloves: dark-brown ones, I remember. She pulled them on a little haphazardly, then meshed her fingers to push the wool down to the base of each finger. We walked on, discussing the film, paused, smiled, paused, parted; my car was parked ten yards beyond hers. As I was about to unlock my door, I realized that she was still standing on the pavement, looking down. I gave her a few moments, decided that something was wrong, and walked back. “The car keys,” she said without looking up at me. There wasn’t much light, and she was digging in her bag, feeling as much as looking for them. Then she added, with sudden violence, “Come on, you fool.” For a moment I thought she was talking to me. Then I realized she was angry only with herself, embarrassed by herself, and the more embarrassed that her inability to find her keys and also, perhaps, her anger were being witnessed by me. But I was hardly going to dock her points. As I stood there, watching her struggle, two things happened: I felt what I would describe as tenderness, were it not so ferocious; and my cock gave a sudden spurt of growth. I remembered the first time a dentist gave me an injection; he left the room while the anesthetic took effect, returned briskly, slid his finger into my mouth, ran it around the base of the tooth he was going to fill, and asked if I felt anything. I remembered the numbness that strikes when you sit too long with your legs crossed. I remembered stories of doctors pushing pins into a patient’s leg without the patient reacting at all. What I wanted to know was this: If I had been bolder, if I had raised my right hand against her left, laid palm gently against palm, finger against finger, in some lovers’ high five, and if I had then pressed the tips of my first, second, and third fingers against hers, would she have felt anything? What does it feel like when there’s no feeling there—both to her and to me? She sees my fingers against hers but feels nothing; I see my fingers against hers, and feel them, but know that she feels nothing. And, of course, I was also asking myself the question in a wider, more alarming sense. I thought about one person wearing gloves and the other one not, about how flesh feels against wool, wool against flesh. I tried to imagine all the gloves she might wear, both now and in the future—if there was to be a future I was present in. I’d seen one pair of brown woollen gloves. I decided, given her condition, to equip her with several extra pairs in different colors. Then, for colder days and nights, some warmer, suède ones: black, I imagined, to match her hair, with heavy white stitching along the fingers, and beige rabbit-fur lining. And then, perhaps, a pair of those mittens like paws, with a lone thumb and a broad pouch for the rest of the fingers. At work, she would presumably wear surgical gloves, thin latex ones offering the thinnest possible barrier between doctor and patient—and yet any barrier destroys that essential feel of flesh on flesh. Surgeons wear tight-fitting gloves, other medical staff looser ones, like those which deli workers wear when peeling slices of ham from the rotating blade. I wondered if she was, or would ever become, a gardener. She might wear latex gloves for light work in well-tilled soil, for sorting out rootlets and seedlings and delicate foliage. But then she would need a stronger pair—probably a mixture of thin leather and some striped, canvassy material—for heavier work: pruning, forking the ground over, pulling up bindweed and nettle roots. I wondered if she had any use for those gloves with cut-off fingers. I’ve never seen the point of them myself. Who wears them, apart from Russian sleigh drivers and misers in TV versions of Dickens? And, given what happened to the tips of her fingers, all the more reason not to. I wondered if the circulation to her feet was curtailed as well, in which case: bed socks. What would they be like? Big and woolly—perhaps some ex-boyfriend’s rugby socks, which would fall loosely around her ankles when she stood up? Or close-fitting and female? In some newspaper life-style supplement, I’d seen gaudy bed socks made with individual toes. I wondered if I’d find them a neutral accessory, comic, or somehow erotic. What else? Might she ski, and have a pair of puffy gloves to match a puffy jacket? Oh, and, of course, washing-up gloves: all women had them. And always in the same, brashly unconvincing colors—yellow, pink, pale green, pale blue. You’d have to be a pervert to find rubber gloves erotic. Make them as exotic as you like—magenta, ultramarine, teak, pin-striped, Prince of Wales check—they’d never do anything for me. No one says, “Feel this piece of Parmesan,” do they? Except perhaps Parmesan makers. Sometimes, alone in a lift, I will run my fingers lightly over the buttons. Not enough to change the floor I’m going to, just to feel the bumpy dots of Braille. And to wonder what it must be like. The first time I saw someone wearing a thumbstall, I couldn’t believe that there was a real thumb underneath it. Do the slightest damage to the least important finger, and the whole hand is affected. Even the simplest actions—pulling on a sock, doing up a button, changing gears—become fraught, self-conscious. The hand won’t go into a glove, has to be thought about when washed, mustn’t be lain on at night, and so on. Imagine, then, trying to make love with a broken arm. I had a sudden, acute desire that nothing bad ever happen to her. I once saw a man on a train with a hook for a hand. I was eleven or twelve, alone in my compartment. He came down the corridor, looked in, saw it was occupied, and passed on. At the time, I thought only of pirates and menace; later, of all you couldn’t do; later still, of the phantom pain of amputees. Our fingers must work together; our senses, too. They act for themselves, but also as pre-senses for the others. We feel a fruit for ripeness; we press our fingers into a joint of meat to test for doneness. Our senses work together for the greater good: they are complicit, as I like to say. Her hair was up that evening, held by a pair of tortoiseshell combs, then pinned with gold. It was not quite as black as her eyes, but blacker than her linen jacket, which had a fade and a crease to it. We were in a Chinese restaurant, and the waiters were paying proper attention to her. Perhaps her hair looked Chinese. Or perhaps they knew that it was more important to please her than to please me. Or, rather, that pleasing her was pleasing me. She asked me to order, on the ground that I often came here, and I chose conservatively, sticking to what I liked. Seaweed, spring rolls, green beans in yellow-bean sauce, crispy fried duck, stewed aubergine, plain boiled rice. A bottle of Gewürztraminer and tap water. Following her into the restaurant, I’d noticed that she was wearing scent, but, if you asked me to name it, I would be at a loss. And my descriptive terms are hardly sophisticated: nice, nasty, subtle, sexy, overpowering, rancid—that’s my vocabulary exhausted. Anyway, restaurant smells soon took over as a mound of glistening spareribs passed our table on the way to another destination. Perhaps you smell Chinese food more than other cuisines because you lift the bowl nearer to your mouth than any table-bound plate ever gets. That night, even the plain rice had something characterful and earthy about it. The background music was presumably the result of market research: a mixture of easy-listening Chinese and unobtrusive Western. Ignorable, except when there was an overfamiliar number. I suggested that if “Lara’s Theme,” from “Doctor Zhivago,” came up on the tape, we should make a run for it and plead duress in court. She smiled, and asked if duress was really a defense in law. I went on at what might have been too great a length about this, then we talked about professional areas where we overlapped: where law came into medicine, and medicine into law. Then we talked about smoking, and the precise point at which we would want to light up, if smoking hadn’t been banned in public places. After the main course and the vegetables, before the pudding, whether or not we had pudding, we agreed. A cigarette could be digestive, useful for tamping down. We each considered ourselves light smokers. Then we talked a little, though warily, about our childhoods. I asked how old she had been when the ends of her fingers had started turning yellow in the cold, and asked if she had lots of pairs of gloves, which made her laugh, for some reason. I was about to ask her to describe them, but thought she might get the wrong idea. And, as the meal went on, I decided that it was going to be all right—though by “it” I meant only the evening, nothing more. Neither of us was suddenly going to yawn, or want to leave, or stop making an effort—not that it felt like an effort. And she must have felt the same, because when it came to pudding she changed her mind and said that she would have one after all, but nothing sticky and filling, so she had the lychees. And I decided not to tell her about that game from long ago, or about that production of “King Lear,” but thought, Well, if we come back here again—not on the next date, but later on—then maybe I’ll tell her. And I hope she never played the game with Ben and had to handle a mozzarella. Just as I was thinking this, “Lara’s Theme” oozed out of the speakers. We looked at each other and laughed, and she made a gesture as if she were going to push back her chair and rise, and maybe she saw alarm in my eyes, because she laughed again and then, playing along, threw her napkin down on the table. The gesture took her hand more than halfway across the cloth. But she didn’t get up, or push her chair back, just went on smiling, and left her hand on top of her napkin, knuckles raised, fingertips pointing toward me. And then I touched her.
The Godchildren The three heirs, in three separate taxis, converged on 33 Everdene Walk on a fine afternoon in late May. They were in their early fifties, and had not met since they were sixteen or seventeen. Amanda, who had been officious even as a teen-ager, had organized the meeting by e-mail, via the solicitors: “If we’re all going to the house, why don’t we go at the same time? Wouldn’t it be fun to meet up?” Now each was regretting having agreed to this. Chris, who was a lecturer at a new university, was certain that he had spotted Amanda at the station, ahead of him in the queue for taxis; he had been too embarrassed to make himself known to her, even though they could have shared the fare. She surely hadn’t had all that red hair thirty-five years ago, and she hadn’t seemed so tall then, or so loosely put together: the woman in the queue wasn’t large, exactly, but physically complicated, with a bright-colored striped wrap tossed over one shoulder which made him think of beachwear. Perhaps she lived in a hot country. He’d recognized her only when she threw her unguarded, emphatic glance at everyone behind her in the queue—boldly but blindly. Quailing, Chris was suddenly his anguished seventeen-year-old self again, stripped of his disguise as someone experienced and distinguished. His memories of Mandy, young, were dim but had an ominous intensity. He wished he hadn’t come. He knew already that he wouldn’t want anything, anyway, from the horrible old house. At least he wouldn’t be alone with Amanda; although when he tried to recover his memories of Susan, the other godchild, he couldn’t find anything at all, only a neatly labelled vacancy. The three taxis bore them, just a few minutes apart, out of the city center, then, swooping decorously downhill between traffic lights, through a species of suburb that seemed more remote from their present lives than anywhere they ever went on holiday. The sleepy, wide road was lined with limes, then flowering cherries; they passed a little brick-built library, a church, discreetly evangelical. Infantile knee-high white-painted gates opened onto bungalow gardens smothering under the pink and white foam of their shrubs and beds, weigela and flowering currant, waterfalls of clematis; the semi-detached house fronts were festooned with nostalgic wisteria. Four-by-fours were drawn up off the road, on asphalted drives. The sun shone unfalteringly, embalming everything; seeds and pollen drifted sidelong in the motionless air. What it brought back was not so much their past as a past beyond their past. By the time these three had come, as children, to visit their godmother here, their more fashionable parents had already decided that the suburbs were dreary: places to joke about, not to aspire to. Their parents were doing up, in those days, spindly dilapidated eighteenth-century houses, bought cheap, in the city center. Susan’s mother still lived in one of these, now worth a great deal, and Susan had spent the previous night in her childhood bed. In her taxi, she was hardly thinking of the meeting ahead—except to wish that she weren’t going to it. She was obsessing over jagged old irritations, roused by a conversation with her mother that morning. Chris’s and Susan’s taxis pulled up outside 33 Everdene Walk at the same moment; Amanda had got there before them, and the front door stood open to what seemed, to their foreboding, a seething blackness, in contrast to the glare outside. Who knew what state the house would be in? Susan was quicker, paying her taxi off; Chris was always afraid that he would tip too little or too much. She looked away while he probed in his change purse, then they politely pretended to recognize each other. He tried to dig back in his mind to their old acquaintance: how hadn’t he seen that the invisible, unremembered Susan might grow into this slim, long-faced, long-legged dark woman, somewhat ravaged but contained and elegant? Meanwhile, Amanda, watching from a window she had just opened upstairs, saw thirty-five years of change heaped in one awful moment on both their heads. They looked broken-down to her, appalling. On her way to the house, she had bullied her resisting taxi-driver into two consecutive U-turns between the lime trees: visited by a premonition of just this disappointment, and then recovering, repressing her dread, willing herself to hope. Amanda remembered the old days more vividly than either of the others, cherished the idea of their shared past—strangely, because at the time she had seemed the one most ready to trample it underfoot, on her way to better things. Now she revolted at Chris’s untidy gray-white locks, windswept without wind, around his bald patch: why did men yield so readily to their disintegration? At least Susan had the decency to keep her hair brown and well cut. Chris was stooping and bobbing at Susan, smiling lopsidedly, self-deprecatory. He wound one foot behind the other calf, rubbing his shoe on his trouser leg; when he’d done that at seventeen, it had seemed to Amanda a sign of a tormented sensibility, which she had ached to explore and conquer. She whistled from the window, piercing the Walk’s tranquillity. “Come on up!” she shouted. “Prepare for the Chamber of Horrors!” Not only the air inside the house but the light, from forty-watt bulbs, seemed ancient and rotten. The curtains were drawn across the windows in all the rooms. Odds and ends of furniture—a folding card table, a standard lamp, a barometer, picture frames showing peeling strips of passe-partout—were piled in the hall, half sorted, inventoried, forlorn and sour with damp. The house had been empty for a year, from the time of their godmother Vivien’s death. But none of the three had visited it since long before that, when they were teen-agers and came together. Chris had fallen out of touch with Vivien completely, decades earlier, on political grounds, and because it had never occurred to him that he owed her any duty; Amanda and Susan had seen her occasionally in London over the years, separately, and not recently. Susan stopped abruptly in the hall. “But it’s so tiny!” she said. “Was it always this size? How come I remember it as spacious?” “I don’t remember anything,” Chris said, alarmed. “Is it some form of dementia? I thought I remembered the house, but I’d swear I’ve never set foot in here before.” “I’ve got rid of the solicitor,” Amanda called from somewhere over their heads. “We’ve got it all to ourselves. I said we’d return the key to him when we finished. He was glad to get out—who can blame him? Isn’t it horrid? They’ll never sell it, will they?” A squat staircase crawled up one wall from the varnished parquet in the hall; at the top, three bedrooms opened off a landing, along with a toilet and a bathroom whose stains they shuddered at, half guessing them. Amanda loomed in a doorway: years ago, the striped thing draped over her shoulder would have been called a poncho. Her voice was more familiar to Chris and Susan than her person: caramel, hectoring, running on and on. What they both remembered most clearly—though differently—about the young Mandy was her physical perfection, as simple as a drawing done in a single curving line. Whatever she had worn in those days—a dress, or jeans and a T-shirt—had suggested her stepping out of it in one smooth movement. Her ease in her own body had been morally terrifying to the others. Her face was still bright—she had good skin and a thick mane of hair—but the rest of her had grown overbearing, to match her voice. Now she wore flat shoes and harem pants and a lot of jewelry. Amanda had brought a packet of colored stickers. The plan for today, devised by her, was that they should each choose a color and put stickers on any items they wanted, then go shares on a man with a van to collect it all and deliver it to their respective homes. They had been invited to take whatever they liked from the house. They had also been left quite a few thousand pounds each, from a trust fund. This had come as a pleasant surprise to Chris, who was genuinely not worldly enough to have thought of the possibility, and had pretty much forgotten that he had a godmother. None of them were heir to the property itself, which had gone to a niece and a nephew, deserving because they had been kind to Vivien in her old age. “Oh, is this her?” Chris picked up a photograph from the top of a chest of drawers, where it was arranged on a lace doily along with a tin alarm clock and a cut-glass dish full of buttons and paper clips, everything soft with dust. “The face does ring a bell.” He was reassured. “She’s starting to come back to me.” In the photograph, Vivien wore a checkered dress with a Peter Pan collar. Her small laughing eyes, horsy long jaw, and exuberant big-toothed smile were sandwiched between two circles of glass, held in a base of faded Art Deco plastic. “Somehow, she persuaded us she was good-looking,” Amanda said. “She used to seem so glamorous.” Susan crossed to the open window, as if to breathe. “This place is giving me the creeps. I don’t want anything.” “Don’t be silly,” Amanda said. “Take it, and sell it on eBay.” “It’s all old junk. Nothing’s even antique.” “You’ll be surprised what you can get for it.” Susan was fishing in her handbag. “I’m going to call the cab back. This was a mistake. Sorry, Mandy. I’ve had a dreadful morning with my mother.” Amanda, focussing, took in properly for the first time that Susan’s understated bag was made of leather as soft as cloth, and that her clothes were sumptuous: simple cream linen dress, cranberry-red cashmere cardigan over her shoulders. “Actually, it’s giving me the creeps, too,” Chris said, looking nervously from one woman to the other. “I could use a cab—if you don’t mind sharing, Susan?” “Oh, no!” Amanda wailed. “You pigs! You can’t leave me here on my own. It’s not fair!” Chris and Susan stared at this overflowing stranger, claiming them. Both felt an inappropriate anxiety that she might howl with tears, and they might be held, unjustly, to blame for it. “Please,” she said, softening. “We can do the stickers later. We could go out in the garden; we could find a local pub. But we can’t just let one another go as easily as that, as if none of it meant anything. Can we?” Chris was bewildered. “None of what?” It wasn’t anything sinister or criminal. Every few months, year after year, Vivien’s father—Daddy—tiny, bulky-shouldered, ill-tempered, with a burnished, age-spotted bald pate, had picked them up in his car from their respective houses and driven them to Everdene Walk in a grim silence that was almost hieratic, as if they were sacrifices heaped up for his daughter, visiting from London, where she worked as a P.A. to a succession of managers at ITN and Granada. From his driver’s seat, Daddy had emanated the distaste of a serious man for the frivolity of children, and an alarm that they might in some way damage his beige leather upholstery. But Vivien had been lovely to them, in her way. She had no children of her own: this was what their parents had always said when handing them over, as though they were being sent to soak up some surplus of mothering that childless women couldn’t help secreting. But Vivien wasn’t mother-like at all. She had not married, and Amanda and Susan learned only later—Chris never knew about it, because he wasn’t interested—of her lifelong love affair with a married man in London. By the time of the children’s visits, whatever friendship had originally made each set of parents choose Vivien as a godmother had melted away: Vivien was too bossy, she was a snob, she belonged to a world of musty charm and optimism that their parents were leaving behind in the nineteen-sixties. The parents had been apologetic, actually, when Daddy’s car came, for sending their children as their proxies, when they were too bored to go themselves. But the children hadn’t minded, and not only because of the treats. “None of what?” Chris asked, afraid that he’d missed something. “Us!” Amanda swept her arm to indicate the three of them, the sleeve of her poncho catching in a wickerwork pagoda on a side table. “We were really close, weren’t we? We were three odd solitary kids and we didn’t make friends easily, but here we met without any baggage, and we got on. It meant a lot to me.” Sometimes Amanda reread old volumes of her diary; she still wrote in it, too, filling pages copiously when things weren’t going well. The others were accusing. “You weren’t solitary.” “I was the most solitary of all: at least you both had brothers and sisters.” “You were awfully spoiled,” Susan said, “with your ballet lessons and your deportment lessons and your tennis.” “I didn’t ever have deportment lessons. Look, are you two going to stay? Don’t let me down!” Susan stood hesitating. It depended on her: the others saw her power, which they hadn’t noticed in the old days. Her face was haggard, cheekbones jutting above hollows: if it was beautiful, there was also something naked in it, shocking. The unblemished skin was textured like soft parchment. What Amanda remembered was glasses, a flat chest, hand-me-down bobbled jumpers (Amanda had refused to wear hers, once the wool went like that), a reputation for good marks at the school where she had a scholarship (not the school that Amanda paid for), and a stubborn, sulking resistance to Amanda, who—used to capitulation—had been intrigued. “There’s a lot of Chinese stuff here,” Chris said, disentangling the pagoda from the poncho. “They lived in Singapore when she was little, and then Paris. That’s where they got their international flavor. You’d have thought they were jet-setters, from the way they talked. But Daddy was only in insurance.” Warily, Susan dropped her mobile back in her bag, yielding as if she didn’t do it often. “All right then,” she said. “I’ll stay for a bit. For old times’ sake.” In the decaying room, the three of them were linked in heady intimacy for a moment, though they were also strangers. “I’ll stay as well,” Chris said. But the women had taken this for granted. They found their old den. The others had forgotten it, but Amanda remembered and led them to it—bearing bottles raided from the kitchen—though the way through the garden was unrecognizable. This garden had once been Daddy’s pride: amoeba-shaped flower beds mounded with color, crazy paving paths set in close-clipped lawns. There had been a swinging lounge seat with a striped awning, and every summer’s day had revolved around the necessity of taking this awning in if rain threatened. Now the neighbors in the Walk must have been despairing at the incursion of wilderness into their sanctuary: rusty dock and nettle stood waist high, bramble was advancing in the tall grass. Rubbish had been thrown in here, split bags bulging with rot, a spillage of broken things from the house, a plastic clotheshorse, a smashed china bread crock. In the heat, it all smelled potently of rank growth, baked earth, dog shit. The den was lifted up above the chaos, a raised space of hard mud on a bank among trees at the far end of the garden, opposite Vivien’s bedroom window, backing onto a little copse where the locals walked their dogs. Susan had brought a blanket from the house for them to sit on, and Amanda had chocolate in her handbag. They examined more closely the bottles they’d liberated: Johnnie Walker, Tia Maria, Cinzano, amontillado sherry. The bottles were filthy, sticky, greasy, but Amanda was adamant that the alcohol was safe. She wiped around the tops with tissues soaked in whiskey, and was the first to swig, choosing the sherry. “My favorite,” she said. “Goes straight to your head. Wow!” “Out here I feel more relaxed,” Susan said. Lying back on the blanket, she looked up at the blue sky through the spreading fans of leaves in a silver birch, wafting in the merest movement of air. The urgent onward flow of her days ceased abruptly; the sensation was as if something—her soul—had floated to the front of her forehead, while she sank down, breathing differently, vastly. “That’s what used to happen, in the old days. We used to get away from the house, out here.” “But not at first. At first we loved it all.” Vivien used to have tea ready for them when they came: twiglets, sandwiches with the crusts cut off, cream cakes, ice cream, jelly. If they visited her in London, she took them to the opera at Covent Garden, the Natural History Museum, the Mermaid Theatre, Chez Solange, where a waiter picked extra strawberries off a gâteau for Amanda. Chris played it safe with the Johnnie Walker. Susan tried Cinzano, in memory of Vivien. She reported that it was hideous. “I danced for you all in this garden,” Amanda said. Chris seemed to see her, in a leotard and some sort of scant fancy painted-yellow nylon thing, fastened to elastic on her wrists, which she waved about like wings. He registered both her absurd self-importance and self-exposure (the dancing wasn’t very good) and the breath-stopping effect of her bare creamy legs and bouncing pyramids of breast. They had all shown off. Vivien had encouraged them to do it. Mandy had been a beauty, Chris a genius—he had held forth on existentialism, on the problem with Communism, which was human nature. They tried to think what Susan had been: Susan had had personality and depth, they remembered; she had read Dickens when she was eleven. Licensed, leaving shame behind them in the real world, they had expanded into the place Vivien made for them, reinventing themselves, becoming in the free space of the Walk exceptional. They had talked together, even in front of Vivien, as they talked to none of their friends, confessing their aspirations and their real thoughts. Invited into Vivien’s bedroom, the girls had watched her change, with skillful minimal movements, into something pretty, tipping a bottle, dabbing perfume on pressure points, fixing earrings, skewering her feet into high heels. She had had a neat, miniature figure, had been quick and lithe and always on the move, talking and organizing. She had lent them novels—Nancy Mitford and Dodie Smith—and showed them photographs of Paris. Sweet as cake with them, she’d shown herself flinty toward anything she didn’t approve of. She couldn’t bear the hordes of tourists overtaking her old favorite places in France; she couldn’t bear the greed of the trade unions, or sloppy language—split infinitives or Bristol accents. The children hardly spoke to their parents about what went on at Vivien’s, fearing the chill of a different judgment than hers, a condemnation of fakery. “I didn’t need deportment classes,” Amanda said. “I had natural deportment—don’t you remember Vivien saying that? Natural deportment. And look what’s become of me!” “What has become of you?” “Two shops selling ethnic jewelry: Weymouth and Bridport. What about you?” “I’m in family law. I work on contract to social services.” Vivien had been right about Chris, though, Amanda said. She’d looked him up on his university Web site: he was a professor of Early Modern Studies, whatever those were; he’d written books. With ready irony (this was a sensitive subject), he explained that at his university “professor” was only an honorary title; it didn’t mean what it did at the old universities—no promotion, no extra salary. Not even much honor, really. Also, nobody read his books. “Did she ever mention God?” Susan said lazily, not sitting up. “After all, we were her godchildren.” “She gave me a little white Testament when I was confirmed,” Amanda said. “I still have it, but I’ve never read it.” When they were drunk enough, they returned to the house. It seemed even chillier and dirtier inside, after their soak in the afternoon light. The kitchen hadn’t been altered in decades: there was an old gas stove, an enamel sink, little gingham curtains in place of cupboard doors. Bone-china tea sets had been pulled out of the cupboards and piled on the table, with colander, grater, mincer, wooden spoons anciently dark, Breton bowls painted with names, not theirs. They felt as if they’d come upon the scene of a desecrating burglary. “We might as well take this stuff,” Amanda said, pressing her stickers defiantly onto a few items—jugs and serving dishes—and piling them apart from the rest. “You know they’ll only get the clearance people in.” “I liked this house so much,” Susan said. “I liked it better than my own house, though I knew I shouldn’t. I didn’t like modern things. I liked the thick pink carpet and the embroidered tablecloths—they were like something out of books. I imagined having flowers on the breakfast table and a maid to turn back your bed. Not that Vivien had maids. But in those days I thought that I’d want to live like that. In my head, I lived like that.” “Have a tablecloth. Here’s a whole pile of them.” “Now it all looks dismal.” “Did you go and see her, when she was ill?” None of them had. To be fair, they had not known how ill she was. Amanda and Susan had spoken to her on the phone, in the last year; Vivien, who had never allowed herself to be ill for a day—as if it were a lapse in taste—had complained in angry spurts, between deploring her weakness for doing so, about her legs and her eyes. They had never been in touch with the niece or the nephew, so had not known that anything was serious, or terminal. They had known from Vivien’s voice, however, that she was changed, desperate, and they had not done anything about it. The married man—news trickled through to their parents, always months late—had also been very ill. “It’s our punishment,” Susan said, “to be here.” Chris tripped over a pile of saucepans, Susan caught him, and after this they made their way around the house together, Chris hanging onto Susan’s arm, Susan and Amanda holding hands, unclasping to sticker anything they wanted. None of them were in the habit of touching. All of them—even Amanda, who had lovers—were rather fastidiously inhibited in their ordinary lives. Amanda was prodigal with red stickers. Chris put a yellow one on a Pembroke table that he might use to write on. Susan succumbed to a nineteen-thirties Parisian hatbox and a pair of Chinese ivory masks. “Those masks are nice,” Amanda said, jealous. “Clever you, I didn’t notice them.” Smitten momentarily with cupidity, Susan wouldn’t give them up; she put them in her bag, saving her pleasure in them for exploring later. At the door to Vivien’s bedroom, Amanda halted and the others crowded against her, breathing in one another’s heat and freshness, aftershave and wool, shampoo: they were middle-aged, but still clean and competent, at least. Here, too, everything had been pulled out of drawers and cupboards. All their eyes were drawn to where, beside the single bed with crumpled sheets, no one had cleared away a last cigarette, crushed out, slovenly, in a jam-jar top. None of them mentioned it. It might have belonged to whoever had made the inventory, but it might also have been Vivien’s. “Do you two have children?” Amanda said. “I don’t.” Susan’s boy and girl were in their twenties; Chris was keen to tell them all about Thea—nine—though he didn’t see her often. None of the three, it turned out, currently had a partner. “I have boyfriends,” Amanda explained. “But I live alone, out of choice.” “What’s the matter with us?” Chris wondered. “None of us have been good at making relationships. Do you think it damaged us, coming here?” Amanda was defensive. “I like my own company.” “Or perhaps we were like that in the first place, and that’s why we kept coming.” “Do you remember when we spied on her?” Susan said. “I don’t remember spying,” Amanda said. “You must. Isn’t it in your diary?” “How do you know about my diary?” “You used to bring it, and read bits out loud to us. You used to write in it while we were here, telling us you were writing about us, then slamming the book shut if we tried to read it.” Amanda made a false face of contrition. “Did I?” “I took everything too much to heart. That was my problem.” When they were sixteen, seventeen, Vivien still made them tea, and they still ate it, but Mandy was always dieting and Chris and Susan were ravenous, triangles of sandwich making only one mouthful in the new scale of their lives. Torn out of the child bodies that had fitted them purely and exactly, they looked with resentful eyes at Everdene Walk, because they couldn’t love it again with the same glee. When Vivien enthused over their prospects—university for Chris, modelling for Mandy, for Susan some deep personal adventure—they longed to believe her, but didn’t trust that she really knew anything. So they were rude or silent, and knew they disappointed her. Also, they looked at one another differently. They had never met outside the Walk: now they were afraid that they might cross paths in the street or at a disco, and know too much about one another, blowing open the public persona that each so scrupulously controlled. And yet, when Vivien left them alone together, they couldn’t resist the luxury of freedom, within their exceptional little tribe. Even Susan, in one of her gouts of inhibited awkward eloquence, confessed that there was “someone” she liked. Mandy told the others what she’d done with boys at parties. She worked to perturb Chris, yet didn’t notice when she achieved this. He was delicious at that age, unknown to himself: skinny and jumpy, shadowed lashes dipping on his freckled cheeks, mouth twisted sardonically, a light of wit and nerves playing in his expression. Thirty-five years later, he didn’t look so very different, only his qualities, by persisting, had worn out their promise. He was more boyish in his fifties than he had been as a boy. One summer night, they told Vivien that they would walk home together; they didn’t need a lift. Daddy was old—he hated getting the car out in the evening—and they reassured Vivien that their parents wouldn’t worry. Their way was across the Downs, a miles-wide stretch of open grass in the middle of the city, dividing the suburbs from the center. There was hardly anyone else about. The heady spaces of warm night above and around them made them behave as if they were drunk, swaying and falling into one another, laughing and inventing stories. In the dark, they were unafraid. Mandy seized the others’ hands; self-conscious but grateful, they allowed her to tug them close, and swing their arms. It even seemed possible for a moment, as they walked under the shelter of a copse of tall beeches, where the grass wasn’t cut, that they might do something extraordinary, lie down all three of them in the grass and roll together, kiss together, press together, achieve some kind of interpenetration that all of them were yearning for, though none of them had come anywhere near it (not even Mandy). Then one of them suggested that they go back and watch Vivien’s house. It might have been Susan, because she knew how to get into the den from the public path, without going through the Walk; perhaps they all thought that they would be better concealed in the den, for whatever was going to happen next, than under the beeches out in the open. It took a while to get back, and longer to discover which of the dark gardens belonged to No. 33; when, eventually, they’d struggled over the fence and settled into the little space, they were crowded intimately close together, breathing hard, and their mood changed from the floating blissful playfulness of the Downs to something more intent. The two girls were on either side of Chris, tight against him. They didn’t really think they would see anything. They imagined that, after they left, the house was shut up for the night. A light went on in Vivien’s bedroom. The room had French windows and a little balcony, which was not wide enough to sit on but gave the room a Continental chic. From the den, they could see right into it. Opening the windows, Vivien leaned her arms on the wrought-iron balustrade, looking out into the night like a heroine in a film. She was wearing a turquoise nightdress under a filmy lacy matching knee-length peignoir: the girls knew that she called it this. With the light behind her, she didn’t look bad. Mandy put two fingers in her mouth and wolf-whistled. They expected Vivien to be shocked, to shut the windows hastily. But she only smiled, as if something were amusing, and straightened her back. Then they understood that her moments at the window had been a performance, projected at an imaginary watcher: the whistle had only made him unexpectedly real. Turning inside, Vivien left the windows open, then came back to set up a folding chair where she had been standing. After a few more minutes she returned again, with a drink, cigarettes and lighter, and a book. She sat, crossed her legs, lit a cigarette, puffed at it in the shallow way she had, and sipped her drink; a slipper with pompoms dangled from her bare foot, which she moved in slow arcs, dipping and pointing the toes, whose nails, they knew, were painted vermillion. Her peignoir fell open at the thigh, nothing unseemly; and, anyway, she had nice legs, for her age. Mandy whistled again, softly; Vivien settled herself more sensuously in her chair, swung her slipper. They dreaded her giving herself away any further, and yet willed her to do so. Chris couldn’t wolf-whistle, but he could do fluting whistles like bird calls. While Vivien sat reading for as long as it took her to finish her drink, his bird calls slipped intermittently—swooning, brooding messages—out of the undergrowth, through the warm night. She put down her book, leaned her head back, closed her eyes, sighed, ran her hands luxuriantly down her nightdress. The children couldn’t move or speak, in case she heard them; they swallowed with dry throats. They didn’t dare look at one another, for fear of spurting out with laughter. Then, at last, she stood up and took the chair inside, shutting the window, and the spell that had bound them was broken. Susan got up stiffly, groaning with pins and needles, brushing earth and twigs from her bare knees, whispering that she had to go; she was afraid of what her parents would think if she wasn’t back soon. She assured them that she would be fine, making her way across the Downs on her own (and, fortunately, she was). Chris and Mandy were left alone together. In the present, too, Susan was the first to go. Chris walked out with her to her taxi when it came. They kissed clumsily—he went for two cheeks when she meant to do only one. “We ought to meet like this again,” he said. “That would be nice.” Susan was insincere, one hand already on the door of her liberating taxi. Her counter-reaction after opening up came faster and more violently, as she aged: she longed to be alone with herself. “Mandy’s right,” Chris pursued. “The past’s important.” A chill made Susan pull her cardigan tighter; Chris seemed to feel it, too, when his eager look tipped down too far into her strained eyes. Embarrassed, indifferent to him, she burrowed away inside the taxi; its driver, elbow out of the wound-down window, summing Chris up dismissively, put the car in gear. She asked for the station. Returning inside, Chris wondered aloud to Amanda, who crouched twiddling the knobs of a television with a bulbous green screen, what Susan had thought of him, in the old days: it seemed to matter suddenly. “Wasn’t she mad keen on you at one time? In my memory, she as good as told you so. You probably weren’t listening. Weren’t interested, anyway.” “You’re joking.” “It was serious. In as far as they’re ever serious, those kiddie crushes.” Chris took this new knowledge in, past the usual apparatus of his ideas and ironies, crowded as a junk yard. “She did seem haunted. Disappointed. You don’t think there’d be any point in me . . . ?” “Shouldn’t think so. That was a million years ago. It wouldn’t be you, haunting her now.” He accepted this, resigned. But the vibration of passion had been introduced into the darkened room: they both felt it, taken by surprise. They talked about other things: Amanda queried whether books on the shelves, first editions by forgotten novelists, might be worth something; Chris said he doubted it. Meanwhile, he was uncovering more detail in the memory of what had happened between him and Mandy in the den. Not the dream-thing they had all three wanted under the beeches but a twosome more greedily down to earth, his hand pushed under her bra, hers into his unzipped jeans, actually a first for him. Though he hadn’t cared for Mandy much, his gratitude had been overwhelming; it had dissolved him. (“Do you like me? Do you like me?” she had kept asking.) He woke up, for once, to the blossoming of the present moment. He couldn’t make love to Amanda now, in this decomposing house. Could he? They were too old to do it in the garden. Perhaps it didn’t matter that she wasn’t his type. Anyway, what type was he? “Aren’t you glad I arranged for us to meet?” Amanda said, still wanting praise, making her old face of pouting, flirting dissatisfaction. Susan in her taxi, dusty hatbox on the seat beside her, fingered the ivory masks in her handbag, out of sight: a man and a woman with broad, composed, stylized faces, lowered eyes. She didn’t remember them from her childhood. They were meant not for wearing but to hang on a wall, beautiful, carved into the curve of the tusk. She was sure that they weren’t trash made for tourists. Her smoothing thumb took pleasure in the long cheeks, bulging eyelids, jutting mouths, the ridges of the brows and hair, the woman’s earrings and her comb.
Victory Lap Three days shy of her fifteenth birthday, Alison Pope paused at the top of the stairs. Say the staircase was marble. Say she descended and all heads turned. Where was {special one}? Approaching now, bowing slightly, he exclaimed, How can so much grace be contained in one small package? Oops. Had he said small package? And just stood there? Broad princelike face totally bland of expression? Poor thing! Sorry, no way, down he went, he was definitely not {special one}. What about this guy, behind Mr. Small Package, standing near the home entertainment center? With a thick neck of farmer integrity yet tender ample lips, who, placing one hand on the small of her back, whispered, Dreadfully sorry you had to endure that bit about the small package just now. Let us go stand on the moon. Or, uh, in the moon. In the moonlight. Had he said, Let us go stand on the moon? If so, she would have to be like, {eyebrows up}. And if no wry acknowledgment was forthcoming, be like, Uh, I am not exactly dressed for standing on the moon, which, as I understand it, is super-cold? Come on, guys, she couldn’t keep treading gracefully on this marble staircase in her mind forever! That dear old white-hair in the tiara was getting all like, Why are those supposed princes making that darling girl march in place ad nausea? Plus she had a recital tonight and had to go fetch her tights from the dryer. Egads! One found oneself still standing at the top of the stairs. Do the thing where, facing upstairs, hand on railing, you hop down the stairs one at a time, which was getting a lot harder lately, due to, someone’s feet were getting longer every day, seemed like. Pas de chat, pas de chat. Changement, changement. Hop over thin metal thingie separating hallway tile from living-room rug. Curtsy to self in entryway mirror. Come on, Mom, get here. We do not wish to be castrigated by Ms. Callow again in the wings. Although actually she loved Ms. C. So strict! Also loved the other girls in class. And the girls from school. Loved them. Everyone was so nice. Plus the boys at her school. Plus the teachers at her school. All of them were doing their best. Actually, she loved her whole town. That adorable grocer, spraying his lettuce! Pastor Carol, with her large comfortable butt! The chubby postman, gesticulating with his padded envelopes! It had once been a mill town. Wasn’t that crazy? What did that even mean? Also she loved her house. Across the creek was the Russian church. So ethnic! That onion dome had loomed in her window since her Pooh footie days. Also loved Gladsong Drive. Every house on Gladsong was a Corona del Mar. That was amazing! If you had a friend on Gladsong, you already knew where everything was in his or her home. Jeté, jeté, rond de jambe. Pas de bourrée. On a happy whim, do front roll, hop to your feet, kiss the picture of Mom and Dad taken at Penney’s back in the Stone Ages, when you were that little cutie right there {kiss} with a hair bow bigger than all outdoors. Sometimes, feeling happy like this, she imagined a baby deer trembling in the woods. Where’s your mama, little guy? I don’t know, the deer said in the voice of Heather’s little sister Becca. Are you afraid? she asked it. Are you hungry? Do you want me to hold you? O.K., the baby deer said. Here came the hunter now, dragging the deer’s mother by the antlers. Her guts were completely splayed. Jeez, that was nice! She covered the baby’s eyes and was like, Don’t you have anything better to do, dank hunter, than kill this baby’s mom? You seem like a nice enough guy. Is my mom killed? the baby said in Becca’s voice. No, no, she said. This gentleman was just leaving. The hunter, captivated by her beauty, toffed or doffed his cap, and, going down on one knee, said, If I could will life back into this fawn, I would do so, in hopes you might defer one tender kiss upon our elderly forehead. Go, she said. Only, for your task of penance do not eat her. Lay her out in a field of clover, with roses strewn about her. And bestow a choir, to softly sing of her foul end. Lay who out? the baby deer said. No one, she said. Never mind. Stop asking so many questions. Pas de chat, pas de chat. Changement, changement. She felt hopeful that {special one} would hail from far away. The local boys possessed a certain je ne sais quoi, which, tell the truth, she was not très crazy about, such as: actually named their own nuts. She had overheard that! And aspired to work for County Power because the work shirts were awesome and you got them free. So ixnay on the local boys. A special ixnay on Matt Drey, owner of the largest mouth in the land. Kissing him last night at the pep rally had been like kissing an underpass. Scary! Kissing Matt was like suddenly this cow in a sweater is bearing down on you, who will not take no for an answer, and his huge cow head is being flooded by chemicals that are drowning out what little powers of reason Matt actually did have. What she liked was being in charge of her. Her body, her mind. Her thoughts, her career, her future. That was what she liked. So be it. We might have a slight snack. Un petit repas. Was she special? Did she consider herself special? Oh, gosh, she didn’t know. In the history of the world many had been more special than her. Helen Keller had been awesome; Mother Teresa was amazing; Mrs. Roosevelt was quite chipper in spite of her husband, who was handicapped, which, in addition, she had been gay, with those big old teeth, long before such time as being gay and First Lady was even conceptual. She, Alison, could not hope to compete in the category of those ladies. Not yet, anyway! There was so much she didn’t know! Like how to change the oil. Or even check the oil. How to open the hood. How to bake brownies. That was embarrassing, actually, being a girl and all. And what was a mortgage? Did it come with the house? When you breast-fed, did you have to like push the milk out? Egads. Who was this wan figure, visible through the living-room window, trotting up Gladsong Drive? Kyle Boot, palest kid in all the land? Still dressed in his weird cross-country-running toggles? Poor thing. He looked like a skeleton with a mullet. Were those cross-country shorts from the like “Charlie’s Angels” days or quoi? How could he run so well when he seemed to have literally no muscles? Every day he ran home like this, shirtless with his backpack on, then hit the remote from down by the Fungs’ and scooted into his garage without breaking stride. You almost had to admire the poor goof. They’d grown up together, been little beaners in that mutual sandbox down by the creek. Hadn’t they bathed together when wee or some such crud? She hoped that never got out. Because in terms of friends Kyle was basically down to Tasso Slavko, who walked leaning way backward and was always retrieving things from between his teeth, announcing the name of the retrieved thing in Greek, then re-eating it. Kyle’s mom and dad didn’t let him do squat. He had to call home if the movie in World Culture might show bare boobs. Each of the items in his lunch box was clearly labelled. Pas de bourrée. And curtsy. Pour quantity of Cheez Doodles into compartmentalized old-school Tupperware dealie. Thanks, Mom, thanks, Dad. Your kitchen rocks. Shake Tupperware dealie back and forth like panning for gold, then offer to some imaginary poor gathered round. Please enjoy. Is there anything else I can do for you folks? You have already done enough, Alison, by even deigning to speak to us. That is so not true! Don’t you understand, all people deserve respect? Each of us is a rainbow. Uh, really? Look at this big open sore on my poor shrivelled flank. Allow me to fetch you some Vaseline. That would be much appreciated. This thing kills. But as far as that rainbow idea? She believed that. People were amazing. Mom was awesome, Dad was awesome, her teachers worked so hard and had kids of their own, and some were even getting divorced, such as Mrs. Dees, but still always took time for their students. What she found especially inspiring about Mrs. Dees was that, even though Mr. Dees was cheating on Mrs. Dees with the lady who ran the bowling alley, Mrs. Dees was still teaching the best course ever in Ethics, posing such questions as: Can goodness win? Or do good people always get shafted, evil being more reckless? That last bit seemed to be Mrs. Dees taking a shot at the bowling-alley gal. But seriously! Is life fun or scary? Are people good or bad? On the one hand, that clip of those gauntish pale bodies being steamrolled while fat German ladies looked on chomping gum. On the other hand, sometimes rural folks, even if their particular farms were on hills, stayed up late filling sandbags. In their straw poll she had voted for people being good and life being fun, with Mrs. Dees giving her a pitying glance as she stated her views: To do good, you just have to decide to do good. You have to be brave. You have to stand up for what’s right. At that last, Mrs. Dees had made this kind of groan. Which was fine. Mrs. Dees had a lot of pain in her life, yet, interestingly? Still obviously found something fun about life and good about people, because otherwise why sometimes stay up so late grading you come in the next day all exhausted, blouse on backward, having messed it up in the early-morning dark, you dear discombobulated thing? Here came a knock on the door. Back door. In-ter-est-ing. Who could it be? Father Dmitri from across the way? UPS? FedEx? With un petit check pour Papa? Jeté, jeté, rond de jambe. Pas de bourrée. Open door, and— Here was a man she did not know. Quite huge fellow, in one of those meter-reader vests. Something told her to step back in, slam the door. But that seemed rude. Instead she froze, smiled, did {eyebrow-raise} to indicate: May I help you? Kyle Boot dashed through the garage, into the living area, where the big clocklike wooden indicator was set at All Out. Other choices included: Mom & Dad Out; Mom Out; Dad Out; Kyle Out; Mom & Kyle Out; Dad & Kyle Out; and All In. Why did they even need All In? Wouldn’t they know it when they were All In? Would he like to ask Dad that? Who, in his excellent, totally silent downstairs woodshop, had designed and built the Family Status Indicator? Ha. Ha ha. On the kitchen island was a Work Notice. Scout: New geode on deck. Place in yard per included drawing. No goofing. Rake area first, put down plastic as I have shown you. Then lay in white rock. THIS GEODE EXPENSIVE. Pls take seriously. No reason this should not be done by time I get home. This = five (5) Work Points. Gar, Dad, do you honestly feel it fair that I should have to slave in the yard until dark, after a rigorous cross-country practice that included sixteen 440s, eight 880s, a mile-for-time, a kajillion Drake sprints, and a five-mile Indian relay? Shoes off, mister. Yoinks, too late. He was already at the TV. And had left an incriminating trail of micro-clods. Way verboten. Could the micro-clods be hand-plucked? Although, problem: if he went back to hand-pluck the micro-clods, he’d leave an incriminating new trail of micro-clods. He took off his shoes and stood mentally rehearsing a little show he liked to call “WHAT IF . . . RIGHT NOW?” WHAT IF they came home RIGHT NOW? It’s a funny story, Dad! I came in thoughtlessly! Then realized what I’d done! I guess, when I think about it, what I’m happy about? Is how quickly I self-corrected! The reason I came in so thoughtlessly was, I wanted to get right to work, Dad, per your note! He raced in his socks to the garage, threw his shoes into the garage, ran for the vacuum, vacuumed up the micro-clods, then realized, holy golly, he had thrown his shoes into the garage rather than placing them on the Shoe Sheet as required, toes facing away from the door for ease of donnage later. He stepped into the garage, placed his shoes on the Shoe Sheet, stepped back inside. Scout, Dad said in his head, has anyone ever told you that even the most neatly maintained garage is going to have some oil on its floor, which is now on your socks, being tracked all over the tan Berber? Oh gar, his ass was grass. But no—celebrate good times, come on—no oil stain on rug. He tore off his socks. It was absolutely verboten for him to be in the main living area barefoot. Mom and Dad coming home to find him Tarzaning around like some sort of white-trasher would not be the least fucking bit— Swearing in your head? Dad said in his head. Step up, Scout, be a man. If you want to swear, swear aloud. I don’t want to swear aloud. Then don’t swear in your head. Mom and Dad would be heartsick if they could hear the swearing he sometimes did in his head, such as crap-cunt shit-turd dick-in-the-ear butt-creamery. Why couldn’t he stop doing that? They thought so highly of him, sending weekly braggy e-mails to both sets of grandparents, such as: Kyle’s been super-busy keeping up his grades while running varsity cross-country though still a sophomore, while setting aside a little time each day to manufacture such humdingers as cunt-swoggle rear-fuck— What was wrong with him? Why couldn’t he be grateful for all that Mom and Dad did for him, instead of— Cornhole the ear-cunt. Flake-fuck the pale vestige with a proddering dick-knee. You could always clear the mind with a hard pinch on your own minimal love handle. Ouch. Hey, today was Tuesday, a Major Treat day. The five (5) new Work Points for placing the geode, plus his existing two (2) Work Points, totalled seven (7) Work Points, which, added to his eight (8) accrued Usual Chore Points, made fifteen (15) Total Treat Points, which could garner him a Major Treat (for example, two handfuls of yogurt-covered raisins), plus twenty free-choice TV minutes, although the particular show would have to be negotiated with Dad at time of cash-in. One thing you will not be watching, Scout, is “America’s Most Outspoken Dirt Bikers.” Whatever. Whatever, Dad. Really, Scout? “Whatever”? Will it be “whatever” when I take away all your Treat Points and force you to quit cross-country, as I have several times threatened to do if a little more cheerful obedience wasn’t forthcoming? No, no, no. I don’t want to quit, Dad. Please. I’m good at it. You’ll see, first meet. Even Matt Drey said— Who is Matt Drey? Some ape on the football team? Yes. Is his word law? No. What did he say? Little shit can run. Nice talk, Scout. Ape talk. Anyway, you may not make it to the first meet. Your ego seems to be overflowing its banks. And why? Because you can jog? Anyone can jog. Beasts of the field can jog. I’m not quitting! Anal-cock shitbird rectum-fritz! Please, I’m begging you, it’s the only thing I’m decent at! Mom, if he makes me quit I swear to God I’ll— Drama doesn’t suit you, Beloved Only. If you want the privilege of competing in a team sport, Scout, show us that you can live within our perfectly reasonable system of directives designed to benefit you. Hello. A van had just pulled up in the St. Mikhail’s parking lot. Kyle walked in a controlled, gentlemanly manner to the kitchen counter. On the counter was Kyle’s Traffic Log, which served the dual purpose of (1) buttressing Dad’s argument that Father Dmitri should build a soundproof retaining wall and (2) constituting a data set for a possible Science Fair project for him, Kyle, entitled, by Dad, “Correlation of Church Parking Lot Volume vs. Day of Week, with Ancillary Investigation of Sunday Volume Throughout Year.” Smiling agreeably as if he enjoyed filling out the Log, Kyle very legibly filled out the Log: Vehicle: VAN. Color: GRAY. Make: CHEVY. Year: UNKNOWN. A guy got out of the van. One of the usual Rooskies. “Rooskie” was an allowed slang. Also “dang it.” Also “holy golly.” Also “crapper.” The Rooskie was wearing a jean jacket over a hoodie, which, in Kyle’s experience, was not unusual church-wear for the Rooskies, who sometimes came directly over from Jiffy Lube still wearing coveralls. Under “Vehicle Driver” he wrote, PROBABLE PARISHIONER. That sucked. Stank, rather. The guy being a stranger, he, Kyle, now had to stay inside until the stranger left the neighborhood. Which totally futzed up his geode placing. He’d be out there until midnight. What a detriment! The guy put on a DayGlo vest. Ah, dude was a meter reader. The meter reader looked left, then right, leaped across the creek, entered the Pope back yard, passed between the soccer-ball rebounder and the in-ground pool, then knocked on the Pope door. Good leap there, Boris. The door swung open. Alison. Kyle’s heart was singing. He’d always thought that was just a phrase. Alison was like a national treasure. In the dictionary under “beauty” there should be a picture of her in that jean skort. Although lately she didn’t seem to like him all that much. Now she stepped across her deck so the meter reader could show her something. Something electrical wrong on the roof? The guy seemed eager to show her. Actually, he had her by the wrist. And was like tugging. That was weird. Wasn’t it? Nothing had ever been weird around here before. So probably it was fine. Probably the guy was just a really new meter reader? Somehow Kyle felt like stepping out onto the deck. He stepped out. The guy froze. Alison’s eyes were scared-horse eyes. The guy cleared his throat, turned slightly to let Kyle see something. A knife. The meter reader had a knife. Here’s what you’re doing, the guy said. Standing right there until we leave. Move a muscle, I knife her in the heart. Swear to God. Got it? Kyle’s mouth was so spitless all he could do was make his mouth do the shape it normally did when saying Yes. Now they were crossing the yard. Alison threw herself to the ground. The guy hauled her up. She threw herself down. He hauled her up. It was odd seeing Alison tossed like a rag doll in the sanctuary of the perfect yard her dad had made for her. She threw herself down. The guy hissed something and she rose, suddenly docile. In his chest Kyle felt the many directives, Major and Minor, he was right now violating. He was on the deck shoeless, on the deck shirtless, was outside when a stranger was near, had engaged with that stranger. Last week Sean Ball had brought a wig to school to more effectively mimic the way Bev Mirren chewed her hair when nervous. Kyle had briefly considered intervening. At Evening Meeting, Mom had said that she considered Kyle’s decision not to intervene judicious. Dad had said, That was none of your business. You could have been badly hurt. Mom had said, Think of all the resources we’ve invested in you, Beloved Only. Dad had said, I know we sometimes strike you as strict but you are literally all we have. They were at the soccer-ball rebounder now, Alison’s arm up behind her back. She was making a low repetitive sound of denial, like she was trying to invent a noise that would adequately communicate her feelings about what she’d just this instant realized was going to happen to her. He was a kid. There was nothing he could do. In his chest he felt the lush release of pressure that always resulted when he submitted to a directive. There at his feet was the geode. He should just look at that until they were gone. It was a great one. Maybe the greatest one ever. The crystals at the cutaway glistened in the sun. It would look nice in the yard. Once he’d placed it. He’d place it once they were gone. Dad would be impressed that even after what had occurred he’d remembered to place the geode. That’s the ticket, Scout. We are well pleased, Beloved Only. Super job, Scout. Holy crap. It was happening. She was marching along all meek like the trooper he’d known she’d be. He’d had her in mind since the baptism of what’s-his-name. Sergei’s kid. At the Russian church. She’d been standing in her yard, her dad or some such taking her picture. He’d been like, Hello, Betty. Kenny had been like, Little young, bro. He’d been like, For you, grandpa. When you studied history, the history of cultures, you saw your own individual time as hidebound. There were various theories of acquiescence. In Bible days a king might ride through a field and go: That one. And she would be brought unto him. And they would duly be betrothed and if she gave birth unto a son, super, bring out the streamers, she was a keeper. Was she, that first night, digging it? Probably not. Was she shaking like a leaf? Didn’t matter. What mattered was offspring and the furtherance of the lineage. Plus the exaltation of the king, which resulted in righteous kingly power. Here was the creek. He marched her right through. The following bullet points remained in the decision matrix: take to side van door, shove in, follow in, tape wrists/mouth, hook to chain, make speech. He had the speech down cold. Had practiced it both in his head and on the recorder: Calm your heart, darling, I know you’re scared because you don’t know me yet and didn’t expect this today but give me a chance and you will see we will fly high. See I am putting the knife right over here and I don’t expect I’ll have to use it, right? If she wouldn’t get in the van, punch hard in gut. Then pick up, carry to side van door, throw in, tape wrists/mouth, hook to chain, make speech, etc., etc. Stop, pause, he said. Gal stopped. Fucksake. Side door of the van was locked. How undisciplined was that. Insuring that the van door was unlocked was clearly indicated on the pre-mission matrix. Melvin appeared in his mind. On Melvin’s face was the look of hot disappointment that had always preceded an ass-whooping, which had always preceded the other thing. Put up your hands, Melvin said, defend yourself. True, true. Little error there. Should have double-checked the pre-mission matrix. No biggie. Joy not fear. Melvin was dead fifteen years. Mom dead twelve. Little bitch was turned around now, looking back at the house. That willfulness wouldn’t stand. That was going to get nipped in the bud. He’d have to remember to hurt her early, establish a baseline. Turn the fuck around, he said. She turned around. He unlocked the door, swung it open. Moment of truth. If she got in and let him use the tape, they were home free. He’d picked out a place in Sackett, big-ass cornfield, dirt road leading in. If fuckwise it went good they’d pick up the freeway from there. Basically steal the van. It was Kenny’s van. He’d borrowed it for the day. Screw Kenny. Kenny had once called him stupid. Too bad, Kenny, that remark just cost you one van. If fuckwise it went bad and she didn’t properly arouse him he’d abort the activity, truncate the subject, heave the thing out, clean van as necessary, go buy corn, return van to Kenny, say, Hey, bro, here’s a shitload of corn, thanks for the van, I never could’ve bought a suitable quantity of corn in my car. Then lay low, watch the papers like he’d done with the non-arousing redhead out in— Gal gave him an imploring look, like, Please don’t. Was this a good time? To give her one in the gut, knock the wind out of her sails? It was. He did. The geode was beautiful. What a beautiful geode. What made it beautiful? What were the principal characteristics of a beautiful geode? Come on, think. Come on, concentrate. She’ll recover in time, Beloved Only. None of our affair, Scout. We’re amazed by your good judgment, Beloved Only. Dimly he noted that Alison had been punched. Eyes on the geode, he heard the little oof. His heart dropped at the thought of what he was letting happen. They’d used goldfish snacks as coins. They’d made bridges out of rocks. Down by the creek. Back in the day. Oh God. He should’ve never stepped outside. Once they were gone he’d just go back inside, pretend he’d never stepped out, make the model-railroad town, still be making it when Mom and Dad got home. When eventually someone told him about it? He’d make a certain face. Already on his face he could feel the face he would make, like, What? Alison? Raped? Killed? Oh God. Raped and killed while I innocently made my railroad town, sitting cross-legged and unaware on the floor like a tiny little— No. No, no, no. They’d be gone soon. Then he could go inside. Call 911. Although then everyone would know he’d done nothing. All his future life would be bad. Forever he’d be the guy who’d done nothing. Besides, calling wouldn’t do any good. They’d be long gone. The Parkway was just across Featherstone, with like a million arteries and cloverleafs or whatever sprouting out of it. So that was that. In he’d go. As soon as they left. Leave, leave, leave, he thought, so I can go inside, forget this ever— Then he was running. Across the lawn. Oh God! What was he doing, what was he doing? Jesus, shit, the directives he was violating! Running in the yard (bad for the sod); transporting a geode without its protective wrapping; hopping the fence, which stressed the fence, which had cost a pretty penny; leaving the yard; leaving the yard barefoot; entering the Secondary Area without permission; entering the creek barefoot (broken glass, dangerous microorganisms), and, not only that, oh God, suddenly he saw what this giddy part of himself intended, which was to violate a directive so Major and absolute that it wasn’t even a directive, since you didn’t need a directive to know how totally verboten it was to— He burst out of the creek, the guy still not turning, and let the geode fly into his head, which seemed to emit a weird edge-seep of blood even before the skull visibly indented and the guy sat right on his ass. Yes! Score! It was fun! Fun dominating a grownup! Fun using the most dazzling gazelle-like leg speed ever seen in the history of mankind to dash soundlessly across space and master this huge galoot, who otherwise, right now, would be— What if he hadn’t? God, what if he hadn’t? He imagined the guy bending Alison in two like a pale garment bag while pulling her hair and thrusting bluntly, as he, Kyle, sat cowed and obedient, tiny railroad viaduct grasped in his pathetic babyish— Jesus! He skipped over and hurled the geode through the windshield of the van, which imploded, producing an inward rain of glass shards that made the sound of thousands of tiny bamboo wind chimes. He scrambled up the hood of the van, retrieved the geode. Really? Really? You were going to ruin her life, ruin my life, you cunt-probe dick-munch ass-gashing Animal? Who’s bossing who now? Gash-ass, jiz-lips, turd-munch— He’d never felt so strong/angry/wild. Who’s the man? Who’s your daddy? What else must he do? To insure that Animal did no further harm? You still moving, freak? Got a plan, stroke-dick? Want a skull gash on top of your existing skull gash, big man? You think I won’t? You think I— Easy, Scout, you’re out of control. Slow your motor down, Beloved Only. Quiet. I’m the boss of me. FUCK! What the hell? What was he doing on the ground? Had he tripped? Did someone wonk him? Did a branch fall? God damn. He touched his head. His hand came away bloody. The beanpole kid was bending. To pick something up. A rock. Why was that kid off his porch? Where was the knife? Where was the gal? Crab-crawling toward the creek. Flying across her yard. Going into her house. Fuck it, everything was fucked. Better hit the road. With what, his good looks? He had eight bucks total. Ah Christ! The kid had smashed the windshield! With the rock! Kenny was not going to like that one bit. He tried to stand but couldn’t. The blood was just pouring out. He was not going to jail again. No way. He’d slit his wrists. Where was the knife? He’d stab himself in the chest. That had nobility. Then the people would know his name. Which of them had the balls to samurai themselves with a knife in the chest? None. Nobody. Go ahead, pussy. Do it. No. The king does not take his own life. The superior man silently accepts the mindless rebuke of the rabble. Waits to rise and fight anew. Plus he had no idea where the knife was. Well, he didn’t need it. He’d crawl into the woods, kill something with his bare hands. Or make a trap from some grass. Ugh. Was he going to barf? There, he had. Right on his lap. Figures you’d blow the simplest thing, Melvin said. Melvin, God, can’t you see my head is bleeding so bad? A kid did it to you. You’re a joke. You got fucked by a kid. Oh, sirens, perfect. Well, it was a sad day for the cops. He’d fight them hand to hand. He’d sit until the last moment, watching them draw near, doing a silent death mantra that would centralize all his life power in his fists. He sat thinking about his fists. They were huge granite boulders. They were a pit bull each. He tried to get up. Somehow his legs weren’t working. He hoped the cops would get here soon. His head really hurt. When he touched up there, things moved. It was like he was wearing a gore-cap. He was going to need a bunch of stitches. He hoped it wouldn’t hurt too much. Probably it would, though. Where was that beanpole kid? Oh, here he was. Looming over him, blocking out the sun, rock held high, yelling something, but he couldn’t tell what, because of the ringing in his ears. Then he saw that the kid was going to bring the rock down. He closed his eyes and waited and was not at peace at all but instead felt the beginnings of a terrible dread welling up inside him, and if that dread kept growing at the current rate, he realized in a flash of insight, there was a name for the place he would be then, and it was Hell. Alison stood at the kitchen window. She’d peed herself. Which was fine. People did that. When super-scared. She’d noticed it while making the call. Her hands had been shaking so bad. They still were. One leg was doing the Thumper thing. God, the things he’d said to her. He’d punched her. He’d pinched her. The mark on her arm was black. How could Kyle still be out there? But there he was, in those comical shorts, so confident he was goofing around, hands clenched over his head like a boxer from some cute alt universe where a kid that skinny could actually win a fight against a guy with a knife. Wait. His hands weren’t clenched. He was holding the rock, shouting something down at the guy, who was on his knees, like the blindfolded Chinese fellow in that video they’d seen in History, about to get sword-killed by a formal dude in a helmet. Kyle, don’t, she whispered. For months afterward she had nightmares in which Kyle brought the rock down. She was on the deck trying to scream his name but nothing was coming out. Down came the rock. Then the guy had no head. The blow just literally dissolved his head. Then his body tumped over and Kyle turned to her with this heartbroken look of, My life is over. I have killed a guy. Why was it, she sometimes wondered, that in dreams we can’t do the simplest things? Like a crying puppy is standing on some broken glass and you want to pick it up and brush the shards off its pads but you can’t because you’re balancing a ball on your head. Or you’re driving and there’s this old guy on crutches, and you go, to Mr. Feder, your Driver’s Ed teacher, Should I swerve? And he’s like, Uh, probably. But then you hear this big clunk and Feder makes a negative mark in his book. Sometimes she’d wake up crying from the dream about Kyle. The last time, Mom and Dad were already there, going, That’s not how it was. Remember, Allie? How did it happen? Say it. Say it out loud. Allie, can you tell Mommy and Daddy how it really happened? I ran outside, she said. I shouted. That’s right, Dad said. You shouted. Shouted like a champ. And what did Kyle do? Mom said. Put down the rock, she said. A bad thing happened to you kids, Dad said. But it could have been worse. So much worse, Mom said. But because of you kids, Dad said, it wasn’t. You did so good, Mom said. Did beautiful, Dad said.
Temporary Vivian and Shelly lived in downtown Los Angeles, in an industrial space that belonged, nominally, to a ribbon factory, whose warehouse was attached. Shelly had discovered it one night when the band she belonged to then had played at an impromptu concert there. When the evening was over and everyone had cleared out, Shelly and a man she’d met that evening stayed on. The man left soon afterward, but Shelly did not. She worked out an arrangement with the owner of the ribbon factory: the rent would be paid in cash, and if Shelly was discovered by the housing authorities the owner would claim that she was a squatter. Vivian met Shelly at the temp agency where they both applied for work. She had just finished two years of community college in Oklahoma and moved to L.A. Shelly offered her a small room in return for half the rent. She couldn’t guarantee that they wouldn’t be thrown out in a week, or a month, but it was cheaper than the motel where Vivian had been staying, and she wouldn’t have to get out of bed two or three times a night to check the lock on the door, whenever a car parking in the lot or a drunken couple pinballing past caused it to rattle in a way that unnerved her. At Shelly’s place, the thumps and grinds of machinery could be heard through the walls during the day. In addition to Vivian’s room, there was a doorless bathroom and a large open space. A rolling garage door served as the only window. You pulled on a chain and by some miracle of simple machinery the metal door ratcheted open with a satisfying flourish that appealed to Shelly’s sense of drama. Vivian had never met a girl like Shelly, who left her money lying around on tables and liked to throw blindfold dinner parties. Vivian had to learn not to compliment Shelly’s clothes or jewelry because Shelly had a habit of taking off whatever it was that Vivian liked and giving it to her. Vivian also had to learn to be blasé about coming out of her room in the morning to discover Shelly sleeping with a man they had met the evening before—or a woman. Vivian felt a little thrill at being able to carry off such sophisticated nonchalance, and she admired the way that Shelly slithered through her days and nights, shedding the most outrageous experiences as if they were simply the air she passed through. Shelly had negligible professional skills and wavering incentive, and only Vivian managed to get a temp placement—doing clerical work at an adoption agency. Still, Shelly managed to come home with bags full of mangoes and coconuts, and sometimes they drank margaritas and grilled steak on the loading dock outside the garage door, using Vivian’s George Foreman. Shelly’s last name was vaguely familiar to Vivian, as if she had seen it on packages at the grocery store, or maybe on television ads for insurance. But she didn’t ask, because she didn’t want to appear ignorant, and because her parents had taught her that it was impolite to talk about money. At the adoption agency, Vivian was put to work at a computer in a small, windowless room where office supplies were kept; the walls were lined with bales of toilet paper and paper towels, industrial-sized bags of coffee and non-dairy creamer. Vivian’s job was to transcribe the recorded interviews with prospective parents. These interviews were poorly taped, and Vivian spent her days winding the tape recorder back and forth in order to see if a husband had said that he loved children or loathed them, or if a wife had called herself infertile or infantile. Vivian herself was adopted—this was the single piece of information that had got her the job, as she typed only sixty words a minute and didn’t know how to make a spreadsheet. Her adoptive parents were nice people. Until the recent recession put him out of business, her father had run a small jewelry store in a mall that catered mostly to young couples buying engagement rings and girls celebrating their quinceañeras. Her mother had worked as a secretary in a doctor’s office. They were older than most parents, and had required little of Vivian when she was growing up. They had always treated her with a kind of cautious respect that she didn’t see many other parents according their children. By the time she was ten, her father was sixty. At back-to-school nights, her parents stood by themselves while the younger parents exerted a kind of hysterical energy toward one another. “Oh, you’re Alison’s mother!” they’d say, as though Alison, with her accomplishments, bestowed a reflected glory on the parents who’d made her. No one came up to Vivian’s parents to remark on Vivian, but this was understandable. Vivian was a “below-the-radar kind of girl,” as her adviser had written on one midterm evaluation. This wasn’t necessarily a bad thing, the adviser had added; not everyone could be a leader. When Vivian was fourteen, her mother became sick and was on the verge of death. In her mother’s hospital room, her parents told her that she was adopted. As it turned out, her mother made a miraculous recovery, but the cat was already out of the bag. The information didn’t have much of an effect on Vivian. She lay in bed trying to feel different, now that she knew that her parents weren’t her real parents, but she didn’t feel different. The words “father” and “mother” were inextricably bound to the man and woman in the room down the hall, to her mother’s Je Reviens perfume and her father’s top dresser drawer filled with collar stays and golf tees. She was not imaginative enough to associate any other meaning with the words. She watched a television news show about a famous singer whose daughter had tracked her down after forty years. The famous singer seemed happy to have been found, and the two sat with their arms around each other and took long walks on the bluffs above the ocean, hand in hand. The women’s intimacy made Vivian uncomfortable. Her own mother’s kisses were dry, soft things, her hugs unassertive and prudent, as if she didn’t want to cause Vivian any harm. But there was also a moment during the show when the two women looked at each other as if to say, “Now what?” And Vivian had the sense that the mother had some misgivings about being found, that having given up a child had become part of her personal mythology, her idea of herself. Now, faced with the real person, she had lost some of the romance of her story. Driving across the desert on her way to Los Angeles, Vivian had seen a billboard announcing that this same singer, who had been very popular in the seventies, would be performing five nights at a casino on an Indian reservation. This strengthened Vivian’s decision not to explore her own adoption. You didn’t always want to know everything. Sometimes, when Vivian finished transcribing an interview at the adoption agency, she would add a note to the bottom of the document offering her opinion of the interviewed couple. No one had asked for her advice, but she felt compelled to give it, since a life was at stake. Mostly, she thought the couples should be allowed to adopt, because whatever flaws they had were no worse than the flaws of people who could have children effortlessly, even thoughtlessly, and she knew that children could survive almost anything. In one case, though, she felt strongly that the husband was unkind to the wife, and she noted this at the bottom of her transcript. She could not explain how she knew this, never having seen the couple. But the woman sounded frightened in a way that set her apart from the other women, who were simply nervous during their interviews. She paused before each answer, as if waiting for the man’s permission to speak, and at the end of her answers she always added, “Right, Paul?” The woman who ran the agency reprimanded Vivian for this insight and reminded her that her job was a temporary one. But Vivian kept track and she knew that the couple had not yet been matched with a child. Shelly gave up looking for work. She said that she had too many projects of her own to concentrate on, and, besides, she just wasn’t “the office type.” This statement seemed slightly insulting to Vivian, who clearly was the office type, but she could not discount Shelly’s generosity—the way she paid if they went out to dinner and brought home expensive wine for them to share—and Shelly’s rejection of such commonplace concerns as making a living seemed exotic to Vivian. Shelly spent most of her mornings wandering around their living space in a loosely tied mint-green kimono, her small, freckled breasts winking out from the material as she moved. For a time, she took up painting and made large canvases on which she drew crude images of her face struck through with angry slashes of color. She organized a show of her work and a hundred strangers showed up at their home. Vivian wore one of Shelly’s beaded dresses and Shelly wore body paint. The guests ate the food that they had prepared and refrained from buying anything. Shelly didn’t seem to mind. After a few months, the canvases disappeared, though it was unclear to Vivian whether someone had finally bought them or Shelly had just thrown them into the Dumpster behind the ribbon warehouse to be carted away along with the giant spools of badly dyed grosgrain. By this time, Shelly had become involved with a man named Toby, who stood on corners in Silver Lake and Echo Park handing out pamphlets about the Socialist Workers Party. He was a quiet man who wore thick-framed glasses and collared shirts, which he tucked into his jeans, and when he spoke to people he listened carefully, as if they were giving him directions. He had gone to a very good college back East, and when he talked fervently about his political beliefs Vivian admired his seriousness and his self-restraint, and the prominent tendons of his forearms. Shelly grunted a lot while having sex on the pullout, and in the mornings Toby left quickly, a ream of freshly printed flyers stuffed under his arm. The couple whom Vivian had considered unsuitable for adoption had come back for a second interview. When Vivian turned on the tape recorder, the sound of the man’s voice was so vivid that she looked over her shoulder, thinking he was behind her. Instead of starting to type, she pressed the headphones tightly to her ears and just listened to what was being said. “Maybe we didn’t make the right impression,” the man said. There was a pause, and then the wife said, “We have a lot of love to give. Right, Paul?” “But that’s what everybody says, of course,” the man said. Vivian could hear the tension in his voice. He must have stood up at that point, because as he continued his voice grew distant and full of air. “You must hear stupid, obvious things like that every day,” he said. “ ‘We have a lot of love to give.’ It’s probably meaningless to you. But what else can we say? We want a child. We have enough money to offer a child a good life, all the advantages. We’re decent people with decent values. But it feels like we’re paying the price for some biological glitch we have no control over.” The director of the agency assured them that they had done well in the interview process, but that it was her job to match up the right children with the right parents and this effort could take time. “Some people don’t test well,” the man said. “Is that it?” His voice was louder, as if he were seated again. The director told them that it wasn’t a test. “Sure it is,” the man said. “Everything is a test.” When the interview was over, Vivian sat listening to the sound of empty tape winding through the recorder. She rewound it and listened again. Some people don’t test well. The way he said it made it sound like a kind of attack. It was as if he could open up the director’s head, peer into her brain, and see all her prejudices and value judgments. When he talked about the “stupid, obvious thing” his wife had said, Vivian imagined the woman looking at her lap, embarrassed that the compromises of her marriage were being exposed to a stranger, that it was she who seemed weak for accepting these insults, rather than her husband for hurling them. Vivian rewound the entire interview and began to input it into the computer. The words were familiar to her now, and she tried to visualize the couple. She saw the man with dark, neatly cropped hair, muscular from hours at a gym. He was the kind of man who, when he was inside, wore his sunglasses on the back of his head like a pair of upside-down eyes. She imagined the woman as delicate and fair, clasping her hands as if they were wayward children who might break something if she let them go. She was beautiful, but rusted, as if her beauty had been abandoned, exposed to the elements. Vivian knew that she could be completely wrong about the couple. They might be fat. They might be Chinese. They might be the warmest people in the world, who would lavish on their adopted child the sort of palpable love advertised in greeting cards and on the collars of stuffed puppies. How could anyone know what kind of love another person had to give? When Vivian got home that night, Toby was there alone. He sat at the table reading a book, his back straight, his head bent as if in prayer. “She went to a thing at a club,” he said. “You didn’t want to go?” “I guess I’m not a club person.” “Whatever that is,” she said. He looked up and smiled, which embarrassed her, because she knew that they were both making fun of Shelly, and, in doing so, forming a secret bond. Why wasn’t Toby at his own house? Maybe Shelly had left him at hers the way she left hundred-dollar bills lying around, evidence of her carelessness. Shelly’s sofabed was open and unmade, red sheets spilling suggestively off the thin mattress. Vivian got a yogurt out of the refrigerator, and a filigreed spoon from the old Ball jar they used to hold the set of antique silver utensils that had belonged to Shelly’s grandmother, and went to her room. She ate her yogurt but felt too awkward to go back out and throw the empty cup into the garbage, so she left it on the floor by her mattress, where it toppled over under the weight of the spoon. She tried to read a book, but she couldn’t concentrate, knowing that Toby was in the other room, reading his book. She had to go to the bathroom. Somehow, when Shelly was there with Toby, using the doorless bathroom wasn’t such a problem. But she couldn’t imagine using it now. The more she thought about it, however, the more she needed to. She decided not to make eye contact with Toby as she crossed the main room. If she pretended that he wasn’t there, maybe he would pretend that she wasn’t there, either. In the bathroom, she peed quickly, with her eyes closed, as if he were the one who didn’t want to be seen. The toilet made a grating mechanical sound when flushed, and the water pipes of the sink let out their customary screeching complaints, bedevilling Vivian’s attempts at invisibility. After she’d dried her hands, she turned toward the doorway and there he was. “Sorry,” he said. “I didn’t hear you.” “You didn’t hear me?” “I guess I was into my book.” “What are you reading?” “ ‘Pnin,’ ” he said. “Is it good?” He glanced past her into the bathroom. “You finished in here?” “Oh,” she said, realizing that she was blocking the way. She walked quickly back to her room, but not fast enough to avoid hearing his relieved groan and the hard stream as his piss hit the toilet bowl. She took the empty yogurt cup and spoon to the kitchen area. He walked out of the bathroom, adjusting his jeans. “Do you think you make a difference?” she said. “What?” “With your flyers. I mean, is anybody interested?” “You’re not, I guess.” “Do you really think people change their minds?” “People change their minds all the time. I think I want a hamburger, but I order a pizza.” “That’s a ridiculous comparison.” “Not really. That’s how we progress as a culture. We change our minds and, little by little, we become something else.” “We become a more pizza-oriented culture,” she said. He smiled. He didn’t seem offended. “It’s just, if someone walked up to me on the street and started talking about Communism or socialism I wouldn’t stop.” He shrugged. “I’m not going to change your mind, then,” he said. The way he said this made her feel dismissed. She wanted to correct him. She wanted to be able to change her mind, wanted him to change her mind. But although he seemed to have convictions, he had the same careless quality as Shelly, a confidence that allowed them both to ride along above the dismal concerns of everyone else. Why did she care so much? Her care felt like a disfigurement, something that made it necessary for people like Shelly and Toby to distance themselves from her. Her care felt like something that would drag down the progress of human development. It made her an awkward, embarrassing person who asked what book you were reading when all you wanted to do was go to the bathroom. She felt her face flush and she returned to her room. She changed into her night clothes and got into bed and turned off the lamp, but she was too agitated to sleep. When Vivian’s mother was sick, she’d stayed in the hospital for months at a time, and Vivian and her father had learned how to get along in the house without her. Vivian had cooked breakfast and dinner, and her father had done the grocery shopping on his way home from the jewelry store. After dinner, he would wash the dishes and Vivian would clean the table and the counters. They saw her mother every evening during visiting hours. Sometimes, if her mother was very sick, Vivian wasn’t allowed in the room, and she would sit in the waiting area until her father came out. He’d always say something cheerful, like “The doctor feels confident,” or “She had good color tonight,” and Vivian would respond in kind, knowing that they were both performing in a kind of play, and that they needed each other to remember the lines and deliver them with the right inflections. Once back home, her father would turn on the television. He kept it on all night to avoid the new silence in the house. One day, Vivian decided that instead of going straight home from school she would take the bus to the mall and meet up with her father there. Maybe they could go out for dinner on their way to the hospital. After walking a block from the bus stop, she entered the dead weather of the mall. It was almost Easter, and a person dressed as a bunny hopped down the corridors, promoting a candy store by handing chocolate eggs to children. Vivian rode the escalator to the second floor, where her father’s store was. Through the glass storefront, she saw her father come out from behind the counter to fasten a woman’s necklace. The woman’s neck was long and pale, and her dark hair was drawn to the side and over one shoulder to make way for the jewelry. When Vivian’s father was finished with the clasp, he took the woman’s hair and spread it carefully along her back, as if he were smoothing down a wrinkled dress. He rested his hands on the woman’s bare shoulders while she admired herself in a handheld mirror, and Vivian’s throat went dry. She left the mall and took the bus home. She never asked her father about what she had seen. She knew that if she did her life would split open and she would slip through the crack. In a few months, Vivian’s mother’s recovery was certain, and she came home. She was weak for a time, resting in bed most of the day, but little by little she began to take up her household chores again, cooking and cleaning, although she never went back to work. One night, when Vivian and her parents were seated at the table, about to eat their dinner, her father started crying. Vivian had never seen her father cry, and it frightened her a bit. He was just so happy, he said, shaking his head at the folly of his emotion. Vivian’s mother sat in her chair and smiled shyly, like a girl watching a boy approach across a dance floor and realizing that he has singled her out from all the girls around her. A knock on her door made Vivian realize that she had almost been asleep. The door opened a crack and Toby stood silhouetted against the light of the outer room. “Shelly just called,” he said. “She’s not coming back tonight.” “Oh,” Vivian said, sleepily, not quite understanding. But then she found herself moving over in bed and lifting the covers as an invitation. Toby stepped into the room, took off his clothes, and slid in beside her. His skin was warm, and when he moved on top of her Vivian felt the thin tautness of his body. She put her arms around his narrow shoulders as if he were a log floating in a river which she could rest on to catch her breath. “Just for now,” he whispered into her neck as he began to move faster on top of her. He was boyish in the way he announced his orgasm, and she felt protective of him as he rested, spent, in her arms. She wondered if she cared for him, if it mattered to her that tomorrow he would likely be gone for good, Shelly having obviously had enough of him. Was it possible to care and not to care at the very same moment, the way it was possible to be a husband and not, a parent and not? The receptionist at the adoption agency went on maternity leave, and rather than hire another temp the director decided that Vivian could manage her work while sitting at the receptionist’s desk. She instructed Vivian on how to handle the prospective parents who came to the office to be interviewed. Vivian was to be polite and helpful, in terms of offering water or coffee or directing them to the rest rooms in the hallway, but not overly solicitous and definitely not optimistic in any way. Vivian was confused by this last directive; she was unsure how to be helpful without giving off an air of optimism. Most couples sat in the waiting room in silence, fearing, perhaps, that anything they said in front of the receptionist might be used against them. One afternoon a man walked into the office. He was a small, compact man with what her mother would have called a “coif” of thick, shiny hair. He was wearing an elegant suit of a modern cut, the jacket purposefully small, the pants short enough to reveal his garishly printed socks. He stood in front of her desk, and a second before he opened his mouth to speak Vivian realized who he was. “Where’s your wife?” she said, imagining that the man had forbidden his wife to come this time, that he had decided that her presence was what stood in the way of their getting a child. “Excuse me?” “Usually we see couples,” Vivian said, covering for her blunder. She reminded herself to be polite and not optimistic. She didn’t want to lose her job. “I don’t have an appointment,” he said. “She’s doing an interview right now,” Vivian said. His face was anguished for a moment, as if he thought that this other couple were, at that very moment, being granted the child he’d hoped would be his. Of course, this was not the way it worked, but perhaps the man didn’t know that. “Is it O.K. if I wait?” “I guess,” Vivian said. “Do you want water? Or coffee?” His face relaxed and opened up, and Vivian saw how great the barriers were between a person and his happiness, and how little it took to make him think they were small. “I don’t need anything,” he said. She tried to go back to her transcription, but she could not concentrate. She typed “zzzzzz” for an entire line, then “??????” for two more after that. “My wife left me,” he said. She looked up. He was staring down at the checkerboard pattern on the linoleum floor, as if it were a code he was trying to crack. “Oh,” she said. “Does she do single-parent adoptions?” “I don’t know,” Vivian said. “I’m just a temp.” He nodded. Because his pants were so short, she could see his legs where his socks ended. The hair there was dark and smooth, as if combed. The man stood up and walked over to the wicker bookshelf that held various books about adoption. He took down a paperback, flipped through it, put it back. “Do you know what she looks for?” he said. “I mean, what type of people she accepts?” “The stupid, obvious things,” Vivian said. “People who have a lot of love to give.” She was immediately ashamed of her small cruelty, but he did not seem to remember his own words. He sat down again. “This is crazy. I don’t even have an appointment.” Her job was temporary. The director had informed her that the receptionist, when she came back, would take on the job of transcribing the interviews, along with her other duties. Vivian had proved that it could be done. Vivian had a feeling, too, that she would soon have to find a new living arrangement. Shelly had found out about the night with Toby and had said that she didn’t care, but things felt different now. “Why did your wife leave you?” Vivian asked. The man looked at her, stricken. “I don’t know,” he said finally. For some reason, she believed him. She was sure that he had all the information: perhaps his wife had had enough of his meanness; perhaps she had a lover; perhaps she didn’t like the fact that he was the kind of man who cared about fashion. Vivian believed that he understood the facts, but that, still, he didn’t know. Vivian’s mother lived for another three years, until Vivian was seventeen and almost finished with high school. Toward the end, she began to lose her eyesight. The doctors said that this was a result of the tumor growing back—it was pressing on nerves. Surgery was out of the question; the tumor was clinging to the brain like a child to its mother, as if it didn’t really believe that it was a separate thing in and of itself. This time, Vivian’s mother told her that she was definitely going to die. She didn’t want Vivian to think that because a miracle had taken place once it might again. “And now we know,” she said. “It wasn’t a miracle after all.” Strangely, those last three years were some of the happiest Vivian could remember. Her mother threw caution to the winds. They had dinners of crackers and canned cheese if they felt like it. They watched movies until three in the morning, even on school nights. Her father’s business was beginning to fail, and, occasionally, he brought home jewelry for Vivian and her mother. Vivian’s mother would protest, but he rationalized these gifts, saying that he would have to lower the prices so drastically to make a sale that he might as well not sell the pieces at all. “When I ordered this,” he said, fastening a necklace around his wife’s neck, “I imagined how it would look on you.” Vivian remembered him making the same gestures with the woman in the store that day, and it occurred to her that she might have misunderstood what she had seen. That her father might simply have been generous with a stranger. But she did not really believe this. As she watched her mother admire her new necklace in a mirror, Vivian realized that she would always have to choose what to believe, and that, chances were, more often than not she would be wrong. In the last month of her life, Vivian’s mother took up smoking. She was completely blind by then. She had always wanted to smoke, she said. She had always thought that a woman with a cigarette looked elegant, even if it gave her cancer. Vivian bought a pack of Parliaments on her way home from school one afternoon. Her mother put a cigarette in her mouth and Vivian lit it for her with a long kitchen match. Her mother, too weak to sit up in bed, lay against her pillows and inhaled deeply. She coughed, and they laughed, but soon enough she got the hang of it, except that when she exhaled she did a funny thing: she blew out again and again, like a woman practicing for childbirth. She looked silly and not at all elegant, but Vivian didn’t say anything, because her mother seemed so happy. When her father came home that evening, he watched his wife enjoy her cigarette. “What is that you’re doing?” he said, as she exhaled. “What?” she asked, her thin voice made even thinner by the stress of the smoke in her lungs. “You look like a fish, sweetheart,” he said, and he put his face to hers and blew out puffs of air onto her cheek until she giggled. For a second, Vivian caught a glimpse of what her mother had looked like as a little girl. “But I can’t see. How do I know when all the smoke is gone?” she said, her voice coy, flirtatious. “You don’t have to worry about that,” he said, brushing a strand of hair from her cheek. “It’ll all come out in the end.” She smiled and took a drag on the cigarette. She let out a smooth trail of smoke. She kept her eyes closed as Vivian and her father watched the delicate curl of smoke dissolve and disappear, like sugar on the tongue.
Land of the Living “It’s just amazing how friendly you become when you’re on Xanax,” she says. This is after we’ve been standing in the long, snaking customs line for over an hour in the torrid Cancún heat. We’re being herded, shoulder to shoulder with all the other Minnesota “snowbirds” frantically fanning themselves with their customs forms. “I know,” I say to her. “I’m amazed myself.” “You’re amazed?” “Yes, I am.” “Why should you be amazed?” “Well, I feel this friendly person coming out in me, and I wonder if maybe that’s my real nature. You know—the real me.” “What is it that has changed, exactly?” “I’m on Xanax.” “I understand that,” she says. “But what is it that makes you more friendly than before you took the Xanax?” “Well, I’m not a particularly unfriendly person, am I?” “Not now, you’re not.” “No—I mean, I don’t ordinarily think of myself as a sullen, bad-tempered kind of a guy.” “I didn’t say sullen.” “Well—” “You don’t usually go out of your way to be chatty. Let’s put it that way.” “Chatty?” “You’re chatting about the weather with total strangers. You never do that. Not as long as I’ve known you.” “I thought it was kind of remarkable. Don’t you?” “What?” she says. “The weather. The change. The extreme difference between here and St. Paul in a matter of just three and a half hours.” “That’s why people come here from St. Paul. The change in the weather. That’s why we’re here.” “Yes, I know that, but it’s still remarkable, isn’t it? A hundred and five here and minus thirty back there?” “Never mind,” she says, and turns toward the slow-motion overhead fan. There’s a group of elementary-school teachers from Duluth right in front of us who suddenly burst into singing “The Bear Went Over the Mountain” in perfect unison, with no attempt at harmony. I guess the pulverizing heat and the waiting have tipped them right over the edge. The Mexican officials in SWAT-team uniforms look on in stony silence, arms clasped behind their backs, black Mayan eyes unmoved by this Nordic display of bravado. Our teen-age kids have surrendered to the heat, slumping to the concrete floor, heads propped on their backpacks. They’ve stopped volunteering any conversation. “Actually, I’m just glad to be alive,” I blurt out after standing there awhile in a kind of stupor, hypnotized by the schoolteachers’ ditty. “You’re glad to be alive?” she repeats in astonishment. “Is that what you just said?” “Yes, I am. Just like Arnold Palmer.” “Arnold Palmer?” “Isn’t that what he says these days? Now that he’s ancient, hobbling down the fairway? ‘I’m just glad to be here. Just glad to be alive.’ That’s what he says when they run up to him with microphones and TV cameras. You know, for those golf-show interviews. Even when he’s having trouble with his putting, his swing. Isn’t that what he always says now?” “I have no idea. I thought he was dead.” “Arnold Palmer? No. He’s very much alive. He’s an icon.” “Whatever,” she says, turning away again. “Well, it’s true,” I continue. “I’m thrilled to still be here—back in the ‘land of the living.’ ” “I didn’t realize you’d left us,” she says. “That’s the way I always feel when I’ve survived an airplane trip.” “Survived?” “I always feel like I’m actually going to die when I get on an airplane. Like this is it, the end of the line—inevitable. Then, after we land and get back on dry land it feels as though I’ve lived through a kind of certain death and come out the other end. That’s why I take Xanax, and that’s why I say I’m glad to be alive.” She stares at me for a second in absolute bewilderment, as though she were looking into the face of a stranger, then turns back to the long, stale line of humans in limbo. “My God,” she says. “What is going on with this customs thing? We’ve never had to wait this long before.” Just beyond the singing schoolteachers (who’ve now taken to doing the song in rounds, like Campfire Girls) is a sombre couple I recognize from the Lindbergh airport back in St. Paul. The man, in a wheelchair, somewhat older than the woman—late fifties, maybe—has a blanket across his lap, a plaid scarf around his neck in spite of the stifling heat, and an odd alpine-style hat with a little brush sticking out of the band. The woman (his wife?) stands behind him, very erect, hands propped at the ready on the gray grips of the wheelchair, as though assigned to a permanent grim vigil. She is plainly pretty in a Midwestern open-faced, innocent way; wearing a light linen suit and white pumps—not exactly the expected attire for Yucatán beach life. The two of them seem completely detached from the goings on: the silly singing; the constant fanning of everyone around them, which has now become some kind of communal gesture of contempt for the Mexican bureaucracy. Nothing seems to ruffle the couple’s deep stoicism. Now and then, the woman slips a white handkerchief from her pocket and gently dabs the man’s forehead and the corners of his mouth, although I can’t make out any moisture. He doesn’t seem to be suffering the consequences of a stroke or a neurological disorder but, rather, a much longer and slower debilitation. Whatever it is, it has clearly taken its toll on the two of them. Finally, the line begins to trickle forward. We prod our kids up off the floor and shove the luggage down through a roped-off alley-maze toward the customs inspectors. The abrupt, unexpected flow of the line seems to catch the schoolteachers up short. They’re scrambling for their baggage. The austere couple rolls silently on. The man’s pale head slowly tilts upward, drawn by the tropical sunlight blasting through the tall arched windows of the main terminal. Each window frames an absolutely motionless palm tree. Heat waves brand themselves across the glass in vapored sheets. A single green parrot desperately wings his way from one palm to the next as though he might not make it, as though the savage heat might drop him flat in midflight. We find ourselves crammed into a red Jeep Wrangler with a flapping canvas top, the much larger Chevy Suburban I’d reserved having been let go due to our delay in the customs line. (Mexico waits for no man.) My son immediately drops off to sleep, his six-foot-plus rail-thin frame scrunched up in back with the luggage. Our daughter leans her head against the pipe-roll bar, a T-shirt wedged between the steel and her soft temple. Thick jungle air pours across her face. My wife has gone completely silent now, staring up at a gigantic billboard of nearly naked brown twins coyly concealing their perfect breasts behind icy bottles of Corona. “Have you got a girlfriend?” she asks me out of the blue. “A girlfriend?” I say, checking to see if our daughter has overheard this, but she, too, has been lulled to sleep by the heat. “Yes, that’s right. A girlfriend,” my wife repeats. “Where did this come from?” “Don’t act so surprised. You could very easily have a girlfriend and I’d never know it, would I? How would I know?” “I’m sixty. Those days are over.” “Lots of young women are attracted to that these days. It’s become chic or something.” “Attracted to what?” “Older men. Men of influence.” “Men of influence?” “Don’t laugh. You know what I’m talking about.” “No, I don’t have a girlfriend.” “How did I know you were going to say exactly that?” She stifles a little giggle, biting her lower lip. “Could we talk about this later?” I suggest quietly. “When?” she says. “When we’re not on vacation. When we’re not riding down the Yucatán Peninsula with our children directly behind us.” “You do, don’t you?” She smiles slowly at me with a look of supreme recognition, then turns away toward the flying jungle. We pass a broken-down rock corral with ribby horses nosing through dust and their own manure. Blue patches of bottle flies blanket their eyes. “Does this mean we’re going to be silent and sour the whole rest of the trip?” I ask the back of her neck. “We can be any way you want,” she says. “Where in the world did this idea come from, anyway?” “What idea?” “The idea that I have a girlfriend.” “It came from your cell phone, actually.” “My cell phone?” “Yeah, that’s right.” “My cell phone?” “Are you going to just keep repeating yourself?” “I’m repeating you.” “Yes, God damn it, it came from your cell phone!” she bursts out. Both kids shift and grumble without opening their eyes. “Could we talk about this later?” I say. “That’s something you said before, too.” “I’m serious.” “I don’t want to talk about it at all, actually. It’s ridiculous. There’s nothing to talk about anyway,” she says with finality. “So you’re just going to go ahead and believe in some crazy fantasy, some half-baked notion that popped into your head? Is that it?” “It didn’t ‘pop’ into my head. It came over your cell phone.” “What did?” “A woman’s voice.” “Oh—well, did you ask who it was? It could’ve been someone at the office.” “It wasn’t someone at the office. I’m familiar with everyone at the office, and this wasn’t one of them.” “It could’ve been anyone.” “Oh, please—” “Well, it could’ve.” “All right, sure—yeah—right—it could’ve been anyone in the whole wide world, but it wasn’t.” “I’m just saying—” “Oh, shut up!” she suddenly shrieks. Our son wakes with a jolt and grabs hold of the roll bar, waking his sister. “What’s wrong?” he pants, with his eyes popped out toward the road. “Nothing,” I say. “Nothing. Just go back to sleep.” “What were you yelling about, Mom?” our daughter asks. “I was yelling at your father.” “How come?” “Because he’s trying to deny he has a girlfriend, and I’ve found out he has a girlfriend. Now go back to sleep.” “Great. That’s really great,” I say to my wife. “Congratulations.” “You’re welcome,” she says, and turns her entire back to me now. Silence, except for the droning of the Jeep’s oversized tires and the relentless jungle wind bashing the canvas top. The kids have burrowed down into the luggage and returned to sleep. Her back is perfectly expressing expulsion. Exiled in the Yucatán. “I might just as well have come down here all by myself,” I say to her spine. No answer. We roar past Playa. Miles of fiesta-colored hammocks hanging in the heat; giant ochre pottery in the shapes of Mayan demons and once sacred jungle creatures—jaguars, serpents, eagles, frogs. Everything’s for sale on the carretera: rugs, serapes, Day-Glo wall hangings with luridly macho Aztec scenes—feathered warriors valiantly protecting young maidens from jade-eyed panthers. Huge billboards welcome us in English to the “Mayan Riviera,” as though Mexico were embarrassed to be Mexican. “I realize what it is now,” I say out loud to myself but hoping she’ll somehow respond. She doesn’t. Her back remains a rigid blockade. The verdant jungle keeps rushing past. Now and then, a gap in the dense foliage. Daylight cracks through the tangle of vines and chechem. Fleeting glimpse of an old man with his burro laden with plastic milk containers filled from some secret cenote. Old sense of parallel lives. Separate. Haunted. I stumble on, just going on desperation now more than anything: “I think I realize now what it is about the Xanax—how come I get so friendly on it.” I’m talking entirely to myself. The kids are snoring loudly. “It’s like with jazz musicians,” I continue. “I remember all those guys down at the Five Spot in the sixties. They were all using smack back then. That was the drug of choice. I asked a drummer once why he was using it, and you know what he said?” I don’t know why I’m making a question out of this. Nobody’s home. I soldier on. “He told me he used it because it stopped all the inner chatter in his head. Isn’t that amazing? It created a silence, and then he could play.” For miles, nothing happens. The mind goes on doing cartwheels, shuffling through its files, rewriting the past, then tripping on some little tidbit of what it calls reason: “What were you doing answering my cell phone, anyway? I don’t answer your cell phone, do I?” “Because it was ringing,” she says out of nowhere. “I thought you were asleep.” “I’m not.” “I thought you were pretending to be asleep.” “I’m not pretending anything,” she says, still offering only her flat back. “So my cell phone was ringing and you picked it up—” “It was ringing its fool head off, doing that dumb riff from ‘Purple Rain,’ or whatever it is, jumping around on the bed. I only picked it up to stop the stupid ringing and jumping.” “And who answered?” “You’re asking me?” she says. Like an apparition, an old barefoot Indian woman with a stack of firewood stands hunched over by the side of the road, waiting to cross six lanes of menacing traffic. Trucks shriek past her in both directions. It looks as if she’s been waiting there for hours. Dusk is descending through the bands of heat, and all the great-tailed grackles are gathering in the locust trees. By the time we reach the tiny resort in the pitch-black night, I’m convinced that my life has capsized completely. I am worse than alone. I am a man travelling with bitter enemies who happen to be his most intimate family. It’s become Greek, or something worse. A roly-poly concierge emerges from an archway of bougainvillea, pushing a wheelbarrow and clenching a flashlight between his teeth. He’s very glad to see us, he says, once he has spit the flashlight out, his warm smile landing on our sorry faces. He informs us that the owners have gone to bed. They had stayed up waiting for us, but it got too late. He has the key, though, and will show us to our rooms. He stacks our luggage on the wheelbarrow, bites down on the flashlight again, and we all follow him down the twisting stone path. Wind generators on tall metal poles are humming and flapping like exotic birds. The constant wind off the Caribbean is tearing at the palms, forcing them into a savage dance. I have this strange wish, as we follow the bobbing beam of the flashlight, that we were all different people—strangers just happening to come together in the night. How much happier we might be if we didn’t know each other at all. No history. No remorse. Daybreak. The wind has calmed and the sea is flat and smooth clear to the horizon. The giant red sun presses up against the distant arc of the earth. How far away is the rest of the world? I’m the first one awake and happy to be alone on the beach. Tiny white crabs skitter into their holes at my approach. A string of sandpipers hurries ahead of me, darting in and out of the quiet surf. Above, the frigate bird soars. Turning back in the direction of the ancient Mayan ruins, I see the couple from St. Paul staring silently at the rising sun, the woman holding her vigil behind the wheelchair exactly as she did at the airport. The man, in dark glasses, sits erect with his hat in his lap, both hands holding the brim. As the monster sun mounts, the couple turns rosy red, then slowly bright orange, as though they might suddenly burst into flame, then crumble in ash to the sand. Neither of them moves an inch; they are frozen in the burning light. They have finally arrived. My daughter slips up beside me, still half asleep, in sweatpants and a T-shirt with Bob Marley’s face screaming across her chest. “Hi, Dad. I’ve never seen the sun as red as that, have you?” “Only down here. I guess we must be closer to it or something. The equator. Is that it?” “Yeah, I guess. Did you have breakfast yet?” “Nope. I don’t even know if the kitchen’s open.” “I thought I heard plates clanking up there.” “That’s always a good sign,” I say, giving her a kiss on the forehead. A slight talcum-powder smell that I remember from when she was a baby goes dashing through me. Pure sweetness in the midst of this heartbreak. She takes my arm, and we head off through the white sand toward the dining room. I take a short look back over my shoulder, but the couple from St. Paul have vanished. I stop and turn around to scan the beach for them. “What’s the matter, Dad?” “I don’t know. I just saw those people down on the beach and now they’re gone.” “What people?” “That couple that was standing in line with us back at the airport. You probably didn’t notice them.” “I was sleeping.” “Yeah. They just disappeared. How could that be?” “I don’t know. I’m hungry, aren’t you?” The tables in the dining room are set with pink napkins and bright sprigs of bougainvillea propped in skinny glass vases. A Mayan waiter is pouring ice water from a metal pitcher. We sit by the window across from a pair of women with boyish haircuts, dressed exactly alike, in white starched shirts and red ties. They hold hands across the table and stare out at the crashing surf. New Age music is playing in hypnotic repetition, like massage-parlor background atmosphere. It gives the room a gloomy, apocalyptic air. Nobody’s smiling. The spectacular view of the white beach stretches clear down the narrow peninsula, evaporating into billowy sea foam. Two dark soldiers emerge, strolling casually along the surf line, their hawklike Indian faces set hard against camouflage uniforms, black machine guns strapped to their backs. A fleet of white pelicans sail past them, then dip low to the water. One of them plunges headlong into the green tide and comes up spewing mullet. “I just want you to know something, Emma,” I tell my daughter as I smooth the pink napkin on my knee. “Your mother has no idea what she’s talking about.” “What do you mean?” she says. “Yesterday, in the car.” “What’d she say?” “About— Didn’t you hear what she was telling you?” “Oh, about the girlfriend, you mean?” “Yes.” “What about it?” “Well—it’s not true. It’s a complete fabrication. I mean—my cell phone happened to be ringing, and she picked it up and—” “I really don’t want to hear about it, Dad,” she says, squeezing a wedge of lime onto her melon. “That’s between you and her.” “Who? Me and who?” “Mom. Who else?” “Well, there’s just no truth to it at all, is what I’m trying to say.” “It doesn’t matter. It’s got nothing to do with me.” “Well, it does, Emma. You’re part of this family. I just don’t want there to be some weird misunderstanding going on.” “There’s no misunderstanding,” she says and smiles across our table at the pair of women, still holding hands. “I just don’t know where she comes up with this stuff, to tell you the truth. I mean, out of nowhere she makes this wild accusation. It’s just—” “Can we talk about something else, Dad? We’re on vacation.” “Sure,” I say, and stare down into the swirling cloud of cream in my coffee. A man with a goatee and Leicas strapped around his neck enters the dining room with two statuesque models. They stand aloof, meeting nobody’s eyes, scanning the tables for a strategic location. The man raises his index finger to the waiter and points to a corner table, away from the direct sun. The waiter nods and offers a little half bow. The models glide with a studied cadence, as though every gesture were being played out for a spellbound audience. “Are you getting excited about college?” I ask my daughter after a long pause. “Yes,” she says. “I am.” “Have you thought about what you’re going to take?” “Environmental studies, I think. There’s also a class on women in the Civil War.” “That ought to be interesting. Which women? Do you mean famous women or—” “Harriet Beecher Stowe, Mary Todd Lincoln. Women like that.” “Right,” I say. “Mary Todd went nuts, didn’t she?” “Did she?” “I think she did. After the assassination. Went into seclusion. Talked to herself—” “Really?” my daughter says. “I think so.” “Is that a sign of insanity?” “What?” “Talking to yourself?” “Well—” “Because I talk to myself all the time.” “You do?” I say. “Well, not all the time.” “Sure. I mean, no—we all talk to ourselves some of the time.” “Do you talk to yourself?” she asks. “Sure. I mean, now and then.” “What do you talk about? With yourself.” “Well—nothing, really.” “Nothing?” “No, just little questions. Little—” “Like what?” she says. “Like, where did you leave your glasses, now? Or—” “Oh, yeah, but that’s just asking yourself something out loud. Everybody does that. But I mean do you carry on long dialogues and have arguments with yourself? Stuff like that?” “Arguments?” I say. “Yes.” “No, do you?” “Not really.” “Good. I’m glad to hear that. You had me worried there for a second.” My daughter smiles and plops a chunk of pineapple into her mouth. “Well, that all sounds really interesting, Emma. Mary Todd Lincoln and Harriet Beecher Stowe.” “Right. She’s the one Lincoln called ‘the little lady who started this great war.’ ” The taller model at the corner table starts giggling maniacally and slapping her long ebony thighs as though she had just heard the funniest punch line on earth. The photographer and the other model look on, poker-faced, as their cohort convulses into a choking fit. Then the shorter model stands and starts pounding her between the shoulder blades while the photographer just sits there doing nothing. The taller one leaps out of her chair, spitting and gagging, while the other woman keeps bashing her in the back. Then the two of them go running hysterically across the foyer and into the bathroom. The man in the goatee is left alone at the table. He pulls out a French newspaper, flaps it open, takes a sip of ice water, and starts reading about the bad state of the world. “What was that?” my daughter says. “Something got caught in her pipes, I guess.” My wife and son appear in the yellow archway of the dining room and spot the two of us at the table. “Morning,” she says as they approach the table. “Morning,” I say. “Did the wind keep you up last night? You were tossing and turning.” “It wasn’t the wind,” she says, pulling her chair out from the table. I spent the rest of our days down there strolling the white beach, reading Graham Greene novels, and bodysurfing with my son. Some nights we’d all run into the little broken-down town for dinner, walking the dirt back streets, my wife taking photographs of hairless dogs staring down from barbed-wire-trimmed rooftops. Now and then, we’d run into some friend or acquaintance from a previous trip and sit in a café, sharing a beer. One blazing afternoon, we visited the ruins and climbed the temple stairs, where the dark blood of sacrificial hearts still stained the ancient stone. The issue about the “girlfriend” was dropped completely, although some undeniable lurking enmity would pop up in weird moments: an argument over the use of the word buscando, a little flareup about whether to leave the overhead fan running all night, squandering precious solar power. But, for the most part, we behaved decently toward each other and even held hands once or twice on our sunset walks, remembering the days we were seldom out of each other’s sight and had no reason to doubt we’d be forever in love. On the return flight, we sat four abreast, with the aisle cut between us. Our daughter and I sat as a pair. Directly behind us was the couple from St. Paul. The man had the window seat. Somewhere high above the Mississippi, he made a cluster of soft guttural moans, then went silent against the glass. The woman let out a short anguished cry and leaped up to assist her husband. I unbuckled my seat belt and went back to see if I could help. The woman lay across the man’s lap clutching her white handkerchief and trying to contain the horrible rush of brown fluid that was pouring down his chest. She was weeping and kissing his forehead, which had turned as white as the handkerchief. His whole body seemed completely deflated and lay crushed against the glass as the sky raced by. She turned to me, and her face was broken with grief. All the sorrow she’d been so heroically containing came flooding out. She moved aside, and I took the man by the shoulders to pull him out into the aisle. As soon as I took hold of him I knew he was dead. I laid him down flat in the aisle, on his back. Another passenger, who said he was a doctor, knelt beside the man and unbuttoned his shirt, then began pressing and releasing his chest with his hands laid one on top of the other. I noticed a dark ruby ring on the doctor’s finger with the emblem of a snake coiled around a cross. The woman kept hovering over the dead man’s wide-open eyes, speaking to him softly through her sobs. Flight attendants drew the curtains across the first-class section and spread blankets with the airline’s logo across the dead man’s legs and torso. The doctor switched to mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, using a small plastic device inserted into the dead man’s mouth. When he paused to take a break, the woman implored him not to stop. The pilot announced over the sound system that we would be making an emergency landing in St. Louis and instructed us to bring our seats to an upright position and fasten our seat belts. The plane descended and circled the city. The doctor’s face now had a grim set to it, although the woman kept pleading with him to continue his efforts. As we landed, I could make out emergency life-support vehicles lining the runway with their yellow and red lights blinking. Young paramedics in blue jumpsuits entered the plane and strapped the dead man to a gurney. The wife and the doctor followed them out. From the window of the plane, I could see the dead man’s body jerking spasmodically as they plugged it into the electric defibrillator. The dangling arms flapped helplessly on the black tarmac. They covered the dead man’s face with the blankets. The doctor put his arm around the widow’s shoulders. They took a step back from the body. We drove in silence from the St. Paul airport. When we finally made it back to the house, the kids took off immediately to visit their friends in the neighborhood. The dogs were glad to see us. The canary flitted from one side of its cage to the other, causing its little brass bell to tinkle. The house felt cold, and we turned the thermostat up to seventy-five. We hauled our luggage up the stairs to the bedroom and dumped it on the floor. My cell phone started ringing and blinking in the middle of the bed. Right where I’d left it.
The Lower River Even in his best days in Medford, running the family clothing store, Altman had always imagined that he would return to Africa, to the Lower River. It had been his Eden, for those four years he had spent in a village called Malabo as a young man. Now, after nearly forty years, he was on his way back. The decades in between seemed almost a digression: the business, the marriage, the children. Altman’s Store for Men had closed, the marriage had failed, Altman’s children were grown, absent, living their lives. A little over sixty, he was alone again. He had enough money to see him into his old age, yet he wanted more than that. No one needed him in Medford, and he wondered if the people of Malabo might still remember what he had done there. The Lower River was the southernmost region of the southern province of Malawi, the poorest part of a poor country, home of the Sena people. The Sena were small, slender, delicate, violent only when they were bingeing. A neglected tribe, they were despised by those who didn’t know them, were associated with squalor, cruelty, and incompetence. With superstition, too. They lived in a web of beliefs, the Lower River thick with spirits—mfiti—most of them vindictive spectres of the dead, restless in their malevolence. Nothing happened without a reason. A tree fell for a reason, a thatched roof caught fire for a reason—because someone wished it alight. Disease, disfigurement, a bad harvest, a broken bone, a stillborn infant: all were caused by human agency—the witch in the next hut or the next village, or the mfiti representing an avenging soul. Altman had studied the all-night Nyau dance, which was performed naked, with a fetish mask and drumming. Fluent in the Sena language, he had been one of those volunteer teachers whom the other Americans muttered about with respect tinged with satire, because they never saw him, and no one, not even other Africans, wanted to go to the Lower River. In his first year, village life had seemed a struggle to Altman. The shop at the boma sold Sunlight Soap, Koo ketchup, cooking oil, bottles of Lion Lager, single cigarettes, loose tobacco and tea. But few people had more than a handful of tickeys, the thin gray threepence coins that bought two cigarettes. The market stalls sold vegetables and rice, smoked fish and cassava. Not much of anything, but in the time he lived there Altman had decided that you didn’t need any more than that. After a year, he had understood the inflections of the weather. It was not the stifling, squalid place of its reputation; it was dense and subtle. The heat enlivened him. The smells were of woodsmoke and stagnation and the perfume of the water hyacinths in the river, sweetish with decay, the sun-heated dust like talcum. Teaching at the primary school that he’d helped to build, Altman had become popular in the district, and when a member of Parliament paid a visit to Nsanje he asked to meet Altman. Altman served as a counsellor, he wrote letters for the villagers, he sent messages, he read letters for those villagers who couldn’t read, whispering the words for the sake of privacy. All the languages in the region were written phonetically, so he could convey the meaning even when he had no idea what was written on the torn-out copybook page. For the Sena people, Altman had been the mzungu, the white man. His term was two years. He had stayed four—a record for Malabo. In this district of small huts and barefoot people and unpaved roads—a world made out of mud—he had been content. The Lower River had become the measure of his happiness. Malabo had remained in his mind in the way that the notion of home might persist in someone else’s. When all hope is lost and everything is up the wall, he often thought, reassuring himself, I can always go back. Malawi, these days, was advertised as a vacation destination, with hotels at the lake in the north and even some game parks. Like many other resort areas in Africa, it was a country where local people starved and the few tourists ate well and were fussed over. Even before his plane touched down, Altman knew that he had made the right decision. He relaxed, smiling as he looked out the window at the low empty hills, the creases of green in the landscape which marked the foliage along rivers and creeks, the villages made visible by the smoke rising from cooking fires. From the air, the place looked just as he had left it, as a man of twenty-three. Where else could you go on earth and say that? When the immigration officer asked him his reason for being in the country, Altman spoke the sentence he had rehearsed: “Ndi kupita ku Lower River.” The man said, “What am I hearing?” and reached across his desk to shake Altman’s hand. “And myself I have never been there, Father.” Altman took a domestic flight that was leaving later in the day for Blantyre, and stayed the night at the Mount Soche Hotel. He marvelled at the crowded dirty city. Assuming that he would be in Malabo for a week or so, he used his credit card at Barclays Bank to make a cash withdrawal. The clerk, a young man in a shirt and tie, counted the notes twice, squared the pile, and snapped a rubber band around it. “Be careful, sir,” the clerk said, squeezing the fat envelope under the glass window. Almost as a rebuke, Altman said, “I used to live here. I was here at Independence. The Lower River.” The hotel driver, summoned from the parking lot to the travel desk in the lobby, laughed when Altman said that he wanted to visit Nsanje. Altman had mentioned the district, because the man would never have heard of Malabo. The sunglasses over the driver’s smooth jut-jawed face gave him a cricket’s profile. He smiled greedily at Altman’s watch. Altman knew that his lingering gaze of admiration was like a plea. “Let’s leave at seven.” “Eight will be best. African time. No worry, be happy.” “Seven,” Altman said, without a smile, and the man turned deferential—respectful, with a slight jerkiness of fear in his face. “And no smoking in the car.” The farther they got from town the flimsier and more temporary the buildings became, from the solid terraces of shops fronting onto storm drains to tile-roofed bungalows, tin-roofed shacks, and plastered huts thatched with straw, the skeletal sticks of the frames showing through the crumbled mud. And then the road grew worse, just a strip of broken paving in a gully between two slopes in some places. On the hillsides were stumps of trees that had been cut down, forests stripped by people foraging for fuel: the Africa of settlement and people, not of animals. But beyond Chiromo, in the southern province, nearing the Lower River, where the villages were fewer, he smiled at the disorder, the tall grass, the odor of dust and smoke. It was as it had been—too flat and featureless to photograph, but powerful, his first experience of a world that was ancient in its simplicities. “You like,” the driver said, seeing Altman’s face in the rearview mirror. Then they were throwing up whitish dust, following the course of the river’s west bank, heading straight into the sun. By early afternoon, they were passing a row of small shops in Nsanje. “Keep going,” Altman said. “You said Nsanje. This is the boma.” “The village I want is farther on.” “That is extra charge.” “Stop the car,” Altman said. The driver was so rattled that he kept going. “Stop the car—I’ll walk.” “It is too far, bwana,” the driver said, with that same twitching fear in his face. “I know where we are,” Altman said. “Don’t charge me extra.” And down the road two miles, at Magwero, Altman signalled for him to stop, and the driver said, “Iwe,” in the familiar form—“You!” Then he saw the men sitting under the tree, heard them call out, and said, “They are waiting for you.” “Yes,” Altman said, but he knew better. This was the usual place in Magwero for men to sit, on logs under a mango tree. Seeing a mzungu, they had shouted a greeting. Out of the car, lighting a cigarette, the driver seemed uneasy, eager to leave. “What time you coming back, bwana?” The air was so still his smoke clung to his face. “You can go,” Altman said. A great soft cloud of white dust raised by the departing car closed over it as it rocked in the wheel ruts of the narrow road. Altman found the departure a strange breach of etiquette. The man should have lingered a little, accepted some bananas or a cup of tea, handed out a cigarette or two. “Welcome, Father,” one of the men said, rising from the log. This man gave his name as Maso, and introduced the man next to him as Magongo. Altman said that he had known their families long ago. They knew of the mzungu at Malabo, they said. They had heard stories about him. Altman said, “Maybe it was someone else.” “There was only one mzungu at Malabo!” Magongo said. He called to a boy sitting against a bicycle, holding Altman’s duffelbag, and told him to hurry to Malabo. “Tell Manyenga the American is here.” Then Maso led him through the low spreading trees and across the hard-packed dirt of a courtyard that was being swept by a small girl. They sat before a hut and drank milky tea, and as they talked of the rains, the height of the river, their children, Altman looked around and marvelled at the compact village and the sheltering trees, the way the sunlight speckled the ground. He was dozing when a motorcycle roared into the clearing. “Manyenga,” one of the men said. The man parked his bike and approached Altman, saying, “The boy on the njinga said, ‘The American is here,’ and I said, ‘I am knowing him. My grandfather was his friend.’ Welcome, welcome.” And there raced through Altman a lightness, a slackening in his flesh, of relief, of gratitude. He felt important; they knew him. He wished that someone he knew back in the States could have witnessed this, the tableau of his sitting among the elders in a remote village on the Lower River. Now the welcome was extended to Manyenga: more tea, some smoke-dried fish, and praise for Altman, the long-ago mzungu of their elders’ stories. “I was a small boy when I first saw you,” one of the men said. He was old, toothless, in a tattered shirt, with reddened eyes, his skin shiny and loose like a reptile’s. “I never saw this man before,” Manyenga said. “My grandfather, he was the friend.” They talked in this congenial way, in English, until finally Manyenga got up and began to thank the men elaborately, taking their hands in his. Altman knew that it was time to go. “What do you have in the pipeline?” Manyenga asked. Altman smiled at the expression. “Nothing special. Just to see Malabo.” “I can arrange, Father.” The duffelbag was tied to the rear carrier of the motorbike, and he swung his leg over and sat behind Manyenga. They travelled under the shade trees the short distance to the main road and then, a few miles south, raising dust, took the turnoff, the back road to Lutwe, which ran parallel to the Mozambique border, a mere footpath in Altman’s time. After about eight miles—Altman knew that it was more than a two-hour walk back to the main road—Manyenga slowed the bike and plunged into the bush, not a road, hardly a track, just an opening in the high grass that led to a clearing, a scattering of huts, the big upright baskets on legs which were granaries, the crisscrossed paths that marked the edge of Malabo. Where the trees were greenest, on the banks of the Nyamihutu, a woman was beating a blue blanket suspended on a line. Near her, a girl swept the smooth earth with a straw broom. Manyenga pulled up at a hut. He said, “This is your home, Father.” “I can stay only a few days,” Altman said. “You are welcome, Father.” The woman and the girl greeted them by falling to their knees and calling out, and children and older boys from the other huts came running. The villagers gathered, hanging back. He saw that they were afraid of him—some of the older ones were terrified. Their anxious faces made him self-conscious. He wanted to reassure them. He would have handed out money, except that he knew it would create a mob scene. He smiled and, in a chiefly gesture, saluted them. “My other wife,” Manyenga said of a woman wincing at Altman’s raised hand. “She was married to my brother.” “And who’s this?” Altman asked. The girl, too shy to speak, twisted her cloth wrapper in her fingers. “Zizi,” Manyenga said, and hearing her name the girl covered her face. “My brother’s child. He died some two years ago.” Seeing that the girl had gone shy, one of the small boys ambled near her, limping and chattering. The boy had twisted fingers and sores on his legs and a battered face, flaky patches of scurf where hair was missing from his head. He could have been the victim of a fight, but Altman guessed that he was epileptic, with head wounds from continually falling to the ground—and now Altman saw that he was not a boy at all but a disfigured dwarf, boy-sized, in rags, who could have been any age. “Moni, moni,” Altman said, greeting the dwarf, trying to distract him from teasing the girl. And rummaging in his duffel he found some candy that he’d bought at the hotel in Blantyre. “Mankhwala,” he said—medicine. The dwarf laughed and ate it, licking his fingers, then walked away unsteadily, giggling because the others were laughing at him and calling out an English word. “What are they saying?” “His name, Snowdon.” Though the girl did not look up again, Altman could see that she was relieved the dwarf had forgotten her. “You can stay here, Father,” Manyenga said. “The roof is bad”—it was thatch, the bundles loosened—“because we had so many challenges. But it’s clean enough. Rest your body. My wife will bring water for your bath. Tonight we will kill a chicken. We can discuss your program.” “My program?” “Your agenda, Father.” It was Zizi who brought the water in a basin, with a small chip of soap, and after Altman had washed he lay on the string bed and let down the mosquito net that hung like a bridal veil, and listened to the boys’ raised voices in the clearing. Where else in the world could you arrive unannounced and be welcomed on sight? That evening, Altman distributed the presents he’d brought—the watch he gave to Manyenga, a shawl he gave to the senior wife, a pocketknife to the junior wife, some books for the children. Then the women served the food—the chicken that had been grilling on the fire, and roasted corncobs, a bowl of nsima and stewed greens, a plate of dried fish. “Kachasu,” Manyenga said, uncorking a bottle. He poured Altman a glass of banana gin, and they toasted each other. The children sat a little distance away; some women were standing, holding babies in cloth slings. While Manyenga was talking, in English and Sena, Altman slipped to the ground, resting his head against his chair. He must have dozed off, because in a sudden dream he heard a word that he recognized: atopa—tired. He was helped to his feet. Accompanied by someone steering him with lantern light, saying nothing, he tottered to his hut and crawled under the mosquito net into his string bed, his flesh inert, like clay. He woke before sunrise, as a cock’scrow tore at the silence and the darkness. He could not remember ever having slept so soundly: blind and deaf, a whole night with his mouth open, drawing shallow breaths. He listened to his compact shortwave radio until it was light, and then he walked the length of the village through the scrub. In the courtyards of most of the huts, crouching women fanned the glowing embers of cooking fires. Altman looked into the woven barrels of the granaries and was glad to see that they were full of drying corncobs. He saw the schoolhouse in the distance; he would save it for the afternoon. He continued walking to the road, and past it, to the stream. He saw someone bathing and quickly withdrew—it was Zizi, a dark dripping stick figure. Then he returned to his hut. He shaved with his battery-powered razor and wrote some notes in his journal. He unpacked his duffelbag, sorted his clothes, and hung up the empty bag to keep it away from rats—he saw that there were droppings on the floor from rats nesting in the thatched roof. Then he sat and finished the paperback he’d brought to read. All this and it was not yet seven- thirty. He smiled, thinking of the day that stretched ahead—the long, over-bright day of village somnolence, supine in its stillness, under trails of woodsmoke and the chirping of birds. Announcing himself, calling out, “Kodi, kodi!” Manyenga visited after eight and invited Altman to breakfast. Now Altman saw how young he was, still in his twenties, jaunty in a baseball cap and a blue shirt. “You were going about early,” Manyenga said. Someone had noticed him; now, an hour later, everyone knew. They were standing before the hut, Manyenga frowning at the roof. “But the roof must be replaced. I want to get an iron roof for you, but—eh! eh!” Altman knew that the grunt meant money. “What about fixing the thatch? There’s plenty of grass.” “The people who are making the thatch are all dead. Even the women. Even myself I am not knowing. We are needing an intervention.” Altman smiled at the clumsiness of the request on his first morning. Usually “we are needing” came later. But Altman was not dismayed; he was more at ease knowing that Manyenga was unsubtle. He said, “We can talk about it.” “I’m going to the boma this morning. Maybe they are having some iron sheets.” He mumbled, seeming to search for more words. “It’s a big priority.” Manyenga, he knew, had already mentally bought the iron sheets for the roof, kept the change, and perhaps put aside the scraps to sell or trade. It remained only for the transaction to take place, for Altman to hand over the money. “I have provided this table on the khonde, for your projects”— it was at the corner of the veranda. Altman hadn’t noticed it. “You can take your breakfast here. I will find you later, Father.” The girl Zizi brought the basin again, and watched him as he washed his face and brushed his teeth. Then she returned with a plate of steamed nsima, a puddle of oil in the center, and a bowl of vegetables in gravy and some tea. She stood in the shade. He spoke to her but she averted her eyes, perhaps ashamed at his having seen her bathing in the stream. As he was eating, Altman saw a creeping shadow come to rest: the bruised dwarf, Snowdon, hunkered down by the veranda, rocking on his stumpy feet. He was sad, his ugly face lopsided as though in pain, helplessly small, his wounds bright with infection. Altman gave him some nsima. He crammed the whole lump into his mouth, crumbs on his fingers and cheeks, and chewed it with his mouth open. “Snowdon,” Altman said. Hearing his name, the dwarf opened his mouth wide in satisfaction, showing Altman the half-chewed food on his purplish, pitted tongue. Later in the morning, Altman walked to the maize patch. He picked up a hoe and began chopping the dry earth with it, scraping the weeds away. Two older boys saw him and laughed. He knew why: hoeing was women’s work. Altman, hacking near some dry shucks, startled a snake. Deftly, he pinned its head down with the hoe blade, pressing it, then picked it up, and, as he pinched it just behind its head, it wrapped his arm with the whole coil of its whipping body. “Kalikukuti,” he said. A twig snake, a juvenile, hardly two feet long. The two boys stepped back, murmuring, “Njoka.” Altman stepped out of the maize patch—the boys ran, stamping in the dust. The villagers feared snakes, he knew; encountering a snake at the start of a journey, a Sena traveller returned home. Because of these fears, in his years here Altman had developed an interest, to set himself apart, so that he would be known as something more than a mzungu. He had kept some snakes in baskets, and fed them with lizards and grasshoppers and mice, and he had released them in places where they’d be safe and breed. In the afternoon, he walked again to the stream, retracing his steps of the morning—perhaps this was the beginning of a routine? All the while, he was followed by small skinny children—a village of children, it seemed, like a settlement in a folktale. One said, “Mankhwala”—medicine—and the rest chimed in. They were asking for candy. “Tomorrow,” Altman said. He repeated it in Sena: “Mawa.” Seeing them laughing, he asked if they knew English. They shyly admitted no. “Do you go to school?” “No school!” He had intended to visit the school that afternoon, but now the light was fading. Night came quickly; he’d see it tomorrow. As he was watching the last long orangey tatters of the sunset, Manyenga called out “Father!” for the evening meal. Manyenga sat with him and, in a tone meant to reassure him, said, “I have ordered the roof for your hut.” “How much?” “Very cheap. I am knowing this man. His father remembers you too much. Maybe he was your student. He gave me a good price. He knows we are partnering.” Altman said in Sena, “Lots of money?” “No, Father. Not at all. One sheet for four thousand kwacha only.” That was forty dollars. “How many sheets do you need?” Manyenga didn’t answer. Altman knew the man was making a complex calculation, thinking of numbers and discarding them. At last he said, “Six,” in the local way, sick-ees. “Say five.” The next day was the same: the walk, the dwarf at breakfast, the riverbank, a nap, another walk, writing notes, then dinner at Manyenga’s, more talk of money, and bed. He remembered his first weeks here long ago—the full days of work, the hot nights by lantern light grading students’ exercise books—and he grew sad, admiring his younger hopeful self. “I want to see the school,” he said to Manyenga on the third day, seeing him straddling his motorcycle. “It is finished, Father.” “Maybe I could get it fixed up.” Manyenga considered this, chewing his lips, his face twisting in thought. He propped his bike on the kickstand and walked with Altman beyond the clearing, through the tall grass, to the school. Head-high bushes had grown up around the buildings. The roof of the classroom block was broken—only brittle pieces remaining. Weeds grew in the eaves. The windows, too, were broken. The office was empty, though it showed signs of having been lived in—mats and quilts twisted on the floor, scorch marks on the walls. “How long has it been like this?” “I am not knowing,” Manyenga said, truly bewildered. “Didn’t you go to school here?” “I was schooling at Chimombo, near the boma. I completed my school certificate in Blantyre.” “But you’ve done well. And you’re still young.” “Yes, Father.” Altman was thinking of the huts, the bike, the two wives. “I was a driver for some years,” Manyenga said. He mentioned the name of a prominent charity. Now Altman understood those words he kept using—“agenda,” “pipeline,” “program.” “Why didn’t you keep working for them?” “They were cheeky. They were falsely accusing me. They couldn’t cope at all with our customs. Not like you, Father.” Altman said, “Will you help fix the school?” “I can send some chaps.” This wasn’t the answer that Altman was hoping for, but he said, “O.K.,” and, looking again at the ruin, he quoted a Sena proverb: “Slowly, slowly makes a bundle.” He was slashing at the weeds with a hacker the next day when four boys arrived, creeping through the tall grass, parting the blades with their outstretched hands. They were no more than fifteen or so, very thin, wearing rags for shirts and tattered trousers. “The nduna sent us.” So Manyenga was a chief. “This was a school, long ago,” Altman said. “It is nothing now,” one of the boys said. “But we can fix it. Then Malabo will have a school.” They were watching shyly, silently, but breathing shallowly in a way that showed that they were paying attention. “Who are your parents? Maybe I knew them.” They didn’t reply. They seemed to grow shyer. “No father, no mother,” one said. “They were sick,” another, the tallest boy, said, drawing out the Sena word. He chopped with the flat of his hand. “They died.” “What about relatives?” “We live down there”—and the boy squinted into the sun. “How many altogether?” The boy flashed ten fingers at Altman. “Small and big.” Altman was still holding the hacker, standing among the tall weeds and the overhanging bushes he had slashed. “Help me,” he said. “We can try,” the tall boy said. He took the knife from Altman. Another boy grasped a spare panga from a stump. And they whacked at the weeds, while Altman went through the classrooms to examine the wreckage. He heard the boys muttering and was gladdened by the sound. He smelled snakes, the hot eggy stink of a decayed nest in a corner of the room. He stripped a narrow tree limb of its twigs, and then poked with it, startling the snake he knew was there, a black-lipped mamba. He prodded it, let it whip and coil, then quickly snatched it, keeping its frothy mouth just above his fist. Then he brought it outside to show the boys, a trophy they’d remember. “Mamba,” he said. “Mbadza.” But the boys were gone, and, not only that, they’d taken the two knives. “They are useless,” Manyenga said later. “I will get the pangas for you.” He thought a moment. “Did you give them money?” Altman said no. Manyenga relaxed, and smiled. “Ah,” he said, as though to convey, “What did you expect?” Without the boys, Altman went back to the school and slashed at the weeds and tried to tidy the classrooms. Zizi helped with her straw broom; Snowdon watched, flicking at the flies that settled on his sores. Altman knew that Zizi was being offered to him, that all he needed to say was “Go in my hut,” and she would obey. She was tall for a Sena girl, with a shaved head and skinny fingers, bony wrists, small breasts, long legs with wide feet. Those feet and the way she sometimes stood reminded him of a waterbird—a heron, perhaps. With stylish clothes she could have passed for the sort of model he’d seen in magazines; she had the starved angularity of high fashion. Altman kept working at the margins of the school, conspicuously, to attract attention, and perhaps shame others into helping. But no one came, except sometimes a woman looking for firewood, taking the kindling he made. And then one night he was roused by drumming. The flames of the ceremonial bonfire flickered on his walls. They were doing the Nyau dance—he recognized the syncopation. An image was always carried by the witch doctor, or worn as a mask. He crept out of his hut, keeping himself hidden. The moon was bright enough to see by—perhaps the full moon was the reason for the dance. The dancers and drummers surrounded the witch doctor, whose mask was grotesque and—the long nose, the animal hair, the white skin—quite obviously represented Altman’s face. Hardly seven, and the morning sun slanting through the twiggy trees had filled the clearing at Malabo with unbreathable humidity, like an invisible smothering presence. Squinting into the distance, Altman saw a shimmering spectral blob in the heat, coming closer, resolving itself into two figures, large and small, Manyenga and a burdened girl hurrying behind him. “Nduna,” Altman said. Manyenga smiled, seeing Altman sitting as usual at his table on the narrow veranda, Zizi squatting on her heels near him, the dwarf crouching a little distance away by a low bush. His stare made Altman self-conscious. The anxiety, the calculation, the reticence approaching fear that he’d noticed in the young man on his arrival were gone. Now Manyenga gazed directly at him, almost in defiance. He said, “But, eh, you are being a chief as well, Father.” Altman saw himself through Manyenga’s eyes: an old mzungu, attended by a skinny girl and a dwarf, a portrait of inaction, like a ruined chief on a rickety throne. He’d stopped shaving, his clothes were stained. He had to get away, he realized, if only to Blantyre, to collect his thoughts and decide on his next move. Nothing had gone quite the way he’d imagined it. He had been cheated out of the money for the roofing; he was being overcharged for room and board; no one was interested in the school. “You were watching us at the Nyau dance,” Manyenga said, gesturing to the girl to set down the bowl of porridge and the mug of milky tea she was carrying. It was a breach of etiquette, bordering on taboo, for an outsider to observe the Nyau dance. But Manyenga was nodding, with a slyly satisfied face—a smile that was not a smile. “We were celebrating you,” he said. “We were thanking you, Father.” Altman said, in Sena, “A ghost doesn’t miss a funeral”—a proverb he’d learned long ago, one he’d often quoted in Medford. “You are knowing so much, Father.” Altman knew better: they were trying to diminish his power. He said, “I have to go to Blantyre today.” He took another breath, because his chest was tight from the heat, the scrutiny of the younger man. “I’ll need a lift to the boma.” “As you are wishing, Father,” Manyenga said. “I need to withdraw some money from the bank. I’m almost out of cash.” Instead of looking greedy and grateful, Manyenga frowned, but he lifted his hands in an accommodating gesture, as if to say, “Anything for you.” They left on the motorcycle later in the morning. Altman, sitting behind Manyenga, had his passport and all his important papers with him. Not fifty yards into the journey, even before they had reached the road, Manyenga swerved and screamed, “Njoka!” Altman twisted around, looking for the snake, lost his balance, and fell, bruising his side. Winded, he lay in the dust, wondering if he had broken any ribs. “We cannot go,” Manyenga said, righting the bike, helping Altman from the ground. His brow was heavy, his face dark with fear—Altman knew of the prohibition against travelling after a snake has crossed your path. Manyenga’s mood had changed from agreeable to anxious. “I didn’t see the snake.” “It was so big, Father! A green mamba,” Manyenga said. “We must obey.” Altman was too bruised to argue. He limped back to his hut, and there he sat, wondering how to overcome this man. He suspected that this was a ruse. Realizing that he’d been forced to lie to Manyenga made him uneasy; the lie told him that he was afraid to tell the truth. He felt in his duffelbag for his pouch of money. He found the envelope and saw that some of it was missing—and he laughed, mocking his own stupidity. That was why Manyenga had reacted the way he had. He knew that Altman had money, that he was lying. That night the Nyau was danced again. Altman’s head throbbed. The thump of the drums echoed in his skull. He had a fever—he knew malaria, the flu-like symptoms, the headache. He found his bottle of chloroquine and, unable to locate his water jug, chewed three tablets and lay in his string bed, the drums beating against his eyes and ears, his sore body, his sore head. Then days and nights were one: he did not know how long he lay there, shivering with chills, gasping in the heat, his heart fluttering. He heard a wild commotion, screeching, drumming, the ululating of frenzied women. His skin was sensitive to the sheet. Even the slightest brush of the mosquito net caused him discomfort. He suffered most when the sunlight shot through the windows of the hut and caught him on the face, and in the night his teeth chattered; even though he was wrapped in a blanket, he could not get warm. When, before dawn one day, the fever eased, he saw everything more clearly; the sickness had stripped him of sentiment. He understood the foolishness of his visit. He had come expecting to be welcomed; he had wanted to contribute something to the village again. But no one was interested. The people of Malabo were much worse off now than when he had come before, and more cynical, shrewder, as a result. In his sickbed, he felt a sense of resolve. He’d made a mistake. As soon as he was feeling better, he’d go home. He saw the danger of being sick in this remote village. His dreams were fractured and irrational; ugly beaked birds figured in them, crowds of noisy people, great heat. Zizi brought him the tea and bananas he asked for, but it was an effort for him to swallow. It consoled him to see her and the dwarf right outside, their heads silhouetted at the window. At last he was able to stand, to eat a little porridge. “I’m going,” he said, and was not sure whether he was speaking in Sena or English. “Get the chief.” Manyenga was soon striding across the brightness of the clearing, mopping his head, seeming relieved that Altman had recovered. Altman stood in the shade of the veranda, swaying slightly. “I need to drink,” Altman said. “Bring me a kettle of hot water for tea.” Manyenga, suddenly fierce-faced, ordered Zizi to fetch the kettle. And when she was gone he said, “She likes you too much, Father.” “She’s your daughter?” Altman said. “My brother’s child. He died of the eddsi. You know our custom. I had to take my brother’s widow as my wife, also his children.” “She’s what—fifteen, sixteen?” “Sixteen-something. When you were sick with the fever, she was so sorry.” “She should be in school.” “The school fees,” Manyenga said. “That is the badness.” Then Altman remembered. In a croaky voice, he said, “I heard noise when I was sick. What was the noise?” “Kufafaniza imfa. A man died. His goods were taken. His house destroyed.” “You erased his death.” “You are so clever, Father. You are knowing so much about our customs, eh-eh.” Altman said, “I have to go home.” “This is your home, Father.” Altman shivered, as he had during the worst of his sickness. Manyenga said, “I have a very big question to ask you.” “Go ahead,” Altman said. “Ask me.” “Not now. At the proper time. We will have a feast tomorrow. Then”—and he smiled and spread his arms, meaning, it seemed, that all would be clear. Remembering that his stash of money had been raided, Altman went to the school the next day and poked around for another snake. He found a small puff adder and brought it back to his hut. He eased it into a basket, and put his envelope of money into the basket with it, making sure that Zizi and the dwarf saw what he was doing. The snake was not especially venomous, but to the villagers it was deadly. “Welcome, Father,” Manyenga said at the feast that night, showing him to a chair. The other men and boys were seated on the ground, a few on woven mats. A piece of meat turned on a spit, and Manyenga’s elder wife was stirring a large tin pot. Altman picked at the shreds of meat on his plate and listened to Manyenga praise him. “Now, Father”—and Manyenga called one of the boys over. “This young chap is going to South Africa for work.” “Tsalani bwino,” Altman said, as a formal farewell. “But he is needing ndalama,” Manyenga said. The boy stood straight, bug-eyed with fear in the firelight, a scarecrow in his too-big shirt and torn trousers, his bony wrists pressed against his sides. Altman nodded, hoping to appear noncommittal, but he knew that they were masterly at discerning the nuances of gesture; even blinks or a way of breathing revealed a state of mind. It was not sorcery; they were illiterate, and so they were hyper-alert in every other sense. And, because they saw that he had been moved by the sight of the boy standing there, they refilled his glass with kachasu and toasted him. Later, the women sang, clapping their hands, and danced before him, standing in a line. He understood the words—“Our father, our chief, our mzungu in Malabo.” Their skin shone with perspiration, and dust clung to it, creating a weird plastery cosmetic. Their growly harmonizing resonated in the pit of his stomach, and he could distinguish Zizi’s voice from the others; it stirred something in him—a purring within him that answered her. On any other night he would have excused himself and crept across the clearing to his hut, but now he was the guest of honor. He called to the boy, motioning him to his side. He gave the boy some money, folded under his fingers. Everyone saw. Manyenga said, “You are our chief, dear Father.” Now the only thought in his mind was the urgency of leaving. He tore a page from his notebook and wrote a message to the consulate in Blantyre, stating that he was unwell and needed to talk to the consul. He found an envelope. Stepping off the veranda of his hut with the letter in his hand, he heard a whistle. The clean white envelope, brilliant in the sunlight, had been spotted from forty yards away. “Kalata,” Manyenga said, materializing on the path, asserting himself with the force of his voice. “We will post the kalata for you.” “I can do it.” “The chief does not post letters. His people carry out the workload. They brush the glue on the stamps. Give it, my friend!” Feeling feeble, Altman handed it over. He knew that it would never be sent. He had abandoned any idea of improving the village. The school would remain a shell, a nest of snakes. The villagers would subsist; the weaker ones would die. He sat like them, breathing the shade. One day he said at breakfast, “I’m going to pick some bananas”—using that as an excuse to take a stroll, to feel less trapped. Though he had not spoken to anyone in particular, his words reached Manyenga, who confronted him. “The chief cannot pick bananas! You must not do so, Father. Your people will fetch them.” So they waited on him, the whole village having been enlisted to help. They were no longer afraid of him. He would rise from his chair on the veranda and as soon as he stepped into the clearing he’d hear a sharp whistle that signalled “He’s moving.” He was mocked by the memory of the gratitude he’d felt on the first day. And he saw that he was changed, almost a different man. A residue of malarial blood remained in his veins. Still unsteady on his feet, he sometimes felt just like those toothless elders gabbing under the tree at Magwero. Heat and illness had turned him into someone he hardly knew, and one afternoon, in a voice he hardly recognized, he called out for a drink. Someone knocked, then he heard Zizi’s voice, her soft singsong inquiry, “Kodi?” She entered, padded to the side table. The mirror shook as she set the basin of water down. Lying on his side, too tired to move, he studied her reflection in the mirror. He spoke to the mirror: “I want to see you.” Bewilderment showed on her girlish face for a moment, then gave way to a half smile, as though she were quietly pleased that he was asking something of her. “Yes, Father.” She drew in her lips and bit down on them, vexed, her face compressed in thought. Altman made a spiralling gesture with his finger that meant “unwrap.” Zizi hesitated, and then, as though remembering, became calmer, turned away, and unknotted her cloth. She draped it over the chair back and faced him again, her hands clasped below her waist for the sake of modesty. Still watching her in the mirror, Altman said, “Dance.” She didn’t move, though she blinked at the word kutamba, a woman’s wild dance, done naked. “Dance,” he said, pleading. Untwining her fingers, lifting her hands, bending slightly, she parted her legs, then raised her knees, rolling her head—all the time looking aside, meeting his gaze only in the mirror. She had large feet, but she planted them lightly. She had scaly sticklike arms, scaly sticklike legs, tiny breasts, and her eyes gleamed with anxiety. “Snake,” he said. “You’re my snake.” Someone must have seen. Soon afterward, the whole village seemed to know what had happened in the hut. But the incident, evidence of his weakness—resentment, boredom, a pang of desperation—had the effect of convincing the village that he meant to stay, that he’d discovered a way of being happy, that at last they’d satisfied him. He found this out when a man with blotches on the whites of his eyes, a relative of Manyenga’s (he said brother, but “brother” was a general term), came to him and said he wanted to buy a motorcycle. “And what will you do for me?” Altman said. “Zizi will dance for you, sure.” The man stared at him, a smile in his spotted eyes. Altman handed him some money, saying, “I want a ride on your bike to the boma.” “I will give you, Father.” Later that day, Altman set off across the compound with Zizi and the dwarf. He heard the insistent warning whistle, drowning out all other sounds, even the shrillness of the birds. Altman was leading the others in an almost stately way, holding the basket to his chest. At the creek bank, he stooped and released the snake onto the hot sand. Before the snake could slip away Altman pinned it with a forked stick and let it thrash, whipping a pattern in the sand with its thickened body. And then the villagers saw him loosely swinging the empty basket across the clearing to his hut. After that, they didn’t whistle in the same way when he left his hut. Instead of the shrill note of urgency, it was softer, like birdsong, just a signalling tweet. And whenever he returned, almost without fail, some money was missing from the basket where he’d kept the snake. That week—the week of the separate raids on his stash of money—he fell ill again. This time it came quickly. It hit him as he was walking through the village, first a dizziness and an aching throat and pain behind his eyes, a buzz in his muscles, and an urgent thirst. Dehydration, he thought. He sat down on the bare ground and pressed his eyes. He called for water, though he knew that he might be past the point of being able to absorb any liquid. “Salt,” he murmured to Zizi, and remembered the word mchere. But she seemed too bewildered to move. Women carrying babies in cloth slings on their way home from hoeing weeds in the maize fields stopped and watched him, more out of curiosity than pity, as he clutched his head. They surrounded him, as they would a dog in distress, or any creature dying, and therefore a diversion and not a threat. The dwarf was near him; Altman saw him creeping close. “Water,” Altman said, and repeated it in Sena. The dwarf scuttled away on his wounded feet and was soon back, approaching Altman with an enamel cup. But, leaning, he stumbled and lost it. The women laughed and clapped, excited by the spectacle—the slumped man, the patch of dampened dust, the dirty cup, the dwarf on his knees. Encouraged by the laughter, the dwarf stood and snatched the cup. More people came to see—the orphan boys, some men kicking through the dust with their shirts piled on their heads to keep off the sun. Altman was surrounded by the entire village, it seemed. But only the dwarf dared to come near him, jabbing at Altman with his own walking stick. Altman was helpless to resist, and when he looked up the dwarf was rushing at him, wild-eyed, with a bruised eager face. Altman tumbled into the dust, and a cry went up. The dwarf began kicking him, straining with grunts, to the rejoicing of the crowd. Altman’s tongue was so swollen when he woke that he could barely breathe. He was still clothed, on his string bed in the hut. “Chief.” It was Manyenga, murmuring the word. Zizi was there, too, creeping toward him with the same kind of enamel cup that the dwarf had offered him. Altman raised himself and drank, expecting water, but it was thick and salty—soup. Throughout the day, he lapped at it; he sensed it easing his throat, seeping into his flesh, his body greedy for the salt. In the morning, he sat up with a clearer head and pulled out the basket that he’d shoved under his bed. He knew before he opened it that all the money was gone. The spell of dehydration had made him watchful. He sat for the rest of the day in the shade of his veranda, moving only to slap at flies. As the sun dropped to the level of the trees at the edge of the clearing, he snapped a branch from the tree that overhung his hut and made himself a new stick. Followed by Zizi and the dwarf, he walked along the barrier of elephant grass and crossed the clearing, pushed through the waist-high weeds to the ruined school. By a decaying stump he saw the puff adder, though it was almost indistinguishable from the flakes of old bark, thickened inside a widened cleft of the wood. He was studying the adder when Manyenga appeared, but warily, keeping his distance, because he understood that Altman, staring hard at something that he could not see, was probably looking at a snake. “I’ve been expecting you,” Altman said. “Chief,” Manyenga said with a head shake of respect. “We go to the boma tomorrow.” “I am hoping, Father.” “You know why.” “I am knowing, Father. We are needing.” Now the man was uncertain, clumsy in his politeness, eager to please. Zizi and the dwarf had dropped back. Manyenga leaned toward Altman and, without pointing, but nodding in a knowing way, he whispered, “She is waiting you.” Although it was dusk, there was still enough light from the reddened sky for Altman to see, at the far edge of the clearing, women holding babies, some old men, the orphan boys, and girls with firewood on their heads. It was the same crowd that had encouraged the dwarf to attack him when he’d fainted, but the mood was different. He had not seen them watching him like this since he’d first arrived in Malabo and had been welcomed with apprehension. In his days of illness and of being thwarted and robbed, he had almost forgotten how fearful they once were. Manyenga turned and called out in English, “Kill a chicken for the chief!,” and then repeated it in his own language. Altman smiled, and saluted, as he had that first day, but this time without hope.
Distant Relations The series of events and coincidences that would change my entire life began on April 27, 1975, when Sibel happened to spot a purse designed by the famous Jenny Colon in a shopwindow as we were walking along Valikonagi Avenue, enjoying the cool spring evening. Our formal engagement was not far off; we were tipsy and in high spirits. We’d just been to Fuaye, a posh new restaurant in Nisantasi; over dinner with my parents, we’d discussed at length the preparations for the engagement party, which was scheduled for the middle of June, so that Nurcihan, Sibel’s friend since her days at the Lycée Notre Dame de Sion, in Paris, could come from France to attend. Sibel had long ago arranged for her engagement dress to be made by Silky Ismet, who was then the most expensive and sought-after dressmaker in Istanbul, and that evening Sibel and my mother discussed how they might sew on the pearls that my mother had given her for the dress. It was my future father-in-law’s express wish that his only daughter’s engagement party be as extravagant as a wedding, and my mother was delighted to help fulfill that wish as best she could. As for my father, he was charmed enough by the prospect of a daughter-in-law who had “studied at the Sorbonne,” as was said in those days among the Istanbul bourgeoisie of any girl who had gone to Paris for any kind of education. It was as I was walking Sibel home that evening, my arm wrapped lovingly around her sturdy shoulders, and thinking with pride how happy and lucky I was, that she said, “Oh, what a beautiful bag!” Though my mind was clouded by the wine I’d drunk at dinner, I took note of the purse and the name of the shop, and the next day I went back. In fact, I had never been one of those suave, chivalrous playboys who are always looking for the slightest excuse to buy women presents or send them flowers, though perhaps I longed to be. In those days, bored Westernized housewives in the affluent neighborhoods of Sisli, Nisantasi, and Bebek did not open “art galleries,” as they did later, but ran boutiques, stocking them with trinkets and entire ensembles smuggled in their luggage from Paris and Milan or with copies of “the latest” dresses featured in imported magazines like Elle and Vogue, and selling these goods at ridiculously inflated prices to other rich housewives who were as bored as they were. The proprietress of the Sanzelize (its name a transliteration of the legendary Parisian avenue), Senay Hanim, was a very distant relation on my mother’s side, but she wasn’t there when I walked into the boutique at around twelve and the small bronze double-knobbed camel bell jingled two notes that can still make my heart pound. It was a warm day, but inside the shop it was cool and dark. At first I thought that there was no one there, my eyes still adjusting to the gloom after the noonday sunlight. Then I felt my heart rise into my throat, with the force of an immense wave about to crash against the shore. “I’d like to buy the handbag on the mannequin in the window,” I managed to say, staggered by the sight of her. “Do you mean the cream-colored Jenny Colon?” When we came eye to eye, I immediately remembered her. “The handbag on the mannequin in the window,” I repeated dreamily. “Oh, right,” she said and walked over to the window. In a flash she had slipped off one of her high-heeled yellow pumps, extending her bare foot, whose nails she’d carefully painted red, onto the floor of the display area, and stretching her arm toward the mannequin. My eyes travelled from her empty shoe over her long bare legs. It wasn’t even May yet, and they were already tanned. Their length made her lacy yellow skirt seem even shorter. Hooking the bag, she returned to the counter and, with slender, dexterous fingers, removed the balls of crumpled tissue paper, showing me the inside of the zippered pocket, the two smaller pockets (both empty), and also a secret compartment, from which she produced a card inscribed “Jenny Colon,” her whole demeanor suggesting mystery and seriousness, as if she were showing me something very personal. “Hello, Füsun,” I said. “You’re all grown up! Perhaps you don’t recognize me.” “Of course, Kemal, sir, I recognized you right away, but when I saw that you did not recognize me I thought it would be better not to disturb you.” There was a silence. I looked again at one of the pockets she had pointed to inside the bag. Her beauty, or her skirt, which was in fact too short, or something else altogether, had unsettled me, and I couldn’t act naturally. “Well . . . what are you up to these days?” “I’m studying for my university entrance exams. And I come here every day, too. Here in the shop, I’m meeting lots of new people.” “That’s wonderful. So, tell me, how much is this handbag?” Furrowing her brow, she peered at the handwritten price tag on the bottom: “One thousand five hundred liras.” (At the time, this would have been six months’ pay for a junior civil servant.) “But I am sure Senay Hanim would want to offer you a special price. She’s gone home for lunch and must be napping now, so I can’t phone her. But if you could come by this evening . . .” “It’s not important,” I said, and, taking out my wallet—a clumsy gesture that, later, Füsun often mimicked—I counted out the damp bills. Füsun wrapped the purse in paper, carefully but with evident inexperience, and then put it into a plastic bag. Throughout this process she knew that I was admiring her honey-hued arms and her quick, elegant gestures. When she politely handed me the shopping bag, I thanked her. “Please give my regards to Aunt Nesibe and your father,” I said, having failed to remember his name in time. Then, for a moment, I paused: my ghost had left my body and was now, in some corner of Heaven, embracing Füsun and kissing her. I made quickly for the door. The bell jingled, and I heard a canary warbling. I went out into the street, glad to feel the heat. I was pleased with my purchase; I loved Sibel very much. I decided to forget this shop, and Füsun. Nevertheless, at dinner that evening I mentioned to my mother that I had run into our distant relation Füsun while buying a handbag for Sibel. “Oh, yes, Nesibe’s daughter is working in that shop of Senay’s, and what a shame it is!” my mother said. “They don’t even visit us for the holidays anymore. That beauty contest put them in such an awkward spot. I walk past the shop every day, but I can’t even bring myself to go inside and say hello to the poor girl—nor, in fact, does it even cross my mind. But when she was little, you know, I was very fond of her. When Nesibe came to sew, she’d come, too, sometimes. I’d get your toys out of the cupboard and, while her mother sewed, she’d play with them quietly. Nesibe’s mother, Aunt Mihriver, may she rest in peace—she was such a wonderful person, too.” “Exactly how are we related?” Because my father was watching television and paying us no mind, my mother launched into an elaborate story about her father, who was born the same year as Atatürk and, just like the founder of the Republic, attended Semsi Efendi School. It seems that long before my grandfather, Ethem Kemal, married my grandmother he had made a very hasty first marriage, at the age of twenty-three, to Füsun’s great-grandmother, who was of Bosnian extraction, and who died in the Balkan wars, during the evacuation of Edirne. Though the unfortunate woman had not given Ethem Kemal children, she had already had a daughter, named Mihriver, by a poor sheikh, whom she’d married when she was “still a child.” So Aunt Mihriver (Füsun’s grandmother, who had been brought up by a very odd assortment of people) and her daughter, Nesibe Hanim (Füsun’s mother), were not, strictly speaking, relatives; they were more like in-laws, and though my mother had always emphasized this she had still directed us to call the women from this far branch of the family “Aunt.” During their last holiday visit, my mother had given these impoverished relations (who lived in the backstreets of Tesvikiye) an unusually chilly reception that had led to hurt feelings, because, two years earlier, Aunt Nesibe, without saying a word, had allowed her sixteen-year-old daughter, then a student at Nisantasi Lycée for Girls, to enter a beauty contest. My mother, on subsequently learning that Aunt Nesibe had in fact encouraged her daughter, even taking pride in this stunt, which should have caused her to feel only shame, had hardened her heart against Aunt Nesibe, whom she had once so loved and protected. For her part, Aunt Nesibe had always esteemed my mother, who was twenty years older and had been supportive of her when she was a young woman going from house to house in Istanbul’s most affluent neighborhoods, in search of work as a seamstress. “They were desperately poor,” my mother said. And, lest she exaggerate, she added, “Though they were hardly the only ones, my son—all of Turkey was poor in those days.” My mother had recommended Aunt Nesibe to all her friends, and once a year (sometimes twice) she herself would call her to our house to sew a dress for some party or wedding. Because these sewing visits almost always took place during school hours, I didn’t see her much. But in 1957, at the end of August, my mother, urgently needing a dress for a wedding, had called Nesibe to our summer home, in Suadiye. Retiring to the back room on the second floor, overlooking the sea, she and Nesibe set themselves up next to the window, from which, peering between the fronds of the palm trees, they might see the rowboats and motorboats and the boys jumping off the pier. When Nesibe had unpacked her sewing box, whose lid was adorned with a view of Istanbul, they sat surrounded by her scissors, pins, measuring tape, thimbles, and swatches of lace and other material, complaining of the heat, the mosquitoes, and the strain of sewing under such pressure, joking like sisters, and staying up half the night to slave away on my mother’s Singer sewing machine. I remember Bekri, the cook, bringing one glass of lemonade after another into that room (the hot air thick with the dust of velvet), because Nesibe, who was twenty and pregnant, was prone to cravings; when we all sat down to lunch, my mother would tell Bekri, half joking, “Whatever a pregnant woman desires, you must let her have, or else the child will turn out ugly!” And, with that in mind, I remember looking at Nesibe’s small bump with a certain interest. That must have been my first awareness of Füsun’s existence, though no one knew yet whether she was a girl or a boy. “Nesibe didn’t even inform her husband—she just lied about her daughter’s age and entered her in that beauty contest,” my mother said, fuming at the thought. “Thank God, she didn’t win, so they were spared that public disgrace. If the school authorities had got wind of it, they would have expelled the girl. . . . She must have finished lycée by now. I don’t expect that she’ll be doing any further studies, but I’m not up to date, since they don’t come to visit on holidays anymore. . . . Can there be anyone in this country who doesn’t know what kind of girl, what kind of woman, enters a beauty contest? How did she behave with you?” This was my mother’s way of suggesting that Füsun had begun to sleep with men. I’d heard the same from my Nisantasi playboy friends when Füsun appeared in a photograph with the other finalists in the newspaper Milliyet, but as I’d found the whole thing embarrassing I tried to show no interest. After we both fell silent, my mother wagged her finger at me ominously and said, “Be careful! You’re about to become engaged to a very special, very charming, very lovely girl! Why don’t you show me this purse you’ve bought her. Mümtaz!”—she was calling my father—“Look! Kemal’s bought Sibel a purse!” “Really?” my father said, his contented expression suggesting that he had seen and approved of the bag as a sign of how happy his son and his son’s sweetheart were, though not once did he take his eyes off the screen. Once I’d graduated from business school in America and completed my military service, my father demanded that I follow in my brother’s footsteps and become a manager in his business, which was growing by leaps and bounds, and so when I was still very young he appointed me the general manager of Satsat, his distribution-and-export firm. Satsat had an inflated operating budget and made hefty profits, thanks not to me but to various accounting tricks by which profits from my father’s other factories and businesses were funnelled into Satsat (which could be translated into English as “Sellsell”). I spent my days mastering the finer points of the business from worn-out accountants, twenty or thirty years my senior, and large-breasted lady clerks as old as my mother; mindful that I would not have been in charge if I weren’t the owner’s son, I tried to show some humility. At quitting time, while buses and streetcars as old as Satsat’s clerks rumbled down the avenue, shaking the building to its foundations, Sibel, my intended, would come to visit, and we would make love in my office. Despite her modern outlook and the feminist notions she had brought back from Europe, Sibel’s ideas about secretaries were no different from my mother’s. “Let’s not make love here. It makes me feel like a secretary!” she’d say sometimes. But, as we proceeded to the leather sofa in the office, the real reason for her reserve—that Turkish girls, in those days, were afraid of sex before marriage—became obvious. Little by little, sophisticated girls from wealthy Westernized families who had spent time in Europe were beginning to break this taboo and sleep with their boyfriends before marriage. Sibel, who occasionally boasted of being one of those “brave” girls, had first slept with me eleven months earlier. But, by this point, she felt that the arrangement had gone on long enough and it was about time we married. I do not want to exaggerate my fiancée’s daring or make light of the sexual oppression of women, because it was only when Sibel saw that my “intentions were serious,” when she was confident that I was “someone who could be trusted”—in other words, when she was absolutely sure that there would, in the end, be a wedding—that she gave herself to me. Believing myself a decent and responsible person, I had every intention of marrying her; but, even if I hadn’t wished to, there was no question of my having a choice now that she had “given me her virginity.” Before long, this burden cast a shadow over the common ground between us, which we were so proud of—the illusion of being “free and modern” (though, of course, we would never have used such words for ourselves), on account of having made love before marriage—and in a way this, too, brought us closer. A similar shadow fell over us each time Sibel anxiously hinted that we should set a date soon, but there were also times when she and I were very happy, making love in the office, and I remember wrapping my arms around her in the dark, as the noise of traffic and rumbling buses rose from Halaskargazi Avenue, and telling myself how lucky I was, how content I would be for the rest of my life. Once, after our exertions, as I was stubbing out my cigarette in an ashtray bearing the Satsat logo, Sibel, sitting half naked on my secretary’s chair, started tapping at the typewriter, and giggling over her impression of the dumb blonde who featured so prominently in the jokes and humor magazines of the time. Over dinner at Fuaye on the evening of the day I bought the purse, I asked Sibel, “Wouldn’t it be better if from now on we met in that flat my mother has in the Merhamet Apartments? It looks out over such a pretty garden.” “Are you expecting some delay in moving to our own house once we’re married?” she asked. “No, darling, I meant nothing of the sort.” “I don’t want to skulk about in secret apartments, as if I were your mistress.” “You’re right.” “Where did this idea come from, to meet in that apartment?” “Never mind,” I said. I looked at the cheerful crowd around me as I brought out the purse, still hidden in its plastic bag. “What’s this?” Sibel asked, sensing a present. “A surprise! Open and see.” “Is it really?” When she opened the plastic bag and saw the purse, the childish joy on her face gave way first to a quizzical look, and then to a disappointment that she tried to hide. “Do you remember?” I ventured. “When I was walking you home last night, you saw it in the window of that shop and admired it.” “Oh, yes. How thoughtful of you.” “I’m glad you like it. It will look so elegant on your arm at our engagement party.” “I hate to say it, but the purse I’m taking to our engagement party was chosen a long time ago,” Sibel said. “Oh, don’t look so downcast! It was so thoughtful of you to go to all the effort of buying this lovely present for me. . . . All right then, just so you don’t think I’m being unkind to you. I could never put this purse on my arm at our engagement party, because this purse is a fake!” “What?” “This is not a genuine Jenny Colon, my dear Kemal. It’s an imitation.” “How can you tell?” “Just by looking at it, dear. See the way the label is stitched to the leather? Now look at the stitching in this real Jenny Colon I bought in Paris. It’s not for nothing that it’s an exclusive brand in France and all over the world. She would never use such cheap thread.” For a moment, as I looked at the genuine stitching, I asked myself why my future bride was taking such a triumphant tone. Sibel was the daughter of a retired ambassador who had long since sold off his pasha grandfather’s land and was now penniless; technically, this made her the daughter of a civil servant, and this status sometimes caused her to feel uneasy and insecure. Whenever her anxieties overtook her, she would talk about her paternal grandmother, who had played the piano, or about her paternal grandfather, who had fought in the War of Independence, or she’d tell me how close her maternal grandfather had been to Sultan Abdülhamid. But her timidity moved me, and I loved her all the more for it. With the expansion of the textile and export trades in the early seventies, and the consequent tripling of Istanbul’s population, the price of land had skyrocketed throughout the city and particularly in neighborhoods like ours. Although my father’s fortune, carried on this wave, had grown extravagantly over the past decade, increasing fivefold, our surname (Basmaci, “cloth printer”) left no doubt that we owed our wealth to generations of cloth manufacture. It made me uneasy to be troubled by the “fake” purse, despite all our cumulative progress. When she saw my spirits sink, Sibel caressed my hand. “How much did you pay for the bag?” “Fifteen hundred liras,” I said. “If you don’t want it, I can exchange it tomorrow.” “Don’t exchange it, darling. Ask for your money back, because they really cheated you.” “The owner of the shop is Senay Hanim, and we’re distantly related!” I said, raising my eyebrows in dismay. Sibel took back the bag, whose interiors I had been quietly exploring. “You’re so knowledgeable, darling, so clever and cultured,” she said, with a tender smile, “but you have absolutely no idea how easily women can trick you.” At noon the next day, I went back to the Sanzelize Boutique carrying the purse in the same plastic bag. The bell rang as I walked in, but once again the shop was so gloomy that at first I thought no one was there. In the strange silence of the ill-lit shop, the canary sang chik-chik-chik. Then I made out Füsun’s shadow through a screen, between the leaves of a huge vase of cyclamens. She was waiting on a fat lady, who was trying on an outfit in the fitting room. This time, she was wearing a charming and flattering blouse, a print of hyacinths intertwined with leaves and wildflowers. When she looked around the screen and saw me, she smiled sweetly. “You seem busy,” I said, indicating the fitting room with my eyes. “We’re just about finished,” she said, as if to imply that she and her customer were just talking idly at this point. My eyes caught the canary, fluttering up and down in its cage, a pile of fashion magazines in the corner, and an assortment of accessories imported from Europe, but I couldn’t fix my attention on anything. Much as I wanted to dismiss the feeling as ordinary, I could not deny the startling truth that when I looked at Füsun I saw someone familiar, someone I felt I knew intimately. She resembled me. The same sort of hair that grew curly and dark in childhood only to straighten as we grew older. On her, it was now a shade of blond, which, like her clear complexion, was complemented by her print blouse. I felt that I could easily put myself in her place, could understand her deeply. A painful memory came to me: my friends referring to her as “something out of Playboy.” Could she have slept with them? “Return the purse, take your money, and run,” I told myself. “You’re about to become engaged to a wonderful girl.” I turned to look outside, in the direction of Nisantasi Square, but soon Füsun’s reflection appeared ghostlike in the smoky glass. After the woman in the fitting room huffed and puffed her way out of a skirt and left without buying anything, Füsun folded up the rejected items and put them back where they belonged. “I saw you walking down the street yesterday evening,” she said, turning up her beautiful lips. She was wearing a light-pink lipstick, sold under the brand name Misslyn, and though it was a common Turkish product, on her it looked exotic and alluring. “When did you see me?” I asked. “Early in the evening. You were with Sibel Hanim. I was walking down the sidewalk on the other side of the street. Were you going out to eat?” “Yes.” “You make a handsome couple!” she said, as the elderly do when taking pleasure in the sight of happy young people. I did not ask her how she knew Sibel. “There’s a small favor we’d like to ask of you,” I said. As I took out the bag, I felt both embarrassment and panic. “We’d like to return this bag.” “Certainly. I’d be happy to exchange it for you. You might like these chic new gloves and we have this hat, which has just arrived from Paris. Sibel Hanim didn’t like the bag?” “I’d prefer not to exchange it,” I said shamefacedly. “I’d like to ask for my money back.” I saw shock on her face, even some fear. “Why?” she asked. “Apparently this bag is not a genuine Jenny Colon,” I whispered. “It seems that it’s a fake.” “What?” “I don’t really understand these things,” I said helplessly. “Nothing like that ever happens here!” she said in a harsh voice. “Do you want your money back right now?” “Yes!” I blurted out. She looked deeply pained. Dear God, I thought, why hadn’t I just disposed of the bag and told Sibel I’d got the money back? “Look, this has nothing to do with you or Senay Hanim. We Turks, praise God, manage to make imitations of every European fashion,” I said, struggling to smile. “For me—or should I say for us—it’s enough for a bag to fulfill its function, to look lovely in a woman’s hand. It’s not important what the brand is, or who made it, or if it’s an original.” But Füsun, like me, didn’t believe a word I was saying. “No, I am going to give you your money back,” she said in that same harsh voice. I looked down and remained silent, prepared to meet my fate, and ashamed of my brutishness. Determined as she sounded, I sensed that Füsun could not do what she intended to do; there was something strange in the intensely embarrassing moment. She was looking at the till as if someone had put a spell on it, as if it were possessed by demons and she couldn’t bring herself to touch it. When I saw her face redden and crinkle up, her eyes welling with tears, I panicked and drew two steps closer. She began to cry softly. I have never worked out exactly how it happened, but I wrapped my arms around her and she leaned her head against my chest and wept. “Füsun, I’m so sorry,” I whispered. I caressed her soft hair and her forehead. “Please, just forget this ever happened. It’s a fake purse, that’s all.” Like a child, she took a deep breath, sobbed once or twice, then burst into tears again. To touch her body and her beautiful arms, to feel her breasts pressed against my chest, to hold her like that, if only briefly, made my head spin. Perhaps it was because I was trying to repress my desire, stronger each time I touched her, that I conjured up the illusion that we had known each other for years, that we were already very close. She was my sweet, inconsolable, grief-stricken, beautiful sister! For a moment—and perhaps because I knew that we were related, however distantly—her body, with its long limbs, fine bones, and fragile shoulders, reminded me of my own. Had I been a girl, had I been twelve years younger, this was what my body would have been like. “There’s nothing to be upset about,” I said, as I caressed her blond hair. “I can’t open the till to give you back your money,” she explained. “Because when Senay Hanim goes home for lunch she locks it and takes the key with her, I’m ashamed to say.” Leaning her head against my chest, she began to cry again, as I continued my careful and compassionate caressing of her hair. “I just work here to meet people and pass the time. It’s not for the money,” she said, sobbing. “Working for money is nothing to be embarrassed about,” I said stupidly, heartlessly. “Yes,” she said, like a dejected child. “My father is a retired teacher. . . . I turned eighteen two weeks ago, and I didn’t want to be a burden.” Fearful of the sexual beast now threatening to rear its head, I took my hand from her hair. She understood at once and collected herself; we both stepped back. “Please don’t tell anyone I cried,” she said, after rubbing her eyes. “It’s a promise,” I said. “A solemn promise between friends, Füsun. We can trust each other with our secrets.” I saw her smile. “Let me leave the purse here,” I said. “I can come back for the money later.” “Leave the bag if you wish, but it’d be better if you didn’t come back here for the money. Senay Hanim will insist that it isn’t a fake and you’ll come to regret that you ever suggested otherwise.” “Then let’s exchange it for something,” I said. “I can no longer do that,” she said, sounding like a proud and tetchy girl. “No, really, it’s not important,” I offered. “But it is to me,” she said firmly. “When Senay Hanim comes back to the shop, I’ll get the money from her.” “I don’t want that woman causing you any more upset,” I replied. “Don’t worry, I’ve just worked out how to do it,” she said with the faintest of smiles. “I’m going to say that Sibel Hanim already has exactly the same bag, and that’s why she’s returning it. Is that all right?” “Wonderful idea,” I said. “But why don’t I say that to Senay Hanim?” “No, don’t you say anything to her,” Füsun said emphatically. “Because she’ll only try to trick you, to extract personal information from you. Don’t come to the shop at all. I can leave the money with Aunt Vecihe.” “Oh, please, don’t involve my mother in this. She’s even nosier.” “Then where shall I leave your money?” Füsun asked, raising her eyebrows. “At the Merhamet Apartments, 131 Tesvikiye Avenue, where my mother has a flat,” I said. “Before I went to America, I used it as my hideout—I’d go there to study and listen to music. It’s a delightful place that looks out over a garden in the back. . . . I still go there at lunchtime, between two and four, to catch up on paperwork.” “Of course. I can bring your money there. What’s the apartment number?” “Four,” I whispered. I could barely get out the next three words, which seemed to die in my throat. “Second floor. Goodbye.” My heart had figured it all out and was beating madly. Before rushing outside, I gathered up my strength and, pretending that nothing unusual had happened, gave her one last look. Back in the street, my shame and guilt mixed with so many images of bliss in the unseasonable warmth of that April afternoon that the very sidewalks of Nisantasi seemed aglow with a mysterious yellow. My feet chose the shaded path, taking me under the eaves of the buildings and the blue-and-white striped awnings of the shopwindows, and when, in one of those windows, I saw a yellow jug, I felt compelled to go inside and buy it. Unlike any other object acquired so casually, this yellow jug drew no comment from anyone during the twenty years that it sat on the table where my mother and father and, later, my mother and I ate our meals. Every time I touched the handle of that jug, I would remember those days when I first felt the misery that was to turn me in on myself, leaving my mother to watch me in silence at dinner, her eyes filled half with sadness, half with reproach. Arriving home, I greeted my mother with a kiss; though pleased to see me early in the afternoon, she was nevertheless surprised. I told her that I had bought the jug on a whim, adding, “Could you give me the key to the Merhamet Apartments? Sometimes the office gets so noisy I just can’t concentrate. I was wondering if I might have better luck at the apartment. It always worked when I was young.” My mother said, “It must be an inch thick with dust,” but she went straight to her room to fetch the key to the building, which was attached to the apartment key by a red ribbon. “Do you remember that Kütahya vase with the red flowers?” she asked as she handed me the keys. “I can’t find it anywhere in the house, so can you check to see if I took it over there? And don’t work so hard. . . . Your father spent his whole life working hard so that you young ones could have some fun in life. You deserve to be happy. Take Sibel out and enjoy the spring air.” Then, pressing the keys into my hand, she gave me a strange look and said, “Be careful!” It was the look that she would give us when we were children, to warn us that life held unsuspected dangers that were far deeper and more treacherous than, for instance, failing to take proper care of a key.
The Fountain House There once lived a girl who was killed, then brought back to life. That is, her parents were told that she was dead, but they weren’t allowed to keep her body. (The family had been riding the bus together; the girl was standing up front at the time of the explosion, and her parents were sitting behind her.) The girl was just fifteen, and she was thrown backward by the blast. While the parents waited for the ambulance, and while the dead were being separated from the wounded, the father held his daughter in his arms, though it was clear by then that she was dead; the doctor at the scene confirmed this. But the body still had to be taken away, so the parents climbed into the ambulance with their daughter and rode with her to the hospital morgue. She seemed to be alive, as she lay on the stretcher, but she had no pulse, nor was she breathing. Her parents were told to go home, but they wouldn’t; they wanted to wait for the body, though procedures still had to be followed—the autopsy performed and the cause of death determined. The father, who was desperate with grief, and who was also a deeply religious man, decided to steal his daughter’s body. He took his wife, who was barely conscious, home, endured a conversation with his mother-in-law, woke up a neighbor, who was a nurse, and borrowed a white hospital coat. Then he took all the money in the house and went to the nearest hospital, where he hired an empty ambulance (it was two in the morning), and, with a stretcher and a young paramedic, whom he’d bribed, drove to the hospital where his daughter was, walked past the guard and down the stairs to the basement corridor, and entered the morgue. There was no one there. Quickly he found his daughter and, with the paramedic’s help, put her on the stretcher, called down the service elevator, and took her to the intensive-care unit on the third floor. The father had studied the layout of the hospital earlier, while he and his wife waited for the body. He let the paramedic go. After a brief negotiation with the doctor on duty, he handed over his money, and the doctor admitted the girl to the intensive-care unit. Although the girl was not accompanied by a medical history, the doctor could see perfectly well that she was dead. But he badly needed the money: his wife had just given birth (also to a daughter), and his nerves were on edge. His mother hated his wife, and they took turns crying, and the child cried, too, and now on top of all this he had been assigned exclusively night shifts. The sum that this (clearly insane) father had offered him to revive his dead princess was enough for half a year’s rent on a separate apartment for his own little family. This was why the doctor began to work on the girl as if she were still alive, but, since the father was determined not to leave her side, he did request that the man change into a hospital gown and occupy the cot next to his daughter. The girl lay there, as white as marble; she was beautiful. The father, sitting on his cot, stared at her like a madman. One of his eyes seemed out of focus, and it was only with difficulty, in fact, that he was able to open his eyes at all. The doctor, having observed this for a while, asked the nurse to administer a cardiogram, and then quickly gave his new patient a shot of a tranquillizer. The father fell asleep. The girl continued to lie there like Sleeping Beauty, hooked up to her various machines. The doctor fussed around her, doing all he could, even though there was no longer someone watching him with a crazy unfocussed eye. In truth, this young doctor was a fanatic of his profession—there was nothing more important to him than a challenging case, than a person, no matter who it was, on the brink of death. The father slept, and in his dream he met his daughter—he went to visit her, as he used to visit her at summer camp. He prepared some food—a sandwich, that was all. He got on the bus—another bus—on a fine summer evening, somewhere near the Sokol metro station, and rode it to the paradisiacal spot where his daughter was staying. In the fields, amid soft green hills, he found an enormous gray house with arched gates reaching to the sky, and, when he walked through these giant gates into the garden, there, in an emerald clearing, he saw a fountain, as tall as the house, with one tight jet of water that cascaded at the top into a glistening crown. The sun was setting slowly in the distance, and the father walked happily across the lawn to the entrance, to the right of the gate, and took the stairs up to a high floor, to the apartment where his daughter was. She seemed a little embarrassed when she greeted him, as if he had interrupted her. She stood there, looking away from him—as if she had her own, private life here, which had nothing to do with him anymore, a life that was none of his business. The place had high ceilings and wide windows, and it faced south, overlooking the fountain, which was illuminated by the setting sun. “I brought you a sandwich, the kind you like,” the father said. He went over to a table by the window, put his little package down, paused for a moment, and then unwrapped it. There lay his sandwich, with its two slices of cheap black bread. He wanted to show his daughter that there was a patty inside, so he separated the bread slices. But between them he saw—and right away he knew what it was—a raw human heart. The father was terrified that the heart had not been cooked, that the sandwich was inedible, and he quickly wrapped the sandwich up again. Turning to his daughter, he said awkwardly, “I mixed up the sandwiches. I’ll bring you another one.” But his daughter now came over and began looking at the sandwich with a strange expression on her face. The father tried to hide the little bag in his pocket and cover it with his hands, so that his daughter couldn’t take it. She stood next to him, with her head bowed, and reached out her hand. “Give me the sandwich, Papa. I’m really hungry.” “You can’t eat this filth.” “Give it to me,” she said ponderously. She was reaching toward his pocket—all of a sudden her arm was amazingly long—and the father understood that if his daughter ate this sandwich she would die. Turning away, he took out the sandwich and quickly ate the raw heart himself. Immediately, his mouth filled with blood. He ate the black bread with the blood. And now I will die, he thought. I’m glad, at least, that I will go first. “Can you hear me? Open your eyes!” someone said. The father managed to open his eyes and saw, as if through a fog, the doctor’s blurry face. “I can hear you,” he said. “What’s your blood type?” “The same as my daughter’s.” “Are you sure?” “I’m sure.” They carted him away, tied up his left arm, and stuck a needle in it. “How is she?” the father asked. “In what sense,” the doctor said, concentrating on his work. “Is she alive?” “What d’you think,” the doctor grumbled. “She’s alive?” “Lie down, lie down,” the wonderful doctor insisted. The father lay there—nearby he could hear someone breathing heavily—and began to cry. Then they were working on him, and he was carted off again, and again he was surrounded by green fields, but this time he was woken by a noise: his daughter, on the cot next to him, was breathing in a terribly screechy way, as if she couldn’t get enough air. Her father watched her. Her face was white, her mouth open. A tube carried blood from his arm to hers. He felt relieved, and tried to hurry the flow of blood—he wanted all of it to pour into his child. He wanted to die so that she could live. Once again he found himself inside the apartment in the enormous gray house. His daughter wasn’t there. Quietly he went to look for her, and searched in all the corners of the dazzling apartment with its many windows, but he could find no living being. He sat on the sofa, then lay down on it. He felt content, as if his daughter were already off living somewhere on her own, in comfort and joy, and he could afford to take a break. He began (in his dream) to fall asleep, and now his daughter suddenly appeared. She spun into the room like a whirlwind, a tornado, howling, shaking everything around her, and then sank her nails into the crook of his right arm, breaking the skin. He felt a sharp pain, yelled out in terror, and opened his eyes. The doctor had just given him a shot. His daughter lay next to him, breathing heavily, but no longer making that awful screeching noise. The father raised himself up on an elbow, saw that his left arm was free of the tourniquet, and bandaged, and turned to the doctor. “Doctor, I need to make a phone call.” “What phone call?” the doctor answered. “It’s too early for phone calls. You stay still, or else I’m going to start losing you, too. . . .” But, before leaving, he lent the father his cell phone, and the father called home. No one answered. His wife and his mother-in-law must have woken up early and gone to the morgue and now would be running around, confused, not knowing where the girl’s body was. The girl was already better, though she had not yet regained consciousness. The father tried to stay near her in intensive care, pretending that he himself was dying. The night doctor had gone, and the poor father had no money left, but they gave him a cardiogram anyway, and kept him there—apparently the night doctor had managed to speak with someone. Either that or there really was something wrong with his heart. The father considered what to do. He couldn’t go downstairs. They wouldn’t let him call home. He was surrounded by strangers, and they were all busy. He thought about what his two women were going through now, his “girls,” as he called them—his wife and his mother-in-law. His heart was in great pain. They had put him on a drip, just like his daughter. He fell asleep, and when he awoke his daughter was no longer there. “Nurse, where is the girl who was here before?” he said. “What’s it to you?” “I’m her father, that’s what. Where is she?” “They took her into the operating room. Don’t worry, and don’t get up. You can’t yet.” “What’s wrong with her?” “I don’t know.” “Dear nurse, please call the doctor!” “He’s busy.” An old man was moaning nearby. Next to the father a resident was putting an old woman through some procedures, all the while addressing her loudly and jocularly, as if she were the village idiot: “Well, Grandma, how about some soup?” Pause. “What kind of soup do we like?” “Mm,” the old woman groaned in a kind of nonhuman, metallic voice. “How about some mushroom soup?” Pause. “With some mushrooms, eh? Have you tried the mushroom soup?” Suddenly the old woman answered in her deep robotic bass. “Mushrooms—with macaroni.” “There you go!” the resident cried out. The father lay there, thinking about his daughter being operated on. Somewhere his wife was waiting, half mad with grief, his mother-in-law next to her fretting. . . . A young doctor checked on him and gave him another shot, and he fell asleep again. In the evening he got up and, barefoot, just as he was, in his hospital gown, walked out. He reached the stairs unnoticed and began descending the cold stone steps, like a ghost. He went down to the basement corridor and followed the arrows to the morgue. A man in a white coat called out to him, “What are you doing here, patient?” “I’m from the morgue,” the father said. “I got lost.” “What do you mean, from the morgue?” “I left, but my documents are still there. I want to go back, but I can’t find it.” “I haven’t the faintest idea what you’re saying,” the white coat said, taking him by the arm and escorting him down the corridor. And then finally he asked, “You what? You got up?” “I came to life, and there was no one around, so I started walking, and then I decided I should come back, so they could note that I was leaving.” “Wonderful!” his escort said. They reached the morgue, and were greeted there by the curses of the attendant on duty. The father heard him out and said, “My daughter is here, too. She was supposed to come here after her operation.” He told the man his daughter’s name. “I tell you she’s not here, she’s not here! They’re all driving me crazy! They were looking for her this morning! She’s not here! They’re driving everyone nuts! And this one’s a mental patient! Did you run off from a nuthouse, eh? Where’d he come from?” “He was just wandering around,” the white coat answered. “We should get the guard,” the attendant said and started cursing again. “Let me call home,” the father said. “I just remembered—I was in intensive care on the third floor. My memory is all confused; I came here after the explosion on Tverskaya.” Here the white coats went quiet. The explosion on the bus on Tverskaya had happened the day before. They took him, shivering and barefoot, to a desk with a telephone. His wife picked up and immediately burst into tears. “You! You! Where have you been! They took her body—we don’t know where! And you’re running around! There’s no money in the house! We don’t even have enough for a taxi! Did you take all the money?” “I was—I was unconscious. I ended up in the hospital, in intensive care.” “Which one? Where?” “The same one where she was.” “Where is she? Where?” His wife howled. “I don’t know. I don’t know. I’m all undressed—bring me my things. I’m standing here in the morgue. I’m barefoot. Which hospital is this?” he asked the white coat. “How’d you end up there?” his wife said, still weeping. “I don’t understand.” He handed the phone to the white coat, who calmly spoke the address into it, as if nothing at all strange were happening, and then hung up. The morgue attendant brought him a robe and some old, ragged slippers—taking pity finally on this rare living person who had entered his department—and directed him to the guard post at the hospital door. His wife and his mother-in-law arrived there with identically puffy, aged faces. They dressed the father, put shoes on him, hugged him, and heard him out, crying happily, and then all together they sat in the waiting room, because they had been told that the girl had made it through her operation and was recovering, and that her condition was no longer critical. Two weeks later, she was up again, walking. The father walked with her through the hospital corridors, the whole time repeating that she had been alive after the explosion—she had just been in shock, just in shock. No one else had noticed, but he’d known right away. He kept quiet about the raw human heart he’d had to eat so that his daughter wouldn’t. But then that had happened in a dream, and dreams don’t count.
Max at Sea Max knew that a bunk bed was the perfect structure to use when building an indoor fort. First of all, bunk beds have a roof, and a roof is essential if you’re going to have an observation tower. And you need an observation tower if you’re going to spot invading armies before they breach your walls and overtake your kingdom. Anyone without a bunk bed would have a much harder time maintaining a security perimeter, and if you can’t do that you don’t stand a chance. Max had just done a quick survey of the area surrounding his bunk kingdom and was now down on the lower bunk, where he could be unseen and unknown. For a while, he thought about what his science teacher had been talking about earlier that day—that someday the sun would die. Mr. Malhotra had sensed that the mood in the class was darkening, that he’d scared his third graders, and had tried to brighten things: “What am I talking about? I’m being such a downer. Don’t worry about the sun dying! You and everyone you know will be long gone by then!” It was a very strange time in Max’s life. The day before, his sister had tried, by proxy, to kill him. Her tobacco-chewing friends had chased him into his snow fort, and at the moment when he felt safest, in the cool white hollow, they had jumped on the roof, burying him. His sister had done nothing to help, and then had driven off with them, and to punish her, because she was no longer his sister, he’d doused her room with water. Buckets and buckets he’d emptied everywhere, in a furious, joyous process. It had been great, and felt so right, until his mother came home and found what he’d done. She was mad, Claire was mad, and so, tonight, the only person in the house who seemed to like him was his mom’s chinless boyfriend, Gary, and even thinking that sent a shudder through him. Max, tired of thinking in his brain, decided to think on paper, and so retrieved his journal from under the bed. His father had given him the journal shortly after he left—how long ago now? Three years?—and had, in white-out, written the words “WANT JOURNAL” on the cover. In this book his father had written as inscription and directive, “Write what you want. Every day, or as often as you can, write what you want. That way, whenever you’re confused or rudderless, you can look to this book, and be reminded where you want to go and what you’re looking for.” His father had printed, by hand, three beginnings on every page. Max found a pen and began: I WANT Gary to fall into some kind of bottomless hole. I WANT Claire to get her foot caught in a bear trap. I WANT Claire’s friends to die by flesh-eating tapeworms. Then he stopped. His father had explained that the journal was for positive wants, not negative wants. When you wanted something negative, it didn’t count, he said. A want should improve your life while improving the world, even if just a little bit. So Max began again: I WANT to get out of here. I WANT to go to the moon or some other planet. I WANT to find some unicorn DNA and then grow a bunch of them and teach them to impale Claire’s friends with their horns. Oh, well. He could erase it later. Just writing it felt good. But now he was sick of writing. He wanted to do something. But what did he want to do? This was the central question of this day and most days. Max caught sight of his wolf suit hanging on the back of the closet door. He hadn’t worn it in weeks. He’d gotten it for Christmas three years before, the last one with both his parents, and he’d immediately put it on, and kept it on for the rest of school break. It had been too big then, but his mom had pinned it and taped it to make it work until he grew into it. Now he and it were the perfect size, and he wore it when he knew he was alone in the house and could wrestle the dog or jump and growl without anyone watching. Although the house was now full—his mother in the kitchen making dinner, Claire in the TV room pretending to do her homework, Gary on the couch in the living room—as Max stared at the wolf suit it seemed to be calling to him. It’s time, it was saying to Max. He wasn’t sure this was actually the right time to put it on, but then again he usually felt better wearing it. He felt faster, sleeker, more powerful. On the other hand, he could stay in bed. He could stay in the fort, the red blanket casting a red light on everything inside. He could miss dinner and stay there all night. All weekend. He had some thinking to do, about this news about the sun expiring and the resulting void inhaling the earth, and he wanted to steer clear of Claire, who might yet want retribution, and he was angry at his mom, who seemed to forget for hours at a time that he existed. And any time he spent in his room was time he didn’t have to spend with Gary. So he had a choice. Would he stay behind the curtain and think about things, marinate in his own confusion, or would he put on his white fur suit and howl and scratch and make it known who was boss of this house and of all the world known and unknown? “Arrrooooooo! ” The howling was a good start. Animals howl, he had been told, to declare their existence. Max, in his white wolf suit, stood at the top of the stairs and, using a rolled-up piece of construction paper as a megaphone, howled again, as loud as he could. “Arrrooooooooooooo! ” When he was done, there was a long silence. “Uh-oh,” Gary finally said from the living room. Ha! Max thought. Let Gary worry. Let everyone worry. He pounded down the stairs, triumphant. “Who wants to get eaten?” he asked the house and the world. “Not me,” Claire said from the TV room. Aha! Max decided. That only puts her higher on the menu! He strode into the TV room. He lifted his claws up, growled, and sniffed at the air. He wanted to make sure that Claire and everyone knew this terrible fact: there was a bloodthirsty, brilliant, borderline-insane wolf in their midst. Claire, seeing Max approach, rolled her eyes. “You want me to kill something for you?” he asked. Claire thought a moment, tapping her pencil against her lower teeth. She looked at Max, her eyes bright. “Yeah,” she said. “Go kill the little man in the living room.” “Yeah,” Max said, getting excited. “We’ll cut his brains out and make him eat ’em! He’ll have to think from his stomach!” Claire gave Max a look she might give a three-headed cat. “Yeah, you go do that,” she said. Max left the room and found Gary lying on the couch in his work clothes, his frog eyes closed, his chin entirely receded into his neck. Max gritted his teeth and let out a low, simmering growl. Gary opened his eyes and rubbed them. “Uh, hey, Max. I’m baggin’ a few after-work Z’s. How goes it?” Max looked at the floor. This was one of Gary’s typical questions: Another day, huh? How goes it? No play for the playa, right? None of his questions had answers. Gary never seemed to say anything that meant anything at all. “Cool suit,” Gary said. “Maybe I’ll get me one of those. What are you, like a rabbit or something?” Max was about to leap upon Gary, to show him just what kind of animal he was—a wolf capable of tearing flesh from bone with a shake of his jaws—when Max’s mom came into the room. She was carrying two glasses of blood-colored wine, and she handed one to Gary. Gary sat up, smiled his powerless smile, and clinked his glass against hers. “Cheers, little rabbit-dude,” he said, raising his glass to Max. Max’s mom smiled at Max and then at Gary. “Cheers, Maxie,” she said, and growled playfully at him. She picked up a dirty plate and hurried back toward the kitchen. “Claire!” she yelled. “I asked you to get your stuff off the table. It’s almost dinner.” Max entered the kitchen with hisarms crossed, marching purposefully, like a general inspecting his troops. He sniffed loudly, assessing the kitchen’s smells and waiting to be noticed. His mother said nothing, so he brought a chair near the stove and stood on it. Now they were eye to eye. “What is that? Is that food?” he asked, pointing down to something beige sitting numbly on a plate. He got no answer. “Mom, what is that?” he asked, now grabbing her arm. “Pâté,” she said. Max snickered and moved on. Pâté was a regrettable name for an unfortunate food. It seemed to Max a good idea to get up from the chair and to leap onto the counter. Which he presently did. Standing on the counter, he towered over everything and everyone. He was eleven feet tall. “Oh, God,” Max’s mom said. Max squatted down to inspect a package of frozen corn. “Frozen corn? What’s wrong with real corn?” he demanded. He dropped the package loudly on the counter, where it made a wonderful clatter. “Frozen corn is real,” Max’s mom said, barely taking notice. “Now get off the counter. And go tell your sister to get her stuff off the table.” Max didn’t move. “CLAIRE GET YOUR STUFF OFF THE TABLE!” he yelled, more or less into his mom’s face. “Don’t yell in my face!” she hissed. “And get off the counter.” Instead of getting off the counter, Max howled. The acoustics where he was, so close to the ceiling, were not great. His mom stared at him like he was crazy. Which he was, because wolves are part crazy. “You know what?” she said. “You’re too old to be on the counter, and you’re too old to be wearing that costume.” Max crossed his arms and glared at her. “You’re too old to be so short! And your makeup’s smeared!” “GeT DOWN from there!” she demanded. “Woman, feed me!” he yelled. He didn’t know where he’d come up with that phrase, but he liked it immediately. “Get off the counter, Max!” “I’ll eat you up!” he growled, raising his arms. “MAX! GET DOWN!” she yelled. She could be very loud when she wanted to be. For a second, he thought he should get off the counter, take off his suit, and eat his dinner quietly, because the truth was he was very hungry. But then he thought better of it, and howled again. “Arrrooooooooo! ” At that, Max’s mom lunged for him, but he was able to elude her grasp. He leaped over the sink and then back down onto the chair. She lunged again and missed. Max cackled. He really was fast! He jumped down, landed on the floor, and executed a perfect shoulder roll. Then he got up and fled from the kitchen, laughing hysterically. When he turned around, though, he found that his mom was still chasing him. That was new. She rarely chased him this far. When they raced through the living room, Gary took notice of the escalating volume and urgency. He put down his glass of wine and got ready to intervene. Then, in the front hall, a surprising and awful thing happened: Max’s mom caught him. “Max!” she gasped. She had his arm firmly in her hand. She had long fingers, shockingly strong, and they dug into Max’s biceps. In her hand, all his muscle and sinew turned to soup, and he didn’t like it. “What’s wrong with you?” she screamed. “You see what you’re doing to me?” Her voice was shrill, corkscrewed. “No, you’re doing things!” he countered, sounding meeker than he’d intended. To offset this sign of weakness, he thrashed around in her grip. “There’s no way you’re eating dinner with us. Animal.” Now, because he was angry at having Gary in the house, and angry at having to eat pâté and frozen corn, and angry about having a witch for a sister, he growled and—the idea flooding him so quickly he couldn’t resist—bit his mom’s arm as hard as he could. She screamed. She stepped back, holding her arm. Max had never bitten her before. He was scared. His mom was scared. They saw each other anew. Max turned to see Gary entering the foyer. He was clearly unsure what he was supposed to do. “He bit me!” she spat. Gary’s eyes bulged. He turned to Max’s mom. “You can’t let him treat you this way!” “He’s not allowed to talk here!” Max yelled, pointing to the frog-eyed man. Then Claire stormed into the hall. Seeing Claire and Gary and his mom, everyone looking at him like he was the problem, sent Max tumbling over the edge. He screamed as loud as he could, producing a sound between a howl and a battle cry. “Why are you doing this to me?” his mom wailed. “This house is chaos with you in it!” That was it. Max did not have to stand for this, any of this, all of this. He threw open the door and leaped down the porch and into the night. T he air! The moon! He felt pulled as if by an outgoing tide. The air and the moon together sang a furious and wonderful song: Come with us, wolf-boy! Let us drink the blood of the earth and gargle it with great aplomb! Max tore down the street, feeling free, knowing he was part of the wind. Come, Max! Come to the water and see! No one could tell that he was crying—he was running too fast. “Max!” Stupid Gary was following him, trying to run, huffing mightily. Max ran faster, almost flying, his hands grabbing at the air. When he looked over his shoulder again, he saw that Gary was losing ground. A moment later, the freckled little man pulled up lame—he was doubled over, holding his leg. Max kept running, and though his face was wet with tears, he grinned maniacally. He had won. He ran to the cul-de-sac, where the road ended and the trees began. Max was free of home and mother and Gary and Claire; he had outwitted and outrun them all, but he was not ready to rest. He ran to the lean-to he’d built in the woods by the bay, and sat inside for a few seconds, but he was too alive to sit still. He got up and howled. Something about the wind and the configuration of the trees and outcroppings gave his voice more volume; his howl twisted and multiplied in the sky in the most satisfying way. He grabbed the biggest stick he could find and commenced hitting everything he could with it. He swung it around, he stabbed trees and rocks, he whacked branches and relieved them of their snowy burden. This, he thought, was the only way he wanted to live. All he needed to do, sometime soon, was sneak back into the house and get some of his things—his knives, blankets and glue and rope, maybe some of his mom’s matches. Then he would build a forest home, high in the trees, and become one with the woods and the animals, learn their languages and with them plot an overthrow of his home, beginning with the decapitation and devouring of Gary. As he planned his new life, he heard a sound. It wasn’t the wind and it wasn’t the trees. It was a scraping, yearning sound. He paused, his nose twitching and his ears pricking up. It was like bone against bone, though there was a rhythm to it. He followed it toward the water, a hundred yards away. He jogged down the ravine and met the stream that led to the shore. He jumped from rock to rock until he saw the bay’s black glass, cut through the middle by the reflection of the moon. At the water’s edge, amid the reeds and the softly lapping waves, he saw the source of the noise: a wooden sailboat of average size and painted white. It was tied to a tree and was rubbing against a half-submerged rock. Max looked around to see if anyone was close. It seemed strange that a boat like this, a sturdy, viable boat, would be unoccupied. He had been coming to the bay for years and had never seen a boat like this, alone and without an owner. There was no sign of anyone nearby. The boat was his if he wanted it. He stepped in. There was just a bit of water on the bottom, and when he checked the rudder and sail and boom everything seemed to be in working order. If he wanted to, he could untie the boat and sail out into the bay. It would be even better than living out his days in the forest. He could sail away, as far as he liked. He might make it somewhere new, somewhere better, and if he didn’t—if he drowned in the bay or the ocean beyond—then so be it. His horrible family would have to live forever with the guilt. Either option seemed good. Max untied the boat from the tree, and pushed off. He righted the boat and aimed it toward the center of the bay. He unfurled the sail and steadied the boom. The wind was strong; in no time he was chopping through the bay’s small waves. He had sailed at night only once before, with his father, and even that had been unplanned. They’d gotten stuck out in the bay without wind, and hadn’t brought a paddle. They’d passed the time naming every candy they could remember and playing hangman with a grease marker on the boat’s floor. It occurred to Max that he didn’t have any of the safety items his father insisted on—a life preserver, a paddle, a flare gun, a bailing vessel. The boat was empty but for Max. And he was getting cold. By the time he reached the middle of the bay and the wind began to bite, he realized that it was December, and no more than forty degrees, and the farther out into the bay he ventured the colder it would get. When he’d been running and howling, he hadn’t felt the rip of the winter wind, but now it cut through his fur—and his T-shirt and underwear—unimpeded. He decided to sail not into the ocean but toward the city, where his father lived. This immediately seemed a better idea. He would sail downtown, dock with all the yachts, walk through the city until he found his father’s apartment, and ring the bell. Wow, he’d be surprised! He would be astounded and impressed, and they would live together from then on. All Max needed to do was sail north for a few hours and keep his eye on the dim glow of the city in the distance. But the city seemed to be getting farther away, not closer. Max held the rudder steady, and the sail had a constant bellyful of wind, but as the hours passed the city grew smaller. According to the compass screwed onto the bow, Max was sailing directly for it, due north-northwest, and yet the city lights were growing fainter. There was little Max could do. He knew he was sailing straight. He hoped that sometime in the night the bay would become rational again and the city would draw closer. He would have to tell his father about this strange elastic stretching of the bay! But soon the city was disappearing altogether. For a while, it was no more than a twinkle of dwindling lights, and shortly thereafter it was gone. There was no sign of land in any direction. Max didn’t want to admit it to himself, but some part of him acknowledged that in all likelihood he’d left the bay and was now in the open sea. Before Max was even tired, the moon had fallen through the water and the sun had risen to replace it. He’d sailed all night without sleep and was too bewildered to think about rest now. He continued sailing north-northwest, but even though it was daylight, he saw nothing. Not a fish, not a bird. The wind had slackened, and the sea grew broader and more interminable. By his rough calculations, he had to be at least seven million miles from where he cast off. As the sun climbed higher, he was tired enough to sleep. He pulled in the sail, tied it to the mast, rigged the rudder so it would remain true, and fell asleep. When he woke, it was already the next morning, the beginning of the longest day Max had ever known. In his boat, the straight line of ocean unbroken on any side, every minute was a day, one hour was longer than any life ever lived. His mind ran out of things to think about. He thought of everything he’d ever thought of by midday and then could only start over. He named all of his classmates, dividing them into the ones he knew, the ones he tolerated, the ones he barely knew, and the ones he would punch in the head if he had the chance. He named all of his uncles and aunts. Uncles Stuart, Grant, Scotty, Wash, and Jeff; Aunts Isabelle, Paulina, Lucy, Juliet. Who was that last one, the one who played rugby? Theresa. Max sailed in and out of days and nights. He endured blustery winds, cruel winds, chattering winds, and warm blanketing breezes. There were waves like dragons and waves like sparrows. There were occasional sightings of birds and fish and flies, but nothing that Max could reach or much less eat. There was rain, but mostly there was sun, the terribly unimaginative sun, doing the same things day in and day out. He loosened a nail on the boat’s bench and removed it. He used it to count the hours (as close as he could approximate) as they passed, marking them on the bench as a prisoner would. On the outer rim of the boat, he carved his name as big as he could so that any fish or whales or passing ships would know who commanded this vessel: “MAX,” it said. T hen one day he saw something. A green blot on the horizon, no bigger than a caterpillar. Not trusting his eyes, he thought little of it. He went to sleep again. When he awoke, the caterpillar had become an island. It towered over him—massive cliffs, green hills above. By the time he reached the shore, it was night and the island had gone black. It was a good deal less welcoming now, as a silhouette against a gunmetal sky, but there was something high in the hills that beckoned him: an orange glow between the trees. Max jumped into the water. He’d thought it would be at most waist-deep, but it was far deeper than that. His feet could not reach the bottom and he was quickly swallowed in the foam, the white. And the cold! The water was colder than he thought possible; it knocked the wind out of him. He held the rope that held the boat, and tried to dog-paddle shoreward. He thought for a moment that he would have to let go of the rope, lest he drown. But just as his head dropped below the surface, and the boat tugged against his grip, his feet found the sand, and he stood. Max dragged the boat onto the beach, placed a group of large stones around it, and tied its lead to the biggest tree he could find. He was tired and hungry and leaden; the weight of his fur when wet surprised him. He considered taking off his wolf suit, but he knew if he did he’d be even colder. The wind was bracing, and he knew that his only chance at warmth—and survival—would be to climb the cliffs and find his way to the fire he’d seen from the sea. So this is what he did. The cliffs were jagged but dependable. He climbed to the top in under an hour and rested at the summit. Looking back at the boat—he was easily two hundred feet up—he heard sounds coming from the island’s interior: crunching and crashing, whooping and howling, the crackle of a gigantic fire. Only in his depleted and desperate state would Max have considered that his best option would be to run, stumble, and crawl through the densest and wildest kind of jungle toward the sounds of what seemed to be some kind of riot. But this is what he did. He walked for hours in the moonlight. He slashed his way through the undergrowth, ducking under grasping, luminescent ferns and slithering between barbed and crosshatched vines. He waded through narrow creeks and climbed over boulders covered with a red and delicate moss that clung to the stone like embroidery. The landscape was familiar—there were trees, there was dirt, there were rocks—but then very odd: the earth seemed to be striped in brown and yellow, like peanut butter and cinnamon at the first twirl of a mixing spoon. After some time, his fur, at least above his shins, was dry, and he was warmer, but he was so tired he was dreaming on his feet. Again and again, he would shudder awake and find that he’d been walking while asleep, always making his way toward the chaos in the center of the island. Finally, when he reached the top of a long high hill, he saw the fire, huge and snapping at the black sky. Most of it was obscured by a giant boulder in his line of vision, but the fire’s size was clear: it licked the surrounding trees orange and blotted out the stars above. It was intentional. It had a center and a purpose. Then, movement. First, there was just a blur—some kind of creature shooting through the trees, a rushing shape silhouetted by the red fire beyond. It could have been a horse, he thought, but the animal seemed to be running upright, on two feet. Max dropped to his knees, holding his breath. Another shape darted between the trees. This one was the same size, but Max could have sworn he’d seen a beak. It seemed to Max’s tired eyes that a giant rooster, twelve feet tall, had just run across his field of vision. Max had half a mind to turn and flee—for what good could come of engaging beasts of that size near a fire of that strength?—but he couldn’t leave just yet. The heat from the blaze had awakened him, and he had to know what was happening down there. So he skulked forward. He wanted the warmth the fire promised, and he wanted whatever food might have been roasted on it, and he wanted more than anything else to find out just what was going on. A hundred yards more and he knew. Sort of. That is, he saw what he saw but couldn’t believe any of it. He saw animals. Animals? Creatures of some kind. Huge and fast. He thought they might be oversized sorts of humans covered in fur, but they were bigger than that, hairier than that. They were ten or twelve feet tall, each four hundred pounds or more. Max knew his animal kingdom, but he had no name for these beasts. From behind, they resembled bears, but they were larger than bears, their heads far bigger. Even so, their movements were nimble, deft—they had the quickness of deer or small monkeys. And they all looked different, as humans do: one had a long broken horn on its nose; another had a wide flat face, stringy hair, and pleading eyes; another seemed like a cross between a boy and a goat. And another— It had been a giant rooster. This was the weirdest one by far. Max slapped himself, making sure he was awake. He was awake, and there was a giant rooster before him, no more than twenty yards away in the full glow of the raging fire. It was at once comical—it looked like a giant man in a rooster suit—and powerful and menacing. The rooster seemed frustrated, staring at another creature, of similar height and heft but with a different shape. This one had a mop of reddish hair and a leonine face, with a large horn, like a rhino’s, extending from its nose. It looked female, if that was possible for such an ugly thing. She was in the middle of beating a large nest, resting on the ground, with a log. And this seemed to be greatly upsetting the rooster. Soon, Max could see a pattern to what the beasts were doing. It looked as if they’d come upon some kind of settlement, full of great round nests—each made of huge sticks and logs, and bigger than a car—and had decided to destroy them. They were systematically wrecking them all, like kids destroying sandcastles. Max was about to turn and run the other way when he heard (could it be?) a word. There was, he was almost sure, a word: “Go!” And just as he was repeating the sound in his mind, turning it over, analyzing it, the creature closest to him spoke a full sentence: “Is it twisted?” Two of the creatures appeared to have fallen through the wall of a nest, and one was asking the other for help, assessing possible injuries to its spine. “Yeah, it’s kind of twisted,” the other said. Then the two gathered themselves up and ran off. Max squatted down again, determined now to watch a bit longer, to try to figure out what was happening and why. One creature seemed to be leading the melee. He had a big round face, sharp horns like a Viking’s, and dark bags under his eyes. He was getting ready to run toward one of the nests when the rooster approached him and put his hand—it wasn’t a wing; he seemed to have hands and claws—on his shoulder. “Carol, can I speak to you for a second?” “Not now, Douglas,” the big one, Carol, said, and moved the rooster aside. Then Carol got a running start and barrelled into the nest, knocking it flat. Max was astounded. Had that sentence just been uttered? These weren’t grunting monsters. They spoke just like people. Gradually, Max realized that they were a kind of family. Douglas, the rooster, seemed logical and even-tempered, and didn’t appreciate the way that Carol was trying to amuse himself. Carol was the main instigator and the heartiest of the destroyers. He was the biggest, the strongest, the loudest. He had horizontal stripes on his torso like a kind of sweater, and his claws were huge and cleaver-sharp. The creature with the horn and the red mop of hair was called Judith, and she had a sharp, poky voice and a harsh cackle for a laugh. Ira had a bulbous nose, and he seemed to be always close to Judith. Max guessed they might even be a couple. Ira had a sad sort of aura and poor posture. There was the goat-shaped one, Alexander, with a snarl for a face and pin-thin legs. He was just a little bigger than Max. And then there was a bull, whose name seemed to be the Bull. He was gigantic, maybe thirteen feet high, and seemed built entirely of muscle and stone. He hadn’t said a word yet. The beasts jumped from trees into the nests, they tossed each other into piles, they rolled boulders into the remains of the structures. It was just about the best mayhem Max had ever seen. But soon there was a lull in the action. One by one, the beasts sat down, scratching themselves and nursing small wounds. “I’m bored,” one said. “Me, too,” said another. “C’mon!” Carol roared. “Let’s finish this!” There was no answer from the rest of them. Ira sat down. Carol jogged over to him—they really were agile things, these creatures, Max thought. “Ira,” Carol said, “we’re not done yet. The job isn’t complete.” “But I’m so tired!” Ira said. “And uninspired.” “Hey, don’t think you can rhyme your way out of this. Uninspired? How’s that possible?” Carol turned to address the rest of the creatures. “C’mon, isn’t this fun? Who’s gonna really go crazy with me?” No one responded. Carol jumped from beast to beast, trying to create some excitement. When he approached the rooster, Douglas said, “Carol, why are we doing this in the first place?” A quick cloud came over Carol’s face. His teeth—what must have been a hundred of them, each as big as Max’s hand—were bared in something between a smile and a show of force. He ignored Douglas. “All I need to know now is if there’s anyone on this island who’s brave and creative and wild enough to help finish this job. Is there anyone up to it?” No one responded. “Anyone?” Something clicked in Max. His thoughts lined up, his plan was orderly and clear: he needed to be that someone. Max dashed down the hill and between the legs of Douglas and Ira, his face a knot of determination. The creatures towered over him, and outweighed him by thousands of pounds. “Whoa, what’s that?” Ira said, alarmed. “Look at his little legs!” Judith squealed. “What’s he doing?” Douglas asked. Max intended to show them. He took the largest stick he could swing and he began to hit everything he saw. He knocked over the remains of whatever nests still stood, he broke low-hanging branches from the trees, he screamed and howled. The beasts cheered. “See, that thing knows how to wreck stuff!” Carol said, his eyes aglow. “Let’s do one together, little thing.” Together, Carol and Max picked up a long log and ran at a nest that had survived intact, laying waste to it. Max had never destroyed so much so well and so quickly. He followed Carol to one of the last nests, and he and Carol both lifted their sticks over their heads, preparing to crush it with simultaneous blows. “Hey, new guy!” Judith snapped. “Don’t touch that one.” Max hesitated. “Don’t lay a finger on it,” she warned. With a laugh, Carol kicked his immense foot into the structure, reducing it to splinters. “There,” he said. “Not a finger.” Max had to laugh. That was pretty good. He watched as Carol, his comrade-in-arms, ran over to the other side of the clearing, looking for anything left standing. Max looked, too. But as far as he could see there was nothing left to destroy. Max stood in the middle of a desolate plain. The nests were no more. He started to walk toward Carol, to celebrate the completeness of their wreckage, when Douglas appeared in front of Max, blocking his path. “What are you doing here?” he asked. “What? I’m just helping,” Max said. “Then why are you smashing our houses?” “These are your houses?” This was news to Max. He’d assumed they were destroying some enemy encampment. “Why are you smashing them?” “I’m not, actually. You’re not very observant for someone swinging that big stick around.” Max dropped the stick. “Wait,” Alexander said, standing in the ruins, alone and teary-eyed, like a child lost at the mall. “Where will we sleep tonight?” Suddenly, a realization seemed to spread among the beasts. “I was trying to tell you all that,” Douglas said. “Well, don’t blame me,” Judith said. “Why not?” Douglas said. “You were wrecking as much as anyone else. You wrecked everything but your own nest.” “Sure, but I didn’t enjoy it,” she said. “And, anyway, it wasn’t my fault.” Douglas was shaking his head. “Then whose fault was it?” Judith looked around for a moment, and her eyes settled, rather happily, on Max. “The new guy!” she said. “He’s the one who got everyone riled up. And you know what I say you do with a problem? Eat it.” “Yeah,” Alexander said. “He’s the problem!” “What are you guys doing?” Ira asked. “Oh, we were just gonna eat that,” Judith said, pointing to Max, as if picking out a lobster at a restaurant. “O.K.,” Ira said, shrugging and beginning to drool. Max was very quickly surrounded by the three of them, and soon Douglas and the Bull had joined the throng, and the air was very dark and warm with beast sweat. Max backed up until he found himself against a mess of sticks and mud where a home used to be. There was no escape. “He looks tasty,” Ira said. “Does he?” Judith said. “I don’t know. I’m thinking gamy.” “Gamy?” Douglas mused. “Really? I say succulent.” “He’s an ugly bugger, though, isn’t he?” Judith said. “Close your eyes, then. I’ll feed him to you,” Ira said. “Oh, that’s so romantic!” she said. “Hold on!” a voice yelled from across the camp. It was Carol. Max felt some relief, and yet the creatures were still closing in on him. Max could feel their hot wet breath on his face, he could see their enormous teeth, each incisor as big as his foot. Ira licked his lips. The Bull snorted, his hands reaching toward Max. Max knew Carol couldn’t save him in time. He had to save himself—somehow. He arched his back, and, with a voice that emerged far louder and more commanding than he had expected, he roared, “Be still!” The beasts stopped. They stopped moving, stopped talking, stopped raising their arms to claw Max to death, stopped salivating. Max couldn’t believe it. He didn’t know what to do next. “Why?” Judith said. “Why should we stop?” This was a tricky question, Max knew. If he was about to bite into, say, a strawberry, and it told him to stop, he, too, would want a good explanation. “Because . . . uh . . . because . . . ,” he mumbled. The beasts stared, waiting, blowing roughly through their nostrils. Max knew he had to come up with something immediately, and, to his surprise, he did. “Because,” he said, “I heard about this one time that they weren’t still, and they . . .” “Who?” Judith said. “Who wasn’t still?” By this time Carol had arrived, standing behind the others. “Um . . . the hammers,” Max explained, making it up as he went along. “They were huge ones and they didn’t know how to be still. They were crazy. They were always shaking and running around and they never stopped to see what was right in front of them. So this one time the hammers were storming down the mountainside and they couldn’t even see that someone was coming up to help them. And you know what happened?” The beasts, enthralled, shook their heads. “They ran right over him and killed him,” Max said. There were a few gasps, but there were also a few sounds that said, “Well, what else would they do?” “And the thing is,” Max added, “he liked them. He was there to help.” “Who was he?” Douglas asked. “Who was who?” Max said. “The guy coming up the hill,” Douglas said. “He was . . .” And again Max fumbled in the velvet darkness of his mind and found, impossibly, a gem. “He was their king.” Carol stepped forward. “Do you like us?” This was a tough question. Max wasn’t sure that he liked any of them, given that they had been, moments earlier, about to devour his flesh and brains. But in the interest of self-preservation, and because he had liked them a lot when they were all breaking things, he said, “Yeah. I like you.” Ira cleared his throat and said, with a hope-filled catch in his voice, “Are you our king?” Max had rarely had to do so much bluffing in his life. “Sure. Yeah,” he said. “I think so.” A ripple of excitement spread through the beasts. “Wow, he’s the king,” Ira said. Douglas stepped forward, as if he’d just thought of a stumper of a question that might decide it all: “Were you king where you came from?” Max was getting good at the fibbing, so this one was easy. “Yeah, I was,” he said. “King Max. For twenty years.” A quick happy murmur rose from the creatures. “Are you going to make this a better place?” Ira asked. “Sure,” Max said. “Because it’s screwed up, let me tell you,” Judith blurted. “Quiet, Judith,” Carol said. “Judith, of course he’s here to fix everything,” Douglas said. “Why else would a king be a king, and a king be here?” He turned to Max. “Right, King?” “Uh, sure,” Max said. Carol smiled. “Well, that settles it, then. He’s our king!” They all moved in to hug Max. “Sorry we were gonna eat you,” Douglas said. “We didn’t know you were the king,” Ira said. “If we’d known you were the king, we almost definitely wouldn’t have tried to eat you,” Judith added, then laughed in a sudden, mirthless trill. She lowered her voice to a confessional tone. “We just got caught up in the moment.” Max was swept up and lifted high in the air and finally set down on the shoulders of the Bull. The Bull followed Carol into a cave under an enormous tree. Inside the cave, two torches illuminated a golden oval of a room. The Bull put Max down and rooted around in a pile of rubble on the floor. He soon retrieved a sceptre, copper-colored and bejewelled, and gave it to Max. Max inspected it reverently. It was heavy, but not too heavy, with a hand-carved handle and a crystal orb at the top. The Bull continued to dig through the rubble. Curious, Max peered around the Bull and saw that it wasn’t a pile of sticks and rocks but a pile of what looked to be bones. They were yellowed and broken, the remains of maybe a dozen different creatures—twisted and spotted skulls and ribs in sizes and shapes Max had never seen in any book or museum. “Aha!” Carol bellowed. “There it is.” Max looked up to see that the Bull had pulled a crown from the heap. It was golden, rough-hewn, and as the Bull turned to place the crown on Max’s head Max pulled away. “Wait,” he said, pointing to the pile of bones. “Are those . . . other kings?” The Bull glanced quickly at Carol with a look of mild concern. “No, no!” Carol said, chuckling. “Those were there before we got here. We’ve never even seen them before.” Then Carol and the Bull did a quick jig atop the bones, reducing them to dust. “See?” Carol said, grinning, his eyes nervous and alight. “Nothing to worry about. Just dust. You’re the king. And nothing bad can happen to the king.” Max looked into Carol’s eyes, each of them as big as a volleyball. They were the warmest brown and green. “But what do I have to do?” Max asked. “Do? Anything you want to do,” Carol said. “And what do you have to do?” “Anything you want us to do,” Carol said. He answered so quickly that Max was convinced. “Then, O.K.,” Max said. He lowered his head to receive his crown. Carol gently placed it on Max’s head. It was heavy, and the metal was cool on his forehead. But the crown fit, and Max smiled. Carol stood back and looked at him, nodding as if everything had finally fallen into place. The Bull lifted Max and placed him back on his shoulders, and they made their way out of the cave to deafening cheers from the rest of the beasts. The Bull paraded Max around the forest as everyone whooped and danced in a very ugly—drool and mucus spraying left and right—but celebratory kind of way. After a few minutes, the Bull placed Max atop a grassy knoll, and the beasts gathered around, looking up at him expectantly. Max understood that he was supposed to say something, so he said the only thing he could think of: “Let the wild rumpus begin!”
War Dances A few years ago, after I returned home to Seattle from a trip to Los Angeles, I unpacked my bag and found a dead cockroach, shrouded by a dirty sock, in a corner. Shit, I thought. We’re being invaded. So I threw the clothes, books, shoes, and toiletries back into the suitcase, carried it out to the driveway, and dumped the contents onto the pavement, ready to stomp on any other cockroach stowaways. But there was only the one cockroach, dead and stiff. As he lay on the pavement, I leaned closer to him. His legs were curled under his body. His head was tilted at a sad angle. Sad? Yes, sad. For who is lonelier than the cockroach without his tribe? I laughed at myself. I was feeling empathy for a dead cockroach. I wondered about its story. How had it got into my bag? And where? At the hotel in Los Angeles? In the airport baggage system? It hadn’t originated in our house. We’ve kept those tiny bastards from our place for fifteen years. So where had this little vermin come from? Had he smelled something delicious in my bag—my musky deodorant or some crumb from a chocolate Power Bar—and climbed inside, only to be crushed by the shifts of fate and garment bags? As he died, did he feel fear? Isolation? Existential dread? SYMPTOMS Last summer, in reaction to various allergies I was suffering from, defensive mucus flooded my inner right ear and confused, frightened, and unmoored me. My allergies had never been this severe. I could barely hear a fucking thing with that side, so I had to turn my head in order to understand what my two sons, ages eight and ten, were saying. “We’re hungry,” they said. “We keep telling you.” I was embarrassed. “Mom would have fed us by now,” they said. Their mother had left for Italy with her mother two days before. My sons and I were going to enjoy a boys’ week, filled with unwashed socks, REI rock-wall climbing, and ridiculous heaps of pasta. “What are you going to cook?” my sons asked. “Why haven’t you cooked yet?” I’d been lying on the couch reading a book while they played and I hadn’t realized that I’d gone partially deaf. So, for just a moment, I could only weakly blame my allergies. Then I recalled the man who went to the emergency room because he’d woken having lost most, if not all, of his hearing. The doctor peered into one ear, saw an obstruction, reached in with small tweezers, and pulled out a cockroach, then reached into the other ear and extracted a much larger cockroach. Did you know that ear wax is a delicacy for roaches? I cooked dinner for my sons—overfed them out of guilt—and cleaned the hell out of our home. Then I walked into the bathroom and stood before the mirror. I turned my head and body at weird angles and tried to see deeply into my congested ear; I sang hymns and prayed that I’d see a small angel trapped in the canal. I would free the poor thing, and she’d unfurl and pat dry her tiny wings, then fly to my lips and give me a sweet kiss for sheltering her metamorphosis. When I woke at 3 A.M., completely deaf in my right ear, and positive that a damn swarm of locusts was wedged inside, I left a message for my doctor, and told him that I would be sitting outside his office when he reported for work. This would be the first time I had been inside a health-care facility since my father’s last surgery. BLANKETS After the surgeon had cut off my father’s right foot—no, half of my father’s right foot—and three toes from the left, I sat with him in the recovery room. It was more like a recovery hallway. There was no privacy, not even a thin curtain. I supposed this made it easier for the nurses to monitor the post-surgical patients, but, still, my father was exposed—his decades of poor health and worse decisions were illuminated—on white sheets in a white hallway under white lights. “Are you O.K.?” I asked. It was a stupid question. Who could be O.K. after such a thing? Yesterday, my father had walked into the hospital. Yes, he’d shuffled while balancing on two canes, but that was still called walking. A few hours ago, my father still had both of his feet. They were black with rot and disease, but they were still, technically speaking, feet and toes. And, most important, those feet had belonged to my father. Now they were gone, sliced off. Where were they? What had the hospital done with the right foot and the toes from the left foot? Had they been thrown into the incinerator? Were their ashes already floating over the city? “Doctor, I’m cold,” my father said. “Dad, it’s me,” I said. “I know who you are. You’re my son.” But, given the blankness in my father’s eyes, I assumed he was just guessing. “Dad, you’re in the hospital. You just had surgery.” “I know where I am. I’m cold.” “Do you want another blanket?” Stupid question. Of course, he wanted another blanket. He probably wanted me to build a fucking campfire or drag in one of those giant heat blasters that N.F.L. football teams use on the sidelines. I walked down the hallway—the recovery hallway—to the nurses’ station. There were three women nurses there, two white and one black. I am Native American—Spokane and Coeur d’Alene Indian—and I thought my darker pigment might give me an edge with the black nurse, so I addressed her directly. “My father is cold,” I said. “Can I get another blanket?” The nurse glanced up from her paperwork and regarded me. Her expression was neither compassionate nor callous. “How can I help you, sir?” she asked. “I’d like another blanket for my father. He’s cold.” “I’ll be with you in a moment, sir.” She looked back down at her paperwork. She made a few notes. Not knowing what else to do, I stood there and waited. “Sir,” the nurse said. “I’ll be with you in a moment.” She was irritated. I understood. After all, how many thousands of times had she been asked for an extra blanket? She was a nurse, an educated woman, not a damn housekeeper. And it was never really about an extra blanket, was it? No, when people asked for an extra blanket they were asking for a time machine. My father, an alcoholic, diabetic Indian with terminally damaged kidneys, had just endured an incredibly expensive surgery for what? So that he could ride his motorized wheelchair to the bar and win bets by showing off his disfigured foot? Yes, she was a health-care worker and she didn’t want to be cruel, but she believed that there came a point when doctors should stop rescuing people from their own self-destructive impulses. And I couldn’t disagree with her, but I could ask for the most basic of comforts, couldn’t I? “My father,” I said. “An extra blanket, please.” “Fine,” she said. She got up and walked back to a linen closet, grabbed a white blanket, and handed it to me. “If you need anything else—” I didn’t wait around for the end of her sentence. With the blanket in hand, I walked back to my father. It was a thin blanket, laundered and sterilized a hundred times. In fact, it was too thin. It wasn’t really a blanket. It was more like a large beach towel. Hell, it wasn’t even good enough for that. It was more like the world’s biggest coffee filter. Jesus, had health care finally come to this? Everybody was uninsured and unblanketed. “Dad, I’m back.” He looked so small and pale lying in that hospital bed. How had this happened? For the first sixty-seven years of his life, my father had been a large and dark man. Now he was just another pale, sick drone in a hallway of pale, sick drones. A hive, I thought. This place is like a beehive with colony-collapse disorder. “Dad, it’s me.” “I’m cold.” “I have a blanket.” As I draped it over my father and tucked it around his body, I felt the first sting of grief. I’d read the hospital literature about this moment. There would come a time when roles would reverse and the adult child would become the caretaker of the ill parent. The circle of life. Such poetic bullshit. “I can’t get warm,” my father said. “I’m freezing.” “I brought you a blanket, Dad. I put it on you.” “Get me another one. Please. I’m so cold. I need another blanket.” I knew that ten more of these cheap blankets wouldn’t be enough. My father needed a real blanket, a good blanket. I walked out of the recovery hallway and made my way through various doorways and other hallways, peering into rooms, looking at the patients and their families, searching for a particular kind of patient and family. I walked through the E.R., through the cancer, heart and vascular, neuroscience, orthopedic, women’s health, pediatric, and surgical wards. Nobody stopped me. My expression and posture were those of a man with a sick father, and so I belonged. And then I saw him, another Native man, leaning against a wall near the gift shop. Well, maybe he was Asian—lots of those in Seattle. He was a small man, pale brown, with muscular arms and a soft belly. Maybe he was Mexican, which is really a kind of Indian, too, but not the kind that I needed. It’s hard to tell sometimes what people are. Even brown people guess at the identity of other brown people. “Hey,” I said. “Hey,” the other man said. “You Indian?” I asked. “Yeah.” “What tribe?” “Lummi.” “I’m Spokane.” “My first wife was Spokane. I hated her.” “My first wife was Lummi. She hated me.” We laughed at the new jokes that instantly sounded old. “Why are you in here?” I asked. “My sister is having a baby,” he said. “But don’t worry, it’s not mine.” “Ayyyyyy,” I said and laughed. “I don’t even want to be here,” the other Indian said. “But my dad started, like, this new Indian tradition. He says it’s a thousand years old. But that’s bullshit. He just made it up to impress himself. And the whole family goes along with it, even when we know it’s bullshit. He’s in the delivery room waving eagle feathers around. Jesus.” “What’s the tradition?” “Oh, he does a naming ceremony right in the hospital. It’s supposed to protect the baby from all the technology and shit. Like hospitals are the big problem. You know how many babies died before we had good hospitals?” “I don’t know.” “Most of them. Well, shit, a lot of them, at least.” This guy was talking out of his ass. I liked him immediately. “I mean,” the guy said. “You should see my dad right now. He’s pretending to go into this, like, fucking trance, dancing around my sister in the bed, and he says he’s trying to, you know, see into her womb, to see who the baby is, to see its true nature, so he can give it a name—a protective name—before it’s born.” The guy laughed and threw his head back, banging it on the wall. “I mean, come on, I’m a loser,” he said and rubbed his sore skull. “My whole family is filled with losers.” The Indian world is filled with charlatans, men and women who pretend—hell, who might have come to believe—that they are holy. The year before, I went to a lecture at the University of Washington. An elderly Indian woman, a scholar, had come to orate on Indian sovereignty and literature. She kept arguing for some kind of separate indigenous literary identity, which was ironic considering that she was speaking English to a room full of white professors. But I wasn’t angry with the woman, or even bored. No, I felt sorry for her. I realized that she was dying of nostalgia. She had taken nostalgia as her false idol—her thin blanket—and it was murdering her. “Nostalgia,” I said. “What?” “Your dad, he sounds like he’s got a bad case of nostalgia.” “Yeah, I hear you catch that from fucking old high-school girlfriends,” the man said. “What the hell you doing here, anyway?” “My dad just got his feet cut off,” I said. “Diabetes?” “And vodka.” “Vodka straight up or with a nostalgia chaser?” “Both.” “Natural causes for an Indian.” “Yep.” There wasn’t much to say after that. “Well, I better get back,” the man said. “Otherwise, my dad might wave an eagle feather and change my name.” “Hey, wait,” I said. “Yeah?” “Can I ask you a favor?” “What?” “My dad, he’s in the recovery room,” I said. “Well, it’s more like a hallway, and he’s freezing, and they’ve only got these shitty little blankets, and I came looking for Indians in the hospital because I figured—well, I guessed if I found any Indians they might have some good blankets.” “So you want to borrow a blanket from us?” the man asked. “Yeah.” “Because you thought Indians would just happen to have some extra blankets lying around?” “Yeah.” “That’s fucking ridiculous.” “I know.” “And it’s racist.” “I know.” “You’re stereotyping your own damn people.” “I know.” “But damn if we don’t have a room full of Pendleton blankets. New ones. Jesus, you’d think my sister was having, like, a dozen babies.” Five minutes later, carrying a Pendleton Star blanket, the Indian man walked out of his sister’s hospital room, accompanied by his father, who wore Levi’s, a black T-shirt, and eagle feathers in his gray braids. “We want to give your father this blanket,” the old man said. “It was meant for my grandson, but I think it will be good for your father, too.” “Thank you.” “Let me bless it. I will sing a healing song for the blanket. And for your father.” I flinched. This old man wanted to sing a song? That was dangerous. The song could take two minutes or two hours. It was impossible to know. Hell, considering how desperate the old man was to be seen as holy, he might sing for a week. I couldn’t let him begin his song without issuing a caveat. “My dad,” I said. “I really need to get back to him. He’s really sick.” “Don’t worry,” the old man said, winking. “I’ll sing one of my short ones.” Jesus, who’d ever heard of a self-aware fundamentalist? The son, perhaps not the unbeliever he’d pretended to be, sang backup as his father launched into a radio-friendly honor song, just three and a half minutes, like any Top Forty rock song of the past fifty years. But here’s the funny thing: the old man couldn’t sing very well. If you had the balls to sing healing songs in hospital hallways, then you should have a great voice, right? But, no, this guy couldn’t keep the tune; his voice cracked and wavered. Does a holy song lose its power if the singer is untalented? “That is your father’s song,” the old man said when he finished. “I give it to him. I will never sing it again. It belongs to your father now.” Behind his back, the old man’s son rolled his eyes and walked into his sister’s room. “O.K., thank you,” I said. I felt like an ass, accepting the blanket and the old man’s good wishes, and silently mocking them at the same time. But maybe the old man did have some power, some real medicine, because he peeked into my brain. “It doesn’t matter if you believe in the healing song,” he said. “It only matters that the blanket heard.” “Where have you been?” my father asked when I returned. “I’m cold.” “I know, I know,” I said. “I found you a blanket. A good one. It will keep you warm.” I draped the Star blanket over my father. He pulled the thick wool up to his chin. And then he began to sing. It was a healing song, not the same song that I had just heard but a healing song nonetheless. My father could sing beautifully. I wondered if it was proper for a man to sing a healing song for himself. I wondered if my father needed help with the song. I hadn’t sung for many years, not like that, but I joined him. I knew that this song would not bring back my father’s feet. This song would not repair my father’s bladder, kidneys, lungs, and heart. This song would not prevent my father from drinking a bottle of vodka as soon as he could sit up in bed. This song would not defeat death. No, I thought, this song is temporary, but right now temporary is good enough. And it was a good song. Our voices filled the recovery hallway. The sick and the healthy stopped to listen. The nurses, even the remote black one, unconsciously took a few steps toward us. She sighed and smiled. I smiled back. I knew what she was thinking. Sometimes, even after all these years, she could still be surprised by her work. She still marvelled at the infinite and ridiculous faith of other people. DOCTOR’S OFFICE I took my kids with me to my doctor, a handsome man—a reservist—who’d served in both Iraq wars. I told him that I couldn’t hear because of my allergies. He said he would likely have to clear wax and mucus out of my ear, but when he scoped inside he discovered nothing. “Nope, it’s all dry in there,” he said. He led my sons and me to the audiologist in the other half of the building. I was scared, but I wanted my children to remain calm, so I tried to stay measured. More than anything, I wanted my wife to materialize. During the hearing test, I heard only thirty per cent of the clicks, bells, and words—I apparently had nerve- and bone-conductive deafness. My inner ear thumped and thumped. How many cockroaches were in my head? My doctor said, “We need an MRI of your ear and brain, and maybe we’ll find out what’s going on.” “Maybe”? That word terrified me. What the fuck was wrong with my fucking head? Had my hydrocephalus come back? Had my levees burst? Was I going to flood? HYDROCEPHALUS Merriam-Webster’s dictionary defines “hydrocephalus” as “an abnormal increase in the amount of cerebrospinal fluid within the cranial cavity that is accompanied by expansion of the cerebral ventricles, enlargement of the skull and especially the forehead, and atrophy of the brain.” I define “hydrocephalus” as “the obese, imperialistic water demon that nearly killed me when I was a baby.” In order to save my life, and stop the water demon, I had brain surgery in 1967, when I was six months old. I was supposed to die. Obviously, I didn’t. I was supposed to be severely mentally disabled. I have only minor to moderate brain damage. I was supposed to have epileptic seizures. Those I did have, until I was seven years old. I was on phenobarbital, a major-league antiseizure medication, for six years. The side effects of phenobarbital—all of which I suffered to some degree or another as a child—are sleepwalking, agitation, confusion, depression, nightmares, hallucinations, insomnia, apnea, vomiting, constipation, dermatitis, fever, liver and bladder dysfunction, and psychiatric disturbance. How do you like them cockroaches? Now, as an adult, thirty-three years removed from phenobarbital, I still suffer—to some degree or another—from sleepwalking, agitation, confusion, depression, nightmares, hallucinations, insomnia, bladder dysfunction, apnea, and dermatitis. Is there such a disease as post-phenobarbital traumatic stress disorder? Most hydrocephalics are shunted. A shunt is essentially brain plumbing that drains away excess cerebrospinal fluid. The shunts often fuck up and stop working. I know hydrocephalics who’ve had a hundred or more shunt revisions and repairs. That’s more than a hundred brain surgeries. There are ten fingers on any surgeon’s hands. There are two or three surgeons involved in any particular brain operation. That means that some hydrocephalics have had their brains fondled by three thousand fingers. I’m lucky. I was shunted only temporarily. And I hadn’t suffered any hydrocephalic symptoms since I was seven years old. Until July, 2008, when, at the age of forty-one, I went deaf in my right ear. CONVERSATION Sitting in my car in the hospital parking garage, I called my brother-in-law, who was babysitting my sons. “Hey, it’s me. I just got done with the MRI on my head.” My brother-in-law said something unintelligible. I realized that I was holding my cell to my bad ear, and I switched it to the good ear. “The MRI dude didn’t look happy,” I said. “That’s not good,” my brother-in-law said. “No, it’s not. But he’s just a tech guy, right? He’s not an expert on brains or anything. He’s just the photographer, really. And he doesn’t know anything about ears or deafness or anything, I don’t think. Ah, hell, I don’t know what he knows. I just didn’t like the look on his face when I was done.” “Maybe he just didn’t like you.” “Well, I got worried when I told him I had hydrocephalus when I was a baby and he didn’t seem to know what that was.” “Nobody knows what that is.” “That’s the truth. Have you fed the boys dinner?” “Yeah, but I was scrounging. There’s not much here.” “I better go shopping.” “Are you sure? I can do it if you need me to. I can shop the shit out of Trader Joe’s.” “No, it’ll be good for me. I feel good. I fell asleep during the MRI. And I kept twitching, so we had to do it twice. Otherwise, I would’ve been done earlier.” “That’s O.K. I’m O.K. The boys are O.K.” “You know, before you go in the MRI tube they ask you what kind of music you want to listen to—jazz, classical, rock, or country—and I remembered how my dad spent a lot of time in MRI tubes near the end of his life. So I was wondering what kind of music he chose. I mean, he couldn’t hear shit anyway by that time, but he still must have chosen something. And I wanted to choose the same thing he chose. So I picked country.” “Was it good country?” “It was fucking Shania Twain and Faith Hill shit. I was hoping for George Jones or Loretta Lynn, or even some George Strait. Hell, I would’ve cried if they’d played Charley Pride or Freddy Fender.” “You wanted to hear the Alcoholic Indian Father Jukebox.” “Hey, that’s my line. You can’t quote me to me.” “Why not? You’re always quoting you to you.” “Kiss my ass. So, hey, I’m O.K., I think. And I’m going to the store. I’ll see you in a bit. You want anything?” “Ah, man, I love Trader Joe’s. But you know what’s bad about them? You fall in love with something they have—they stock it for a year—and then it just disappears. They had those wontons I loved, and now they don’t. I was willing to shop for you and the boys, but I don’t want anything for me. I’m on a one-man hunger strike against them.” WORLD PHONE CONVERSATION, 3 A.M. After I got home with yogurt and turkey dogs and Cinnamon Toast Crunch and my brother-in-law left, I watched George Romero’s “Diary of the Dead,” and laughed at myself for choosing a movie that featured dozens of zombies getting shot in the head. When the movie was over, I called my wife, nine hours ahead in Italy. “I should come home,” she said. “No, I’m O.K.,” I said. “Come on, you’re in Rome. What are you seeing today?” “The Vatican.” “You can’t leave now. You have to go and steal something. It will be revenge for every Indian. Or maybe you can plant an eagle feather and claim that you just discovered Italy.” “I’m worried.” “Yeah, Catholicism has always worried me.” “Stop being funny. I should see if I can get Mom and me on a flight tonight.” “No, no, listen, your mom is old. This might be her last adventure. It might be your last adventure with her. Stay there. Say hi to the Pope for me. Tell him I like his shoes.” That night, my sons climbed into bed with me. We all slept curled around one another like sled dogs in a snowstorm. I woke, hour by hour, and touched my head and neck to see if they had changed shape—to feel if antennae were growing. Some insects hear with their antennae. Maybe that was what was happening to me. VALEDICTION My father, a part-time blue-collar construction worker, died of full-time alcoholism in March, 2003. On his deathbed, he said to me, “Turn down that light, please.” “Which light?” I asked. “The light on the ceiling.” “Dad, there’s no light.” “It burns my skin, son. It’s too bright. It hurts my eyes.” “Dad, I promise you there’s no light.” “Don’t lie to me, son. It’s God passing judgment on earth.” “Dad, you’ve been an atheist since ’79. Come on, you’re just remembering your birth. On your last day, you’re going back to your first.” “No, son, it’s God telling me I’m doomed. He’s using the brightest lights in the universe to show me the way to my flame-filled tomb.” “No, Dad, those lights were in your delivery room.” “If that’s true, son, then turn down my mother’s womb.” We buried my father in the tiny Catholic cemetery on our reservation. Since I am named after him, I had to stare at a tombstone with my name on it. BATTLE FATIGUE Two months after my father’s death, I began research on a book about our family’s history with war. I had a cousin who served as a cook in the Gulf War, in 1990; I had another cousin who served in the Vietnam War as a cook; and my father’s father, Adolph, served in the Second World War and was killed in action on Okinawa, on April 5, 1945. During my research, I interviewed thirteen men who’d served with my cousin in Vietnam but could find only one surviving man who’d served with my grandfather. This is a partial transcript of that interview, recorded with a microphone and an iPod on January 14, 2008: Me: Ah, yes, hello. I’m here in Livonia, Michigan, to interview—well, perhaps you should introduce yourself, please? Leonard Elmore: What? Me: Um, oh, I’m sorry, I was asking if you could perhaps introduce yourself. L.E.: You’re going to have to speak up. I think my hearing aid is going low on power or something. Me: That is a fancy thing in your ear. L.E.: Yeah, let me mess with it a bit. I got a remote control for it. I can listen to the TV, the stereo, and the telephone with this thing. It’s fancy. It’s one of them Bluetooth hearing aids. My grandson bought it for me. Wait, O.K., there we go. I can hear now. So, what were you asking? Me: I was hoping you could introduce yourself into my recorder here. L.E.: Sure, my name is Leonard Elmore. Me: How old are you? L.E.: I’m eighty-five and a half years old (laughter). My great-grandkids are always saying they’re seven and a half or nine and a half or whatever. It just cracks me up to say the same thing at my age. Me: So, that’s funny, um, but I’m here to ask you some questions about my grandfather— L.E.: Adolph. It’s hard to forget a name like that. An Indian named Adolph, and there was that Nazi bastard named Adolph. Your grandfather caught plenty of grief over that. But we mostly called him Chief. Did you know that? Me: I could have guessed. L.E.: Yeah, nowadays I suppose it isn’t a good thing to call an Indian Chief, but back then it was what we did. I served with a few Indians. They didn’t segregate them Indians, you know, not like the black boys. I know you aren’t supposed to call them boys anymore, but they were boys. All of us were boys, I guess. But the thing is, those Indian boys lived and slept and ate with us white boys. They were right there with us. But, anyway, we called all them Indians Chief. I bet you’ve been called Chief a few times yourself. Me: Just once. L.E.: Were you all right with it? Me: I threw a basketball in the guy’s face. L.E. (laughs). Me: We live in different times. L.E.: Yes, we do. Yes, we do. Me: So, perhaps you could, uh, tell me something about my grandfather. L.E.: I can tell you how he died. Me: Really? L.E.: Yeah, it was on Okinawa, and we hit the beach, and, well, it’s hard to talk about it. It was the worst thing—it was hell. No, that’s not even a good way to describe it. I’m not a writer like you, I’m not a poet, so I don’t have the word, but just think of it this way. That beach, that island, was filled with sons and fathers, men who loved and were loved, American and Japanese and Okinawan, and all of us were dying, were being killed by other sons and fathers who also loved and were loved. Me: That sounds like poetry to me— tragic poetry. L.E.: Well, anyway, it was like that. Fire everywhere. And two of our boys, Jonesy and O’Neal, went down, were wounded and in the open on the sand. And your grandfather—who was just this little man, barely over five feet tall and maybe a hundred and thirty pounds—he just ran out there and picked up those two guys, one on each shoulder, and carried them to cover. Hey, are you O.K., son? Me: Yes, I’m sorry. But, well, the thing is, I knew my grandfather was a war hero—he won twelve medals—but I could never find out what he did to win the medals. L.E.: I didn’t know about any medals. I just know what I saw. Your grandfather saved those two boys, but he got shot in the back doing it. And he lay there in the sand—I was lying right beside him—and he died. Me: Did he say anything before he died? L.E.: Hold on. I need to— Me: Are you O.K.? L.E.: It’s just—I can’t— Me: I’m sorry. Is there something wrong? L.E.: No, it’s just—with your book and everything, I know you want something big here. I know you want something big from your grandfather. I know you’re hoping he said something huge and poetic, and, honestly, I was thinking about lying to you. I was thinking about making up something as beautiful as I could. Something about love and forgiveness and courage and all that. But I couldn’t think of anything good enough. And I didn’t want to lie to you. So I have to be honest and say that your grandfather didn’t say anything. He just died there in the sand. In silence. ORPHANS I could not sleep. I was scared that I would die if I slept. And I didn’t want my sons to become orphans—partial orphans—as they slept. So I stayed awake and waited for dawn. Then, at 3 A.M., the phone rang. “It’s me,” my wife said. “I don’t care what you say. I’ll be home in sixteen hours.” “Thank you,” I said. COFFEE-SHOP NEWS While I waited for the results of the MRI, I asked my brother-in-law to watch the boys again because I didn’t want to get bad news in front of them. Alone and haunted, I wandered the mall, tried on clothes, and waited for my cell phone to ring. Two hours later, I wanted to murder everything, so I drove south to a coffee joint, a spotless place called Dirty Joe’s. Yes, I was silly enough to think that I’d be calmer with a caffeinated drink. As I sat outside in a wooden chair and sipped my coffee, I cursed the vague, rumbling, ringing noise in my ear. And yet when my cell phone rang I again held it to my deaf ear. “Hello. Hello,” I said and wondered if it was a prank call, then remembered and switched the phone to my left ear. “Hello,” my doctor said. “Are you there?” “Yes,” I said. “So what’s going on?” “There are irregularities in your head.” “My head’s always been irregular.” “It’s good to have a sense of humor,” the doctor said. “You have a small tumor that is called a meningioma. They grow in the meninges membranes that lie between your brain and your skull.” “Shit,” I said. “I have cancer.” “Well,” he said. “These kinds of tumors are usually non-cancerous. And they grow very slowly, so in six months or so we’ll do another MRI. Don’t worry. You’re going to be O.K.” “What about my hearing?” I asked. “We don’t know what is causing the hearing loss, but you should start a course of prednisone, a steroid, just to go with the odds. Your deafness might lessen if left alone, but we’ve had success with the steroids in bringing back hearing. There are side effects, like insomnia, weight gain, night sweats, and depression.” “Oh, boy,” I said. “Those side effects might make up most of my personality already. Will the ’roids also make me quick to pass judgment? And I’ve always wished I had a dozen more skin tags and moles.” The doctor chuckled. “You’re a funny man.” I wanted to throw my phone into a wall, but I said goodbye instead and glared at the tumorless people and their pretty tumorless heads. MENINGIOMA Mayoclinic.com gave this definition of “meningioma”: “a tumor that arises from the meninges—the membranes that surround your brain and spinal cord. The majority of meningioma cases are noncancerous (benign), though rarely a meningioma can be cancerous (malignant).” It was a scary and yet strangely positive description. No one ever wants to read the word “malignant” unless you’re reading a Charles Dickens novel about an evil landlord, but “benign” and “majority” are two words that go well together. From the University of Washington Medical School Web site I learned that meningioma tumors “are usually benign, slow growing and do not spread into normal brain tissue. Typically, a meningioma grows inward causing pressure on the brain or spinal cord. It may grow outward toward the skull, causing it to thicken.” So, wait, what the fuck? A meningioma can cause pressure on the brain, and spinal fluid? Oh, you mean just like fucking hydrocephalus? Just like the water demon that once tried to crush my brain and kill me? Armed with this new information—with these new questions—I called my doctor. “Hey, you’re O.K.,” he said. “We’re going to closely monitor you. And your meningioma is very small.” “O.K., but I just read—” “Did you go on the Internet?” “Yes.” “Which sites?” “Mayo Clinic and the University of Washington.” “O.K., those are pretty good sites. Let me look at them.” I listened to my doctor type. “O.K., those are accurate,” he said. “What do you mean by accurate?” I asked. “I mean, the whole pressure-on-the-brain thing—that sounds like hydrocephalus.” “Well, there were some irregularities in your MRI that were the burr holes from your surgery, and there seems to be some scarring and perhaps you had an old concussion. But other than that it all looks fine.” “But what about me going deaf? Can’t these tumors make you lose hearing?” “Yes, but only if they’re located near an auditory nerve. And your tumor is not.” “Can this tumor cause pressure on my brain?” “It could, but yours is too small for that.” “So I’m supposed to trust you on the tumor thing when you can’t figure out the hearing thing?” “There is no physical correlation between your deafness and the tumor. Do the twenty-day treatment of prednisone, and the audiologist and I will examine your ear and your hearing then. If there’s no improvement, we’ll figure out other ways of treating you.” “But you won’t be treating the tumor?” “Like I said, we’ll scan you again in six to nine months—” “You said six before.” “O.K., in six months we’ll take another MRI, and if it has grown significantly—or has changed shape or location or anything dramatic—then we’ll talk about treatment options. But if you look on the Internet—and I know you’re going to spend a lot of time obsessing about this, so I’ll tell you what you’ll find. About two per cent of the population live their whole lives with undetected meningiomas. The tumors can become quite large, without any side effects, and are found only at autopsies conducted for other reasons of death. Even when these kinds of tumors become invasive or dangerous, they are still rarely fatal. And your tumor, even if it grows fairly quickly, will not likely become an issue for many years, decades. So that’s what I can tell you right now. How are you feeling?” “Freaked and fucked.” I wanted to feel reassured, but I had a brain tumor. How can one feel any optimism about being diagnosed with a brain tumor? Even if that brain tumor is neither cancerous nor interested in crushing one’s brain? DRUGSTORE INDIAN In Bartell Drugs, I gave the pharmacist my prescription for prednisone. “Is this your first fill with us?” she asked. “No,” I said. “And it won’t be my last.” I felt like an ass, but she looked bored. “It’ll take thirty minutes,” she said. “More or less. We’ll page you over the speakers.” I don’t think I’d ever felt weaker. Or more vulnerable. Or more absurd. I was the weak antelope in the herd—yeah, the mangy fucker with the big limp and a sign that read, “Eat Me! I’m a Gimp!” So for thirty minutes I walked the store and found myself shoving more and more useful shit into my shopping basket, as if I were filling my casket with things I’d need in the afterlife. I grabbed toothpaste, a Swiss Army knife, moisturizer, mouthwash, nonstick Band-Aids, antacid, protein bars, and extra razor blades. I grabbed pen and paper. And I also grabbed an ice scraper and sunscreen. Who can predict what kind of weather awaits us in Heaven? This random shopping made me feel better for a few minutes, but then I stopped and walked to the toy aisle. My boys needed gifts, Lego cars or something, for a lift, a shot of capitalist joy. But the selection of proper toys is both an art and a science. I have been wrong as often as right and have heard the sad song of a disappointed son. Shit, I knew that if I died my sons would survive, even thrive, because of their graceful mother. I thought of my father’s life. He had been just six when his father was killed in the Second World War. Then his mother, ill with tuberculosis, had died a few months later. Six years old and my father was cratered. In most ways, he never stopped being six. There was no religion, no magic, and no song or dance that could have helped my father. I needed a drink of water, so I found the fountain and drank and drank until the pharmacist called my name. “Have you taken these before?” she asked. I said, “No, but they’re going to kick my ass, aren’t they?” That made the pharmacist smile, so I felt sadly and briefly worthwhile. But another customer, some nosy hag, said, “You’ve got a lot of sleepless nights ahead of you.” I was shocked. I stammered, glared at her, and said, “Miss, how is this any of your business? Please, just fuck all the way off, O.K.?” She had no idea what to say, so she just turned and walked away, and I pulled out my credit card and paid far too much for my goddam steroids, and forgot to bring the toys home to my boys. EXIT INTERVIEW FOR MY FATHER • True or False: When a reservation-raised Native American dies of alcoholism, it should be considered death by natural causes. • Do you understand the term “wanderlust,” and, if you do, can you please tell us, in twenty-five words or less, what place made you wanderlust the most? • Did you, when drunk, ever get behind the tattered wheel of a ’76 Ford three-speed van and somehow drive your family a thousand miles on an empty tank of gas? • Is it true that the only literary term that has any real meaning in the Native American world is “road movie”? • How many times, during any of your road trips, did your children ask you, “Are we there yet?” • In twenty-five words or less, please define “there.” • Sir, in your thirty-nine years as a parent you broke your children’s hearts, collectively and individually, six hundred and twelve times, and you did this without ever striking any human being in anger. Does this absence of physical violence make you a better man than you might otherwise have been? • Without using the words “man” or “good,” can you please define what it means to be a good man? • Do you think you will see angels before you die? Do you think angels will come to escort you to Heaven? As the angels are carrying you to Heaven, how many times will you ask, “Are we there yet?” • Your son distinctly remembers stopping once or twice a month at that grocery store in Freeman, Washington, where you would buy him a red-white-and-blue rocket Popsicle and purchase for yourself a pickled pig foot. Your son distinctly remembers that the feet still had their toenails and little tufts of pig fur. Could this be true? Did you actually eat such horrendous food? • Your son has often made the joke that you were the only Indian of your generation who went to Catholic school on purpose. This is, of course, a tasteless joke that makes light of the forced incarceration and subsequent physical, spiritual, cultural, and sexual abuse of tens of thousands of Native American children in Catholic and Protestant boarding schools. In consideration of your son’s questionable judgment in telling jokes, do you think there should be any moral limits placed on comedy? • Your other son and your two daughters, all over thirty-six years of age, still live in your house. Do you think that this is a lovely expression of tribal culture? Or is it a symptom of extreme familial co-dependency? Or is it both things at the same time? • F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that the sign of a superior mind “is the ability to hold two opposing ideas at the same time.” Do you believe this to be true? And is it also true that you once said, “The only time white people tell the truth is when they keep their mouths shut”? • A poet once wrote, “Pain is never added to pain. It multiplies.” Can you tell us, in twenty-five words or less, exactly how much we all hate mathematical blackmail? • Your son wrote this poem to explain one of the most significant nights in his life: Mutually Assured Destruction When I was nine, my father sliced his knee With a chainsaw. But he let himself bleed And finished cutting down one more tree Before his boss drove him TO EMERGENCY. Late that night, stoned on morphine and beer, My father needed my help to steer His pickup into the woods. “Watch for deer,” My father said. “Those things just appear Like magic.” It was an Indian summer And we drove through warm rain and thunder, Until we found that chainsaw, lying under The fallen pine. Then I watched, with wonder, As my father, shotgun-rich and impulse-poor, Blasted that chainsaw dead. “What was that for?” I asked. “Son,” my father said. “Here’s the score. Once a thing tastes blood, it will come for more.” • Well, first of all, as you know, you did cut your knee with a chainsaw, but in direct contradiction to your son’s poem: (a) You immediately went to the emergency room. (b) Your boss called your wife, who drove you to the emergency room. (c) You were given morphine, but even you were not stupid enough to drink alcohol while on serious narcotics. (d) You and your son did not get into the pickup that night. (e) And, even if you had driven the pickup, you were not injured seriously enough to need your son’s help with the pedals and/or the steering wheel. (f) You never in your life used the word “appear,” and you certainly never used the phrase “like magic.” (g) You think that “Indian summer” is a questionable seasonal reference for an Indian poet to use. (h) What the fuck is “warm rain and thunder”? Well, everybody knows what “warm rain” is, but what the fuck is “warm thunder”? (i) You never went looking for that chainsaw, because it belonged to the Spokane Tribe of Indians, and what kind of freak would want to reclaim the chainsaw that had just cut the shit out of his knee? (j) You also agree that the entire third stanza of this poem sounds like a Bruce Springsteen song, and not necessarily one of the great ones. (k) And yet “shotgun-rich and impulse-poor” is one of the greatest descriptions your son has ever written and probably redeems the entire poem. (l) You never owned a shotgun. You did own a few rifles in your youth, but did not own so much as a pellet gun during the last thirty years of your life. (m) You never said, in any context, “Once a thing tastes blood, it will come for more.” (n) But, as you read it, you know that is absolutely true and does indeed sound suspiciously like your entire life philosophy. (o) Other summations of your life philosophy include: “It’s all wasted days and wasted nights.” (p) And: “If God really loved Indians, he would have made us white people.” (q) And: “Oscar Robertson should be the man on the N.B.A. logo. They only put Jerry West on there because he’s a white guy.” (r) And: “A peanut-butter sandwich with onions—damn, that’s the way to go.” (s) And: “Why eat a pomegranate when you can eat a plain old apple. Or a carrot. When it comes to fruit and vegetables, eat only the simple stuff.” (t) And: “If you really want a woman to love you, then you have to dance. And if you don’t want to dance, then you’re going to have to work extra hard to make a woman love you forever, and you will always run the risk that she will leave you at any second for a man who knows how to tango.” (u) And: “I really miss those cafeterias they used to have at Kmart. I don’t know why they stopped having those. If there is a Heaven, I firmly believe it’s a Kmart cafeteria.” (v) And: “A father always knows what his sons are doing. For instance, boys, I knew you were sneaking that Hustler magazine out of my bedroom. You remember that one. Where actors who looked like Captain Kirk and Lieutenant Uhura were screwing on the bridge of the Enterprise. Yeah, that one. I know you kept borrowing it. I let you borrow it. Remember this: men and pornography are like plants and sunshine. To me, porn is photosynthesis.” (w) And: “Your mother is a better man than me. Mothers are almost always better men than men are.” REUNION After she returned from Italy, my wife climbed into bed with me. I felt as if I hadn’t slept comfortably in years. I said, “There was a rumor that I’d grown a tumor, but I killed it with humor.” “How long have you been waiting to tell me that one?” she asked. “Oh, probably since the first time some doctor put his fingers in my brain.” We made love. We fell asleep. But, agitated by the steroids, I woke at 2, 3, 4, and 5 A.M. The bed was killing my back, so I lay flat on the floor. I wasn’t going to die anytime soon, at least not because of my little friend Tumor, but that didn’t make me feel any more comfortable or comforted. I felt distant from the world—from my wife and my sons, from my mother and my siblings, from all my friends. I felt closest to those who’d always had fingers in their brains. I didn’t feel any closer to the world six months later, when another MRI revealed that my meningioma had not grown in size or changed its shape. “You’re looking good,” my doctor said. “How’s your hearing?” “I think I’ve got about ninety per cent of it back.” “Well, then, the steroids worked. Good.” And I didn’t feel any more intimate with the world nine months after that, when one more MRI made my doctor hypothesize that my meningioma might only be more scar tissue from the hydrocephalus. “Frankly,” he said, “your brain is beautiful.” “Thank you,” I said, though it was the oddest compliment I’d ever received. I wanted to call my father and tell him that a white man thought my brain was beautiful. But I couldn’t tell him anything. He was dead. I told my wife and my sons that I was O.K. I told my mother and my siblings. I told my friends. But none of them laughed as hard about my beautiful brain as I knew my father—the drunk bastard—would have.
The Valetudinarian The day after Arty Groys and his wife retired to Florida, she was killed in a head-on collision with a man fleeing the state to escape the discovery of frauds perpetrated under the guise of good citizenship. Arty found himself bereft in a strange land. He knew none of the street names or city centers. His condominium was underfurnished and undecorated. The cemetery where Meredith was buried was too bright and too hot on the day of the interment and on every visit thereafter. Whenever Arty had imagined one of them at the other’s funeral, he had pictured rain, black-clad figures under black umbrellas, the cumbersome dispersal of the gathered through mud in the lowest spirits. He saw Meredith leaning down to grasp at one last memory as their daughter, Gina, bent to encourage her to stand, both women weeping—for it was always Arty who died in Arty’s daydreams. But on the day that Meredith was laid to rest golf and tennis beckoned to retirees in radiant waves of sun, and the fishermen of Tarpon Cove sported cheerfully with the devilish snook. To the surprise of his children, Arty didn’t return to Ohio. Over time they got the sense that he had stalled, then that his wheels had shifted into reverse, and then that he was heading backward at full speed, toward some oncoming atrocity—a slow and entirely psychological reënactment of their mother’s death. He was without responsibilities after a long professional career, and for three years now he had been without the one person, helpmeet and bickering companion, who could shake him out of his recliner and force him into the world. His worst instincts claimed him. He started a feud with Mrs. Zegerman, his neighbor in Bequia Tower, one of three tall condominium buildings overlooking Naples Bay just west of the Tamiami Trail. Arty suggested in a note slipped under Mrs. Zegerman’s door that her Shih Tzu, Cookie, whose incessant yapping came right through the walls, deserved to be shot by Nazis. Mrs. Zegerman accused him of being an anti-Semite. Arty countered that he was not an anti-Semite but an anti-Shih Tzu and that all Shih Tzus should be rounded up. A few days later, Mrs. Zegerman found an unopened box of rat poison near the potted phlox beside her welcome mat, and the tension escalated from there. In other respects, Arty withdrew. His brooding caused him to lose golf partners and alienated him somewhat from his one true friend, fit and generous Jimmy Denton. Jimmy had come down to Florida after making a killing in the Danville (Illinois, not Connecticut) real-estate market. Jimmy had taken Arty golfing and talked baseball with him, but now it was growing late on Arty’s birthday, and he had not yet received a call from Jimmy or from any of his children. He was starting to feel as unloved as he had the day of his ninth birthday, when only two of the eleven invited guests showed up to his party, a pair of twins who took off their shirts and came together at the arm to show where they had been separated. He was instantly relieved to hear the first ring of the phone, an old rotary that vibrated with the vigor of the Mechanical Age. He let it rumble and stop, rumble and stop three full times so that the caller would not suspect how lonely he was. After the third ring, he snatched it up. He let the pause grow and then said a very casual hello. It was his daughter, Gina, who lived by herself in a horse stable in Belmont. “Happy birthday, Daddy!” she cried into his ear. “Happy birthday, happy birthday!” “Oh, Gina, God bless you for calling,” Arty said. “Happy birthday to me. Happy birthday to your old man.” “I’m sorry I didn’t call earlier, but we had to put a horse down today. His name was The Jolly Bones, and he was absolutely everyone’s favorite. He was almost sort of human. This one time—” “My gallbladder’s ruined,” Arty declared. “Your gallbladder, Daddy? How did that happen?” “Yes, my gallbladder. Dr. Klutchmaw says it has to be removed. First a low-glucose plasma concentration, then the heart, now the gallbladder. I have never given a thought to my gallbladder my entire life, but evidently it wears down like an old tire. I didn’t mean to make such terrible decisions.” “What decisions are those, Dad?” “Klutchmaw tells me I could have prevented this if I had stayed away from fatty foods forty years ago, but no one gives you a manual, Gina. No one hands you a manual.” “I wish you wouldn’t be so gloomy,” Gina said. “Not today. Not on your birthday.” “I want you to do yourself a favor and stay away from fatty foods, my girl, because a worn-out gallbladder is no walk in the park. Klutchmaw has a man who plans to remove it and that means going under the anesthetic, and I may be diabetic. I’m waiting on the test results.” “Well, that sounds good,” Gina said. “But what about today, Daddy, what do you plan to do on your birthday?” “If I had known about all of this forty years ago, I wouldn’t be so gloomy today, but no one gives you a manual. The cigarettes ruined my bowels and I smoked them only ten years before I noticed the warnings. When I go, I have a feeling it will be because of the lungs or the bowels and not the heart after all.” “Do you have a golf game lined up today, Daddy?” “I’m too fat to play golf anymore,” Arty said. “It’s a good thing you called when you did, sweetheart. I was just about to go into the kitchen and attack the Oreos.” Gina stayed on the line until she was called away. They were having a little ceremony for The Jolly Bones. She encouraged Arty to get out of the house for what remained of his birthday and to have a good time, maybe by riding his bicycle. The sun was never so part of the earth’s essence and beauty as when its golden meniscus quivered at the edge of Arty’s balcony, at the top of his sliding glass doors, and his condo, furnished at last with that marriage of wicker and cushions, filled with the light of a dying day, which colored the clouds and restored to the sky all the pastoral visions of the earliest era. After finishing the Oreos and three glasses of milk, Arty struggled not to dial a number long committed to memory. Doing so went against Klutchmaw’s express demands, and it might tie up the phone right as someone was calling to pass along kind birthday wishes. But in the end he reasoned there was no point aging another year if you couldn’t spoil yourself. A familiar voice answered after only half a ring. It was Brad. Brad put in the order for a large meat-lover’s pizza and a two-litre Sprite. Anxious about tying up the line, Arty nevertheless announced that it was his birthday. “Happy birthday, Arty,” Brad said. “How old are you?” “Yes, happy birthday to me. Thank you, Brad. I’m a composite sixty-six, but that doesn’t tell the whole story. I’ve lost much of my aerobic potential, so I put the lungs at about a hundred. I put the legs at eighty-five. How old are you, Brad? They don’t give you a manual, you know. I don’t want you to be shocked when they tell you they’re coming to pull all your teeth.” “Arty, man, the other lines are screaming. Can we talk tomorrow?” “I’ll talk to you tomorrow, Brad, you bet. God bless for calling. Happy birthday to me.” “Happy birthday, Arty.” By one of those good fortunes of timing that lonely people long for, the phone began to ring just seconds after Arty set down the receiver. This racket of activity gave an impression of momentary pandemonium that brought joy to Arty’s one day. Again, he let the phone ring three interminable times before answering, and then, as the mouthpiece travelled through the air toward his lips, said casually, “. . . think they’re going to have a wonderful year this year.” “Dad?” It was his son, Paul, calling from San Francisco. Paul worked in a hospice where he sat among the terminally ill and watched them die. Arty was proud of him—Paul had given his life to a good cause—though not as proud as he would have been if Paul were the owner of a chain of hospices scattered across the country. “Oh, Pauly, God bless you for calling,” Arty said. “Happy birthday to me.” “Is there someone there with you, Dad? Should I call back?” “No, it’s just my friend Jimmy Denton. You know Jimmy. We’re sitting here talking baseball. You know I love talking baseball with an old friend.” “Well, I’m just calling to wish you a happy birthday.” “I talked to Dr. Klutchmaw’s office today,” Arty said. “It doesn’t look good.” “Remind me again,” Paul said. “Which one is Klutchmaw?” “Dr. Klutchmaw is my internist. He tells me the manufacturer is recalling the stent. There’s a flaw in the thing. It’s not fair, Pauly.” “They don’t hand out manuals, do they, Pop.” “No, they don’t. You think your heart stent is going to last you forever, and then the manufacturer recalls the damn thing.” “Well, everything’s O.K. here. The children are fine, Dana’s fine. Matter of fact, she’s sitting next to me and wants to wish you a happy birthday. Here she is.” “Hold on, Paul, hold it just a second before you give the phone to Dana. I want to tell you something, son. Now listen to me, Paul. Odds are, you’re going to get fat. You’re going to get goddam fat and you’re going to get the gout. You’re going to have hypertension and high cholesterol and you’re going to be put on drugs with the worst side effects. They’ll make you sweat in odd places. You won’t be able to focus or count. Your children will grow distant. Dana will be dead. And you’ll be lonely, Paul. I should have told you this years ago, to prepare you, but I didn’t know it myself. I just want you to be prepared.” There was a long pause before Dana’s voice said, “Hello? Arty?” “Oh, hello, Dana.” “Happy birthday, Arty.” “God bless you. Happy birthday to me.” Arty spoke to his daughter-in-law for a while about heart stents, gallstones, impacted bowels, insulin shots, and stomach ulcers before he announced that he was being referred to an oncologist for twinges that might indicate a tumor. “Oof!” Dana cried. “Meredith, you can’t do that, honey, you’re too big! Arty, Meredith just ran into the room and jumped on my lap. I’m on the phone with Grandpa, honey. Do you want to say hi to Grandpa? It’s his birthday today. Say happy birthday to Grandpa.” A great battle of wills commenced behind a fortress of muffled static that collapsed totally in brief intervals during which Arty heard Dana scream, “Meredith Ann! Talk to your—” and Meredith howl as if in terrible pain, before a silence prevailed and a teary Meredith said, “Hello?” “Hello, Meredith. It’s your grandpa.” “Hello,” Meredith said. “Happy birthday to me.” “Happy birfday.” Like many older people who find themselves on the phone with children of unstable attention spans, Arty began to talk non-stop, flinging at his granddaughter every expression of pride and love, interspersed with questions intended not to sate a genuine curiosity but to confirm Meredith’s continued presence on the other end of the line. Arty was convinced that she had no interest in him, that as far as little Meredith was concerned he was as good as dead. This provoked the panic that fuelled the blithering that he hoped might overcome Meredith’s annihilating silence. He asked if she knew what an internist was. “An internist is just a doctor,” he explained. “My internist’s name is Klutchmaw. I’m not crazy about him, but he takes my insurance. One day you’ll understand what an important measure of a good doctor that is. Do you like going to the doctor? I don’t like it because it always means there might be something terribly wrong with me. You should be very happy that there’s nothing wrong with you yet, Meredith. You have your teeth, you can go outside and run around, your bowels have yet to liquefy.” Arty paused a moment. Where was he going with this conversation, and would her parents approve? Yet seconds later he continued, for when if not now to relay to her the stealth of years, the inexorable betrayals of the body, the perfidiousness of the eventualities? “They don’t give you a manual, Meredith, and who’s going to prepare you if not your grandpa? I’m not going to go pussyfooting around your bowel movements on account of your innocence, because one day you’re going to wake up and wonder why the world perpetrated treacherous lies against such a perfect creature as yourself, and I want you to look back on your old grandpa and remember him as somebody who told you the truth about what’s in store for you, and not as one of these propagandists for perpetual youth just because right now your constitutionals happen to be nice and firm. Do you know what a constitutional is, Meredith? I will tell you.” Meredith dropped the phone and ran out of the room. Arty spoke tinnily into the carpet. After a while the phone went dead and then, a few hours later, began to ring, which sent Paul into a frenzy. He finally came upon it on the floor of the bedroom and wondered why he had left it there of all places. Arty had hoped Jimmy Denton would call, but after his conversation with Meredith, despite his importuning eyes, the stolid black machine remained mute. He imagined a conversation with Jimmy, who, knowing that it was his birthday, would indulge him, on this one day only, as he expressed yet again his mystification that Bob Sherwood and Chaz Yalinsky no longer invited him to play golf. They’d made a great foursome, Jimmy and Arty against Bob and Chaz. But now he had no one to play golf with, no friend but Jimmy, no companion in life—not even one person who might call him on his birthday. The doorbell rang. Mrs. Zegerman’s Shih Tzu pierced the air with high-pitched barks, which ordinarily felt to Arty like an axe whooshing around his head, but as he moved from rug to Spanish tile he tried not to let it get to him, because someone, oh someone was at his door. He dismissed a late delivery of flowers from one of his children in favor of his old friend Jimmy Denton, there to take him for a beer after shaking free of Jojo, his lusty and calisthenic Oriental wife, who had never liked Arty and made no attempt to hide it. But just as he was about to open the door he realized with a sinking heart that it was probably not flowers and probably not Jimmy Denton but Dusty, Brad’s counterpart, there to deliver the meat-lover’s and two-litre. It was not Dusty. Standing opposite him, partially lit by the bulb shining from its gaslight cage, was a young woman dressed in a miniskirt of stretch fabric and a bosomy blouse of silver lamé. Beneath her makeup lay a pallor that had been set in place by long, hard winters. Her hair, straining to be blond, had washed out into a color resembling sugarless gum of a lesser flavor. It fell to her shoulders in two coarse and wavy cascades. She carried nothing in her hands, no purse, no personal possessions of any kind, but when Arty opened the door she raised her hand and dimmed her eye, taking one last drag from a cigarette before extinguishing it under her bright silver heel. “You are Arty Growsie?” “Groys,” Arty said. “Your friend is Jimmy?” “Jimmy Denton?” “Is not necessary to know last name.” Arty was pretty sure the woman was a prostitute. He was at his core a fearful, law-abiding, overly cautious man, yet he let her walk past him into his apartment without a word. She was spritzed for a cheap night at a loud club. Before shutting the door, he sensed, by way of Cookie’s silence, Mrs. Zegerman at her peephole, holding the trembling dog to her crêpe-paper chest. The girl took a seat on the wicker sofa. Arty situated himself next to her, not so close as to fall within the weather of her communicable diseases but not so far as to appear rude. He was touched that Jimmy Denton would do this for him. The last time he’d seen Jimmy, at the dog track, Jimmy had said that Arty’s yapping was as annoying as his faggot cousin’s at family gatherings. Arty had been going on about Bob and Chaz just as one of Jimmy’s dogs had come in dead last. Arty excused himself, and bought a hot dog and a jumbo pretzel, which he ate in the car as he drove home. They hadn’t spoken since. “Well, God bless you for coming,” he said to the girl, reaching out to touch her hand but pulling back in time. “God bless you and God bless Jimmy Denton. It’s my birthday, and I was feeling lonely.” “Ridiculous for handsome and strong man ever to feel lonely,” the girl said. “I am no longer handsome and I am no longer strong,” Arty said. “I’m fat and I have a bad heart and my internist has warned me that I’m on the edge of diabetes.” The girl said, “Two requirements to continue.” She reached into her bra and pulled out a condom and a blue pill. “Condom is necessary to use during making love. Erection pill is added expense but is paid for already by your friend.” “Well, happy birthday to me,” Arty said. “Happy birthday to old Arty Groys. But I’m afraid I can’t take that pill. It is expressly forbidden to me by my internist, Dr. Klutchmaw. It interferes with the nitrates I take for my bad heart.” “Do you need pill to make penis work?” Arty nodded his head. “We gave it good try then,” the girl said as she stood. Arty surprised himself by reaching out and grabbing her hand. “Wait,” he said. “Don’t leave. Have you eaten? I have a pizza coming. We could have dinner.” “You eat greasy pizza and you have bad heart?” “Please, sit down.” The girl sat. “Pizza is one of my compensations,” Arty said. “I don’t have to take a pill to eat a pizza. Well, to lower my cholesterol and blood pressure, but that’s different. I eat the pizza and take those pills, but I don’t die. I take that pill, I could die. I could have a heart attack.” “Friend of mine from my country swallowed twenty-four pills with liquid pipe cleaner and then took razor blade and cut open her veins from wrist to elbow,” the girl said. “Now she lives in North Carolina and works at Holiday Inn.” A stunned abatement of his own concerns stole over Arty and forced him to look at the girl more closely. She stared back at him with the neutral innocence of a child waiting obediently for the start of a piano lesson. “She survived?” “Now she is married to American undertaker who steals all her money, but he doesn’t beat her, so is O.K. for time being. He fought for America in Vietnam War. Did you fight for America in Vietnam War?” Her questions ended not in an inquisitorial lilt but with a descending, matter-of-fact thud. “I was in the service from 1963 to 1966.” “Were you shot?” “Shot? I was never shot. I fixed chairs and typewriters and other things. I never left Texas.” “I have been shot twice. Here,” she said, “and here.” She showed him two scars, each a quarter-size debit of loose yellow skin, one in the stomach and one in the leg. “What was that?” he asked. She lifted her blouse again. “This? From exploded appendix. Ambulance driver took his sweet time. Nurse and doctor take their sweet time. Everyone is taking their sweet time while I am drowning in poison. I am in hospital twenty-six days.” “How old are you?” “Eighteen.” “Eighteen?” “I am not telling real age to anyone.” Arty looked at her again. Though he guessed that she was no older than thirty, her pale demeanor and sodden dye job had consigned her to an eternal middle age. He imagined her on her days off lighting cigarettes from noon till dawn, imagined them burning down in a room defined by drawn shades and muttering talk shows. He saw the crow’s-feet that worked against her beauty, but he also saw the beauty. She must have a robust constitution, he thought, immune to colds and despair, unsentimentally surviving. He knew that if he had been born into the same conditions that she had been born into, he wouldn’t have made it to nine, ten at most. He had said it a hundred times, a thousand, a hundred thousand, to whoever would listen, but now he merely thought it, with that shock of having stumbled upon a perfect demonstration of the rule: “They don’t give you a manual.” “I have question,” she said. “Life is so tough, you are afraid of one little pill? It is one little nothing. You take it and we have good time. Maybe I come back next week. Every week we have good time together, and you no longer sit on this nice sofa and think, Oh, poor me, I’m so lonely, I’m such lonely old man.” She was close now. He was starting to like her overbearing perfume. She placed the pill on his knee. He stared at it. He had never had to consider this option before. He rarely met new people; he was too scared of rejection. Yet here was a girl willing to take him in her arms and kindly ignore the humbling sight of him blundering his way toward ecstasy. Those stern warnings to heart patients not to take such pills—they were probably just the exaggerations of executives afraid of lawsuits. The girl straightened herself on the sofa and reached around her back and untied something essential. She lifted her blouse to reveal the kind of breasts that Arty believed were seen up close only by men who dealt cocaine or played professional football. There was disbelief, and then there was what passed beyond the realm of the comprehensible into the sensuous world of warrior kings. Dusty arrived with the pizza. Arty ignored the doorbell. Mrs. Zegerman resembled a mosquito. She had long, thin limbs and a small, very concentrated face whose severe features were drawn dramatically forward, culminating in a sharply pointed nose. She had passed the day waiting for an apology from Ilsa Brooks, with whom she had had a falling out after arguing over a movie they had seen together on a recent Sunday afternoon. Ilsa had thought the film was a return to the screwball romantic comedies of the nineteen-thirties, but Mrs. Zegerman wanted to know in what nineteen-thirties comedy was everything “F this” and “F that.” Ilsa told her to get with the times. Mrs. Zegerman responded by saying that matters of common decency were timeless, and now the two women weren’t speaking. She was preparing for bed when she thought she heard the doorbell ring again, and again her first thought was that it had to be Ilsa, come to apologize. It would be such a relief to have her matinée partner back again, but as her bare feet left the Persian rug for the red Spanish tile she remembered that Ilsa had returned north to Chillicothe on Wednesday, and she quickly reverted to the opinion that her former friend’s ideas of both movies and morals were wanting. Through the peephole, she watched the pizza boy pointlessly ringing Arty’s doorbell until she could take it no more. She stepped out into the open-air vestibule to explain the situation: Arty Groys was inside that condo with a woman who had appeared half naked on his doorstep. Mrs. Zegerman was convinced that the two of them were in there interrelating. It was shameful and disgusting. It was also holding up commerce. “Arty’s in there with a woman?” the boy said. “Our Arty?” She had no idea what he meant by “our.” “You sure he didn’t just kick off?” “He’s not dead,” she replied. “Well, God damn,” the boy said, removing the pizza from its spacesuit pouch and placing it with the Sprite to one side of Arty’s door before nodding goodbye and galloping down the stairs. “Tell him it’s on the house!” he cried. This was not the first time she had watched him go. He was a well-tanned boy. Perhaps he surfed. For a brief second, she imagined her body warmed by the sun and her head pillowed by the sand, while out in the distance he waved to her between surging whitecaps. She stepped back inside her apartment and picked up Cookie. She decided to wait there for Arty to emerge with his floozy so that she could give him a piece of her mind. A moment later, Arty’s door slammed like a shot. Mrs. Zegerman turned in time to catch a glimpse of the departing girl, who fled down the same stairs as the delivery boy while quickly buttoning her blouse, carrying her silver heels in one hand. Mrs. Zegerman naturally assumed that she had been repulsed by the sight of Arty’s horrible penis. Then a long time passed at the peephole, and Arty didn’t come out for his pizza. Mrs. Zegerman found Arty on the floor of his living room. She was thrown into a panic that emptied her mind entirely of common sense. She simply did not know what to do, and the sensation of helplessness resounded with only one thing she remembered in all her years: the terror of the day that Mr. Zegerman had stumbled while walking along the wharf and hit his head on that utterly purposeless green metal thingy. She remembered the seep of his warm blood through her summer dress as she cried out for help. Now it was her neighbor whom she might have loved for years and years, so swiftly and completely had she been struck dumb at the sight of him. He had collapsed between wicker sofa and African coffee table, his legs hairless and white as wax, his stomach a great pale mound, and his face as pinched and pink as crab shell. “Oh, thank God,” Arty said, when he caught sight of his neighbor. “Call the paramedics, Mrs. Zeger—” He was cut off by a terrible grip, a twisting vine-strangle of the heart—but his words kicked Mrs. Zegerman into high gear. She rushed over to him throbbing with adrenaline and clamped one of his arms around her slender neck like a nutcracker. She restored him to respectability by returning to its rightful place the underwear that dangled around one ankle. Supporting his bulk all the way to the elevator, she planned to get him downstairs and drive him to the hospital in her Mazda. If she had learned one thing from the death of Mr. Zegerman, it was never to put your faith in the timeliness of men who drive ambulances. But they had to wait too long, much too long, for the infernal elevator, which liked to clamor below with buckling metal and other echoes of motion the minute the call button was pressed, but tended to dally there before zooming right past, up and up, to some grander view of Bequia Tower. At last she told Arty that they would have to take the stairs, and she carried him over to their brink and started the descent with her weighty dying charge. On the final flight, however, they got tangled up and he flew off her, bouncing down brutally step after step, while it was everything she could do to catch the bannister and not follow him. She took one look at the twitching body that lay in a yellow patch of security light and, scared that she had killed him, raced upstairs again to call an ambulance. She outsmarted the hospital by telling the nurses that she was Arty’s wife. They didn’t question her, and she had license to come and go as she wished. The first two days, he was incommunicado, lost beneath a breathing apparatus when he was not in surgery. To move out of the I.C.U. into a regular unit took another five days, by which time she had found his insurance card and called his children. “What does this mean?” Paul asked her when she broke the news. “Will he live?” “How will he get around?” Gina asked. “Who will take care of him?” Mrs. Zegerman assured them that she would not abandon Arty until one of them could make it down to Florida, and even after they had left again. It occurred to her that perhaps he had said something to his children about her, as she didn’t have to explain her involvement beyond mentioning the fact that she was a neighbor. Arty’s knee was in bad shape from the fall. Once his heart had fully recovered, he would need an operation to determine the extent of the ligament damage, followed by a long period of physical therapy. His weight would be a significant impediment to recovery. The orthopedic surgeon predicted that it might be as long as a year before her husband walked again. Mrs. Zegerman took the elevator up to his hospital room. The coarse, almost particulate sun was showering in through the window, filling the small antiseptic space with a false radiance. There was no need for sun, as his children’s flowers had wilted and died days earlier, and the competition between the outside heat and the central air only made the room feel claustrophobic and unpleasant. These things might have gone unnoticed had her first observation not covered her in a thin sweat of panic: the bed was empty. Arty was not in his room. Had he had another heart attack? Had he died overnight? Overnight! Gone. She wished she had never got involved. Oh, damn it. The dog was enough. Suddenly the toilet roared and the bathroom door was thrown open. Arty Groys came staggering out, favoring his good leg while fiddling with the fly of the pressed trousers she had brought for him the day before. Mrs. Zegerman was beside herself, for he was walking in defiance of the doctor’s predictions. She rushed over to him with exclamations of dismay. “What are you doing up and about, Mr. Groys? Your knee is in no condition for you to be walking around, to say nothing of your heart.” “God bless you, Mrs. Zegerman, God bless you,” he said. “But the heart has never been better, and the knee is only knocked off center a little. If I had remembered to take that cane with me, I would hardly have noticed a thing.” Mrs. Zegerman saw an ivory-handled cane in the far corner of the room. She turned to Arty with surprise, as though she had just found something unsavory in his sock drawer. She had been with him practically every waking minute since he had entered the hospital. “Where did that come from?” she asked. “We must get out of here, Mrs. Zegerman,” Arty said. “We must get over to Jimmy Denton’s house.” “Who’s Jimmy Denton?” “Jimmy Denton is the man responsible for all this, God bless him. He never visited or sent flowers, but no doubt his Asiatic wife is to blame for that. She must have closely guarded the fact that I was dying only ten miles away. She has always been jealous of our friendship. Now, we must do this on the sly. Are you ready?” “But you haven’t even been released yet, Mr. Groys.” “Mrs. Zegerman, I must see Jimmy Denton. He knows how to put me in contact with the girl who saved my life.” Mrs. Zegerman was under the impression that she had been the one who had saved his life. Nevertheless, she found herself sneaking Arty Groys out of the hospital. They simply walked down the corridor, into the elevator, and out the main exit. He did remarkably well with the assistance of his cane. “They did a fine job in there,” he said, “but I’m happy to be leaving. Too many people die in hospitals. You’re safer on a Chinese beach with those scavengers and their rusted circuit boards. And would you look at that,” he added, when they had walked through the automatic doors and entered the day. “The sun is shining so gloriously. Two weeks ago, I would have called that glare.” Jimmy and Jojo Denton lived in a gated community whose thriving heart was a golf course dotted with sun-dappled ponds—a perfectly manicured oasis of hurricane-proof Spanish Colonials, manatee mailboxes, and geriatric promiscuity. Mrs. Zegerman, staying put at Arty’s insistence, watched her neighbor get out of the car in front of a gaudy palazzo and limp across the dense lawn. He returned not five minutes later, hastily shutting the door. “Jojo dropped a dime, Mrs. Zegerman. We have to get to East Naples, and pronto. Apparently, they all crowd into a single apartment unit. The thought of it just tears the heart out of my chest.” “Who are you talking about, Mr. Groys? “The young lady who saved my life. Now, please, Mrs. Zegerman, put the car in motion and head east.” Mrs. Zegerman thought that it was imperative to get Arty Groys home, to set him up, with his bad leg and weak heart, in bed or on his sofa, with pillows and remotes and restorative liquids, and to discuss his dietary preferences, so that she would know what to buy at the grocery store. She had believed that he was in for a long convalescence, and that the obvious indifference with which the widower’s children treated their father guaranteed that she would preside with crowned authority over many months of incremental improvement. But Arty’s sudden mobility had made her heart sink. The long months of slow, sequestered progress vanished instantly, casting doubts on her plans, and his oblique agenda in East Naples reduced her to feeling like a mere chauffeur. They were heading down a swath of highway raised out of the wetlands, past a schizophrenic landscape of saw-grass prairies and strip malls, where the road signs warned of panthers and the billboards advertised alligator zoos and other South Florida attractions. Mrs. Zegerman came to understand, through Arty’s roundabout explanation, that his friend Jimmy had spent two hundred dollars on a birthday present for him. There had been no way for Jimmy to tell his wife that he’d lost that much at the dog track, so that morning he’d had to come clean. His wife immediately put in a call to the Collier County Task Force Initiative, with whom she had worked in the past to enforce speed limits in her subdivision and to establish random sobriety tests at crucial intersections. At some point, after putting two and two together, Mrs. Zegerman stopped listening. Arty guided them into an apartment complex and through a maze of speed bumps. To the right and left stood building after gray generic building. They went past a Dumpster center and a large barricade of metal mailboxes while Arty searched squint-eyed for the right apartment. They had to circle three times before he found it. She braked quickly at his command. He turned away from the apartment complex to look at her. “Thank you for the ride, Mrs. Zegerman,” he said. “There’s no sense in mixing you up any further in all this. I’ll take a taxi home.” As he climbed out of the car, she was speechless. She was hurt, she was confused, and most of all she was angry at herself for feeling an absurd but overwhelming sensation of abandonment. “Mr. Groys,” she said, “don’t you need your cane?” “No, thank you, Mrs. Zegerman. That cane just slows me down.” “But you shouldn’t even be walking!” she cried. “Isn’t it something?” He slammed the door. She immediately leaned over the passenger seat and manually rolled down the window. “Arty!” she cried. He turned with surprising grace and peered back at her from a distance of a dozen feet. “Yes?” She stared at him through the open window. She was propping herself up on the passenger seat with the splayed fingers of one hand. He stared back at her in the full dazzle of the sun. “Arty,” she repeated. “In all the years we’ve been neighbors, why have you never asked me my first name?” Arty stood awhile in silence before limping back to Mrs. Zegerman. He bent down to the window. “I don’t know why,” he said. “What is it?” “It’s Ruth,” she said. “Although my friends call me Ruthie.” “May I call you Ruthie?” She had straightened up and taken hold of the steering wheel again. She turned to stare out the windshield while he peered in at her. She replied without looking over. “I suppose that would be fine,” she said at last. He did not know what to expect and imagined he might encounter some specimen of pimp—the dagger-dark madam or tracksuited thug—but it was a petite black girl who answered his knock and asked him who his appointment was with. After Arty had described her (he didn’t even know her name!), the black girl led him to a dental-office love seat in a gloomy room whose only decoration was a mounted poster of a Budweiser logo, and disappeared down the hall of what was otherwise the kind of apartment that recent grads pile into as one pursues acting, the other a law degree, a third some kind of entrepreneurial scheme, and a fourth the dollar tips handed out at gentlemen’s clubs. The barren despondency of the place depressed him and challenged his resolution, arrived at during his recovery, to see the girl again. He had been living as a dead man for years, and without her sudden presence in his suffocating cloister, coaxing and tempting him, he would certainly have died a dead man. He planned to offer to retire any debts she might have accrued and to furnish her with education funds. Was this preposterous? Would she laugh in his face? Something prompted him to rise and walk over to the window. He widened a gap in the Venetian blinds and squinted out into the sun. He had a view of the entire parking lot and he saw, once his eyes had fully adjusted, a car he believed to be Mrs. Zegerman’s, parked beside a gleaming black motorcycle. It was Mrs. Zegerman’s, all right, for she herself was in the front seat. But what was she still doing there? He narrowed his squint and focussed all his attention. Her forehead rested against the top arc of the steering wheel, then her chin, then her forehead again. As she shifted, heaving, between these two positions, he caught glimpses of her face, contorted, wet, until finally she sat silent a moment, chin on steering wheel, watery eyes blinking in the happy sun. Then she righted herself, retrieved a tissue from the glove box, and blew her nose. It was as if he were seeing her for the first time. His attention was called away from Mrs. Zegerman by first one and then a second squad car pulling up outside the building, their sun-muted siren lights twirling unnoticed by anyone but him. His still delicate heart came to a stop, as if suddenly cast in stone, only to shatter into pieces when it came charging back. Jojo Denton had remarkable pull. Four Collier County police officers stepped out and began to confer, then approach, by which time he had let the blinds snap back and was rushing toward the rear rooms. He found her brushing her hair in front of a bathroom mirror. She turned and saw him standing in the doorway. She backed up at the mere sight of him—his eyes were still bruised from his fall, his forehead was pinkly scarred, and his pale sweaty demeanor was ghastly. She issued something quick and terrified in a language he could not identify. “I don’t believe it!” she finally cried in English. “I leave you one-hundred-per-cent dead man.” “You remember!” he said, happily but a little breathlessly. “I have survived and I have come to thank you, but first we have to get out of here. Jojo Denton dropped a dime and the cops are right outside.” “Cops?” “Is there a back exit?” he asked. He didn’t wait for an answer. He reached in and grabbed her hand and pulled her with him. He limped briskly to a sliding glass door in one of the bedrooms, where he struggled to undo the stubborn metal lock. While this was going on, he turned to her and said, “Do you remember the pill?” “The pill?” “The one I refused to take,” he said. “You persuaded me to take it, do you remember? How did you know what to say to me?” he asked. “How did you know what I needed to hear?” “You stupid!” she cried, having taken over. “Glass door is open whole time!” They left just as a thundering knock landed on the front door and reverberated through the apartment. He raced down to be in front of her, his knee be damned, and turned back to speak as they descended the stairs. “How did you know?” “Know what?” “How did you know what to say to get me to take that pill?” “Are you so stupid? I am prostitute!” “No, no, it was something more,” he said. When they reached the bottom of the stairs, he brought her to a halt and said, “I want to take care of you. I want to pay your debts. Let me pay your debts and fund a college education for you.” “This is very tired routine,” she said, “and not good timing.” Upstairs, invisible, they heard the commotion of the ensuing bust. They hurried across an expanse of treeless yard to the front of the apartment complex. Cars washed by on the street. He refused to allow his knee to bother him as he ran beside the girl. He was simply happy that he had survived to declare his intentions. He had no ulterior motive. What she did with his offer was up to her. Soon they were several blocks away. There was no cop or squad car in sight, and he could have stopped. But he didn’t stop, not even when he turned and saw Mrs. Zegerman. She was driving slowly, turning her face from him to the road and back to him again. She pulled ahead and angled into the curb. She rolled down the window and shouted something he couldn’t hear on account of his heavy breathing. He smiled at her. He let go of the girl’s hand to wave. He wanted to tell her many things, like how sorry he was to have been cruel to her dog, and how surprised even he was at how well his leg was holding up. Or maybe his strength was only an illusion, just as it had been one summer when he was a boy playing ball, that day he attempted to steal second and was forced to slide as the ball neared the infielder’s glove. The infielder missed, and the ball went long, and when he saw that he was free for a run to third he jumped up and took off, despite the hairline fracture that would make itself known—through a pain that came with a dawning awareness of what lay in store—only later, long after he had passed the third-base coach gesturing like mad and made it home, graceful as a dancer, bodiless, ageless, immortal, a boy on a summer day with a heart as big as the sun, with all his troubles, his sorrows, his losses, all his whole long life still ahead of him, still unknown, unable on that still golden field to cast its tall, unvanquishable, ever-dimming shadow.
The Five Wounds This year Amadeo Padilla is Jesus. The hermanos have been practicing in the dirt yard behind the morada, which used to be a filling station. People are saying that Amadeo is the best Jesus they’ve had in years, maybe the best since Manuel García. Here it is, just Holy Tuesday, and even those who would rather spend the evening at home watching their satellite TVs are lined up in the alley, leaning in, fingers curled around the chain-link, because they can see that Amadeo is bringing something special to the role. This is no silky-haired, rosy-cheeked, honey-eyed Jesus, no Jesus-of-the-children, Jesus-with-the-lambs. Amadeo is pockmarked and bad-toothed, hair shaved close to a scalp scarred from fights, roll of skin where skull meets thick neck. You name the sin, he’s done it: gluttony, sloth, fucked a second cousin on the dark bleachers at the high school. Amadeo builds the cross out of heavy rough oak instead of pine. He’s barefoot like the rest of the hermanos, who have rolled up the cuffs of their pants and now drag the arches of their feet over sharp rocks behind him. The Mayor Hermano—Amadeo’s grand-tío Tivé, who owns the electronics store, and who surprised them all when he chose his niece’s lazy son (because, he told Yolanda, Amadeo could use a lesson in sacrifice)—plays the pito, and the thin piping notes rise in a whine. A few hermanos swat their backs with disciplinas. Unlike the others, though, Amadeo does not groan, and he is shirtless, his tattooed back broad under the still hot sun. Today, he woke with the idea of studding the cross with nails to give it extra weight, and this is what people watch: he holds the hammer with both hands high above his head, brings it down with a crack. The boards bounce, the sound strikes sharply off the outside wall of the morada. Amadeo has broken out in a sweat, and they all take note. Amadeo sweats, but not usually from work. He sweats when he eats, he sweats when he drinks too much. Thirty-three years old, the same as Our Lord, but Amadeo is not a man with ambition. Even his mother will tell you that. Yolanda still cooks for him, pushes one plate across the table at him and another at whatever man she’s got with her. And now here comes old Manuel García, dragging his bad foot up the alley, his wounded hands curled at his sides. He must have heard about the show that Amadeo is putting on, because when else does he exert himself, except to buy liquor at the Peerless? As he nears the morada, the people part to give him a spot against the chain-link, right there in the middle. Now, instead of watching Amadeo, they watch Manuel. He coughs wetly between strikes of the hammer. Manuel García is old, but still a legend: in 1962 he begged the hermanos to use nails, and he hasn’t been able to open or close his hands since. It’s true the legend has soured a little, now that he hasn’t been able to work for forty-five years and has been kept alive by the combined generosity of the hermandad, the parish, and the state, and shows no sign of dying. Some people have stopped paying their tithes for this very reason. Some have even gone so far as to say that maybe the man was suicidal, and a death wish is not the same as devotion, even if they do look alike. Regardless, only Manuel García is qualified to judge this new Christ, and it appears that he has arrived at his verdict, because he coughs again, wet and low, dislodges something deep in his throat, and spits it through a space in the fence so that it lands just inches from Amadeo and his cross. Driving home, Amadeo tries to regain the clarity he felt when pounding nails, but hand and foot and universe are no longer working together. When the gears scrape, he hits the steering wheel with his fist and swears and hits it again. This last week was the most important in Jesus’ life. This is the week everything happened. So Amadeo should be thinking of higher things when his daughter shows up eight months pregnant. Angel sits in front of the house on the bumper of the old truck, waiting for him. He hasn’t seen her in more than a year, but he’s heard the news from his mother, who heard it from Angel. White tank top, black bra, gold cross pointing the way to her breasts in case you happened to miss them. Belly as hard and round as a loaf of Russian bread. The buttons of her jeans are unsnapped to make way for its fullness, and also to indicate how it got that way in the first place. Her birthday is this week, falls on Good Friday. She’ll be fifteen. “Shit,” Amadeo says when he pulls in and yanks the parking brake. She must not have seen his expression, because she gets up, smiles, and waves with both hands. The rosary swings on his rearview mirror, and Amadeo watches as, beyond it, his daughter advances on him, stomach outthrust. She pauses, half turns, displays her belly for him. She’s got a big gold purse with her, and a duffelbag, he sees, courtesy of Marlboro. Amadeo gets out. Her hug is straight on, belly pressing into him. “I’m fat, huh? I barely got these pants and already they’re too small.” “Hey.” He pats his daughter’s back between her bra straps, then, because he is thinking of her stomach, thinking of her pregnant, steps away. “What’s happening?” he says. He realizes it’s too casual, but he can’t afford to let her think she’s welcome, not this week, Passion Week, and with his mother away. “My mom and me got in a fight, so she dropped me off. I didn’t know where you and Gramma were.” Amadeo hooks his thumbs in his pockets, looks up at the house, then back at the road. The sun is gone now; it will be dark soon. “Fight?” Angel sighs. “I don’t know why she gotta be all judging me, trying to act all mature. Whatever,” she says without bitterness. “What me and the baby needs right now is a support system.” “A what?” The clarity is long gone. He shakes his head. “I’m real busy,” he says, like an actor portraying regret. “Now’s not a good time.” Angel doesn’t look hurt, just interested. “Why?” She lifts her duffel and begins to walk toward the door. “My mom’s not here,” he calls. He’s embarrassed to tell her, embarrassed by the fervor that being a penitente implies. “I’m carrying the cross this year. I’m Jesus.” “And I’m the Virgin Mary. Where’s Gramma, well?” She holds the screen open with her hip, waiting for him to unlock the door. “Over there in Vegas with her boyfriend.” Angel laughs, a raucous teen-age laugh. “We’re all kinds of Virgin Mary.” Yolanda is making her way across Nevada in a travel trailer with Cal Wilson, and, depending on how things go, she could be home tomorrow or in a month. As if to check if she’s coming, Amadeo turns and sees Manuel García standing in the road, watching him and his daughter. The old man’s ruined face spreads into a grin around collapsed teeth. Loose, dirty pants are cinched at his waist with a belt, his wounded hands before him. Amadeo’s mouth goes dry. Up on the step, Angel is saying, “I was all, Whatever, take me to Gramma’s if you want to. She don’t care.” Amadeo turns from Manuel García. He takes the duffel from Angel’s hand and pushes open the aluminum door. “Come on.” That night, Angel chatters about food groups as she makes dinner—a can of chili dumped over an underdone squash and a package of frozen cheese bread—then takes over the TV. She talks to her belly as she watches “America’s Next Top Model.” “See, baby? That heifer is going home. You can’t be like that to your girls and win the game.” Amadeo sits at the other end of the couch, uneasy. He wipes his palms along his thighs, works his tongue inside his mouth. Three times he looks out the front window, but the old man is gone. With a sudden stitch in his gut, Amadeo thinks of Tío Tivé. He can’t know that Angel’s here and pregnant for all the world to see. “So,” Amadeo says. “Your mom’s probably gonna want you back soon, no?” “No. I’m staying here with you and Gramma awhile. I gotta teach her she’s not the only one in my life.” Amadeo kneads his thigh. He can’t tell her to leave. Yolanda would kill him. He just wishes that Yolanda were here. She and Angel are pretty close; Yolanda sends the girl checks, twenty-five here, fifty there, and a couple of times a year the two go shopping at the outlet stores near Santa Fe. Amadeo tries to remember the last time he was alone with his daughter, but can’t. Two or three Christmases ago, maybe; he remembers sitting awkwardly in this same room asking Angel about her favorite subjects while Yolanda was at the grocery store or the neighbors’. Amadeo is having trouble breathing. Why now? Why does she have to visit now? “Maybe you could visit when my mom gets home.” A needle of guilt slides into his side. Angel doesn’t seem to have heard him. “I mean, the woman’s all preaching to me about how I messed up and why couldn’t I learn from her mistake, but what am I gonna do now, huh? I mean, I get it. It’s gonna hurt like hell and I’m missing prom and did you know I probably won’t get to sleep a whole night until it’s three years old? I’ll be eighteen by then.” Angel looks like her mother. Amadeo doesn’t remember Marissa acting this young back then. Marissa was sixteen, Amadeo eighteen, but they felt old, he is sure of that. Her parents had been angry and ashamed, but had thrown a baby shower for the young couple anyway. Amadeo had enjoyed being at the center of things: congratulated by her relatives and his, handed tamales and biscochitos on paper plates by old women who were willing to forgive everything in exchange for a church wedding. He stood to sing for them, nodding at Marissa: “This is dedicated to my baby girl.” Bendito, bendito, bendito sea Dios, los ángeles cantan y daban a Dios. They all clapped, the old ladies dabbing their eyes, Yolanda blowing kisses across the room. Later, of course, after there was no wedding, no moving in together, after Angel was born and learned to walk and talk—with no help from Amadeo—he was relieved by how easily the obligation slipped from his shoulders. The old women shook their heads, resigned; they should have known better than to expect anything from Amadeo, from men in general. “Even the best of them aren’t worth a darn,” his grandmother used to say. By the time Angel was five and Amadeo had moved with his mother back to the little town where he’d grown up and where their family still lived, he felt lucky to have been let off the hook. As though answering a question, Angel says, “I didn’t drop out of school for reals. I’m gonna start back up after the baby comes, so don’t worry.” She looks at Amadeo, waiting. Amadeo realizes that he forgot to worry, forgot even to wonder. “Good. That’s good.” He gets up, rubs his shorn head with both hands. “You got to have school.” She’s still looking at him, demanding something: reassurance, approval. “I mean, I’m serious. I’m really going back.” Then she’s off, talking about college and success and following her dreams, the things she hears at the parenting class she goes to at the clinic with other girls her age. “I got to invest in myself if I’m gonna give him a good life. You won’t see me like my mom, just doing the same old secretary job for ten years. I’m doing something big.” She turns to her belly. “In’t that right, hijito?” This depresses the hell out of Amadeo. He opens a beer and guzzles half of it before he remembers who he is this week. “Fuck,” he says, disgusted with himself, and pours it down the drain. Angel looks up at him from the couch. “You better clean up your mouth. I don’t want him hearing you say that. He can hear every little thing you say.” “Fuck,” Amadeo says again, because it’s his house, but he says it quietly, and thinks about the sound passing through his daughter’s body to the child inside. The teacher of Angel’s parenting class has arranged for someone to drive her into Española at two-thirty every afternoon. Angel is up by seven. Amadeo can hear her, clattering dishes, the TV going. Midmorning, she’s in the shower. The pipes hiss and gurgle in the wall near his head. He flops over in his limp bed, tries not to think of her, the naked lumps of flesh, but he can’t help it. Christ’s pain, he reminds himself. Think of that. Each day, Amadeo practices his face in the bathroom mirror after he showers, water running down his forehead. He spreads his arms, makes the muscles in his face tighten and fall, tries to learn the nuances of suffering. It makes him queasy. It makes him queasier to think about whoever got Angel this way. This is not a detail that made it into the story Amadeo heard from his mother, but he doesn’t need facts to picture it: some Española cholo dealing meth from the trunk of his lowrider. When he finally hears Angel leave, Amadeo gets up. He watches from the kitchen window until the teacher’s car is out of sight, then sinks into the chair in relief and eats the cold eggs and bacon that she has left out for him. He’s on the couch with a Coke and the remote balanced on his thighs when Angel comes home. As she swings her backpack to the linoleum, she looks at him, surprised. “Aren’t you working?” “It’s Holy Wednesday,” he says. “Where you working now?” “It’s slow. I’m waiting to hear.” “Huh.” Angel drops to the couch, then scoots down so her neck is cricked and her belly high. Who is she to criticize? “I’m getting something together with Anthony Vigil. We’re doing a business, outfitting cars for the races down in Albuquerque.” Actually, this was the plan—Amadeo enjoyed working with Anthony, and was good at it, reboring the engine, replacing the metal front and sides with fibreglass, removing what wasn’t essential. Yolanda had been glad that Amadeo was “getting involved” and had offered to give them what she could afford to start them out. But in the end Anthony partnered with his cousin Berto. “No offense, man,” Anthony told Amadeo, “but in a business you gotta know your partner’s going to show up.” “Huh,” Angel says again. After a moment, “You still sing ever?” “Nah.” Not for years, though at one time he’d thought he could actually go somewhere with it. He’s grateful to Angel for remembering; Amadeo offers her his Coke. She shakes her head. “It’ll dissolve his baby bones.” From eleven on, Angel was a little shit: surly, talking nasty, applying dark lip liner like she was addicted to it. Amadeo remembers when she was younger; he looked forward to when she’d come from Española to stay with him and his mom, enjoyed taking her out for the day, showing her off to his friends. He felt like a good influence, teaching her how to check the oil and eat ribs and not to listen to Boyz II Men. She was sweet then, eager to please, riding in the truck, fiddling with the radio, asking him at each song, “Is this good? Do you like this one?” When he’d nod, she’d settle back and try to sing along, listening hard, each word coming a little too late. Sometimes Amadeo would sing, too, his voice filling the cab, and Angel would look up at him, delighted. Now she resembles that child again—her cheeks full and pink—but there’s something frightening about her. It’s as though she’s reëntered the world, proud to be a member in good standing. Now she regales Amadeo with facts she’s learned in her parenting class, facts about fluids and brain stems and genitals. “Like, did you know he had his toes before he even got his little dick?” Amadeo looks at her, surprised, then back at the TV. “Why you gotta tell me that?” Angel faces him enthusiastically, grinning around her big white teeth, one foot tucked under her belly. “Weird, huh, that there’s a dick floating around in me? Do you ever think about that? How Gramma is the first girl you had your dick in?” “The fuck. That’s disgusting.” Amadeo is horrified; this is his daughter. “Jesus, too,” she says, singsong. “Jesus had his stuff in Mary.” She laughs. “Couple of virgins. There’s something for your research.” She settles back into the couch, pleased. Angel has seemed only mildly interested in Passion Week, which is a relief to Amadeo, and an irritation. “So it’s like a play?” she asks. “It’s not a play—it’s real. More real . . . ” He doesn’t know how to explain it to her. More real even than taking Communion, Tío Tivé had said months ago when he sat with Amadeo at the Burger Barn and offered him the part. Tío Tivé told him, looking at him severely, “You got a chance to thank Jesus, to hurt with Him just a little.” Angel asks, “They’re going to whip you and stuff? Like, actually hard?” He’s proud, can’t keep the smile from creeping in. “Yeah.” “My friend Lisette cuts herself, but she just does it for attention.” “It’s not like that. It’s like a way to pray.” Angel whistles low. “Crazy.” She seems to be thinking about this, turns a pink crocheted cushion slowly in her hands. Amadeo waits, exposed. “So it’s gonna hurt.” He tries to formulate the words to explain to Angel that the point is to hurt, to see what Christ went through for us, but he’s tongue-tied and shy about saying these things, as shy as he’d be if he were explaining it to his old friends. And he isn’t even sure he’s got it right. But here it is: his chance to prove to them all—and God, too—everything he’s capable of. “But it’s a secret, right? You can’t go tell nobody back in Española.” “Why?” “The Church don’t agree. You just can’t say anything.” “Can I see it? The morada?” He’d like her to see it, to see what he’s the center of. “Tío Tivé don’t let women in there. You can go to Mass at the church. You can be in the procession.” Angel scrunches her face. “Can’t I just see it? Once? You’re Jesus, aren’t you?” “Tío Tivé would kill me.” She’s good-natured in her pleading, all smiles. “Come on.” “Women can’t go in. And besides . . .” Before he can stop himself, he glances down at her belly. Her face slackens and she turns back to the TV. When Amadeo looks again, she’s crying soundlessly, her face blotchy and ugly, mascara running down her cheeks. It’s not his fault. He didn’t tell her to be a girl. He didn’t tell her to get knocked up. They were doing so well, she was showing some interest, he was feeling so good. “It’s just a building. It’s mostly empty, anyway.” But now Angel’s shoulders rock. She has her fist pressed over her mouth, and she’s still not making a sound. “Hey. Hey, don’t cry.” He turns awkwardly on the couch, pats the shoulder near him. When she speaks, it’s with a gasp. “You think I’m too dirty for your morada. Is that it? Too dirty for your morada, too dirty for prom, too dirty for everything.” An image flashes: Angel naked, sweaty and grunting with some boy. “You’re not dirty,” he says. Guilt thick as tar bubbles in his gut, and suddenly he’s nineteen again and it’s summer, and he’s with Marissa in her parents’ back yard. They stretch out by the kiddie pool, beers warming in their hands and in the sun, while Angel plays with a plastic dinosaur. They’re talking about Marissa’s older sister’s new trailer—two bedrooms, full bath, cream carpet—and Marissa says she wouldn’t mind a trailer, they could get a trailer, used at first, and beside them Angel splashes, a blade of grass stuck to her chest. Amadeo says, “You won’t catch me living in no trailer. Besides, they just lose value,” and Marissa says, stubbing out her cigarette emphatically in the grass, “It’s not that I wouldn’t rather have a house, but when? And we gotta be saving if we ever want to have a place of our own—are you even saving anything?” This is when the fight starts, escalates. Amadeo accuses Marissa of getting pregnant just so he’ll have to take care of her, and he calls her dirty, dirty whore. (She isn’t, he knows that, hasn’t done any more than he has, but ever since she had sex with him he can’t look at her the same way.) Then they’re both on their feet, and he slaps her, hard across the upper arm, which is bare and exposed in her sleeveless shirt. Marissa staggers back, reaches behind her into air to steady herself, finds no hold, falls. Amadeo looks at his hitting hand, horrified. But if he were honest he might admit that even as he moved to hit her he knew he could stop himself and knew he was going to do it regardless. The real surprise is the shock on her face, proof that he can act on the world. Marissa stands. The skin on her arm turns white then red where his palm made contact. “You asshole! Don’t you ever hit me again.” She screams at him, throwing plastic buckets and toys. Some strike him, some miss and fall to the grass. Amadeo wishes she’d kill him. But she keeps yelling, “Don’t you ever hit me again!” And it is that word, “again,” that terrifies him, as if by uttering it she opens up the possibility that he has it in him to do this again—even, somehow, makes it inevitable. From the kiddie pool, Angel looks up at her parents, eyes wide and black and unwavering. “Don’t you walk away!” Marissa yells, and Amadeo turns just long enough to see her grab the baby, too roughly, Angel’s head jerking back as Marissa swings her onto her hip, water from the baby’s sodden diaper spreading dark across her shirt, her denim cutoffs, down her short brown legs. She’s yelling at him, calling him names, and he’s thinking of how loud her voice must be so near Angel’s soft pink ear. Even as he starts the truck, Amadeo doesn’t think he’ll go through with it. His breath is ragged, he’s shaking, and he’s on Paseo de Oñate before he realizes he’s somehow gripping the dinosaur in his hand. Now, fourteen years later, Amadeo turns to Angel, who cries into her hands. He looks at his watch. Almost eleven. He touches her shoulder again. “Come on. Let’s go.” The morada is not much to look at. Outside there’s still the dark skeleton of a sign on a pole from when it was a filling station, the bright plastic panels long gone, and two blank pumps. During the day, strangers passing by will pull in for gas and look around, confused by the trucks parked in front, before heading straight through town to the Shell station on the highway. Tonight the parking lot is deserted. Inside, the cinder-block walls are painted white, and a few benches face the front. The only thing worth looking at is the crucifix, and Amadeo watches Angel take it in. She walks the periphery of the room, stopping at various points to gaze at the man on the Cross. This Christ is not like the Christ in the church: shiny plastic plaster, chaste beads of blood where crown meets temple, expression exquisite, prissy, a perfect balance of compassion and suffering and—yes, it’s there—self-pity. No, this Christ, the wooden Christ nailed up on the morada wall, is ancient and bloody. There is violence in the very carving: chisel marks gouge belly and thigh, leave fingers and toes stumpy. The contours of the face are rough, ribs sharp, the body emaciated. Someone’s real hair hangs limply from the statue’s head. The artist did not stop at five wounds but inflicted his brush generously on the thin body. And there are the nails. Three. One in each hand, one skewering the long, pale feet. Amadeo feels his own palms throb and ache. When he hears a noise, for a moment he thinks it comes from outside, but it is closer, inside the morada. A rustle. Amadeo looks from his daughter to the statue. The suffering is garish under the buzzing fluorescent bulb: blood flows down Christ’s pale neck and torso and knees, smears the Cross and the wall behind Him, every wound deep and effusive. This statue’s pain is personal and cruel, and He’s not bearing it with perfect grace. Suddenly Amadeo knows that the statue on the crucifix is a living man, a living witness to his transgression. He looks wildly from the statue to Angel, then back, heart pounding and hands trembling. “There aren’t no Baby Jesuses here, are there?” Angel observes. No Blessed Mother, either, no audience of saints. “I guess it’s not a good idea for Baby Jesus to have to see hisself later.” Her voice is tired. She taps her belly distractedly, walks a few steps, stops. “I wouldn’t want my baby to know.” Amadeo waits in dread for the statue to move, to lift His head. To fix Amadeo with His eyes. Angel makes her slow way around the room again, stopping every few feet, head tilted. She turns to him, face pale and slack, blotchy from crying, and he is startled when she asks, “So you really want to know what it feels like?” With her finger she traces a trickle of blood down the bound wooden feet. “Why?” He can’t say it, but his answer is this: he needs to know if he has it in him to ask for the nails, if he can get up there in front of the whole town and do a performance so convincing he’ll transubstantiate right there on the cross into something real. He looks at the statue. Total redemption in one gesture, if only he can do it right. Angel, no longer waiting for his answer, shrugs and turns to the door. As he watches it shut behind her, a longing wells in him so rich and painful that he must touch the wall to steady himself. At the front of the room, Jesus hasn’t moved, wholly absorbed in His own pain. Amadeo switches off the light, checks the lock on the morada door. Angel heaves herself into the cab of the truck, looking like a kid in her too large jacket. She yawns, makes an effort to talk about other things all the way home, and Amadeo does not tell her what he sees that keeps him silent: Manuel García, standing on the other side of the road in front of the dark windows of the drugstore, watching. Since early morning, Manuel García has been sitting on a lawn chair in front of the house, scratching his balls with his stiff-curled claw. When Amadeo gets up after eleven, Angel is planted at the table with a glass of milk, watching the old man watch the house. She doesn’t shift her eyes from the window when Amadeo ambles in, rubbing his head with the heel of his hand. “Who is that, well? Is he retarded or something?” Amadeo considers pulling on a shirt, then decides not to. He bangs out the front door and across the yard, working his fists, limbs loose with adrenaline. “Hey, man. Go on home. You’re scaring my daughter.” Manuel García gazes up through pink eyes. “The puta whore. No Jesus never lived in a house of putas.” “You watch your mouth, viejo.” “Puta whore mama y puta whore daughter.” Manuel García smiles, because he knows he’s an old man and cannot be hit. He’s spent his whole life making people uncomfortable. He scratches his balls again and squints into the sun behind Amadeo. “Go on home,” Amadeo says again, suddenly afraid, as if the old man had the power to work evil, though, of course, he doesn’t. “I seen you last night. You know I seen you. Bringing her in the santuario.” Amadeo considers denying it, then considers pushing the old man into the dirt, grinding the lumpy skull beneath his heel. As though he’d read Amadeo’s mind, Manuel coughs and spits, nearly hitting Amadeo’s work boot. Amadeo flinches, and the old man laughs. “Hija de Jesús, shaking her nalgas until someone gives it to her good.” Amadeo steps toward Manuel. “Shut your mouth.” “I’m thinking what your uncle will say when he finds out a whore been in the morada.” He blinks red-rimmed eyes, smiles blandly. Suddenly he lunges forward, pointing his finger at Amadeo. “You watch how quick they cut you down from that cross,” he hisses. “They’ll cut you down fast.” Amadeo thinks he might throw up. He kicks the dirt. “Don’t you come back here again,” he says, and turns back to the house. Manuel García calls to Amadeo’s retreating back, “No Jesus never defiled the santuario!” Amadeo lets the screen door slam. “What’d he say?” Angel asks, still watching out the window. Sitting there, plump and content, she seems inviolable in her impending motherhood. He tries to remind himself how young she is. But he’s furious at her, for giving Manuel García something to sneer at, for tainting his Passion Week with her pregnancy and her personality. Amadeo goes to his room. The bed is unmade, clothes piled on the floor. He’s angrier now—look at this, living here like a surly teen-ager—and comes back out to reclaim the living room. He doesn’t know what to do with his hands. Hit a wall, break something, put his daughter in her place. “Don’t you even got a boyfriend?” Angel turns and looks at him like he’s stupid. “What do you think?” “Didn’t your mom never teach you not to sleep around?” “All the girls in my parenting class, not one of them has a guy that matters. Not one. You think you mattered?” Amadeo is shaking. “You shouldn’t have come here. You think you have a right to just barge in my house and make yourself at home.” Angel’s eyes widen, and then she narrows them once more. Slowly, enunciating every word, she says, “It’s not your house.” Amadeo thumps the table with his fist and retreats to his room. That evening, the phone rings, and Angel calls to him, “Dad?” When Amadeo comes out of his room, his pulse throbs in his neck, and he avoids her eyes as he takes the phone. Someone mutters a blessing and hangs up without identifying himself. It takes a moment for Amadeo to recognize the priest. The priest will spend tomorrow at home; he said his Mass this evening, and can have no part in what happens on Calvario. Amadeo replaces the receiver. He wonders if the priest can sense Amadeo failing everyone. Angel has heated a sausage pizza for dinner. She’s already in her spot on the couch, eating. She raises her plate. “Dinner? Dairy, meat, grain, vegetable. All four groups.” Her voice is conciliatory. Amadeo considers sitting next to his daughter and trying to eat, but he isn’t hungry, and he has to practice. There is so little time left. In the bathroom he works on his Christ face, but his downturned mouth and drooping eyes are mawkish and ridiculous. Through the pink polyester lace at the window, he sees Manuel García in his lawn chair, and he tries to picture how it will be tomorrow, the hermanos all dressed up, everyone watching Amadeo Padilla pretend he has what it takes to be Jesus. When the screen door slams, Amadeo watches from the window as Angel picks her way in bare feet down the drive to where Manuel García sits, gazing at the house. She hands the old man a paper plate: the leftover pizza. Amadeo cannot see the old man’s face under his hat, but he’s saying something. She waves him off dismissively and turns away. Manuel says something else, and she stops, turns, walks back to him. She looks angry, glances at the house, and for a moment Amadeo wonders if she’s going to betray him to Manuel, tell the old man everything he’s done: left her to rental after rental, money always tight, the long series of Marissa’s boyfriends—some worse even than Amadeo—around his daughter. But she doesn’t say anything, just shakes her head slowly and is still. She stands before Manuel in her bare feet. The old man sets the paper plate in the dirt beside his chair, then gestures, impatient. She takes a step closer. Her face is stony; she looks away from Manuel to, it seems, a spot across the road in the Romeros’ yard. Manuel leans forward. Amadeo is still watching when his daughter lifts her shirt above her belly, then higher. Her breasts are too big for the black lace bra, her maternity jeans low. Her belly glows red in the sunset, impossibly round and swollen. Amadeo sees her belly button protruding and remembers the same thing with Angel’s mother, how toward the end he’d tongue the lump of it while he touched her down there. Angel doesn’t blink. Manuel extends a gnarled brown hand, places it against her belly. Reaches out with the other. Cups her belly in both his hands, moves them over the surface of it. Angel stares at the Romeros’ yard. Amadeo could go outside now, put a stop to the terrible thing that is happening, but he stays, one hand touching the pink lace. His legs are weak. When the old man closes his eyes, so does Amadeo. On this last night, Amadeo is supposed to stay awake, walking outside through the Garden of Gethsemane, thinking about his soul and about salvation. He is supposed to fast, to steel himself, to be betrayed, to hear the cock’s crow. In houses all over town, hermanos are on their knees, leather thongs bound around their thighs, murmuring about suffering and gratitude, yearning for pain. But Amadeo focusses on the sick sensation of his dick in his jeans, on willing it to shrivel up and fall off as the scene replays in his head: Manuel’s hands on his daughter’s body. Pacing the length of his room, he finishes a six-pack, then moves on to the next, and the image still won’t dissolve. The television is off, the house silent. In the living room, Angel sits on the couch, staring at the wall. She doesn’t look up at him. “He’s not gonna tell. You can have your Jesus day.” “I never asked you to do that. I never asked you for nothing.” His voice wavers. Angel sighs. “It doesn’t matter.” He can’t tell if she believes this or if she is saying it for him, and he doesn’t know which is worse. Angel points the remote at the TV, and the bright sound of a commercial floods the room. “Just forget about it, O.K.?” “I never asked you to do that.” It’s a plea, too quiet to hear over the sound of the television. Amadeo realizes he’s drunk. “We can’t be fighting.” She pats the couch, glances quickly at him. “Look, it’s ‘Law and Order.’ ” Amadeo hesitates, then drops beside her, grateful, exhausted. He takes a handful of chips when she passes him the bag, thinking about the new feeling swelling in him: he’s warm and swaddled, buoyed by forgiveness, suddenly too tired to sleep, too tired to move. They watch the show together, then a second and a third, until Angel goes to bed. Amadeo wakes to Angel calling him and the sun streaming through the window. Good Friday. They gather at the base of Apache Peak. Four miles to the top, and Amadeo will walk barefoot, dragging the cross. He trembles and his upper lip sweats, though the morning air is cool. The hermanos help Tío Tivé unload the cross from the bed of his Ford, three of them sharing the weight. All the Lenten preparations are for this: the hermanos have washed their white pants, braided their disciplinas the old way, from the thick fibres of yucca leaves, mended rips in the black hoods they will wear to insure their humility in this reënactment. When the pito sounds three times—the cock’s crow—Tío Tivé steps forward, Pontius Pilate giving his sign, and the hermanos seize Amadeo. It starts as acting, soft punches, and then they’re slugging him, tearing at him, shouting the worst curses of two languages and two thousand years. Amadeo splutters and cries out under the barrage, surprised that it is actually happening. When they fall back, Tío Tivé places the crown of thorns on Amadeo’s head. Amadeo turns and hoists the enormous cross onto his right shoulder, stooping under the weight, and the procession starts. The hermanos walk in two lines behind Jesus and begin to whip themselves. Manuel García follows, bearing no load except his own hands, and then the women and children, the bright clattering colors of them, so distinct from the neat dark and white of the hermanos. Amadeo cannot see her, but he knows Angel is there. By the second mile, the cross grows heavy. He tries to get into the part. He was up all night, he tells himself, in the garden, crying out to God. He remembers to stagger: his first fall. The crown of thorns is pulled tight, so it pierces the skin at his temple, the stinging sweat slides down, but Amadeo is just not feeling it. He’s too heavy and slow, his brain hung over and filled with static. Angel comes up alongside her father on the right, panting in her sneakers and tank top. “Shoot. I can’t believe I’m hiking at eight months. This must be a record.” She pats her belly. “Your mama’s breaking the Guinness world record, baby.” She swigs water, holds the bottle out to Amadeo. “Want some water? I got water.” Amadeo shakes his head fiercely and heaves the cross up the slope after him, wishing she’d leave him alone, wishing he didn’t owe her. He can pay her back, but only if he can blot her out. Manuel García hobbles his way up the procession on the left, huffing and stinking like a dying man. Amadeo stumbles; Manuel García wheezes laughter. The old man will turn back—he’ll have to turn back—and leave the day to Amadeo. Manuel leers past Amadeo at Angel and spits, “Puta.” Angel looks up, startled, then to Amadeo. “Dad—” Rage wells in him—Amadeo nearly drops the cross and bludgeons the old man—but then turns inward. He calls between heavy breaths to the hooded men behind him, “Whip me!” And then, because they do not respond, louder, “Whip me!” When the lashes come, Angel clamps her hands over her mouth. She looks as if she might be sick. Amadeo grinds the soles of his feet into the sharp stones, scrapes his shoulder under the edge of the cross. He feels the rough wood break skin, the hot blood rise, his own blood, his own heat. He must leave his body, become something else. Manuel laughs so hard he begins to cough, spits in the dirt under Amadeo’s bare feet. Suddenly it comes to Amadeo: this mockery is a gift! The filthy old man is playing his part and doesn’t even know it. Amadeo laughs out loud, tears streaming down his cheeks. He’s getting stronger on Manuel García’s mockery! And Angel isn’t a distraction—she’s the point! Everything Jesus did He did for his children! “Get away from me,” Angel yells at Manuel. Her eyes redden and well with angry tears. “Leave me alone!” “Just wait,” Amadeo whispers, but she doesn’t hear. His second fall is not intentional; neither is his third. He has forgotten to pick up his feet, and he stumbles over a numb knot of foot, the cross crashing down with him. Angel kneels beside him, her eyes worried, Manuel forgotten. “You gotta have water.” She opens the little plastic top and pushes the bottle into his hands, but he doesn’t take it. In the brush, birds chirp and little lizards dart, then freeze, from rock to rock. He watches Angel follow one with her eyes. Inside her, the baby twists and turns—he can almost sense it—hot in her flesh and under the sun. For the first time he’s glad she’s here: more than anyone, he realizes, she’s the one he wants with him today. At the top of Calvario, the hermanos lift the cross from his shoulders and rest it on the ground. Amadeo straightens, and the word “good” thrums in his head with each step: good, good, good. The hermanos help him down, position his arms along the crossbeam, his feet against the block of wood that is all he’ll have to stand on. Amadeo spreads his arms and looks up into wide blue sky; there is nothing in his vision but blue. As they bind his arms and legs against the wood, lines once memorized surface: With a word He stilled the wind and the waves. But the wind skates over his body, drying the sweat and blood at his temples. Then the hermanos lift the top of the cross, and Amadeo’s vision swings from sky to earth. Upright, his weight returns; his torn heels press into the wooden block. Below him, on the highway, a few glittering cars move slowly, oblivious. The hot air tastes of salt, and dust sticks in his throat. Angel stands before him, holding her hands under her belly. The nails, the nails. He is not sure if he says it or thinks it. But Tío Tivé nods as if this was what he expected and reaches into his pocket for the paper bag. A hooded hermano steps onto a stool and pours rubbing alcohol over the wood and Amadeo’s hot hands. The alcohol burns cold and smells sharp and clean. This is the moment they’ve been waiting for, and the people crowd closer. Parents nudge their children to the front, turn their babies to face the cross. These children will remember this their whole lives. Perhaps one of them, one day, will make the town proud. For now, though, the people are proud of themselves, because they were right about this Christ. True, a few of the onlookers might have hoped for a more artistic arrangement of blood, but no one can deny that he looks awful up there; he is exhausted. The man has put himself through Hell for them. Flies land on Amadeo’s cheeks and neck, and—mira—he’s too tired even to shake them away. The Mayor Hermano cleans each nail. Alcohol splashes into the dust. Someone in the crowd thinks, This is like our time on earth, just a splash, then we rise into Heaven. The Mayor Hermano wipes each nail with his white handkerchief, then hands them one by one to the other hermanos. The people’s hearts fill with joy for Amadeo, glad it’s his uncle who will do this for him. Family is important. Some of the people watch Manuel García. They hope he doesn’t feel too bad, but really it’s time, and the old man has rested long enough on his laurels. Manuel García’s back is to Amadeo. He gazes down the hill he’s just climbed. One or two of the people glance over their shoulders at Angel, to see how she’s taking it, to see if she’s proud of her daddy, to see if some of the bad girl is getting washed out of her. But her face is blank, and she’s standing there with her hands dangling dumbly at her sides, her big cheap belly hanging low. Amadeo hadn’t expected fear, but here it is, hammering in his heart. What he sees from up here are eyes, and though he knows these people, knows all their names, they are like the eyes of strangers. He sees the back of Manuel’s head and knows that the old man won’t turn around. He seeks Angel with his gaze, and when he finds her he rests there. He leans into her across the distance, her body supporting his own. Just wait, he wants to whisper to her. Just wait. They pound the nail through Amadeo’s palm. In a moment, pain, but for now he thinks, This is all wrong, and he has time to clarify the thought. I am not the Son. The sky agrees, because it doesn’t darken. Amadeo remembers Christ’s cry—My God, why hast thou forsaken me?—and he knows what is missing. It is Angel who has been forsaken. All at once he sees her. He is surprised by the naked fear on Angel’s face. It is not an expression he knows. And she feels not only fear—Amadeo sees that now—but pain, complete and physical. Nothing he can do will change this, and soon it won’t be just her suffering but the baby, too. Angel cries out and holds her hands aloft, offering them to him. This is when the pain makes its searing flight down his arm and into his heart. Amadeo twists in agony on the cross, and below him the people applaud.
Rat Beach When I was seventeen, bravado, mingled with what must have been a death wish, made me enlist in the officer-training program of the Marine Corps. Since those in my age group were considerably too callow to lead troops into battle, it was decided at the Navy Department that we would be sent to college, where, as book-toting privates, we would gain a little learning and seasoning, and also a year or two of physical and mental growth, before our fateful collision with the Japs. My classmates and I, being the youngest of the young, remained uniformed college students for the longest period, while those who were only a year or so older went off for officer training and preceded us into those terrifying island battles which marked the last stages of the Pacific war. No group among all the services had as high a casualty rate as Marine Corps second lieutenants. This is firmly on the record. A harrowing book by an enlisted combat veteran, E. B. Sledge, called “With the Old Breed,” described the situation concisely: “During the course of the long fighting on Okinawa . . . we got numerous replacement lieutenants. They were wounded or killed with such regularity that we rarely knew anything about them . . . and saw them on their feet only once or twice. . . . Our officers got hit so soon and so often that it seemed to me the position of second lieutenant in a rifle company had been made obsolete by modern warfare.” Thus, had I been older by only a year or so I would have been immersed in Iwo Jima’s bloodbath; a mere six months and I would have been one of Sledge’s Okinawa martyrs, obliterated in the deadliest land engagement of the Pacific war. I escaped this horror by a hair. During the landing in April, my division was employed in a diversionary operation—a feint—off the southeast coast of the island. Our presence was intended to draw the Japs off balance while our two other divisions went ashore (unopposed, as it turned out) on the western beaches. Then we steamed back to the safety, the calm, the virtual Stateside coziness of the island of Saipan, where we began to prepare for the invasion of Japan, and where I had ample time to reflect on both what I’d barely missed on Okinawa and Iwo Jima and what I was likely to encounter when I helped storm the fortress beaches of the mainland. Here my desperate internal conflict began to brew. For while the warrior in me—the self-consciously ballsy kid who’d joined the Marines for the glamour and the danger—lamented not having seen action, there was another, more sensible part of myself that felt immense relief at this reprieve. And reprieve it was. For all of us knew that the invasion of Japan was in the offing, and that we’d be involved in no more feints or diversions. We’d be in the vanguard. For the first time, I was terribly afraid. The killing grounds of the recent past were for me a foretaste of things to come, and the sorry fate of all those scared but uncomplaining guys we’d said goodbye to seemed to foreshadow my own. I was so fucking scared, there on Saipan. The beach was still littered with the jagged metal junk from the American assault the previous summer, although you could always, with caution, pussyfooting among the rocks and debris, find a decent enough spot for swimming. The tents of our company bivouac were laid out alongside a dusty road that the Seabees had bulldozed through the coral after the Marine and Army troops had wrested the island from the Japs, months before we replacements arrived. A thousand miles northwest lay Okinawa, and the wounded from that battle were being transferred from huge floating infirmaries with names like Comfort and Mercy to the naval hospital not far down the coast from our encampment. Along the road, night and day, a stream of ambulances came with their freight: the gravely hurt, the paralyzed, the amputees, the head-trauma cases, and the other wreckage from what had turned out to be a mammoth land battle. In the evenings, we’d spend our last weary moments—our respite from the hours of combat training—lolling around in our tents and watching with morbid fixation the parade of ambulances; our eyes tracked these dust-caked vans through a thick haze of cigarette smoke that rose and fell in bluish undulations. My “Pocket Book of Verse,” which I’d lugged around in my seabag all through my Marine Corps career—from the Vww12 unit at Duke and boot camp at Parris Island to Hawaii and, finally, Saipan—was bulging and close to decomposition in the humid air, but on those nights I’d lie on my cot and read again from A. E. Housman and Swinburne and Omar Khayyám or some other moony fatalist or master of Weltschmerz, while the tropical dusk grew murky blue and Glenn Miller’s “Moonlight Serenade” or a Tommy Dorsey tune sounded faintly from a portable record-player or radio, drawing forth from my breast a spasm of hopeless, cloying homesickness. Then I’d get distracted by the ambulances. The cavalcade was hypnotic to watch and just as harrowing. There was a particular hummock of coral that caused the green vans to slow to a crawl, gears clashing as they shifted down. At first, these passages over the coral were uneventful, but the big bump became more ragged as it wore away, and I couldn’t shake the memory of one ambulance that stalled, then jerked back and forth, jostling its poor passenger until the voice from within screamed “Oh, Jesus! Oh, Jesus!” again and again. Poetry was no remedy for such a sound, and so I’d close the book and lie there in a trance, trying to shut out all thought of past or future, and focus on the tent’s plywood deck, where there was usually at least one huge brown snail, with a shell the size of a Ping-Pong ball, propelling itself laboriously forward and trailing a wake of mucilaginous slime with the hue and consistency of semen. Giant African snails, they were called, and they slid all over the island, numberless, like a second landing force; they woke us up at night and we actually heard them sibilantly dragging their tracks across the flooring and colliding, with a tiny report like the cracking open of walnuts. The fucking snails were always getting squashed beneath our field boots, making a tiny mess that reminded me of the fragility of my own corporeal being. It didn’t take long for the instruments of modern warfare to turn a human body into just such a repulsive emulsion. Would I be reduced to an escargot’s viscous glob? One of the riflemen in my platoon, a big muscular farm boy from South Dakota, had seen, strewn on the Tarawa beachhead, a string of guts twelve feet long belonging to the marine who, only seconds before the mortar blast, had been his best buddy. Nearly all the combat vets had endured such grisly traumas. During the previous year’s landing on Saipan, my new platoon sergeant, a onetime trapeze artist from the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, had survived (with only a cut lip and a lingering deafness) the explosion of a Jap knee-mortar shell that had vaporized the two other occupants of his foxhole. Would I avoid the worst, like these guys, or would I, when I finally stumbled ashore on the Japanese mainland, be immolated in one foul form or another, consumed by fire or rent apart by steel or crushed like a snail? Such thoughts were torment. As I lay on my cot, “The Pocket Book of Verse” would slip from my hand, and fear—vile, cold fear—would steal through my flesh like some puzzling sickness. I actually felt my extremities grow numb, as if the blood had drained from my toes and fingers, and the sensation caused me both alarm and shame. Did my tentmates, Stiles and Veneris, the two platoon leaders whose cots lay so closely jammed against mine, feel the same terror? Did their bowels loosen like mine at the mere thought of the coming invasion? I knew that they were scared. We joked, God how we joked—we joked all the time about our future trial—but this was a form of wisecracking, smart-ass bravado, cheap banter. I could never know the depths of their fear; it was a region I dared not explore. In our smothering proximity, we shared everything else—snores and farts and bad breath and odorous feet. Even the clumsy stealth of jerking off was a matter for shared joking—the unsuppressed moan, the vibrating sheet glimpsed in the dawn light. Beatin’ your meat again, Veneris! But somehow I knew that we could never share real fear. Was theirs as nearly unbearable as mine, this dread that wrapped me in a blanket woven of many clammy hands? Or was their mastery over their fear simple bravery—something I could never possess? Often, I thought it was creepy to feel this fear in such a seductive place. Saipan was like a bowl of tropical Jell-O. Even in the muggy rainy season there were glowing days that made me mourn the recent fate of this lush Technicolor landscape, shattered by bullets and trampled by so many boots and fires and tank treads. Most of the islands that marines had fought over and secured had been jungle horrors, infested by disease and rot, or sun-scorched coral outcroppings, use-less as real estate and, in strategic terms, scarcely worth conquering, much less destroying thousands of American lives to capture. But Saipan was actually—I couldn’t resist the word—lovable, or would have been under peacetime conditions, with a jungle of hibiscus and flame trees and bougainvillea exuding an urgent exotic odor that was dispersed on balmy breezes and that conjured up visions (whenever I allowed myself to think that the war might end) of Pan American Clippers bearing their cargoes of hot honeymooners panting to get laid or otherwise disport themselves in swank palm-thatched huts on the very beach where our company bivouac was set up. Jesus, I thought, they’d probably even be getting sex that was air-conditioned. As I lay in the tent some mornings, at dawn, the flowered air was like the sweetest aphrodisiac, and I’d get tremendously stirred up with lewd fantasies that for a single moment, arresting me in rapture, would wipe out my fear. It lasted the merest instant, but it helped. Only a self-induced sexual climax had the capacity to obliterate the future, and the unspeakable dread of it that dwelled in my heart. As July wore on, the daily procession of ambulances dwindled to one or two every few hours, then ceased altogether—a sign that the Okinawa battle was now history. But an ambulance was not the only memento mori, and there were other auguries capable of scaring us shitless. The word came down through dispatches on the Armed Forces Radio, and spread rapidly through the encampment, that on the Japanese mainland the civilian population had gone berserk; people were arming themselves to the teeth—old men, women, and hysterical kids. The Jap defeat on Okinawa, far from crushing the national spirit, had aroused the citizens to a new resolve, and they’d be waiting for us with every primitive weapon they could lay their hands on. On a bright morning, after hearing this freakish news, I had one of those strangling nightmares from which one awakes with heartbeat amok. The dream had had a jerky clarity, like a newsreel clip. In some Osaka suburb, I was leading my platoon through clouds of smoke as we roamed about in house-to-house fighting. All of a sudden, there rushed at me a murderous little woman in a kimono, with one of those ivory doodads in her hair; screaming banzais and on the point of harpooning me squarely through the gut with a bamboo stick, she metamorphosed into a nattering wee manicurist busily attending to my nails. One evening, startling news circulated: all the officers in the division were being ordered to assemble in the huge amphitheatre at the far end of the beach. Such a muster of officers had never happened before. Almost at once, the rumor flew that we were gathering to learn about the invasion, though precisely what no one could even guess. Just after chow in the mess tent, at around six o’clock, I walked with Stiles and Veneris down a path through a scrubby pandanus-pine grove bordering the lagoon beach and onto the beach itself, a stretch of clean powdery sand. I’d been there many times before and thus was familiar with the droll monstrosity on a giant poster that an engineer outfit had stuck up on a stanchion—a creation executed by some marine who had been a cartoonist in civilian life. It was a bespectacled squinty-eyed Jap soldier portrayed as a dementedly grinning rat. “Know Your Enemy” was the legend beneath the profoundly repulsive effigy, complete with shitty-looking cap, buckteeth, whiskers, pink watery eyes, a coiling pink tail, and—drawn with such subtlety that one didn’t immediately notice it—an elongated pink cock gripped in a hairy paw. It was this last detail, usually eliciting a slow double take, that got at everyone’s funny bone, especially the old-timers who’d been through the meat grinders on Guadalcanal and Tarawa and here on Saipan, and whose hatred for the Japs was like an ongoing lust. In keeping with the Marine Corps’s habit of uglifying, whenever possible, the names of the natural splendors it encroached upon, the poster had caused this portion of the shoreline to be called Rat Beach, and as we trudged along its edge, mostly silent, I think all of us felt the same desperate unease, aware that we were doubtless being prepared to receive momentous tidings. Finally, Stiles spoke up. “Jesus, I hope this is it. We wait around any longer, we’ll go nuts.” Veneris put in, “Maybe they’re going to give us a landing date. I hope the fuck it’s soon.” Oh, Jesus, I thought, I hope the fuck it’s never. I couldn’t even work up a falsely brave remark, and I felt twisted with envy at the others’ breezy offhandedness. That wasn’t all that I envied about Stiles and Veneris, both of them blandly efficient athletic mesomorphs who could do with maddening grace what I could do only with dogged effort: strip down a weapon, set up a mortar emplacement, follow a compass heading on a night march, quickly find fields of fire for a machine gun, carry out a snappy rifle inspection, and even keep their dungarees looking crisp and clean. I wasn’t a bad platoon leader; in fact, I was pretty good. I was certainly not a fuckup—I was too desperate to avoid failure and disgrace for that—but on certain petty military challenges, duck soup for most lieutenants, I often barely squeaked by. I was happy to be just average. I was happy, too, that I got along so well with these guys. I’d been boringly and single-mindedly an aesthete in college, a devotee of quality lit and chamber music, with tendencies that might have been called “neurasthenic.” My tentmates had both been standout jocks and were also gorgeous: the blond Stiles on a champion swimming team at Yale; the Greek Veneris, with skin like dark enamel, an all-Big Ten tackle at Ohio State. Such looks and pedigrees gave them a leg up with the kids in their platoons, while I, skinny and knobby-kneed, almost didn’t dare to let my troops see me reading anything so sissified as “The Pocket Book of Verse.” The amphitheatre, a natural coral bowl surrounded by palm trees, was already partly filled with the hundreds of officers and warrant officers of every rank in our division. This vast space served the needs of the Army and Navy personnel on the island as well as the marines. The week before, Bob Hope had entertained the troops from the stage, and the week before that we’d sat through an evening of Kay Kyser’s Kollege of Musical Knowledge, featuring among other warblers Ish Kabibble and Wee Bonnie Baker, whose infantile voice in a song called “Oh Johnny, Oh Johnny, Oh!” was one of many dim-witted numbers that had held me captive during my pubescence. If two hours of Kay Kyser had been an ordeal, the same could not be said for Bob Hope; he’d been extravagantly, bigheartedly funny and had brought along a troupe of showgirls, beautiful long-legged creatures in feathers and G-strings, who displayed a stupefying amount of bare flesh as they wiggled their butts down toward the screaming mob. It had added another surreal dimension to this ghoulish Pacific war: the bimbos debarking from gargantuan transport planes, flashing their teeth and gyrating their groins, then becoming almost instantly airborne again, leaving behind thousands of doomed devils with aching gonads. We waited and fidgeted, minding our behavior. Officers were supposed to exhibit decorum, so we spoke in low voices. When enlisted men had to wait for long, they usually became a little raucous and horsed around, grab-assing—it was one of their privileges. I thought I’d managed to dominate my fear, but I was wrong. The despondent mood I’d been trying to ward off all day overtook me as we sat on the hard benches. I was seized by a sombre unfocussed anxiety; I tried to make it disappear, but there was no way I could beat back the waves of panic. I kept talking to myself, falling into a little monologue: Just stay calm, relax, everything’s going to be all right. Suddenly, I saw our battalion commander, Colonel Timothy Halloran (Happy was his nickname), take a seat on a nearby bench, and the mere reality of his presence soothed me a bit, as often happened when he hove into sight. We young officers were all nuts about Happy Halloran, who had a carefully cultivated, corny Irish brogue, a waxed handlebar mustache, a Navy Cross he’d won at the terrible shambles of Tarawa (where, badly wounded, he’d led an assault on a Jap pillbox, killing a slew of the enemy with their own machine gun), and, above all, an intuitive sense of leadership that allowed him to wield strict authority without losing the common touch. Unlike the other services, the Marine Corps has always harbored flamboyant characters and nonconformists, and we loved Happy Halloran for his slightly wacky heterodoxy, always playfully challenging the System. When at last, long after nightfall, the glittering bright lights went up on the stage, the presentation commenced, and a parade of high-ranking Fleet Marine Force officers—big shots from Hawaii—embarked on their speeches, we began to realize a cold fact: they had nothing new to tell us. “Security” and “secrecy” were the watchwords. The assault date was set, one intelligence colonel announced, but for security reasons it could not be revealed. Another officer took the stage. The site of the invasion of Japan had been selected, he proclaimed, and the beaches were now being carefully evaluated for all pertinent factors bearing upon the successful amphibious landing, but secrecy prevented an announcement of their location. “Then why the fuck are we sitting here?” I heard Happy Halloran mutter. I could see the back of his neck redden; he was stewing. A couple of officers near him snickered. Drops of rain spattered our brows. The palm trees thrashed in the rising wind. Still another officer from Pearl Harbor, a brigadier general, spoke from the podium; his gravelly voice boomed over the loudspeakers. “Gentlemen, we are faced with a difficult paradox. It would be reassuring if, after the destruction wrought upon the Japanese Army at Iwo Jima and Okinawa, it could be reported that the morale of their troops had been shattered, and their resources undermined, making the coming invasion easier on us. But the plain truth is—and our intelligence reports are clear on this matter—the Jap forces are, more than ever before, prepared to die for the Emperor, to fight to the last man.” He droned on. “More fucking blather,” I heard Colonel Halloran say. “Everybody knows the fucking Jap cocksuckers are a bunch of suicidal apes.” Even the star of the evening, an admiral, had nothing new to say, or, rather, what he did have to say was, we all sensed, ripe hokum. He appeared under the brilliant klieg lights, the first admiral most of us junior officers had ever laid eyes on. His name was Crews. Dressed in khaki, silver stars glittering on his open collar, chewing on a meerschaum pipe, he ambled to the center of the stage with a sheaf of notes clutched in his hand. He was angular and professorial-looking, and he peered at us owlishly through steel-rimmed glasses with lenses that grotesquely magnified his eyes. Plainly he was a desk admiral whose seagoing days were far in the past, and plainly, too, his propaganda mission was to bring us tidings of hope and cheer. Happy Halloran gave a jolly cackle and pounded his fist in his hand as he identified the lecturer, whom he’d encountered before. “I’ll be a son of a bitch if it isn’t Good News Crews,” he said. “The fucking windbag, he’s going to feed us the same load of garbage! We had this guy just before Tarawa. He told us he had good news. He said that after the Navy shelled the island it would be a piece of cake. And look what happened!” Halloran needed to say no more. The Tarawa calamity was already a Pacific legend: how naval intelligence, relying on obsolete charts, had miscalculated the tides so flagrantly that the Marine troops in their landing vessels were forced to disembark on coral reefs and then wade ashore for hundreds of yards, exposed to killing fire from Japanese machine guns. Scores of slaughtered men turned the white-capped waves incarnadine. Small wonder that Happy Halloran detested the Navy and its spokesmen. “Listen to this creep!” he said. “Gentlemen, it’s good news indeed,” Admiral Crews announced. “I’m here to describe the manner in which naval forces will support you in your operation against the Japanese homeland. Let me say that our support cannot, of course, supplant in any way the Marines’ incomparable mastery of amphibious warfare, yet we are prepared to make your task easier.” He spoke for nearly an hour. He said that while the present war had seen invasions that were complex and audacious enterprises—North Africa, Normandy, Tarawa, Peleliu, Iwo Jima, Okinawa—those battles would be dwarfed by the magnitude of the coming event, doubtless the mightiest naval offensive in history. He told of the armada of vessels that would be involved—the battleships, the cruisers, the destroyers, the submarines—and the titanic fleet of aircraft carriers with their hundreds of planes. He dwelled on the thousands of tons of supplies that the cargo ships would deliver to the Japanese shores from depots across the breadth of the Pacific, from California to Hawaii, the Philippines, Espíritu Santo, and the Solomons. But, chiefly, the Admiral extolled the might of naval gunfire, whose concentration on the landing area, he said, gesturing heavenward with his meerschaum, would be the heaviest ever to support American troops. Together with precision attacks from carrier-based planes, the pre-invasion bombardment would pour fire day after day onto the beaches with such intensity—he paused, weighing the phrase, then said, “with such stupendous intensity”—that the very ground upon which the Japanese defenses stood would be obliterated. Furthermore, he added, should the marines be properly apprehensive about underwater obstacles, these would be effectively eliminated well before D Day by teams of Navy frogmen who would clear the beaches. “I cannot believe this dingbat!” I heard Happy Halloran burst out, a little too loud, just before the Admiral wound down his spiel in a monotonous statistical stutter of tonnages, man-hours, payloads, cubic yards. I could sense a tropical downpour in the offing. Greenish lightning flashed across the ocean darkness, and there was a distant grumble of thunder. Halloran had risen from his bench and was clowning around in the shadows, mimicking the Admiral’s pipe gestures and delighting the younger officers, who, like me, were as much in awe of his maverick brashness, his contempt for the brainless minutiae and hollow trumpery of military life as they were of his ability to command for himself—when he needed it—absolute respect. Few senior officers had the capacity to give their troops a laugh, and the single feature that made tolerable my vision of D Day, if there was such a feature, was that Happy Halloran would be the one to lead me into the jaws of death. Now I saw that, having come to the period of questions and answers, the Admiral—who appeared slightly deaf—had cupped a hand around one ear and was attempting to answer a question from Halloran; it was a query delivered across the arena in a voice deliberately pitched a little too low for the Admiral to hear. Beneath his huge handlebar, the Colonel’s teeth flashed a malevolent grin. The excremental trope was, I thought, stunning: “Are you aware, sir, that you are full of ostrich shit?” It was wonderfully deft in its controlled daring: a lieutenant colonel baiting a rear admiral in public was a scary tightrope act, even in a community as notably hostile to Navy brass as the Marines. The impertinence was astounding, courting severe punishment. But somehow Happy Halloran pulled it off; a ripple of laughter rolled through the crowd of officers, then became a sustained roar as the Admiral persisted with a puzzled “What did he say? What did he say?” and the wind squall off the ocean blew stronger, scattering papers and maps and adding its own sudden savage bluster to the general din. Shortly after this, when the assembly broke up, we found ourselves running. We were running like hell; that is, the battalion officers—eighteen or twenty of us platoon leaders and company commanders and a major named Wilhoite, the battalion exec—were trailing Happy Halloran at full speed down the hard sands of Rat Beach through a rainstorm so dense that the water filled our mouths as we ran and half blinded us. Lightning bolts struck the ocean and the bordering jungle, and we hollered with alarm. We ran like maniacs. We were alone in this weird spree; only our colonel in his dotty genius would have had the gall to lead his officers on such a gallop after a mind-deadening lecture and a sixteen-hour day that had already left us aching with fatigue. But, though we were in misery over what was happening, there was not one of us, gasping for breath and choking on rain, who wasn’t somehow secretly proud that the Colonel’s inspired whim was testing our endurance to the breaking point. To patiently absorb this extra shred of suffering was one reason we’d joined the Marines. And so, glad masochists all, we fled down the sand in the darkness, following our dungaree-clad leader with his Jerry Colonna mustache and his comically off-pitch baritone that suddenly burst forth with “The Marines’ Hymn,” which we joined in singing, or tried to, through the heavy pain of our breathing. I recall thinking what a blessed release this was, what a deliverance from the demons of my fear. If I could be caught up in pure motion like this, or if, as sometimes happened to me in the jungle, I could stay focussed on some knotty weapons problem or question of tactics, I’d manage to keep the terror perpetually at bay. Action freed me. It was only in the quiet hours that I felt the lethal dread. We halted at last and the weather cleared suddenly and beautifully, revealing a blazing full moon. It was like coming out of a stifling tunnel. The Colonel would have run us on and on into the night, I thought, had it not been for a stone cliff jutting out into the sea; here we came up short. Happy Halloran shouted “Fall out!” and we let ourselves sprawl on the sand, all of us silent for long minutes in the moonlight. None of us had canteens, and our thirst was fierce. Despite the rain, we were sweating. The Colonel was as bushed as the rest of us. I saw him squatting at the water’s edge, wheezing and cooling his face with handfuls of the surf. After a while he stood up, and when we, too, began to rise to our feet he bade us stay where we were. He said, “Smoking lamp’s lit,” and most of us groped for cigarette packs and tried to find dry matches in the recesses of our sodden dungarees. Zippo lighters flared in the dark. For minutes no one spoke; we sat there amid the lavender fumes, awaiting what we all sensed would be a declaration. And as we gazed up at Happy Halloran we saw that the comedian’s face had been transformed; he looked back at us with rage and sadness. His lips parted to say something, but, before he could speak, we heard a rumble of engines ascending in the air out of the south. It was a squadron of Army Air Force bombers from the airfield on Tinian Island, across the channel, and they cast their furious vibrations down upon us as they gained altitude and made a slow banking turn in their flight toward Japan. This was known as the nightly milk run. We looked up at the planes, as they climbed over the beach, glimpsed their swollen bellies pregnant with bombs that, in some hour of the coming day, would be loosed upon Kobe or Yokohama or Tokyo. The noise was brutal, but the planes rose with synchronous grace and when they flew past the moon, hugely silhouetted there, I was reminded of their witches’ errand and the awful multitude of deaths in those paper-and-bamboo cities. But it didn’t bother me too much; I had caught the contagion of Jap-hatred and, anyway, I was ready, as the planes vanished northward, to hang on to Happy Halloran’s every word. “Never believe the fucking Navy, lads,” the Colonel said. “They will betray you over and over. Before Iwo, the admirals said that that rock would be smashed to smithereens. They said that those sixteen-inch guns would destroy every living thing on the island, even the rats and the ants. But you know who died on D Day and afterward. You know how many thousands of brave marines were destroyed.” He began to stroll among us, tapping us gently on our shoulders and keeping up a murmurous flow of talk—talk tinged with a melancholy I’d never heard from him before, yet at the same time sounding a note that was confident, reassuring. His presence struck some hopelessly romantic chord in me, and I couldn’t help but think of King Harry and those troubled yeoman soldiers in the aching dark before Agincourt. “I’ll be brief,” he said. “We’re all thirsty and tired and we need to go to sleep. But I’ve got to tell you something. You guys have helped make this battalion the best one in the division, probably in the whole Marine Corps. Your N.C.O.s are magnificent. You have wonderful men under your command, and when this showdown comes you’re going to get the kind of performance every battalion commander dreams about.” He paused for a moment, then continued, “But I don’t want to give you any shit like that admiral. I want to speak the real truth. What we’re facing is the toughest fight in the history of the Marines, and we right here tonight are going to be in the toughest part of that fight. I’m not telling you anything new. Every one of you knows that because we were in floating reserve at Okinawa and only made that decoy landing it puts us No. 1 in line to be the spearhead division for Japan. Furthermore, lads, because this regiment, and especially this battalion, is such a fucking good one, I have almost no doubt that we will be the first to put foot onshore.” I’d more or less been aware of this for weeks, or at least I’d suspected it, like everyone else, but to hear the Colonel verify the fact—in effect, reading out our death warrant—sent my stomach churning; I saw some of the other lieutenants stir in the sand, as if his words had gripped them, too, with their desperate meaning. “Japan’s a big stinking fortress now,” he went on. “And you know from Okinawa what kind of fanatical fighting they’re going to put up to the very end. The miserable bastards are fighters, whatever the fuck else they are—subhuman, I guess. The landing beaches will be as impregnable as any such beaches can be made. They’ll have guns zeroed in to blow us apart. But we will have to go in and take that beachhead, even if it means that many of us won’t be coming back.” The moon cast Happy Halloran’s shadow over me, enveloping me in darkness as he drew near, and when I felt his fingertips lightly trace their way across my shoulder it was like a sudden benediction, calming—if only for an instant—my sick disquiet. “I don’t have much else to say, lads, except that I think the world of you people.” After a pause, he said again, “I really think the world of you. When the time comes, I know you’ll do your best—and that’s the best the Marine Corps has to offer. Which is the best in the fucking universe. Now let’s saddle up and walk home.” For a long time, in the early hours of the morning, I was unable to sleep. I lay on my cot staring up at the dark canopy of the tent, listening to the big spooky moths that every now and then bumped, with a flicker of soft wings, against the mosquito netting. Once in a while, I’d hear another Superfortress rising in the distance from the airfield on Tinian, and far off down the coast there was the faint steady hammering of a pile driver, where the Seabees were building a new pier. Hang me! Hang me! spoke the voice of the machine. Close by, a weird bird kept up a disturbance of flirtatious twitters in the jungle; closer still, beneath me, the snails on the plywood made their clumsy crackling. I focussed on their sounds one by one, as if by distracting myself for long enough I might avoid drifting down the tributaries of thought into those swampy visions which would mire me in absolute despair. I could tell from Stiles’s and Veneris’s breathing that they were deep in slumber, and this threw me into an even more hyped-up wakefulness. Shit, how could they sleep, how could anyone sleep, after the Colonel’s evil prophecy? By brooks too broad for leaping The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleeping In fields where roses fade. Under my flashlight’s gleam, I pored over the cluster of Housman poems in my “Pocket Book of Verse,” letting the sorrow and resignation take hold of my spirit; there was a note both stoical and ill-omened in this pastoral requiem, and it mated perfectly with my enervation, my feeling of doom. I despised myself for being so spineless and disabled, so demoralized, but I could do nothing to avoid the mud slide that was slowly enveloping me. Finally, I put the book aside and lay gazing upward into darkness. I couldn’t fight the fatigue any longer and drifted off into a shadowland where fantasy mingled with dream, and I was soon staring down an abomination: myself on D Day, coming undone. Now I saw myself as a figure in a newsreel, a running target. The beachhead was engulfed in flame. The ramps went down and I lurched forward onto the harsh ground, beckoning the platoon to follow me. I stumbled ashore through clouds of phosphorous and across an undulating terrain traversed by barriers of wire. A Jap machine gun, a Nambu, chattered from the flank and the air was thick with shrapnel, roiling, incandescent; the ground rocked with explosions. I turned to see my men hustling low as they scattered and deployed themselves at the edge of an embankment; some guys were falling now, still clutching their rifles at the instant of their collapse into the sand. I glimpsed white bones and blood, flowing like a sacrament. And then, frozen at the sight of so much blood, I sank into paralysis. I could make no movement, nor speak a word; in the grip of an overpowering numbness, I let my mind shut down. Nearby, one of my squad leaders questioned me with his eyes: Lieutenant, what’ll we do? Beyond the power of thinking, I made no reply. Through billows of smoke, I saw my tentmates; I could tell that Veneris on my right and Stiles on my left were advancing steadily with their men. Over the radio I heard my company commander’s frantic roar: Get your troops moving! But the command was without force, without meaning; it might as well have been shouted in an unknown tongue. My immobility was complete, as if tendrils of myself had burrowed down and sought root in the soil of Japan, rendering me brainless vegetation. Yet most intolerable—sickening and intolerable—was the look in the eyes of Stiles and Veneris, who, glancing back as they moved through the visible swarm of enemy bullets, turned upon me their measureless scorn and loathing. . . . Coming awake, awash in sweat, I felt my pounding heart and was sure I’d made a strangled noise, loud enough to arouse my friends. But they still slept. For what seemed hours I lay there, listening to their breathing. They’d have to be sleeping like this, I thought at last, on that not too distant night when I would fulfill the promise that I’d made to myself and enact the lonesome little farce that I’d rehearsed so many times before. I was almost ready. Until this moment, I hadn’t allowed myself to rehearse the first detail of the plan that would lead me into the jungle. But now I let my arm fall to the side of my cot, and I touched with my fingers the cold metal of the carbine cradled in its rack above the flooring. Beneath my hand, the barrel of the weapon was oily and slick, and I caressed its surface for long minutes as if touch in itself were reassurance and consolation. Then I drew back my arm. The thought of that night filled my mind like an ecstatic heartbeat. What night it would be I didn’t know; I knew only that there would be such a night for certain, and soon—the night when at last I stole out of the tent and into the cricketing darkness, and there amid the hibiscus and the flame trees destroyed my fear forever.
Childcare The cold came late that fall, and the songbirds were caught off guard. By the time the snow and wind began in earnest, too many had been suckered into staying, and instead of flying south, instead of already having flown south, they were huddled in people’s yards, their feathers puffed for some modicum of warmth. I was looking for a babysitting job. I was a student and needed money, so I would walk from interview to interview in these attractive but wintry neighborhoods, past the eerie multitudes of robins pecking at the frozen ground, dun gray and stricken—though what bird in the best of circumstances does not look a little stricken—until at last, late in my search, at the end of a week, startlingly, the birds had disappeared. I did not want to think about what had happened to them. Or, rather, that is an expression—of politeness, a false promise of delicacy—for in fact I wondered about them all the time: imagining them dead, in stunning heaps in some killing cornfield outside of town, or dropped from the sky in twos and threes for miles down along the Illinois state line. I was looking in December for work that would begin in January, at the start of the spring term. I’d finished my exams and was answering ads from the student job board, ones for “childcare provider.” I liked children—I did!—or, rather, I liked them O.K. They were sometimes interesting. I admired their stamina and candor. And I was good with them, in that I could make funny faces at the babies and teach the older children card tricks while speaking in the theatrically sarcastic tones that disarmed and enthralled them. But I was not especially skilled at minding children for long spells; I grew bored, perhaps like my own mother. After I’d spent too much time playing their games, my mind grew peckish and longed to lose itself in some book I had in my backpack. I was ever hopeful of early bedtimes and long naps. I had come from Dellacrosse Central, from a small farm on the old Perryville Road, to this university town of Troy, “the Athens of the Midwest,” as if from a cave—like the priest-child of a Colombian tribe I’d read about in Anthropology 203, a boy made mystical by being kept in the dark for the bulk of his childhood and allowed only stories—no experience—of the outside world. Once brought out into light, he was in a perpetual, holy condition of bedazzlement and wonder; no story could ever equal the thing itself. And so it was with me. Nothing had really prepared me. Not the college piggy bank in the dining room, the savings bonds from my grandparents, or the used set of World Book encyclopedias, with their beautiful color charts of international wheat production and photographs of Presidential birthplaces. The flat, green world of my parents’ hogless, horseless farm—its dullness, its flies, its quiet ripped open daily by the fumes and whining of machinery—twisted away and left me with a brilliant city life of books and films and witty friends. Someone had turned on the lights. Someone had led me out of the cave of Perryville Road. My brain was on fire with Chaucer, Sylvia Plath, Simone de Beauvoir. Twice a week, a young professor named Thad, dressed in jeans and a tie, stood before a lecture hall of stunned farm kids like me and spoke thrillingly of Henry James’s masturbation of the comma. I was riveted. I had never before seen a man wear jeans with a tie. The Colombian cave, of course, had produced a mystic; my childhood, however, had produced only me. In the corridors, students argued over Bach, Beck, Balkanization, bacterial warfare. Out-of-state kids said things to me like “You’re from the country. Is it true that if you eat a bear’s liver you’ll die?” They asked, “Ever know someone who did you-know-what with a cow?” Or “Is it an actual fact that pigs won’t eat bananas?” What I did know was that a goat would not really eat a tin can: it just liked to lick the paste on the label. But no one ever asked me about that. Before coming to Troy, I had never had Chinese food. But now, two blocks from my apartment, next to a shoe-repair shop, was a place called the Peking Café, where I went as often as I could for the Buddha’s Delight. These odd Chinese vegetables—fungal and gnomic in their brown sauce—had for me the power of an adventure or a rite, a statement to be savored. Back in Dellacrosse, the dining was divided into “casual,” which meant that you ate it standing up or took it away, and the high end, which was called “sit-down dining.” At the Wie Haus Family Restaurant, where we went for sit-down, the seats were red leatherette and the walls were gemütlich and panelled, decorated with framed deep kitsch—wide-eyed shepherdesses and jesters. The breakfast menus said “Guten Morgen.” Sauces were called “gravy.” And the dinner menu featured cheese-curd meat loaf and steak “cooked to your likeness.” On Fridays, there were fish fries or boils, at which they served “lawyers” (burbot or eelpout), so called because their hearts were in their butts. On Sundays, there was not only marshmallow-and-maraschino-cherry salad and something called Grandma Jell-O but “prime rib with au jus,” a precise knowledge of French—or English or even food coloring—not being the restaurant’s strong suit. “À la carte” meant soup or salad; “dinner” meant soup and salad. The Roquefort on the salad was called by the waitstaff “Rockford dressing.” The house wines—red, white, or pink—bore the requisite bouquets of rose, soap, and graphite, a whiff of hay, a hint of Hooterville, though the menu remained mute about all this, sticking to straightforward declarations of hue. Light ale and dunkel were served. For dessert, there was usually a Glückschmerz pie, with the fluffy look and heft of a small snowbank. After any meal, sleepiness ensued. Now, however, away and on my own, seduced and salted by brown sauce, I felt myself thinning and alive. The owners of the Peking Café let me linger over my books and stay as long as I wanted to: “Take your tie! No lush!” they said kindly as they sprayed the neighboring tables with disinfectant. I ate mango and papaya, nudging the stringy parts out of my teeth with a cinnamon toothpick. I had a handleless cup of hot, stale tea, poured and reheated from a pail stored in the restaurant’s walkin refrigerator, and one elegantly folded fortune cookie—a short paper nerve baked in an ear. I would tug the paper slip from the stiff clutches of the cookie and save it as a bookmark. All my books had fortunes protruding like tiny tails from their pages: You are the crispy noodle in the salad of life. You are the master of your own destiny. My roommate, Murph—a nose-pierced, hinky-toothed blonde from Dubuque, who used black soap and black dental floss and whose quick opinions were impressively harsh (she pronounced Dubuque “Du-ba-cue”)—always added the phrase “in bed” to any fortune-cookie fortune, so in my mind I read them that way, too: You are the master of your own destiny. In bed. Well, that was true. Debt is a seductive liar. In bed. Or, the less well translated, Your fate will blossom like a bloom. Or the sly, wise guy: A refreshing change is in your future. Sometimes, as a better joke, I added, though not in bed. You will soon make money. Or: Wealth is a wise woman’s man. Though not in bed. I looked daily at the employment listings. Childcare was in demand: I turned in my final papers and answered the ads. One fortyish pregnant woman after another hung up my coat, sat me in her living room, then waddled out to the kitchen, got my tea, and waddled back in, clutching her back, slopping tea onto the saucer, and asking me questions. “What would you do if our little baby started crying and wouldn’t stop?” “Are you available evenings?” “What do you think of as a useful educational activity for a small child?” I had no idea. I had never seen so many pregnant women in such a short period of time—five in all. It alarmed me. They did not look radiant. They looked reddened with high blood pressure and frightened. I gave them my references and a written summary of my experience. My experience was not all that much—just the Pitskys and the Schultzes back home. I had once, as part of a class project on human reproduction, carried around for an entire week a sack of flour the exact weight and feel of an infant. I’d swaddled it and cuddled it and placed it in safe, cushioned places for naps. But once, when no one was looking, I stuffed it into my backpack with a lot of sharp pens, and it got stabbed. My books, powdery white the rest of the term, became a joke in the class. I left this off my résumé. But the rest I’d typed up. To gild the lily-livered, as my dad sometimes said, I wore to my interviews what the department stores called “a career jacket,” and perhaps the women liked the professionalism of that. They were professionals themselves. Two were lawyers, one was a journalist, one was a doctor, one a high-school teacher. Where were the husbands? “Oh, at work,” the women said vaguely. All except the journalist, who said, “Good question!” The last house I went to was a gray stucco prairie house with a chimney cloaked in dead ivy. Some desiccated mums were still in pots on the porch. Ice frosted the crisp heads of the flowers. Leaning against the house were a shovel and a rake, and tucked into a corner of the porch were two phone books still in shrink-wrap. The woman of the house opened the door. She was pale and compact, no sags or pouches, linen skin tight across the bone. The hollows of her cheeks were powdered darkly, as if with the pollen of a tiger lily. Her hair was cropped short and dyed the fashionable bright auburn of a ladybug. Her earrings were buttons of deepest orange, her leggings mahogany, her sweater rust-colored, and her lips a maroonish brown. She looked like a highly controlled oxidation experiment. “Come in,” she said, and I entered, mutely at first and then, as always, apologetically, as if I were late, though I wasn’t. The woman closed the heavy oak door behind me, and I stamped my feet on the braided rug I was standing on, to shake off the snow. I started to take off my shoes. “Oh, you don’t have to take off your shoes,” she said. “There’s too much of that prissy Japanese stuff going on in this town. Bring in the mud.” She smiled—big, theatrical, a little crazy. I had forgotten her name and was hoping she’d say it soon; if she didn’t, she might not say it at all. “I’m Tassie Keltjin,” I said, thrusting out my hand. She took it and then studied my face. “Yes,” she said absently, unnervingly scrutinizing each of my eyes. Her gaze made a slow, observing circle around my nose and mouth. “I’m Sarah Brink,” she said finally. I was not used to being looked at close up, not used to the thing I was looking at looking back. Certainly my own mother had never done such looking, and in general my face had the kind of smooth, round stupidity that did not prompt the world’s study. I had always felt as hidden as the hull in a berry, as secret and fetal as the curled fortune in a cookie, and such hiddenness was not without its advantages, its egotisms, its grief-fed grandiosities. “Here, let me take your coat,” Sarah Brink said finally, and only then, as she lifted it off me and headed across the foyer to hang it on a hat rack, did I notice that she was as thin as a pin, not pregnant at all. She led me into the living room, stopping at the large back window first. I followed her, tried to do what she did. In the yard, most of a sizable oak tree split by lightning had been hacked and stacked by the garage for winter firewood. Near its old stump, another tree—tenuous, young, with the look of a swizzle stick—had been planted, trussed, and braced. But Sarah wasn’t studying the trees. “Oh, for the love of God, look at those poor dogs,” she said. We stood there, watching. The dogs next door were being kept in their yard by an invisible electric fence. One of them, a German shepherd, understood the fence, but the other one, a little terrier, did not. The German shepherd would get a game of chase going around the yard and lead the terrier right to the electrified border and then stop short, leaving the terrier to barrel on ahead into the electricity. The stunned terrier would then come racing back, shrieking with pain. “This has been going on for weeks,” Sarah said. “Reminds me of dating,” I said, and Sarah spun her head around, to size me up again. Heat flew to my face. Dating? What did I know of it? My roommate, Murph, had done all the dating and had essentially abandoned me so that she could now sleep every night with this new guy she’d met. She had bequeathed me her vibrator, a strange swirling, buzzing thing that when switched to “High” gyrated in the air like someone’s bored thick finger going whoop-de-do. Whose penis could this possibly resemble? Someone who had worked in a circus, perhaps. Maybe Burt Lancaster’s in “Trapeze.” I kept the thing on the kitchen counter, where Murph had left it for me, and occasionally I used it to stir my chocolate milk. Sarah turned back to the window. “The neighbors just put in that invisible fence,” she said. “In November. I’m sure it causes M.S. or something.” Then she got down to business. “Have a seat. Here’s the deal.” She motioned with an arm tossed suddenly out in a spasm. “Childcare,” she began, but then stopped, as if that were sufficient. I sat down on a chair that was upholstered in a kind of pillow ticking. “Childcare,” like “healthcare,” had become one word. I was about to become a dispenser of it. I opened my backpack and began fumbling through it, looking for a copy of my résumé. Sarah sat across from me on a pale-gray sofa, the very brightness of her looking as if it might stain the cushions. She twisted her legs up and around each other in such a way that the lower half of one gave the illusion of jutting out of the upper half of the other, as if she had the backward knees of a crane. She began clearing her throat, so I stopped fumbling and set the backpack aside. “Already the winter air is getting to me,” she said. She turned and coughed again loudly, in that parched fashion that doctors call “unproductive.” She patted her flat stomach. “Here’s the deal,” she said again. “We are adopting.” “Adopting?” “A baby. We are adopting a baby. That’s why we’re advertising for a sitter. We’d like to line someone up ahead of time for some regular hours.” I didn’t know anything about adoption. I’d known only one adopted girl when I was growing up, Becky Sussluch, who at sixteen was spoiled and beautiful and having an affair with a mussed and handsome student teacher whom I myself had a crush on. In general, I thought of adoption much as I thought of most things in life: uneasily. Adoption seemed both a cruel joke and a lovely daydream—a nice way of avoiding the blood and pain of giving birth, or, from a child’s perspective, a realized fantasy of your parents not really being your parents. Your genes could thrust one arm in the air and pump up and down. Yes! You were not actually related to them! “Congratulations,” I murmured now to Sarah. Was that what one said? Sarah’s face lit up gratefully, as if no one had yet said an encouraging word to her on the matter. “Why, thank you! I have so much work at the restaurant that everyone I mention this to acts peculiar and quiet, so meanly worried for me. They say, ‘Really!’ and then all this tension springs to their mouths. They think I’m too old.” I accidentally nodded. I had no idea, conversationally, where we were. I searched, as I too often found myself having to do, to find a language, or even an octave, in which to speak. I wondered how old she was. “I own Petit Moulin,” Sarah Brink added. Petit Moulin. I knew of it. It was one of those expensive restaurants downtown, every entrée freshly hairy with dill, every soup and dessert dripped upon as preciously as a Pollock, fillets and cutlets sprinkled with lavender dust once owned by pixies—restaurants to which students never went, unless newly pinned to a fraternity boy or dating an assistant dean or hosting a visit from concerned suburban parents. I knew that Petit Moulin served things that sounded like instruments—timbales, quenelles. God only knew what they were. I had once tried to study the menu in its lit case near the entrance, and as I stared at the words the sting of my own exile had moistened my eyes. The lowest price for an entrée was twenty-two dollars, the highest, forty-five. Forty-five! You could get a Taiwanese oil-and-water bra for that price! I fumbled in my bag again for my résumé, and found it folded and bent but handed it to Sarah anyway. I spoke. “My father supplied a few of the restaurants around here. A few years back it was, I think.” Sarah Brink looked at my résumé. “Are you related to Bo Keltjin—Keltjin potatoes?” It startled me to hear my father’s potatoes—Kennebecs, Norlands, Pontiacs, Yukon golds, some the size of marbles, some grapefruits, depending on drought and digging times and what the beetles were up to—summed up and referred to that way right here in her living room. “That’s my dad,” I said. “Why, I remember your father very well. His Klamath pearls were famous. Also the yellow fingerlings. And his purple Peruvians and Rose Finns were the first to be sold in those little netted berry pints, like jewels. I’d rush out to the farmers’ market at 6 A.M. to get them. Come April, I should put those back on the menu.” She was getting dreamy. Still, it was nice to hear my father spoken well of. He was not really respected as a farmer back home: he was a hobbyist, a truck farmer, with no real acreage, just some ducks (that every fall raped one another in a brutal fashion we never got used to), a dog, a tractor, a Web site (a Web site, for Christ’s sake!), and two decorative, brockle-headed cows of dubious dairiness. We had also once had an ebullient pig named Helen, who would come when you called her name and smiled like a dolphin when you spoke to her. And then we didn’t see her for a few days, and one morning over bacon and eggs my brother said, “Is this Helen?” and I dropped my fork and said, “This is Helen? Is this Helen?!” The next pig we got we never met, and its name was No. WK3746. “Yeah, his potatoes have a rep—at least in certain places,” I hastened to add. “Even my mother admires them, and she’s hard to please. She used to call them pommes de terre de l’air.” “That’s funny,” Sarah said. I feared that Sarah was one of those women who, instead of laughing, said, “That’s funny,” or, instead of smiling, said, “That’s interesting,” or instead of saying, “You are a stupid blithering idiot,” said, “Well, I think it’s a little more complicated than that.” I never knew what to do around such people, especially the ones who, after you spoke, liked to say, enigmatically, “I see.” Usually I just went mute. “Potatoes are grown from the eyes of other potatoes,” I said, apropos of God knows what. “Yes.” Sarah looked at me searchingly. “Your father seemed like a nice man. How old is he now?” “Forty-five.” “Forty-five! Why, I’m forty-five. That means I’m old enough to be your . . .” She took a breath, still processing her own amazement. “To be my dad?” I said. Sarah Brink laughed, a quasi-laugh, a socially constructed laugh—a collection of predetermined notes, like the chimes of a doorbell. “So here’s the job description,” she said when the laugh was through. Walking home, I tried to remember everything that Sarah Brink had said to me. It was a mile back to my apartment, so I replayed long snippets of her voice, though the cold air was the sort that bullied a walker into mental muteness. This is an incredibly important position for us, even if we are hiring at the last minute. If we hire you, we would like you to be there with us for everything, from the very first day. We would like you to feel like part of our family, since, of course, you will be part of it. I tried to think who Sarah Brink reminded me of, though I was sure it wasn’t anyone I’d actually met. Probably she reminded me of a character from a television show I’d watched years before. But not the star. Definitely not the star. More like the star’s neatnik roommate or the star’s kooky cousin from Cleveland. I knew that, even once she had a baby, she would never be able to shake the Auntie Mame quality from her mothering. There were worse things, I supposed. My apartment was in one of those old frame houses close to campus, in the student ghetto that abutted the university stadium. Across the street, the gray concrete stadium wall rose three times higher than any building around, and overshadowed the neighborhood in a bleak and brutal way. In spring and fall, convening marching bands, with their vibrating tubas and snares, routinely rattled our windowpanes. On Sunday mornings, after the game, the sidewalk was littered with cardboard signs that read, “I Need Tickets.” In the hallway of my apartment, the phone-machine light was blinking and I pressed Play, turned up the volume, then went on into my bedroom, where I flopped down on my bed, in the Icelandic afternoon dusk, door open, to listen. A long, uncertain silence preceded the message. “Yes, hello, this is Sarah Brink phoning for Tassie Keltjin.” There was another long, uncertain silence. I sat straight up to hear if there was anything else. “Could she phone me back sometime this evening? Thank you very much.” I got up and rewound the machine and played the message from Sarah Brink again. What was I frightened of? I wasn’t sure. But I decided to wait until the morning to phone her back. I got into my nightgown, made a grilled-cheese sandwich and some mint tea, then took them back into my room, where I consumed them in bed. Ringed by crumbs and grease, newspapers and a book, I fell asleep. I woke up in a blaze of white sun. I had neglected to pull down the shades and it had snowed during the night; the morning rays reflected off the snow on the sills and on the low adjacent roof, setting the room on fire with daylight. I tried not to think about my life. I did not have any good, solid plans for it long term—no bad plans, either, no plans at all—and the lostness of that, compared with the clear ambitions of my friends (marriage, children, law school), sometimes shamed me. Other times, in my mind I defended such a condition as morally and intellectually superior—my life was open and ready and free—but that did not make it any less lonely. I got up, trudged barefoot across the cold floor, and made a cup of coffee, with a brown plastic Melitta filter and a paper towel, dripping it into a single ceramic mug that said “Moose Timber Lodge.” Murph had gone there once, for a weekend, with her new B.F. The phone rang again before I’d had time to let the coffee kick in and give me words to say; nonetheless, I picked up the receiver. “Hi, is this Tassie?” the newly familiar voice said. “Yes, it is.” I frantically gulped at my coffee. What time was it? Too soon for calls. “This is Sarah Brink. Did I wake you? I’m sorry. I’m calling too early, aren’t I?” “Oh, no,” I said, lest she think I was a shiftless bum. Better a lying sack of shit. “I didn’t know whether I’d left a message on the correct machine or not. And I wanted to get back to you as soon as possible before you accepted an offer from someone else.” Little did she know—none of the five other women had even called. “I’ve talked it over with my husband, and we’d like to offer you the job.” Could she even have checked the references I’d listed? Had there been enough time? “Oh, thank you,” I said. “We’ll start you at ten dollars an hour, with the possibility of raises down the line. The problem is this: the job starts today.” “Today?” I sipped again. “Yes, I’m sorry. We’re going to Kronenkee to meet the birth mother, and we’d like you to come with us.” “Yes, well, I think that would be O.K.” “So you accept the position?” “Yes, I guess I do.” “You do? You can’t know how happy you’ve made me.” “Really?” I asked, all the while wondering, Where’s the new employee’s first-day orientation meeting? Where is the “You’ve Picked a Great Place to Work” PowerPoint presentation? The coffee was kicking in, but not helpfully. “Oh, yes, really,” she said. “Can you be here by noon?” The appointment with the birth mother was for 2 P.M. at the Perkins restaurant in Kronenkee, a town an hour away with a part-German, part-Indian name that I’d always assumed meant “wampum.” The social worker who ran the adoption agency was supposed to meet us there with the birth mother, so that we could all cheerfully assess one another. I had walked the half hour to Sarah Brink’s house and then waited twenty minutes while she scrambled around doing things, making quick phone calls to her restaurant—“Meeska, the Concord coulis has got to be more than grape jam!”—or searching madly for her sunglasses (“I hate that snow glare on those two-lane roads”), all the while apologizing to me from the next room. In the car, on our way up, I sat next to her in the front seat, since her husband, Edward, whom, strangely, I still hadn’t met, couldn’t get out of some meeting or other and had apparently told Sarah to go ahead without him. “Marriage,” Sarah said, sighing. As if I had any idea what that meant. I looked sideways at Sarah, who was hatless, with a long cranberry scarf coiled twice about her neck. The sun caught the shiny artifice of her hair as well as the stray tufts of white lint on her peacoat. Still, especially with the sunglasses in winter—something I had seldom seen before—she looked glamorous. I was not used to speaking to adults, so I felt comfortable just being quiet with her, and soon she turned on the classical-music station and we listened to Mussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition” and “Night on Bald Mountain” for the entire ride. “They’ve told me the birth mother is very beautiful,” Sarah said, at one point. And I said nothing, not knowing what to say. We waited in the second booth at Perkins, Sarah and I sitting on the same side, to leave the opposite seat open for the two people we were waiting for. Sarah ordered Perkins’s Bottomless Pot of Coffee for the entire table, and the waitress went away to get it. “Oh, look, here they are,” Sarah murmured, and I looked up to see a heavily made-up middle-aged woman in a deep-pink parka holding the arm of a girl probably my age, maybe younger, who was very pregnant, very pretty, and who, as I could see, even from that distance, when she smiled at us, had scarcely a tooth in her head. We stood and moved toward them. The girl wore an electronic bracelet on her wrist, but was clearly unembarrassed by this because she energetically thrust her hand out of her sleeve in greeting. I shook it. “Hi,” she said to me. I wondered what she had done, and why the bracelet was not around her ankle instead. Perhaps she had been very, very bad and had two. “Hi,” I replied, trying to smile companionably and not stare at her stomach. “This is the mother, here,” the woman in the pink parka told the pregnant girl, indicating Sarah. “Sarah Brink? Amber Bowers.” “Hi—it’s so wonderful to meet you.” Sarah grasped Amber’s hand warmly and shook it for too long. Amber kept turning back hopefully toward me, as if she were as baffled as I was to be in the company of these mysterious middle-aged women. “I’m Tassie Keltjin,” I said quickly, shaking Amber’s penalized hand again. The delicate knobs of her wrists and her elegant fingers were a strange contrast to her toothlessness and the hard plastic parole band. “I’m going to work for Sarah, as a childcare provider.” “And I’m Letitia Gherlich,” the adoption-agency woman said, shaking my hand, though not letting go of Amber’s coat sleeve, as if she might escape. Amber did have the face, if not currently the body, of someone who perhaps more than once had made a run for it. “Hey, Letitia,” Sarah said, and threw her arms around her as if they were old friends, though Letitia stiffened a little. After that, things moved with swiftness and awkwardness both, like something simultaneously strong and broken. We hung up coats, we ordered, we ate, we made chitchat about the food and the snow. “Oh, there’s my probation officer,” Amber said, giggling; her face brightened, as if she had a little crush on him. “I think he sees us. He’s sitting right over there by the window.” We looked up to see the probation officer, his blue jacket still on, his bottomless Diet Coke stacked with ice. A going-to-seed hunk in a windbreaker: the world seemed full of them. We all just stared to buy ourselves time, I suppose, and to avoid the actual question of Amber’s crimes. Letitia began to speak to Sarah, on Amber’s behalf. “Amber is happy to meet Tassie as well as you, Sarah.” Here Amber looked across at me and rolled her eyes, as if we were two girls out with our embarrassing mothers. I had been noticing Amber’s face, which was as lovely as advertised but sassy, with a strange electricity animating it; with the missing teeth she seemed like a slightly sophisticated hillbilly or an infant freak. Her hair was a gingery blond, shoulder length, as straight and coarse as a horse’s tail. Letitia, perhaps nervous about the sticky parts of a deal, went on cheerily, “The birth father is white. I did mention that to you, didn’t I?” Sarah said nothing, her face momentarily inscrutable. Letitia continued. “Tall and good-looking, like Amber.” Amber smiled happily. “We broke up,” she said, shrugging. “Do you have a picture of him, though? To show Sarah?” Letitia was selling the idea of the handsome white-boy dad. “I don’t think I ever had a damn picture of him,” Amber said, shaking her head. Now she looked at me, grinning. “Except in my mind. My mind’s a regular exhibition.” The phrase was oddly reminiscent of the Mussorgsky we’d listened to in the car. And her mouth, with its few and crooked teeth, bits of shell awash on a reef of gum, seemed a curious home for her voice, which was slowly surprising, with its intelligence and humor. There was a lull now. Amber suddenly leaned back, physically uncomfortable. “So, where’s your husband?” she asked Sarah. I examined Sarah’s face for the stiffened look of the accused. “He’s, oh, he’s at a meeting his lab is having with the university. I run my own restaurant in town, so I can make up my own schedule as far as meetings go. But, well, he’s at the beck and call of others—at least today he is.” “Do you think you really have time for a baby, owning a restaurant and all?” Amber was not shy. If she had been shy, not one of us would be at Perkins right now. Sarah refused to be flustered. She’d clearly heard remarks of this sort a dozen times. But before she could speak Letitia spoke for her. “That’s why Tassie is here. Tassie’s the backup. But Sarah will always be around. She’ll be the mom. And she can do a lot of her work right out of the house—isn’t that right, Sarah?” What work could Sarah do from the house? Yell at Meeska about the coulis? “Absolutely,” Sarah said. “Oh, I forgot. I brought you a present, Amber.” She took a CD from her purse. “It’s a mixed CD of my favorite classical music.” Amber took it and stashed it in her bag with the most fleeting of glances. Perhaps she’d had a slew of these lunches as a means of collecting goodies, which she would later sell on eBay. “And I have a present for you, too,” she said, and handed Sarah a foil-wrapped pat of butter she plucked from the bowl on the table. “Mine’s wrapped!” Amber said, smiling wickedly. The CD hadn’t been. A scalding boldness gripped Amber’s face, then a kind of guilt, then drifty blankness, like songs off a jukebox list, flipped through unchosen. “Thanks!” Sarah said gamely. You had to hand it to her. She opened up the butter and applied it to her mouth like lip gloss. “Prevents chapped lips.” “You’re welcome,” Amber said. When we all walked out to the parking lot, the probation officer followed. An American flag was flapping noisily next to the Perkins sign; the air was picking up wind and snow. The probation officer walked to his car and got in but did not start it. Amber’s face was completely lit up. I saw that she was fantastically in love with him. She was not concentrating on any of us, and something about this provoked Sarah. “Well,” she said, studying Amber with an artificial smile. “Yes, well,” Amber said. “All right, then,” Letitia said. “Can I give you some advice, Amber?” Sarah asked, standing there, as Letitia clutched Amber even tighter. The windbreakered parole officer gave a wave and drove off. “What?” Amber said to Sarah, but to me she smiled and said, “He was definitely following me.” “When I was your age, I had some rebellious ideas,” Sarah continued her unsolicited advice to Amber. “I got in trouble now and again, here and there, but I realized it was because I was doing things I wasn’t any good at. Look at this.” She tapped Amber’s electronic bracelet with a gloved index finger. “You’re eighteen. Don’t sell drugs. You’re no good at it. Do something you’re good at.” Sarah meant this tough-love speech compassionately, I could see, but Amber’s face flushed with insult, then hardened. “That’s what I’m trying to do,” she said indignantly, and tore herself from Letitia’s grip, walked over to what was apparently Letitia’s car, and got in on the passenger side. Baby, it’s scold outside, Murph would have said if she had been there. “We’ll talk later,” Letitia called to Sarah, waving goodbye and hurrying off to Amber. “Well,” Sarah said as we both got into her car. “That was, for all intents and purposes, a complete disaster.” She started up the engine. “You know?” she continued. “I always do the wrong thing. I do the wrong thing so much that the times I actually do the right thing stand out so brightly in my memory that I forget I always do the wrong thing.” We rode home mostly in silence, Sarah offering me gum, then cough drops, both of which I took, thanking her. When I glanced over at her, driving without her sunglasses, her scarf wrapped now around her head like a babushka, she seemed watery, far away, lost in thought, and I wondered how a nice, attractive girl—for I thought I had glimpsed on the way up the girl she once was, her face still and thoughtful, her hair in the sun ablaze with light—how a girl like that became a lonely woman with a yarny schmatte on her head, became this, whatever it was. After a childhood of hungering to be an adult, I no longer felt much hunger. Unexpected fates had begun to catch my notice. These middle-aged women seemed very tired to me, as if hope had been wrung out of them and replaced with a deathly, walking sort of sleep. Sarah’s cell phone played the beginning of “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” its vigorous twang not unlike a harpsichord, and so not completely offensive to the spirit of Mozart, who perhaps did not have to roll about in his grave as much as so many of his colleagues did, since the advent of electronic things. Sarah pulled the phone from her bag, slowing the car slightly as she did. “Excuse me,” she said to me. “Yeah?” she said into the phone. All this despite the bumper sticker on her car that read, “Perhaps You Would Drive Better with That Cell Phone Shoved up Your Ass.” She also had one that said, “If God Speaks Through Burning Bushes, Let’s Burn Bush and Listen to What God Says.” It was interesting to me that such a woman, one with such rhetorical violence affixed to her car, had got past the adoption agency’s screening procedures, whatever they were. “Sarah, hi, it’s Letitia,” I heard. I don’t know why I could hear so clearly—perhaps Sarah was a little deaf and had the volume turned up high. “Hi, Letitia.” I believed I wasn’t supposed to listen, so I looked out the window at the bleak snowy landscape; the sun was low and feeble, dissolving whitely like a lemon drop. Each town we passed through had a Dairy Queen, with customers lined up, even in winter. When I looked back at Sarah I saw her powdered, thinning skin like a crêpe, with the same light freckles as a crêpe, her gnarly-knuckled hand, arthritic from chopping herbs, going through her spiky russet hair, knocking back her scarf. Education had not entirely elevated my concerns in life. It had probably not even assisted my analyses of these concerns. I was too fresh from childhood. Subconsciously, my deepest brain still a cupboard of fairy tales, I suppose I believed that if a pretty woman was no longer pretty she had done something bad to deserve it. I had a young girl’s belief that this kind of negative aging would never happen to me. Death would happen to me—I knew this from reading British poetry. But the drying, hunching, blanching, hobbling, fading, fattening, thinning, slowing? I would just not let those things happen to moi. Sarah switched ears, making it harder for me to hear, but then switched back and slowed to let a convoy of trucks pass. I could hear Letitia: “If this doesn’t work out with Amber, there are babies on the international market. We’ve had a lot of luck with South America. Paraguay has opened up again, and other countries, too. And they’re not all brown there, either. There’s been a lot of German influence, and some of these kids are beautiful, very blond, or blue-eyed, or both.” “Well, thanks for the info,” Sarah said brusquely. “Get back to me on Amber.” Letitia then said something I couldn’t make out, and Sarah said quickly, “Gotta run—there’s an ice patch ahead,” and snapped the phone shut. “The babies of Nazis,” Sarah said, shaking her head. “They’re hawking Nazi babies. Racially superior. Unbelievable.” She raked her fingers yet again through the bright desert grass of her hair. “Blue eyes!” she cried. “The human race has really come a long way!” She shook her head again, this time with a horsey, nasal exhalation of disgust. “Yeah,” I said dopily. “You may be too young to know this yet, but eventually you will look around and notice: Nazis always have the last laugh.” Then we were wordless through the towns of Terre Noire and Fond du Marais, places named both whimsically and fearfully by French fur traders, before the subsequent flattened pronunciations by Scandinavian farmers made the names even more absurd: “Turn Ore” and “Fondu Morass.” “You’ll find I say about eighty-nine per cent of what’s on my mind,” Sarah said. “For the other eleven per cent? I use a sauna.” She put a CD in the car player. “Bach’s first French suite. Do you know it?” After some clicking and static, it began, stately and sad. “I think so,” I said, not sure at all. My friends had already begun to lie, to bluff a sophistication that they felt they would authentically possess by the end of the ten-second bluff. I was not only less inclined this way but less skilled. “Maybe not, though,” I added. Then, “Wait, it’s ringing a bell.” “Oh, it’s the most beautiful thing,” she said. “Especially with this pianist.” It was someone humming along with the light dirge of the Bach. Later, I would own every loopy Glenn Gould recording available, but there in the car with Sarah was the first time I’d ever heard him play. The piece was like an elegant interrogation made of tangled yarn, a query from a well-dressed man in a casket, not yet dead. It proceeded slowly, like a careful equation, and then not: if x equals y, if major equals minor, if death equals part of life and life part of death, then what is the sum of the infinite notes of this one phrase? It asked, answered, re-asked, its moody asking a refinement of reluctance or dislike. I had never heard a melody quite like it. Outside my house, Sarah put the car in park. She patted me on the shoulder, then let her hand run down my coat sleeve. “Thanks,” she said. “Phone me when you get back into town after Christmas.” Her face looked fantastically sad. “O.K.,” I said. “Sounds good.” Sounds good. It was the Midwestern girl’s reply to everything. It appeared to clinch a deal, was somewhat the same as the more soldierly Good to go, except that it was promiseless—mere affirmative description. It got you away, out the door.
Ziggurat The new girl sat at the computer in the corner playing Ziggurat, Panic!, and U-Turn. This was in the pine-panelled section of the Labyrinth, which is where the Minotaur had been hanging out lately, mainly because he didn’t remember ever having been there before, and he liked sleeping on the pool table. The new girl was smaller than most of the others. Peanut-colored. Her shoulders shook. Her fingers twitched on the computer keys, making noises like munching rodents. Her eyes were filled with rhomboids of white, then blue, then red. Yellow. Then red again. Lots of red. And they were separated by two wrinkles that said to the Minotaur, Go away! I’m too busy for you! It is true that the Minotaur was very strong and that his head was nearly as wide as his shoulders. But in fact he didn’t really look like a bull. He had no horns, no ring through his nose. He was just very, very ugly. His lips were fat and earthworm pink, his eyes were asymmetrical, and his eyebrows were like forests of black wire. The same with the hair on his head, and on his cheeks—which was indistinguishable from the hair on his body. He didn’t walk like a normal person; he lumbered. That was just the way he was born. All of the other girls had run when they saw the Minotaur. The women, too, and the boys. Some of the men had tried to fight—not that it mattered. The end had always been the same: the Minotaur patting his belly, pulling a sucked femur from his slick lips. But no one had ever been too busy. He watched the way the new girl’s shoulders sometimes rose as high as her ears, and how, at other times, she leaned way over to the right or left. But always that jerky twitching, always that smacking of rodent lips. After a while, he went right up behind her. He leaned down close enough to savor her smell. She didn’t cringe. She didn’t even glance away from the screen. Just: twitch, twitch, twitch, clickity-clackity-click, click-click-click. “Oof !” she would say. “Oh, my God!” On the screen, a square tower rose stone by stone. The stones were carried by angels. Red devils would attack the angels and the angels would drop the stones. Sometimes a big blue hand would come down out of the sky and sweep away one or more levels of the square tower, or even the whole thing. Every time the tower was reduced to rubble and dust, the face belonging to the hand would appear. It was a sad face, blue, with big round glasses and a mustache like a pair of bluebird wings. “Oof !” said the girl. To the Minotaur, humanity consisted of loud noises and a series of cowardly and craven acts. Running, etc. Curses, self-soiling. It was not uncommon for one human being to push another into his path, or even to slay that human being and stretch the cadaver out on the ground as an offering. Human beings would needle the Minotaur with knives. They would sprinkle his hide with lead. They would pound him with their fists the way flies pound themselves against windows. They would attempt to reason. And sometimes they would get down on their knees and weep with their hands clasped in front of their chins. They would kiss his feet. None of this made any difference, of course. Wham! Crunch. Splurt. Hmm. Hmm. Tasty. “Oh, no!” the new girl said. “Oh, shit.” Her smell filled his sinuses and engendered slobber. At one point, he brought his lips so close to her shoulder that he could feel his breath bounce back off her skin. Why not? he thought. Why not right now? There’s not a reason in the world. But he didn’t. Instead, he went and leaned against the pool table. He would wait a bit. He wanted to see what would happen. His life was not exactly what you would call variety-packed, and he had the feeling that something unusual was in the works. Clickity-clackity-click. Twitch-jerk-twitch-twitch-twitch. “Oof !” He noticed how the new girl’s hair swung heavily, like a velvet curtain. Dark brown, but also red. The color of old rust, only shiny. He noticed how parts of her jiggled, and how he could see every knob of her vertebrae except for the two between her shoulder blades. Thunder rumbled from one side of his gut to the other. Drool wet his belly. Finally, he got up and lumbered off to a tiled tunnel, where he could always find a skulking dog or two, sometimes whole packs. He baited a dog until it lunged. Then he snatched it midair and ripped it in half. As he returned to the pool table, a warmth spread from his belly through his chest and into his massive shoulders. He burped. Nothing had changed. Click-clickity. Twitch-jerk-jerk-jerk. He stretched out on the pool table and was soon asleep. “Are you really the Minotaur?” the new girl asked when he opened his eyes. She was leaning over him, those same two wrinkles between her eyebrows, but this time they said, Hunh—weird. “Are you?” she asked. “When you first came in here, I thought you were, and I just kept on playing that game because I didn’t want to see what you were going to do. But then you fell asleep.” The new girl was silent awhile. Then she said, “I probably shouldn’t be standing so close to you. I mean, you might just grab me and gobble me up. Right? If you really are the Minotaur, I mean.” She took a step away and folded her arms across her chest. The lines had disappeared from between her eyes. There was a twist in one corner of her mouth, as if something were not right in her stomach. “So are you?” she said. The Minotaur swung his legs around and sat up on the edge of the pool table. His head was at least a yard higher than hers; four of her could easily have stood between one of his shoulders and the other. As she waited for him to speak, she took another step backward, and whatever was not right in her stomach got worse. “Yes,” he said. “Whoo-boy!” she said. She swallowed. “I guess my goose is cooked.” He looked at her for a long moment. Then he slipped off the table and said, “Excuse me.” When the Minotaur returned, there was a trickle of blood descending from the corner of his mouth and pinkish flecks of gristle in his beard. The new girl was back at the computer, clicking away at the keys. She glanced up, and the Minotaur could tell from the way her eyes reverted instantly to the screen that she had seen something disgusting on his face, but she didn’t say a word. Jerkity-click, click, click. Her eyes went yellow, then blue, then red. The Minotaur ran his hand over his beard and felt the flecks of gristle. He brushed them away and licked up the blood trickle with his exceedingly long purple tongue. Then he stepped up beside her and looked at the screen. There was the sad-faced man with the bluebird-wings mustache. “What are you playing?” the Minotaur asked. “Ziggurat,” the new girl told him, and when he didn’t say anything in reply she told him about all the other games she had discovered on the computer. And then she said, “Basically, they’re all disappointment games. Except this one. This one’s about ambition. You’re supposed to build the Tower of Babel before God knocks it down. But that usually ends up being a disappointment game, too.” And when the Minotaur still didn’t say anything she said, “Basically, this is a pretty stupid bunch of games.” “Then why do you play them?” the Minotaur said. “Just . . .” The new girl blushed, then went pale. “Well . . . you know. It’s like I said before.” After that, she put her hands in her lap, became very quiet, and seemed to shrink to half her size. The Minotaur figured that this was her way of telling him the time had come for him to eat her. But, just as his big lips went glossy and he was baring his shovel teeth, she said, “I like to play pool, though. Pool’s a great game. Do you like to play pool?” The Minotaur looked over at the table, which, he was embarrassed to discover, had been stained by many nights of drool, as well as by other secretions. He wasn’t quite sure why this embarrassed him, however. Embarrassment had not played a big part in his long life. “I don’t know,” he said. And when he saw that the new girl did not fully comprehend his answer he said, “I’ve never played.” “Do you want me to teach you?” she asked. The Minotaur shrugged. The new girl beat the pants off the Minotaur three times in a row. Even though he didn’t particularly seem to mind, she worried that he might get irritated or bored if he kept losing, so she decided to acquaint him with a more advanced level of strategy. She gave him tips about wrist action, momentum, angles of incidence, about which part of the cue ball to hit when, and about the need to care just enough that you noticed you cared, but no more than that. The Minotaur turned out to be a fast learner. On their fifth game, he beat her fair and square. Against the wall beside the pool table was a half-size refrigerator jammed with beer. “Oh, wow!” the new girl said. She looked at the Minotaur and pulled out a bottle of Rolling Rock. “Want one?” “Thanks.” He took the bottle and held it up a few inches from the end of his nose. His bristling eyebrows buckled in a way that made him seem excessively stupid, like a caveman examining a light bulb. When he saw the new girl twist the top off her bottle, he did the same, and when she took a sip he did, too. “Oh!” he said, and examined the bottle even more attentively. “Something wrong?” the new girl asked. “No,” he said. He took another sip, which he kept in his mouth a long time, his eyebrows parting, moving up his forehead, then shooting back down into a collision of uncertainty. When he swallowed, he seemed to be paying acute attention to the fluid’s descent along his esophagus and into his belly. “Haven’t you ever had a beer before?” the new girl said. “Not exactly.” “Not exactly?” “I mean no, I guess.” “Wow!” the new girl said. “You’ve never shot pool, you’ve never played computer games, you’ve never drunk a beer—what have you been doing with your life?” The Minotaur shrugged. “I don’t know,” he said. “Wandering, mostly.” “Wandering?” “Yeah.” His big lips formed an upside-down U, expressing something between defensiveness and disappointment. “Just wandering?” He glanced up at the ceiling and tilted his head noncommittally. “Of course,” he said, “I’m always . . . You know: hungry . . . I mean—” The Minotaur stopped talking. The new girl didn’t say anything, either. After close to a minute of silence, he said, “Sorry.” “Don’t worry about it,” she said, but didn’t meet his eye. There was another long silence. “Just so you know,” the new girl said, “I’m not actually a virgin. That was just something I . . . I mean, who likes to talk about that kind of stuff with their mother, you know? So I just let her believe whatever she wanted to, and . . . Well, maybe that wasn’t such a hot idea. . . . Anyhow, the main thing is, you might not like the way I taste. Too tough or something. You might get indigestion from me.” The new girl laughed nervously. The Minotaur made a small noise deep in his throat and looked away. Then he drew the back of his hand across his lips. “What’s a virgin?” the Minotaur asked. Their half-empty bottles stood on the edge of the pool table. They were playing another game. “You know,” she insisted. He didn’t. “Yes, you do. They always told us virgins were like . . . you know: like your favorite—” She couldn’t say it. When the Minotaur still seemed confused, she gave him a hint. Then she gave him a bigger hint. Finally, she just explained the concept of virginity straight out. “Huh,” he said. And then he said, “I can’t see why that would affect the taste.” Then he didn’t say anything else. The new girl stood the butt of her cue stick on her big toe and looked down at the floor. She was shrinking again. What is the Labyrinth but so much human junk? That’s how the Minotaur saw it. Cathedrals, bus stations, diners, bowling alleys, subway tunnels, endless basement corridors—they all seemed profoundly pointless to him, not just because they were generally empty and unused but as a basic fact of their existence. He could tell that humans didn’t share his opinion. He would find them on their knees in the pink and purple pools beneath stained-glass windows, their brows dark with grief and desire, their lips rippling with unvoiced words. He would find them looking impatiently at classroom clocks, unable to keep their feet still beneath their desks, or sitting atop vinyl-covered swivel stools, savoring their own tasteless and puny repasts, or intertwined in bed, making all the chest and throat noises of aggression. Idiocy. All of it. None of the things they yearned for would come to pass. All their beliefs about destiny and justice, all their rituals, injunctions, inhibitions and plain-as-the-nose-on-your-face truths: trash, irrelevant, wrong. Their gooses were cooked—royally—and always had been. This was shocking news to his victims. He could see it in their eyes. How could they be so stupid? The new girl asked a human question: “What’s your favorite part of the Labyrinth?” The Minotaur’s unequal eyes went still for a moment, then he shrugged. “Come on!” the new girl said. “You must have a favorite place!” Here came that embarrassment again, that sweatiness at his hairline, that prickling in his armpits, that heart surge which was like a form of strangulation. Why was this happening? “Come on!” the new girl said again. “I know you’re thinking of one! I can tell! Don’t be shy!” The new girl’s face was like a soap bubble in candlelight. Her voice: like the slow plinking of a music box. Her smell: every hair on his body stood upright. The Minotaur turned and lumbered down the tunnel. Already walking, the new girl called out, “Do you want me to follow you?” And when he didn’t reply: “Where are you taking me?” Before all else, the Minotaur was the agent of his own appetite. But sometimes, in philosophical moods, he would think of himself as a messenger bearing this ultimate truth: You were created to be destroyed. That was it. Simple. And such a shame that none of his victims had time to benefit from it. The Minotaur led the new girl down tunnels that seemed to have been gnawed in stone by giant worms: wobbling tunnels, dark, round; their walls oozing and their ceilings hung with long strands of algal slime that sometimes slapped the new girl wetly in the face, and at other times adhered to her cheeks, her neck, her fingertips. There were pipe-filled tunnels so hot that the inside of the new girl’s nose cracked like the bottom of an evaporated lake. Tunnels lined as far as her eye could see with toilet stalls and urinals, many of which had overflowed onto the floor. One tunnel connected a vacant basketball court to a walk-in refrigerator, while another was paved with glossy pink marble and smelled of incense and candle wax. And in yet another tunnel the slapping of her own feet and the Minotaur’s echoed and re-echoed, so that it seemed to the new girl as if whole nations of bats were flapping angrily around her head. Within minutes of trotting after the Minotaur, the new girl realized that she would never be able to find her way back to the room with the pool table, the beer, and the computer games. At every turn, the geometry of the world was reinvented. Her footsteps were wholly digested by the past. Whenever the new girl and the Minotaur entered a diner, there were always two cups of steaming coffee waiting on the counter. And, nearby, two little stainless-steel pitchers of half-and-half, always brimful and cool, even though there was never anyone else there: no customers, no staff. “Where is everybody?” the new girl asked, and instantly regretted the question, because she already knew the answer. And when the Minotaur started to speak she put her finger on his lips and said, “No.” The Minotaur saw the new girl’s eyes narrow in a way that he couldn’t interpret. Fear? Pride that she alone had been spared? Some variety of awe? He didn’t dare ask. “Haven’t you ever tried to escape?” the new girl asked. “Escape?” the Minotaur said. “You know, get outside.” “Outside what?” “This,” the new girl said. “The Labyrinth.” The Minotaur was silent for a moment. A gloss of sweat materialized on his fingertips. “How do you know there’s someplace to escape to?” he said. “Because I remember it.” “Tell me one moment you remember.” “O.K.,” the new girl said. She looked with the in-turned eyes of memory, but it was like looking into a house with every wall painted black. And all the lights out. And every shutter down. The new girl was puzzled: why was her brain so blank? She felt her way along corridors. She went in and out of rooms, up and down stairs. Black and black and black and black. Finally, she saw a chink of light. She walked toward it, down a long, long corridor, and gradually the chink became a door and the door became a room, and inside the room her mother was sitting in a rocking chair before a white fireplace, and her father and her little brother were lying on a rag rug, playing chess. She started to tell the Minotaur. He held up his hand. “Wait a second.” He was lumbering again. “Follow me.” He led her left, then right. In total darkness. Up and down stairs. A long, long corridor. Finally, they were in a room where there was an oak rocker. And, on the seat of the rocker, a needlepoint cushion that the new girl’s mother had made herself, portraying a smiling lamb jumping a fence. There was a white fireplace in which hooks of orange light leaped silently from wood to blackened brick. There was a chessboard on a rag rug. The king on her father’s side of the chessboard had just fallen over. Its bottom rolled around the pivot of its top, then went over the board’s edge and stopped as it hit the rug. The rocking chair was moving, too: back and forth, back and forth, as if her mother were still in it. “Is this what you were talking about?” the Minotaur asked. The new girl didn’t answer. After a while, she said, “What happened to my family?” The Minotaur pretended not to hear her question, then glanced around the room as if he’d lost something. The new girl tried to escape. She ran down tunnel after tunnel. She turned left. She turned right. But every turn was entirely arbitrary. And every tunnel only took her to dozens of other tunnels, some of which went on for miles, and ended in points of light so distant and pale they were like stars in other galaxies. She hid in the back of closets where mothball gas brought tears to her eyes. She hid under cars in subterranean parking lots, her cheek resting in gritty-slick splatterings of motor oil. She buried herself under heaps of orange, yellow, and copper-colored leaves. But, no matter where she hid, the tectonic rumble of the Minotaur’s footfalls would mount and mount, until finally the door behind which she cowered was wrenched from its hinges, or the wall against which she had pressed herself was reduced to noise, dust, nuggets of mortar, and shattered brick. “There you are!” the Minotaur would say. He’d hold out his granite hand, and the new girl would let herself be led away. Maybe he’s not so bad, she’d tell herself. Maybe everything I’ve heard is wrong. But then in the night: those screams, that weird whistle of tearing flesh. And in the morning, everywhere she went: that fetid stink, those heaps of sucked white femurs, fibulas, tibias, skulls, ribs. One time, the new girl asked the Minotaur, “Why haven’t you eaten me?” His answer: “Because I’m not hungry.” The Minotaur was a novice of arc and swell and dip, a new-minted connoisseur of smooth and tender and sway. That little snippet of bird-peep that entered the new girl’s voice whenever she got excited, or when she thought something she had done was stupid—he wanted to put that in a box, tie it up with a leather thong, and keep it around his neck. That way she had of elbowing him in the ribs, rolling her eyes, slapping herself on the top of her head and saying, “Only joking!”—why did his cobblestone feet always do a shuffling dance when she did that? Why did his shoulders squinch together and his floppy lips twist up at the corners? To his embarrassment was added shame, and the Minotaur found that he could bear his message of ultimate truth only on the sly, when the new girl was asleep, or when she was looking the other way. He took to wearing a kerchief and giving his lips a hasty wipe after every meal. Then, one day, the new girl was gone, and the Minotaur worried that, in a moment of thoughtlessness, he had gobbled her up. When he didn’t see her for several weeks, he could think of no other explanation. A year passed, and then a century, and new-girllessness became a fact—as simple and discrete as other facts. In a way, life became easier for the Minotaur, as easy as it had been before the new girl’s arrival. But only in a way. In another way, the Minotaur began to wonder if he was getting too old for his job. His vocabulary increased. To “embarrassment” and “shame” he added “joyless.” He added “regret.” He added “lost. ”There were sections of the Labyrinth where the walls were so far apart that, if you stood beside one, you could not see the other, and where the ceiling rose so high that wads of illuminated water vapor drifted beneath it, and a ten-thousand-watt sun was dragged across it on nearly invisible tracks. In the middle of such a place, the Minotaur constructed a square of rocks a mile across. On top of this square, he constructed another, and then another and another, until what had merely been unlikely geology became a wall, and what had been a wall became a tower. Centuries passed, and the tower rose to such heights that to look up at it or down from it was to become dizzy. There were collapses that began like a massive clearing of a throat and ended like a prairie shuddering under the hooves of gigantic cattle. The Minotaur developed new technology. He perfected his technique and, after a while, he knew he could not fail. And so it became clear that the tower was a pyramid, diminishing at the end of every new level by the width of a stair step just broad enough to accommodate the Minotaur’s feet. And with each new layer of stone the air got warmer and began to smell, at first something like a laundry hamper, then more like inside the mouth of a sun-baked cadaver. Eventually, the Minotaur discovered that the ceiling was not the translucent blue plastic he had always assumed it was but blue-painted plaster, cracked and warped with age. When his tower was high enough that he could touch his upraised elbow to the ceiling, he went all the way down to the bottom and climbed all the way back up to the top carrying a long stone roughly the size of his leg. He used this stone to knock a hole through the plaster, lathing, and masonry of the supposed sky, and when the stone rattled off into emptiness on the other side he reached up into the hole and pulled himself through. There he was: belly down in a cinder-block tunnel. But, after only a few yards, the tunnel became panelled in wood, and floored with a charcoal-gray indoor-outdoor carpet. Not long afterward, he found himself in the pine-panelled room where he had first met the new girl, only the pool table had been gouged repeatedly—the felt ragged and upstanding, a corona of slate dust spewing from every gash—and the half-size refrigerator was on its side, door open, empty of beer. He left the room and wandered for a long time down a series of corridors so dark he could find his way only by memory. He saw the face: blue. That bluebird wings mustache. Round glasses. Eyes transcendently sad—with the welling sadness of an infant. The sadness of what-have-I-done? The sadness of this-can’t-be-true. The blue-faced man was sitting at a desk on which there were two stacks of crinkled, smoothed-out paper that had obviously been rescued from a trash can. In his lap rested a battered leather briefcase from which more papers stuck up like pale, petrified flames. He clutched a single piece in each of his upraised hands. “Excuse me,” the Minotaur said. The blue-faced man lowered the piece of paper in his right hand onto the left-hand stack, transferred it instantly to the right-hand stack, then lifted it once again into the air. “Excuse me,” the Minotaur repeated. Only then did the blue-faced man look in his direction. “I was just wondering,” the Minotaur said. The sadness of I-can’t-take-it-anymore. The sadness of what’s-the-point? The Minotaur felt his heart go weak, and his hands. “I’m sorry,” the Minotaur said, and for a long time he couldn’t speak, deprived utterly of strength. “I was wondering,” he said at last. “I was wondering if you had seen—” “Leave me alone,” said the blue-faced man. “I’m sorry,” said the Minotaur. “Please,” said the blue-faced man. Hammers, chains, ice picks, and tire irons. At the intersection of four corridors, a gang of new arrivals made short work of the Minotaur and left him stretched out on the paving stones, so much hacked meat. When he opened his eyes the new girl was leaning over him, two lines between her eyebrows. “Why didn’t you fight back?” she asked. “I don’t know,” he said. Then he said, “I didn’t want to.” “Hunh,” the new girl said. “Weird.” The Minotaur closed his eyes again, and when he opened them he was alone. Utterly. Where the new girl had been there was nothing but a twist of phosphene, peanut inflected; a stirring of empty air. He rolled onto his hands and knees, then stood up. Blood trickled from his fingertips, belly, and chin the way water trickles in a cave. Echoing drips. Minute gurgles. The Minotaur wandered drafty spaces that smelled like a paper mill. All that pounding. So much muck on his feet. Sometimes a yellowish light laminated a bend in the tunnel wall, and the Minotaur was sure the new girl was hiding just around the corner. But, as his footfalls shook dust streams from the ceiling, the lamination would dwindle to gossamer cross-hatching, to a golden web, to a few glowing strands, to winking glints, and then, finally, to only the possibility of light. On and on and on. The central aisle of an airliner, the back seat of a car (stale popcorn crammed into cushion cracks), a coal mine, a hospital waiting room, a long tunnel in which a hot breeze blew first in one direction and then the other. So many varieties of emptiness. For centuries. Millennia. But, every now and then, just ahead: the patter of foot flesh striking wet stone, or the lip and tongue smacks of very small mouths. And so, once again, the Minotaur would start to run. Every time. He couldn’t help himself. “Oof !” Nights, when his eyes were closed, the new girl came to lie within the hollow created by his arms and legs. But always she was silent. Never a word. Her warmth was there. His sinuses were filled with her smell. His memory was able to adhere to her smoothness, to her rough parts, to her every swelling and concavity, but only in a way that was like an ache—like a hunger feeding upon itself. Those hands, strong enough to crush jackal throats: useless. A train station with breath-grimed marble walls and an arched ceiling portraying the night sky in sapphire tile and bits of gleaming gold. A vast hangar, in which a fully inflated dirigible—gondola doors open, gangplanks lowered to a wooden embarkation deck—hovered, humming, awaiting passengers. A stadium, klieg lights glaring, the playing field a kind of green flame; and the parking lot around the stadium so enormous that the Minotaur felt sure he was coming again to that place where he had built his tower. On and on. One foot in front of the other. The walls receding to such a degree that they might as well not have been there. The ceiling growing higher and higher, until finally it was obscured by the blueness of empty air. Sounds arrived from great distances. Indecipherable. No echo. On and on and on. The Minotaur lumbered across a rusty bog empurpled with heather. Then sun—all at once. A clean, salty breeze. Golden sand. Dune after dune, rising and falling beneath his feet, then finally falling, falling, falling—all the way to a gray-green-blue vastness, riffled, glinting, and crossed by the cloud shadows as far as the eye could see. The Minotaur stopped for a moment on that last sandy crest. The wind buffeted his ears. A line of pelicans glided prehistorically just above his head. After that, the sand fell away beneath his lunging feet. He grew smaller and smaller. Every now and then he would vanish, only to reappear on a lower incline of the dune, and then upon another even lower. Until at last—there he was: a tiny figure moving up the shore. A minute silhouette against the mirror sand. A wavering speck. Then smaller. Ever smaller.
Idols Julian was living in a sooty apartment next to an iron foundry in Memphis when he received a letter announcing that his great-grandfather’s estate had finally been cleared up. He stood in the doorway of his peeling duplex, his hands shaking as he read the terms. Most of the property had been sold off to satisfy liens and lawyers’ fees, but the old country house and six acres remained, along with twenty-eight thousand dollars. Julian was a thin man of sixty-three, balding, a typewriter repairman who worked out of his spare bedroom and kept to himself. The one time he’d seen the grand old home was when he was eight, riding past it on a gravel road with his mother, back when she could afford a car. The mansion was surrounded on three sides by rows of cracked Doric pillars, its second-floor gallery missing many balusters, its windows patched with cardboard. Back then, it had been occupied by a glowering family of squatters who’d slouched on the porches and stared after his mother’s black Ford as it crawled past the fence. For all he knew, they were still there. He went inside, out of the late-June heat, and sat in a duct-taped recliner to reread the terms of his good fortune. The only extra money he’d ever had was a hundred-dollar win on a scratch-off ticket. Before his mother died, he’d spent two years at a tiny local college and considered himself at least wealthy in knowledge, more so than the shopkeepers and records clerks he dealt with. Normally, he disparaged people who owned large houses, yet deep in his heart he’d stored the memory of the old mansion, the only grand thing in his family’s history. It had shamed him to long for the house, and now he owned it. The thought of inflicting pain on unlucky people bothered Julian, so instead of personally telling the impoverished family who lived in the house that they would have to leave he asked the county sheriff to evict them. He spent a month emptying his apartment of derelict Selectrics and Royal 440s, then got into his twenty-year-old Dodge and drove southeast, into the scrub-pine flats of northern Mississippi. After an hour, he left the wide state highway for a snaky blacktop road, and deep in the woods he made a left turn down a gravel lane that ran as straight as a railroad for ten miles. At one point, he came upon a five-strand run of barbed wire healed into the bodies of live oaks, and he slowed, took a breath, and stopped the car. The lawn was a weave of waist-high weeds and fallen limbs punctuated by the otherworldly pink domes of thistle blooms, and rising beyond was a mildewed temple. Patches of plaster had fallen away from the main walls, showing orange, wind-wasted brick. Julian pulled past the end of the fence, got out, and sat on the car’s hood. His now dead mother, whom he’d found hard to bear, pretentious for a poor woman and full of outdated airs, had talked about this house as though it proved something about her ancestors, the Godhighs. “They were noble and powerful people,” she’d told him the day they’d driven by the place. “And we have their blood.” He straightened his back so that he could stare over the wiry brush at the soaring columns, the brooding eaves, and felt that he deserved this inheritance, had deserved it all his life. He walked up the flag steps, through the unlocked door, and into a broad hall. It was an echoing house of frighteningly tall rooms that smelled of emptiness and mouse droppings. The place hadn’t been painted in many decades, though the last occupants had left it relatively clean. The lightless kitchen, something added a hundred years after the place was built, contained a gassy-smelling stove and a badly chipped sink. Upstairs, four vast rooms opened off a wide hall, and a door led up to an attic crossed with naked cypress beams. Above that perched a glassed-in belvedere, unbearably hot, where he could look out over long flat plots of woods that had once been cotton fields. He imagined pickers dragging their bags slowly across the steaming landscape and understood whose labor had built the house. The roof was iron, and it looked to be sound, though storm-dented and running with rust. After inspecting the outbuildings, he drove six dusty miles to the town of Poxley, where he bought, on time, a bed, some chairs, a couple of tables, and a dinette set. Mr. Chance Poxley, a soft, liver-spotted gentleman in a white shirt and a skinny tie, also sold him a small used refrigerator. “You can’t live without no icebox,” Mr. Poxley told him. “You’ll leave a can of potted meat out too long on the windowsill and think you can eat it the next day. Then you’ll get to throwin’ up all over the place. You’ll get the sick headache.” Mr. Poxley raised a blue-veined hand to his forehead. “All right,” Julian snapped. “I’ll take the damned thing.” “You better,” he said. “When can you deliver my items?” “Where you live?” He told him and watched for his reaction. “Law. Is that old place still standin’?” Julian sniffed and raised his chin. “Not only is it standing, I’m going to restore it the way it was.” Mr. Poxley scratched the back of his head and squinted. “What way was it? Ain’t nobody alive ever seen a drop of paint on that place.” “That’ll change soon,” he said, plucking his receipt from the old man’s fingers. “You ought to get you a nice little brick house on a half acre, somethin’ you can keep up. I don’t think you understand how much that place’ll cost to fix.” “The house is part of my family’s history.” Mr. Poxley seemed to think about this a moment. “Well, I hope history can keep you out of a draft.” The next day, the old man and two high-school boys delivered Julian’s purchases. Upstairs, Mr. Poxley stared at the sagging bedroom ceiling. “Say, what you do for a livin’?” “I sell and service typewriters on a business route in Memphis.” “Typewriters,” Mr. Poxley repeated, as if Julian had said buggy whips or steam engines. “We threw our last one out ten years ago.” “Some places need reliable old models to fill out forms and such.” Julian spread open a sheet over his new mattress. “Antique shops want rare models restored.” The old man gave the house the once-over, looked down the flaking hall, across the warped pine flooring, gazed up at the cloth-covered wires snaking along the ceiling. “For your sake, I hope typin’ comes back in style.” For the next three weeks, Julian scrubbed down the rooms and galleries and thinned out the fallen limbs in the yard, the end of each day finding him tired unto sickness. He bought an electric saw and some lumber to patch the second-floor gallery, but every time he was halfway through a board a fuse would blow in the spider-haunted circuit box in the kitchen. The first time he fired up his double hot plate, the fuse-box door was open and he witnessed a cerulean flash and a rattail of smoke, the first of four fuses it took to fry one egg. He had no idea how to upgrade the wiring, and in the following days he began to eat his food cold. Every day, he wandered through his rooms, calculating how long it would take to patch the fractured plaster, paint the blotched walls, and glaze the windows. Julian understood that he would have to hire cheap help, a broken-down old carpenter desperate for work, or some rehabilitating wino or mental case, and the thought elevated his spirits, as if such servitude would echo the history of the place. There was an ancient kitchen house in the back yard, left over from the days when kitchens were built separate from the main houses in order to prevent fires, and the hired fellow could stay there as part of his salary. The rural living and the hard work would bring the man back to health, so the job would be like granting a favor. He drove in to see Mr. Poxley, who, as usual, was standing at the end of his business counter, his left elbow holding him up. “What can I do for you, Mr. Typewriter Man?” Julian frowned at the greeting. “I need to find somebody to do electrical work, simple carpentry, and painting.” Mr. Poxley’s eyebrows flew up. “So do I.” Julian crossed his skinny arms. “But I can offer a place to live.” “You say you want this worker to live out there with you? What on earth for? You’ll have to feed him, and he’ll have lots of chances to bum money. After a few months on the place, he’ll be the same as a brother-in-law.” “I want an employee, not a relative.” Mr. Poxley flapped his limp hand at him. “You want a sharecropper, son. Them days is over, gone to history.” Julian suspected that Chance Poxley had little grasp of history. He was just a desiccated old man who specialized in opinions. Still, he probably knew everyone in the county. Julian leaned in and lowered his voice. “I thought maybe I could find someone with a weakness. You know how people go out of circulation because they gamble too much or drink.” “Oh, you want a drunk sharecropper,” the old man said. “No, no. Maybe somebody just down on his luck. I could help turn him around.” “He gets drunk enough, he’ll turn around plenty.” Mr. Poxley slapped his leg and bent over laughing. Julian had little patience with uneducated people and turned to walk out. He caught sight of a large corkboard tacked over with hand-printed messages, a community bulletin board. “Can I at least put up a little notice there?” “Hep yourself.” The old man limped off toward the rest room as Julian searched along the counter until he found pen and pad. “Wanted: handyman to live on site and repair house. Ask Mr. Poxley for directions.” Succinct, that was the way to be, Julian thought. He looked back toward the rest room, and added, “No drunks.” He chose a black thumbtack out of a pile in an ashtray and stuck the note in the middle of the board, next to one offering a free rattlesnake to a good home. The following Monday, Julian was outside on the lower gallery, cleaning up a geriatric Underwood on a plank table he had dragged from an outbuilding. In each room of the house, a single bulb hung from the ceiling, and the big spaces drank up all the light, so he’d begun to work outside in the morning sun, weather permitting. Around ten o’clock, he sensed movement in the periphery of his bifocals and raised his head to see a man standing in the heatstruck privet at the roadside, watching him. Julian called out, and the fellow struggled through the weeds and came up to the house. He seemed about fifty, a lean, fairly tall fellow wearing triple-seam bluejeans and a matching heavy denim shirt with the sleeves cut to the armpits. His baseball cap was of the same material, a plain-billed dome with no inscription. Julian had never seen a cap with nothing written on the front of it. “Where did you come from?” Julian asked. “Town. I seen your note.” “What? Oh, yes.” He stood up and began to look him over. The man’s yellowed eyes darted up the side of the building. “I can carpenter good. My name’s Obadiah, but people call me Obie. It used to rile me when they called me that, but nowadays I just go along.” Julian studied him, looking for signals. “Can you paint?” “Your name.” “What?” “You ain’t told me your name.” “Julian Godhigh. Right now it’s Smith, but I’m going to change it to my ancestral name when I get a chance.” “Some men can change like a porch lizard switches colors,” Obie said, focussing on Julian. “And some cain’t.” The man leaned off to the side and his skin was a cloudy blue-gray, as though he were ill in some exotic way. “I can paint a wall like a artist.” Julian smirked. “Really. Like Michelangelo?” Obie looked away. “I reckon. Only I use a roller.” “What about electrical repairs?” “It ain’t nothing I cain’t pick up. I can do one thing as good as another.” He spat into the grass. When the man turned, Julian glimpsed part of a tattoo, half a spider crawling out of the collar of his shirt. Again he saw that the skin on his arms was a smudged cyanic color, mottled in incoherent patterns, as if the flesh had been cooked all over. “Are you from around here?” “Over in Georgia.” “Can’t find work there?” “My wife and me been havin’ trouble, so I was stayin’ in my cousin’s travel trailer. Except now he wants to sell it.” The men walked around to the wasp-haunted kitchen house and forced open the cocked door. Julian said he would buy a cot and the man could sleep there. They would try a working relationship for a few days. The one-room building contained a table with a porcelain top and a hide-bottomed chair, both sitting under an unfrosted light bulb hanging from the ceiling on a long cord, and Obie went in and scraped dust and fallen dirt-dauber nests off the table with the side of his hand. Julian returned to the big house and brought back bread, block cheese, and lunch meat, and they came to terms. Obie stepped over to a window. He rubbed a hand over the cloudy glass and cleared a view out toward a collapsing shed. “You ever been married?” Julian suddenly wanted a drink, and he sat down on the single chair. “One time. It lasted about four years, and then it was time to leave.” Obie reached over his shoulder to scratch his back. “I married a religious woman and did all I could to please her. I even got saved and tithed out of what little pay I made. She run me off even though I done things for her no other man would of.” Obie looked down at the floor as though contemplating a scene of great sorrow. “It was a mystery why I did it.” Julian bobbed his head. “Mine asked me to make more money, but I wanted to keep doing what I was doing. A manual typewriter and I were made for each other. I can make the big old Smith Coronas tap-dance like Fred Astaire.” Obie looked up. “You left her, or she left you?” “I think the motions were mutual.” Obie leaned against the beaded-board wall. “You traded a woman for typewriters.” At first, Julian felt insulted, but the way Obie made the comment suggested that he understood, that he himself had made some unusual trades in his time. “I needed to follow my talent.” Obie nodded. “I know about what a man thinks he needs.” And with this he began unbuttoning his shirt. “You think you need to make a statement in life. But it don’t seem like nothin’ you do gets taken serious.” Julian felt a slight rush of panic as Obie opened his shirt wide to reveal a tattoo of a tailless dragon over his liver and one of a disarmed battleship across his hairless chest. Below the vessel was a dolphin jumping out of the sea, but its fin and its eyes were blurred, as though by an industrial accident. All the skin from his shoulders down to his waistband was fine-line tattoo work partially eaten away, the flesh abraded and inflamed. “It’s a sight, ain’t it.” “What in the world happened to you?” “My tattoo collection. I’m gettin’ it burnt off. I got my arms did already. I found a cut-rate Indian doctor to do it over in Poxley, but those treatments still cost like the devil and I’m about tapped out. It’s why I got to go to work.” “What changed your mind about those things?” The colors, he noticed, were garish and the designs incongruous. Obie stood up and looked out the door toward the big house. “Maybe I don’t need ’em no more. Get a little older, you need less and less.” Julian jabbed a finger at what was left of the dolphin. “Well, there’s enough work around here so you can afford to burn yourself white as toilet paper.” The night was warm and Julian turned in his damp sheets, waking briefly at gray dawn and hearing someone walking, inside and out. When he got up at eight and made coffee, Obie came to the big house’s kitchen door and waited outside the screen looking in, as if knocking were beside the point. “I got a startin’ list for you.” Julian looked up from his coffee. “A list of what?” “Of things to fix the house.” “Come in here.” He took the smudged sheet where he sat at the wobbly table. “Good God, this is over a thousand dollars’ worth of stuff. Where’d you get the prices?” “I borried the phone in the hall.” He shook his head. “That’s too much.” “Delivery is free above a thousand dollars. It’ll save you seven per cent, man said.” Julian saw that Obie was looking at the ceiling, already working in his mind. “Well, what’s on the schedule first?” “Electric wire. Then low-lustre paint for a couple of these rooms.” He smiled, showing big, evenly spaced teeth. “Hide the cracks and raise the spirits.” After the Poxley Lumber Company truck left, Obie began work. By Saturday, the difference in the place was palpable. In the kitchen, he installed a new gray breaker box, and two walls in Julian’s room were patched, sanded, and painted an airy antique white. Julian paid Obie in cash on the next Saturday morning and drove him to Dr. Setumahaven’s office in Poxley, dropping him off and then going shopping. When he picked him up after the treatments, the expression Obie wore was that of a martyr, his eyes misshapen and dark with pain. “You look like a boiled lobster,” Julian told him. Obie gently lowered himself into the passenger seat. “I got my money’s worth today, all right.” They rode along the dusty road without talking, and Julian imagined that he could smell the laser burn. That day, Obie mixed mortar and began patching the first-floor exterior wall. The next week, he worked on the downstairs bathroom, and the rest of the month he repaired the sewer line out to the septic tank and installed a cheap air-conditioner in Julian’s room. The men tolerated each other and ate supper together on a card table set on the creaking floor of the big dining room. One rainy day, they sat under the wavering glow of a shorting light fixture while Obie feebly complained about how little Julian was paying him. “Yeah, but you’re getting cheap room and board.” Obie glanced up at the dusty brass disk holding a circle of twenty-five-watt bulbs. “I got to share it with the squirrels and the rats. You ought to charge them half the rent.” Julian motioned to Obie’s neck, where Dr. Setumahaven’s laser had reduced the spider to a dim blue shadow. “You’re still making enough to get rid of your collection.” “If you paid me more, I could get ’em burnt off faster.” “I don’t understand why you bother at all. I mean, who cares? The doctor’s gotten rid of all the ones people can see.” Obie rubbed his narrow face, his whiskers crackling like coarse steel wool. “I used your phone to call my wife. She said she might could take me back if I got rid of all my idols. She calls ’em idols.” “Take you back?” Julian gave him a startled look. “Didn’t you tell me that woman beat you with a broom?” Obie looked down at his plate and smiled a faraway smile. “Aw, she’s just a woman. Can’t hurt a man unless she buys a gun.” Julian stood up and began to clear the table. “Next time you go see Setumahaven, tell him to stick that laser in your left ear. Light up your brains.” Obie watched him leave the room and called after him, “Ain’t you never lonesome for some company?” Julian came back in and stood behind his chair. “I’ve got to the point where I can live alone. I’ve built up my business, and now I’ve got this big house to keep me busy and give me a place in the world.” The light fixture made a futzing sound, and Obie blinked. “So this here place makes you feel important?” Julian threw his arms wide to the echoing room. “I am important. What do you say to that?” Obie turned toward the window, where the antique glass distorted everything beyond. “I say I need another box of roofin’ nails so I can fix the tin on top of your importance.” The work went on through September, and Obie slaved over the corroded wiring and the slow-running plumbing. He ran his hands over every board in the building, finding where thousands of square nails had pulled free from the shrunken lumber. After Julian had gone to bed one night, he heard the back door to the main hall scuff open. Figuring Obie had come in for a drink of ice water, which was all he allowed him to have from the refrigerator, he dropped off to sleep. Soon, he was awakened by talking, just parts of words bouncing up the stairs to his single bed. He crept to the head of the stairway and heard Obie use a soft and rhythmic voice he had never heard before. He listened hard and heard him say, “Save me, O God, for the waters threaten my life; I am sunk in the abysmal swamp where there is no foothold.” Julian walked down until he could see Obie seated at the old phone table, a flashlight shining down on an open Bible. He wondered if the call was long-distance, if he should yell out to stop reading Scripture into the phone at twelve cents a minute. Someone on the other end of the line must have said something, for Obie’s voice stopped, and then said, “I’m workin’, but I ain’t able to save much. He cusses me and charges me for everthing. Sent me to town in his car to get tar and took the gas out my pay. What? Read Psalm 64? It’ll cover him, will it?” Julian coughed, and Obie shined the flashlight up to the dark landing. “I got to go now. I’ll call you fore long.” He hung up and raised his face. Julian’s voice sliced down on him. “Was that that woman in Georgia?” “It was.” “You planning on reading the whole Bible to her?” “No.” “I’m glad to hear that, but when I get the bill I’ll let you know the charges.” Obie turned his head toward the back door and looked as if he might speak, but the only sound that drifted up to Julian was the click of the flashlight and then the invisible creaking of the hallway’s boards. On Wednesday, he drove to Chance Poxley’s store to buy a night table. Mr. Poxley leaned on the end of the counter and watched him walk in the door. The old man screwed up his face as though he smelled carrion. “Do for you?” “I need a small inexpensive table to put beside my bed.” “Uh-huh. That Parker boy still workin’ for you?” “He is, slowly.” “How much you payin’ him, anyhow?” Julian turned his head toward the store’s cheap furniture, then looked back. “Has he been complaining to you?” Mr. Poxley focussed on Julian’s eyes. “That boy’s a good worker. I believe he can fix a broke horse.” “He’s all right.” “What you payin’ him?” “That’s between me and him. He ought to pay me just to put up with his spooky ways.” “You bring him into town today?” “He’s over at Setumahaven’s.” “I heard he had them on the bottoms of his feet. That must hurt like fire to have one took off there.” “I don’t think about it.” Mr. Poxley blinked. “What do you think about, Mr. Typewriter Man?” Julian looked at him. “What do you think I ought to think about?” “How about payin’ somebody does good work a livin’ wage.” “Look, I admit he’s a good worker and not bad to have on the place, but he doesn’t bear the expense of commuting or of owning a car. Again, has he been complaining?” Chance Poxley swung his head away. “That one won’t complain.” “Well, by damn, show me a table, then.” He finished at the furniture storelong before he was supposed to pick up Obie at the doctor’s office. He parked his Dodge, angrily thought over Mr. Poxley’s criticisms, and then went into the red brick city library, where he found a small Bible and walked into the stacks with it lest someone see him. He turned to Psalm 64 and read: Hide me from the conspiracy of the wicked, From that noisy crowd of evildoers, Who sharpen their tongues like swords And aim their words like deadly arrows. He slammed the book shut, holding the cover down as though it might spring back open accusingly. Between two musty stacks of dog-eared history books, he waited for the words to have some effect, but he felt not a thing, no change at all, though he couldn’t resist touching his tongue to the roof of his mouth. When Obie climbed into the Dodge that afternoon, he was bent forward with pain. Julian looked at him intently. “I wouldn’t give anyone money to hurt me. If I were you, I’d have saved up for an automobile instead.” Obie closed his eyes and leaned his head against the cracked window. “What do I have need of a automobile, with no place to go?” “Which one did they finish up today?” “The battleship. Feels like he dug it out of me with a pocketknife.” Julian checked his rearview mirror before backing up. “Will you be able to work on the upstairs porch?” “Gimme a couple hours. I’ll see.” He drove into Memphis the nextday, delivering refurbished typewriters and picking up dirty, nonfunctional machines from three behind-the-times businesses and two antique shops. He collected a few accounts and added up his money. The weather had been unseasonably warm, and he considered buying Obie a small electric fan but decided against it, because it would just make him unhappy if he ever had to live without one again. It was cruel, he thought, to make things too comfortable for someone going down in life. Two weeks later, Obie walked up to Julian where he was working on an old gray Royal on the front porch and told him that he had an appointment with the doctor on Wednesday. “I’m not going into town that day.” “It’s important. I got to get the big one on my back burnt off.” He put down a slim screwdriver. “You have one on your back? What for?” “It’s a long story.” Julian straightened up in his tin chair. “Let me see it.” Obie unbuttoned his denim shirt and let it down and turned. Julian put a hand to his chin. “Good Lord, it’s Jesus.” “He cost me a lot.” He adjusted his glasses. “It’s a good job for such a large image. Too bad I can’t skin it off you and frame it or something.” Obie jerked up his shirt and began buttoning it. “Can you take me to town Wednesday or not?” “Maybe so. If you pay my gas.” Obie stared at him and Julian wondered how he could be such a mooch, expecting him to ride him around like a free taxi. “Now, what do you think about that railing up there?” “I reckon it ought to be changed,” Obie said, tucking in his shirt. “You might lean on it and fall and break your neck.” Julian waited outside the doctor’s office, dozing behind the wheel, dreaming of tall gleaming pillars and him standing between them in an immaculate white suit. When the door on the passenger side opened, he woke up feeling sore and sour. He looked at his watch and frowned. “What did your red-dot doctor think about erasing God off you?” Obie sat with his back away from the seat. “He only took him off the outside,” he whispered. “Are you sure he didn’t replace him with Buddha?” “Can we go on to the house?” “Aw, can’t you take a joke?” Obie rolled his burning eyes toward him. “Do you have any aspirin?” “There’s a tin in the glove compartment. But don’t ask me to stop and buy you a Coke.” In late October, the money finally ran out. Julian announced that he couldn’t pay Obie anymore, but he would let him live on the place for free if he painted the outside. Obie walked out onto the front lawn under the two-hundred-year-old oak and stared. Julian stood between a pair of crazed pillars, watching him. After two minutes he called out, “What are you thinking?” “I’m figurin’ it would take me sixty gallons of primer and paint and a full year to do it myself. It needs to be sanded, washed, and scraped, and I’d have to live here three years past the end of the job to take the value out in rent.” Julian stepped into the yard and looked up at the complex eaves, the paint-sucking galleries. “We can work something out.” “No, we cain’t. I’m finished with my treatments. Setumahaven give me some fading chemical, and Monday I’ll go to that tanning parlor by the cornmeal plant.” Julian took a step backward, startled. “What are you talking about? You can’t leave.” Obie spread his arms like a gaunt bird ready to take flight. “The old me’s gone. The new me’s got to move on down the road.” Over the next several days, Obie’s color changed from a mix of blood and ink to a mildly unhealthy skim-milk hue, and after several sessions at the Red Bug Tanning Salon his skin turned an even, rosy manila. One night, Julian decided that Obie might stay and work for him if he went into his meagre retirement savings and paid him a real salary. The next morning, Julian got out of bed and fried a ham steak for breakfast, Obie’s favorite. After the table was set, he went out into the yard, and his heart skipped a beat when he saw that the door to the old kitchen was wide open. Inside, the cot was empty, and Obie’s duffelbag, always in the same spot under it, was gone. He began to panic and stared up at his sickly house, which loomed over him, leprous and crippled. He raced into Poxley, but no one at the bus station had seen him, and Dr. Setumahaven’s office was closed. After driving around the town’s narrow streets for half an hour, he parked and went into Chance Poxley’s store. The old man came out of his office and squinted at him. “What?” “I can’t find my hired man.” “Well.” “He just left without a word.” Mr. Poxley leaned over and pressed the Clear button on his adding machine. “That so?” “Have you seen him?” The old man shook his head. “It’s been a while. He did tell me he’d finished up with the skin doc. I don’t think he had much need of your job anymore.” “He told me he used to stay with a cousin. Where’s he live?” “He’s not there. That boy pitched him out to begin with.” Julian stared at the store’s broad plate-glass windows, emblazoned with shoe-polish lettering: “Cash Talks.” “I’ve got to find him.” “Unless I miss my guess, you can’t afford him anymore.” “What are you saying?” Mr. Poxley looked down and his voice softened. “What do you need him for, anyway?” Julian’s mouth fell open a bit and he focussed on a new gas range to the right of the counter. He could fix a typewriter, but nothing else in the world, and he didn’t know if he could continue living in the old mansion, unable as he was to keep it nailed together. But the real problem came upon him as suddenly as thunder. He’d be alone. The house and its canyon rooms would swallow him up, the only sound would be his own footsteps thrown back in his face, and when he stopped moving he’d meet a silence as vast as night. In the middle of November, a freakish weather pattern set in—howling wind with ice in its teeth. Julian was adjusting a Royal 440, and around sundown his hands began to shake. The single-pane windows and the shrunken doors shivered in their frames. There was no insulation anywhere and what little residual heat there was soon leaked through the ceiling lath. He put on sweaters and two jackets and remembered that the house had no functioning heating system. The squatters had used tin trash burners, running the stovepipes through the windows, but all that had been thrown out. Obie had told him that the fireplace flues were no longer safe, that the chimneys were falling apart in the attic. He climbed into bed under every sheet and quilt he owned, deciding that the next night would be warmer. The next night brought a whip-cracking gale, and a weatherman on his car’s radio announced that a solid week of unusually cold temperatures was on the way. Julian drove into town and bought an electric heater, but under the fifteen-foot ceilings the device was like a spark at the North Pole. The third night, he slept in his car with the motor running, but, when he checked the gas gauge on waking, he knew he couldn’t afford to do that again. He got out of the back seat cursing the oil industry and the whole Middle East and loaded up five repaired typewriters for delivery in Memphis. The fourth night, he became ill and for two weeks suffered through a cold, which turned into influenza. After a teasing warm spell, December’s weather came back mortally cold, and he moved out of the mansion into Obie’s little kitchen house. The electric heater and the old wood-burning range together would keep the room at fifty degrees, and he could sleep. But it was a miserable place to stay, its attic full of manic squirrels, its floor a dull smear of ground-in soot and dirt, its walls impregnated with the oily emanations of ten thousand meals. One day in mid-December, there was a knock at the kitchen-house door and he found Chance Poxley standing in the tall dead grass, wearing a small tweed fedora, shading his eyes with one hand. Julian held the door open only a little. “What can I do for you?” “Can I step in? This wind is about to freeze me female.” He backed into the room, and the old man came up the three wooden steps. When his eyes adjusted, he looked around. “My God, you’re livin’ like a jailbird in here.” “Next year I’ll arrange to keep the big house warm.” Mr. Poxley shook his head. “I hear in the old days it took three servants workin’ full time to keep all the fireplaces going with coal. You can’t even buy coal anymore.” “Did you come out here to discuss my heating problems?” “No.” The old man handed him a sheet of paper. “What’s this?” “You’re two months behind on your payments.” Julian reddened. He stood staring at the invoice for a long time as the squirrels began chasing one another above their heads. “Are you sure I haven’t paid these?” “If you can show me the cancelled checks, we’ll know, won’t we?” “I’ll examine my records, and if they indicate that I’ve missed paying you I’ll mail you a check.” Mr. Poxley put out a hand. “I’d appreciate a check right now.” “But I can’t do that. I might wind up paying you twice.” The old man lowered his arm and looked over at the smoking stove. “Let me tell you some facts. People that take over a place like this have a lot of money. They can afford to hire a bunch of contractors to do a proper restoration.” “My dream is to do just that.” “At the rate you’re goin’, it’ll take you a hundred years just to make the place look second-rate. And if you stay out here it’ll kill you.” Julian folded his arms. “It’s my heritage.” “There’s people that’ll pay a bit of money for this property. With what you sell it for, you could get a tight little house with a shop out back.” “And you’d get your money for the refrigerator and the air-conditioner.” Chance Poxley fixed him with his watery eyes and said in a low voice, “Look, if you don’t at least make up the payments, I’ll have to put a lien on the place. So will the folks down at the lumberyard, who I hear tell have advanced you considerable supplies on credit.” Julian opened the door and pointed outside. “You’ll get your money.” The old man looked into the weedy yard. “Well, I got to admit I’ve never been throwed out of a worse place than this.” He eased down the steps and turned around. “You know, I didn’t come here to cause you any trouble. But I got to tell you, when the sheriff found out an owner was on this property he checked into the tax records and told me he don’t care what the lawyers say, you owe county tax on this place back to 1946.” The old man’s hat blew off and his thin white hair was torn by the wind. “I didn’t want to be the one to tell you.” Julian waved him away as though he were a stray dog. “Get off my property,” he yelled. “I can buy and sell every damned one of you.” He didn’t know where this cutting voice had come from, its load of arrogance perhaps conjured up out of the red dirt around him, the dead fields and parched lumber of his inheritance. Julian sat down that night to balance his checkbook and found that he’d have to transfer money from his tiny emergency fund at the bank in Memphis to hold off his creditors for a week or so. After that, he was bankrupt. One night of gun-blue sky, the temperature went down to nine degrees. Julian had stuffed the cookstove with scrap wood he’d scavenged and the stovepipe was glowing red halfway up to the flimsy ceiling. An old Remington manual was set up on the table and it refused to move when he hit the Tab key, the fresh oil on its parts turned to gum by the cold. At about eleven o’clock, he had to go to the bathroom, so he put on padded slippers and all the clothes in the room and opened the door to the night. The wind was a black punishment, and his bones were rattling by the time he reached the back door of the big house. As soon as he stepped inside, his feet began to sting, and when he turned on the hall light he could see water running deep on the floor. He splashed over to the foot of the stairs and looked up at a ladder of water coming down, a scrim of ice on the edges like a mountain stream. Upstairs, he found that a frozen toilet had shattered and fallen away from the wall, snapping off the feed line at floor level, and water was jetting up to the ceiling. He had no idea where he could turn the water off. And only one person could tell him. He sat next to the phone table in the hall and hooked his feet on a chair rung to keep them out of the water. Pulling out his service receipts from the drawer under the phone, he studied the column of calls until he found a number in Georgia. He had done so much for Obie that the man should at least tell him where a valve was. Looking up, he watched lines of icicles forming where water sluiced through cracks in the plaster. After many rings, someone in Georgia picked up the phone, and he asked to speak to Obie Parker. “This is his former employer,” he shouted into the receiver. “And I need to ask him a question.” A woman’s reedy voice answered, sounding self-righteous and glad to be so. “Do you have any idea a-tall what time it is?” “Yes, I’m sorry, but this is important.” “Obadiah is asleep, and a workin’ man needs all the rest he’s due, so I’m not a-goin’ to roust him out of a warm bed, Mister.” Julian’s voice rose in pitch. “But I’ve got a broken water pipe and—” “A broke pipe, you say? Mister, there’s people in the world got a whole lot worse than that wrong in their lives. They got the cancer, they got children sellin’ dope, they got trailers blown apart by the tornado wind that leaves them standin’ in the yard starin’ up at the stars. But you know what? Ain’t a one of them callin’ me up at twelve-ten at night to whine about no broke water pipe.” “It’s eleven-ten.” “Mister, you caught up in your own little world so much you think the rest of God’s universe is in your time zone. It’s twelve-ten in Georgia.” A piano-size raft of plaster detached from the ceiling and fell at his feet, covering him with a surf of freezing water. “Good Lord, lady, I’ve got to talk to your husband.” “People in Hell got to have strawberry shortcake, but they don’t get it.” She hung up. He lowered the buzzing receiver and looked down the long, swamped hall toward the front of the house that was his glory. He knew everything about it, and at the same time nothing at all. The wind flattened the tall dry grass next to the pillars in a dead shout that told him not a thing that would help. Suddenly, he was startled by the jangling phone. “Hello?” “Hey. It’s Obie. I heard my wife a-talkin’ to you.” The voice was like a warm, comforting hand, but Julian couldn’t help shouting, “Where the hell’s the water valve to the house? I’m flooded out, here.” “If you got water on the floors, don’t go after that pump switch in the panel box. It’ll knock you into the next world. Look under the sink and turn that third valve to the right.” He sloshed to the kitchen and did as he was told. With a house-shaking crash, the dining-room plaster fell all at once. Shivering, he ran back to the phone, wet up to the knees, and climbed onto the chair. “What do I do now, Obie? All the plaster in the place is coming down.” The voice drifted in from Georgia, sleepy and soft. “You can’t afford no plaster crew, that’s for sure.” After a pause, he said, “Might be time to sell out.” “Never,” he yelled into the receiver. “I’ll never leave here in a million years.” “One time, I said I’d never give up my tattoos.” “Thanks, but I don’t need your moralizing lesson. I need you to come back and fix things.” “I’m sorry, Mr. Smith, but it sounds like things is past fixin’.” Something dropped onto the kitchen floor like a truckload of gravel. “What can I do about the plaster?” “That plaster’s the least of your problems.” “What do you mean?” “Well, if you don’t know I can’t tell you.” The light fixture above Julian’s head filled with water and popped off in a shower of blue sparks, and he dropped the phone. He was blind and trembling in the watery dark, and he began to struggle down the hall toward his outbuilding, desperate for the warmth of the red-hot stove. When he opened the back door, he saw that the old kitchen house had turned into a windblown orange fireball, streamers of flame running toward him through the grass. He stumbled outside and began stamping at the brush until he understood that with its brick porch and pillars the big house would probably not catch fire. Through a sidelight at the rear door he watched the flames race in the wind, flowing under his car and fanning out to light the corncrib, the smokehouse, and the big sagging barn, which went up in a howl of crackling lumber and dried-out hay. At one point, he tried to call the Poxley volunteer fire department, but the creosote pole that supported the telephone wire had already gone up like a torch, taking his service away. In ten minutes, the fire circled the house, and he climbed up to the belvedere to track its progress as it burned to the ditches surrounding his tract, taking out the pump house and a tractor shed, and incinerating his Dodge, which burned hot and high, killing most of the foliage of the live oak shading it. At dawn, he could see that but for the roadside oaks everything was gone, burned off the face of the earth as if by a powerful beam of light, the house standing naked and singed in a field of white ash. He stayed up in the belvedere, hoping the new sun would warm him, but daylight brought a shrill wind crying like the voices of all the families, wealthy and destitute, who had lived in his house, who, each in turn, had given it up through death or duress and left it to falter. He stood unshaved and burning with fever, dressed in sopping house slippers and several layers of old robes and cotton jackets, waiting—for what, he wasn’t sure. But in a few minutes he heard a car on the gravel road, looked down through the bubbled glass, and saw them. Even from a distance, he could tell that Mr. Poxley’s mouth had fallen open at the sight of the guttering outbuildings. He and a big deputy stepped out of the police car and walked to the roadside fence. Each man held down his hat with one hand and bore a folded piece of paper in the other, liens and tax bills that would take the place away, and Julian felt house and history shrink to nothing beneath him—a void replaced by a vision of himself, dressed in borrowed clothes and defeat, spirited away that very evening on a lurching bus bound for Memphis and sitting next to some untaught, impoverished person, perhaps even another long-suffering and moralizing carpenter.
Old Wounds We didn’t have a flower garden. There were a few clumps of devil’s pokers—spears of smoldering crimson when in bloom, and milky yellow when not. But my mother’s sister and her family, who lived closer to the mountain, had a ravishing garden: tall festoons of pinkish-white roses, a long low border of glorious golden tulips, and red dahlias that, even in hot sun, exuded the coolness of velvet. When the wind blew in a certain direction, the perfume of the roses vanquished the smell of dung from the yard, where the sow and her young pigs spent their days foraging and snortling. My aunt was so fond of the piglets that she gave each litter pet names, sometimes the same pet names, which she appropriated from the romance novels she borrowed from the library and read by the light of a paraffin lamp, well into the night. Our families had a falling out. For several years there was no communication between us at all, and, when the elders met at funerals, they did not acknowledge one another and studiously looked the other way. Yet we were still intimately bound up with each other and any news of one family was of interest to the other, even if that news was disconcerting. When the older and possibly more begrudging people had died off, and my cousin, Edward, and I were both past middle age—as he kept reminding me, he was twelve years older than I was and had been fitted with a pacemaker—we met again and set aside the lingering hostilities. About a year later, we paid a visit to the family graveyard, which was on an island in the broad stretch of the Shannon River. It was a balmy day in autumn, the graveyard spacious, uncluttered, the weathered tombs far more imposing than those in the graveyard close to the town. They were limestone tombs, blotched with white lichen, great splashes of it, which added an improvised gaiety to the scene. Swallows were swooping and scudding in and out of the several sacred churches, once the abode of monks but long since uninhabited, the roofs gone but the walls and ornamental doorways still standing, gray and sturdy, with their own mosaics of lichen. The swallows did not so much sing as caw and gabble, their circuits a marvel of speed and ingenuity. Now I was seeing the graveyard in daylight with my cousin, but once, a few years before, I had gone there surreptitiously. The youngster who rowed me across worked for a German man who bred pheasants on one of the other islands and was able to procure a boat. We set out just before dark. The boy couldn’t stop talking or singing. And he smoked like a chimney. “Didn’t yer families fight?” he asked, when I trained a torch on the names of my ancestors carved on a tall headstone. Undaunted by my silence, the boy kept prying and then, with a certain insouciance, informed me that the family fight had come about because of what Edward had done to his widowed mother, flinging her out once she had signed the place over to him. “That’s all in the past,” I said curtly, and recited the names, including those of a great-grandmother and a great-grandfather, a Bridget and a Thomas, of whom I knew nothing. Others I had random remembrances of. In our house, preserved in a china cabinet, on frayed purple braid, were the medals of an uncle who had been a soldier of the Irish Free State and had met with a violent death, aged twenty-eight. I remembered my grandfather falling into a puddle in the yard, when he came home drunk from a fair, and laughing jovially. My grandmother was stern and made me drink hot milk with pepper before sending me up to bed early. She was forever dinning into me the stories of our forebears and how they had suffered, our people driven from their holdings and their cabins down the years. She said that the knowledge of eviction and the fear of the poorhouse ran in our blood. I must have been seven or eight at the time. For Sunday Mass, she wore a bonnet made of black satin, with little felt bobbins that hopped against her cheek in the judder, as my grandfather drove helter-skelter so as not to be late. The traps and the sidecars were tethered outside the chapel gates, and the horses seemed to know one another and to nod lazily. As a treat, my grandmother let me smell a ball of nutmeg, which was kept in a round tin that had once held cough pastilles. The feather bed, which I shared with her, sagged almost to the floor and the pillow slips smelled of flour, because they were made from flour bags that she had bleached and sewn. My grandfather, who snored, slept in a settle bed down in the kitchen, near the fire. About two years after my clandestine visit to the graveyard, Edward and I met by chance at a garden center. I was home on holiday and had gone to buy broom shrubs for my nephew. As we approached each other on a pathway between a line of funereal yew trees, my cousin saw me, then pretended not to and feigned interest in a huge tropical plant, which bore a resemblance to rhubarb. Deciding to brave it, I said his name, and, turning, he asked with a puzzled look, “Who do I have here?,” although he well knew. And so the ice was broken. Yes, his eyes were bad, as he later told me, but he had indeed recognized me and felt awkward. As we got to be friends, I learned of the journeys to the eye doctor in Dublin, of the treatments required before the doctor could operate, and when I sent him flowers at the hospital the nurse, bearing them to his bedside, said, “Well, someone loves you,” and he was proud to tell her that it was me. We corresponded. His letters were so immediate. They brought that mountain terrain to life, along with the unvarying routine of his days: out to the fields straight after breakfast, herding, mending fences, fixing gates, clearing drains, and often, as he said, sitting on a wall for a smoke, to drink in his surroundings. He loved the place. He said that people who did not know the country—did not know nature and did not stay close to it—could never understand the loss that they were feeling. I felt that, in an oblique way, he was referring to me. He wrote these letters at night by the fire, after his wife had gone up to bed. Her health was poor, her sleep fitful, so she went to bed early to get as many hours as she could. He sometimes, while writing, took a sup of whiskey, but he said he was careful not to get too fond of it. He knew the lake almost as well as he knew the mountain, and, through his binoculars, from his front porch he watched the arrival of the dappers in the month of May, a whole fleet of boats from all over the country and even from foreign parts. They arrived as the hatched mayflies came out of the nearby bushes and floated above the water, in bacchanalian swarms, so that the fishermen were easily able to catch them and fix them to the hooks of their long rods. He himself had fished there every Sunday of his life, trolling from his boat with wet or dry bait, and so canny was he that the neighbors were quite spiteful, saying that he knew exactly where the fish lay hiding, and, hence, there was not a pike or a perch or a trout left for anyone else. He was a frugal man. In Dublin, he would walk miles from the railway station to the eye hospital, often having to ask the way and frequently going astray because of his ailing sight. His wife and son would scold him for not taking a taxi, to which he always said, “I could if I wanted to.” Yet I recalled that time when, young, he had brought my sister and me a gift, the same gift, a red glassy bracelet on an elasticated band. The raised red beads were so beautiful that I licked them as I would jellies. My sister was older than me, and it was for her that he had a particular fondness. They flirted, though I did not know then that it was called that. They teased each other, and then ran around the four walls of our sandstone house, and eventually fell into an embrace, breathless from their hectic exertions. I was wild with jealousy and snapped on the band of my new bracelet. They aped dancing, as if in a ballroom, she swooning, her upper back reclining on the curve of his forearm as he sang, “You’ll be lonely, little sweetheart, in the spring,” and she gazed up at him, daring him to kiss her. He was handsome then, not countrified, like most of the farmers or their grown sons, and he wore a long white belted motor coat. He had a mop of silky brown hair, and his skin was sallow. I met Grania, the woman to whom he got engaged some two or three years later, on the way home from school one day. She stopped me and asked if I was his cousin, though she knew well who I was and pointedly ignored the two girls who were with me. She asked me jokingly if she was making the right choice, as someone had warned her that my cousin was “bad news.” She repeated the words “bad news” with a particular relish. She was wearing a wraparound red dress and red high-heeled toeless sandals, which looked incongruous but utterly beautiful on that dusty godforsaken road. She was like flame, a flame in love with my cousin, and her eyes danced with mischief. It was not long after they got married that he called his mother out into the hay shed and informed her that his wife felt unwanted in the house and that, for the sake of his marriage, he had to ask her to leave. Thus the coolness from our side of the family. There was general outrage in the parish that an only son had pitched his mother out, and pity for the mother, who had to walk down that road, carrying her few belongings and her one heirloom, a brass lamp with a china shade, woebegone, like a woman in a ballad. She stayed with us for a time, and did obliging things for my mother, being, as she was, in her own eyes, a mendicant, and once, when she let fall a tray of good china cups and saucers, she knelt down and said, “I’ll replace these,” even though we knew she couldn’t. In the evenings, she often withdrew from the kitchen fire to sit alone in our cold vacant room, with a knitted shawl over her shoulders, brooding. Eventually, she rented a room in the town, and my mother gave her cane chairs, cushions, and a pale-green candlewick bedspread, to give the room a semblance of home. But, with so many dead, there was no need for estrangement anymore. Edward sent me a photograph of a double rainbow, arcing from the sky above his house across a patchwork of small green fields and over the lake toward the hill that contained the graves of the Leinster men. On the back of the photograph he had written the hour of evening at which the rainbow had appeared and lasted for about ten minutes, before eking its watery way back into the sky. I put it on the mantelpiece for luck. The rainbow, with its seven bands of glorious color, always presaged happiness. In his next letter and in answer to my question, he said that the Leinster men were ancient chieftains who had come for a banquet in Munster, where they were insulted and subsequently murdered, but that someone had thought to bury them facing their own province. Each summer, when I went back to Ireland, we had outings, outings that he had been planning all year. One year, mysteriously, I found that we were driving far from his farm, up an isolated road, with nothing in sight except clumps of wretched rushes and the abandoned ruins from famine times. Then, almost at the peak, he parked the jeep and took two shotguns out of the boot. He had dreamed all year of teaching me to shoot and he set about it with a zest. He loved shooting. As a youngster, unbeknownst to his mother, he had cycled to Limerick two nights a week to learn marksmanship in a gallery. With different gundogs, he shot pheasants, grouse, ducks, and snipe, but his particular favorites were the woodcock, which came all the way from Siberia or Chernobyl. He described them to me, silhouetted against an evening sky—they disliked light—their beaks like crochet hooks, then furtively landing in a swamp or on a cowpat to catch insects or partake of the succulence of the water. Yet he could not forgo the thrill of shooting them, then picking them up, feeling the scant flesh on the bone, and snapping off a side feather to post to an ornithologist in England. September 1st, he said, was the opening of duck shooting on the lake, a hundred guns or more out there, bang-banging in all directions. Later, adjourning to the pub, the sportsmen swapped stories of the day’s adventure, comparing what they’d shot and how they’d shot and what they’d missed—a camaraderie such as he was not used to. For a target, he affixed a saucepan lid to a wooden post. Then, taking the lighter of the two guns, he loaded it with brass bullets, handed it to me, and taught me to steady it, to put my finger on the trigger and look down through the nozzle of the long blue-black barrel. “Now shoot,” he said in a belligerent voice, and I shot so fearfully and, at the same time, so rapidly that I believed I was levitating. The whole thing felt unreal, bullets bursting and zapping through the air, some occasionally clattering off the side of the tin lid and my aim so awry that even to him it began to be funny. He had started to lay out a picnic on a tartan rug—milky tea in a bottle, hard-boiled eggs, slices of brown bread already buttered—when out of thin air a huge black dog appeared, like a phantom or an animal from the underworld, its snarls strange and spiteful. Its splayed paws were enormous and mud-spattered, its eyes bloodshot, the sockets bruised, as if it were fresh from battle. “He’ll smell your fear,” my cousin said. “I can’t help it,” I said and lowered the gun, thinking that this might, in some way, appease the animal. There wasn’t a stone or a stick to throw at it. There was nothing up there, only the fearsome dog and us and the saucepan lid rattling like billio. Edward knew every dog for miles around, and every breed of dog, and said that this freak was a “blow-in.” Eventually, he sacrificed every bit of food in order to get the animal to run, throwing each piece farther and farther, as, matador-like, he followed bearing the stake on which the lid was nailed, shouting in a voice that I could not believe was his, so barbaric and inhuman did it sound. The dog, wearying of the futility of this, decided to gallop off over the edge of the mountain and disappear from sight. “Jesus,” my cousin said. We sat in the jeep because, as he said, we were in no hurry to get home. We didn’t talk about family things, his wife or my ex-husband, my mother or his mother, possibly fearing that it would open up old wounds. There had been so many differences between the two families—over greyhounds, over horses, over some rotten bag of seed potatoes—and always with money at the root of it. My father, in his wild tempers, would claim that my mother’s father had not paid her dowry and would go to his house in the dead of night, shouting up at a window to demand it. Instead, we talked of dogs. Having been a huntsman all his life, Edward had several dogs, good dogs, faithful dogs, retrievers, pointers, setters, and springers. His favorite was an Irish red setter, which he called Maire Ruadh, for a red-haired noblewoman who had her husbands pitched into the Atlantic once she tired of them. He had driven all the way to Kildare, in answer to an advertisement, to vet this pedigree dog, and his wife had decided to come along. Straightaway they had liked the look of her; they had studied the pedigree papers, paid out a hefty sum, and there and then given her her imperious name. On the way back, they’d had high tea at a hotel in Roscrea, and, what with the price he’d paid for Maire Ruadh and the tea and the cost of the petrol, it had proved to be an expensive day. I told him the story of an early morning in a café in Paris, a straggle of people—two men, each with a bottle of pale-amber beer, and a youngish woman, writing in a ruled copybook, her dog at her feet, quiet, suppliant. When she finished her essay, or whatever it was that she had been writing, she groped in her purse and all of a sudden the obedient dog reared to get away. She pulled on the lead, dragging it back beside her, the dog resistant and down on its haunches. Grasping the animal by the crown of its head, she opened its mouth very wide and with her other hand dispatched some powdered medicine from a sachet onto its tongue. Pinned as it was, the dog could vent its fury only by kicking, which got it nowhere. Once the dog had downed the powder, she patted it lovingly and it answered in kind, with soft whimpers. “Man’s best friend,” my cousin said, a touch dolefully. We came back by a different route because he wanted me to see the ruin of a cottage where a workman of ours had lived. As a child, I had been dotingly in love with the man and had intended to elope with him, when I came of age. The house itself was gone and all that remained was a tumbledown porch with some overgrown stalks of geranium, their scarlet blooms prodigal in that godforsaken place. We didn’t even get out of the car. Yet nearby we came upon a scene of such gaiety that it might have been a wedding party. Twenty or so people sitting out of doors at a long table strewn with lanterns, eating, drinking, and calling for toasts in different tongues. Behind the cacophony of voices we could hear the strains of music from a melodeon. It was the hippies who had come to the district, the “blow-ins,” as Edward called them, giving them the same scathing name as the fearsome dog. They had made Ireland their chosen destination when the British government, in order to avoid paying them social benefits, gave them a lump sum to scoot it. They crossed the Irish Sea and found ideal havens by streams and small rivers, building houses, growing their own vegetables and their own marijuana, and, he had been told on good authority, taking up wife-swapping. He had the native’s mistrust of the outsider. We had to come to a stop because some of their ducks were waddling across the road. We couldn’t see them in the dusk but heard their quacking, and then some children with their faces painted puce came to the open window of the jeep, holding lighted sods of turf, serenading us. “Hi, guv,” one of the men at the table called out, but my cousin did not answer. It was in his back yard, still sitting in the jeep, that he began to cry. As we drove in, he could see by the light in the upstairs room that his wife had gone to bed early, so I declined his invitation to have a cup of tea. He cried for a long time. The stars were of the same brightness and fervor as the stars I had seen in childhood and, though distant, seemed to have been put there for us, as if someone in the great house called Heaven had gone from room to room, turning on this constellation of lamps. He was crying, he said, because the families had been divided for so long. He had even tried to find me in England, had written to some priest who served in a parish in Kilburn, because, according to legend, Kilburn was where Irish people flocked and had fights on Saturday nights outside pubs and pool halls. The priest couldn’t trace me but suggested a parish in Wimbledon, where I had indeed lived for a time, before fleeing from bondage. What hurt my cousin most was the fact that his wife’s cousins, as she frequently reminded him, had kept in touch, had sent Christmas cards and visited in the summer, each of them rewarded with a gift of a pair of fresh trout. In his wife’s estimation, his cousins, meaning my family, were heartless. It took him a while to calm down. The tissues that he took from his pockets were damp shreds. Eventually, somewhat abashed, he said, “Normally, I am not an emotional man,” then, backing the car toward the open gate, he drove down the mountain road to the small town where my nephew lived. One evening soon after that, when I telephoned him from London, he said that he had known it would be me; he had come in from the fields ten minutes before the Angelus tolled, because of this hunch he had that I would be ringing. We talked at our ease: the cornea transplant he had recently undergone, the weather as ever wet and squally. He told me that it was unlikely he would make silage anymore and therefore intended to sell the cattle that he had fattened all summer. He might, he said, buy yearlings the following May, if his health held up. He did not say how happy the call had made him, but I could feel the pitch of excitement in his voice as he told me again that he had come in early from the fields because he knew that I would ring. We took to talking on the phone about once a month. When his wife went to Spain with their son, from whom he was estranged, he wrote to tell me that he would phone me on a particular evening at seven o’clock. I knew then that these conversations buoyed him up. It was the third summer of our reunion, and he had the boat both tarred and painted a Prussian blue. We were bound for the graveyard. The day could not have been more perfect: sunshine, a soft breeze, Edward slipping the boat out with one oar through a thicket of lush bamboo and reeds, a scene that could easily have taken place somewhere in the East. He took a loop away from the direction of the island, in order to get the wind at our backs, then turned on the engine and, despite his worsening sight, steered with unfailing instinct, because he had, he said, a map of the entire lake inside his head. The water was a plateau of dazzling silver, waves barely nudging the boat. We couldn’t hear each other because of the noise of the engine but sat quiet, content, the hills all around us sloping toward us, enfolding us in their friendliness. It was only when we reached the pier that I realized how poor his sight was—by the difficulty he had tying the rope to its ballast and reading the handwritten sign that said “Bull on island.” “We’ll have to brave it,” he said. Our headway was cautious, what with the steep climb, the fear of the bull, and, presently, a herd of bullocks fixing us with their stupid glare, and a few of them making abortive attempts to charge at us. Once through the lych-gate that led to the graveyard, we sat and availed ourselves of the port wine that I had brought in a hip flask. Sitting on the low wall opposite the resting place of our ancestors, he said what a pity it was that my mother had chosen not to be buried there. Her explanation was that she wished to be near a roadside so that passersby might bless themselves for the repose of her soul, but I had always felt that there was another reason, a hesitation in her heart. “I came here twice since I last saw you . . . to think,” he said. “To think?” “I was feeling rotten. . . . I came here and talked to them.” He did not elaborate, but I imagined that he might have been brooding over unfinished business with his mother, or maybe his marriage, which had grown bleaker amid the desolations of age. It was not money he was worried about, because, as he told me, he had been offered princely sums for fields of his that bordered the lake; people were pestering him, developers and engaged couples, to sell them sites, and he had refused resolutely. “My wants are few,” he said and rolled a cigarette, regaining his good humor and rejoicing at the fact that we had picked such a great day for our visit. He surprised me by telling a story of how, after my mother died, my father had gone to the house of Grania’s older sister, Oonagh, recently returned from Australia, and had proposed to her. Without any pretense at courtship, he had simply asked her to marry him. He had needed a wife. He had even pressed her to think it over, been narked at her refusal, and gone on the batter for several weeks. I could not imagine anyone other than my mother in our kitchen, in our upstairs or downstairs rooms; she was the presiding spirit of the place. He then said that Grania had also expressed a wish to be buried in a grave near the town and he could not understand why anyone would want to be in a place where the remains were squeezed in like sardines. Birds whirled in and out, such a freedom to their movements, such an airiness, as if the whole place belonged to them and we were the intruders. He spoke of souls buried there in pagan times, then Christian times, the monks in the monasteries fasting, praying, and most likely having to fend off invaders. It was a place of pilgrimage, where all-night Masses were celebrated; he pointed to boulders with little cavities, where the pilgrims had dipped their hands and their feet in the blessed water. “Hallowed ground,” I said. The grassy mound that covered our family grave was a rich warm green strewn with speckled wildflowers. “You have as much right to be there as I have,” he said suddenly, and my heart leaped with a childish joy. “Do I really?” “I’m telling you . . . you’ll be right beside me,” he said, and he stood up and took my hand, and we walked over the mound, measuring it, as it were, hands held in solidarity. It meant everything to me. I would be the only one from our branch of the family to lie with relatives whom I had always admired as being more stoic than us and truer to the hardships of the land. When his wife got sick the next winter, his letters became infrequent. He rarely went out to the fields, having to tend her, and the only help was a twice-weekly visit from a jubilee nurse, who came to change her dressings. They could not tell whether it was the cancer causing all the wounds down her spine or whether she was allergic to the medicines that she had been prescribed. Sometimes, he wrote, she roared with pain, said that the pain was hammering against her chest, and begged to be dead. I was abroad when she died and he telephoned to let me know. A message was passed on to me and I was able to send roses by Interflora. To my surprise, I learned that she had been buried on the island after all, and on the phone, when I later spoke to him, he described the crossing of the funeral procession, the first boat for the flowers, as was the custom, then himself and his son in the next boat, and the mourners following behind. “A grand crowd . . . good people,” he said, and I realized that he was vexed with me for not having been there. I asked whether she had died suddenly, and he answered that he would rather not describe the manner of her passing. Nor did he say why she had changed her mind about being buried in the family plot. I could not tell what had caused it, but a chasm had sprung up between us. The friendliness had gone from his voice when I rang, and his letters were formal now. I wondered if he felt that his friendship with me had somehow compromised his love for his wife, or if he was in the grip of that contrariness which comes, or so I feared, with advancing years. A home help, a very young girl, visited him three days a week, put groceries in the fridge, cooked his dinner, and occasionally went upstairs to hoover and change the sheets. “Maybe you should give her a bonus,” I said, suggesting that she would then come every day. “The state pays her plenty,” he said, disgruntled by my remark. I got out of the habit of phoning him, but one Christmas morning, in a burst of sentiment, I rang, hoping that things might be smoothed over. Over-politely, he answered a few questions about the weather, his health, a large magnifying machine that he had got for reading, and then quite suddenly he blurted it out. He had been looking into the cost of a tombstone for his wife and himself and had found that it was going to be very expensive. “Have you thought of what you intend to do?” he asked. “I haven’t,” I said flatly. “Maybe you would like to purchase yours now,” he said. “I don’t understand the question,” I said, although I understood it all too clearly and a river of outrage ran through me. I felt that he had violated kinship and decency. The idea of being interred in the graveyard beside him seemed suddenly odious to me. Yet, perversely, I was determined not to surrender my place under the grassy slope. There were a few seconds of wordless confrontation and then the line went dead. He had hung up. I rang back, but the telephone was off the hook, and that night, when I called again, there was no answer; he probably guessed that it was me. It was August and pouring rain when I travelled to the local hospital to see him. A nurse, with her name tag, “M. Gleeson,” met me in the hallway. She was a stout woman with short bobbed hair and extremely affable. She eyed me up and down, guessed correctly whom I had come to see, and said that her mother had known me well, but, of course, I wouldn’t remember, being citified. If my cousin had come in at Easter, things might have been different now, she said, but, as it was, the news was not promising. “How’s the humor?” I asked tentatively. “Cantankerous,” she said, adding that most patients knew their onions, knew how to play up to her, realizing that she would be the one to wash them, feed them, and bring them cups of tea at all hours, but not cousin Edward. “I should have brought flowers,” I said. “Ah, aren’t you flower enough!” she said and herded me toward the open door of his little room, announcing me bluffly. He was in an armchair with a fawn dressing gown over his pajamas, as thin as a rake, his whole body drooping, and when he looked up and saw me, or perhaps only barely saw me, but heard my name, his eyes narrowed with hatred. I saw that I should not have come. “I couldn’t find anywhere to buy you a flower,” I said. “A flower?” he said with disdain. “They don’t sell them in the garden center anymore—only trees and plants,” I explained, and the words hung in the air. The rain sloshed down the narrow windowpane as if it couldn’t reach the sill quickly enough, then overflowed onto a patch of ground that was rife with nettle and dock. “How are you?” I asked after some time. He pondered the question and then replied, coldly, “That’s what I keep asking myself—how am I?” I wanted to put things right. I wanted to say, “Let’s talk about the tombstone and then forget about it forever,” but I couldn’t. The way he glared at me was beginning to make me angry. I felt the urge to shake him. On the bedside table there was a peeled mandarin orange that had been halved but left untouched. There will be another time, I kept telling myself. Except that I knew he was dying. He had that aghastness which shows itself, months, often a year, before the actual death. We were getting nowhere. The tension was unbearable, rain splashing down, and he with his head lowered, having a colloquy with himself. I reminded myself how hardworking, how frugal, he had been all his life, never admitting to the loneliness that he must have felt, and I thought, Why don’t I throw my arms around him and say something? But I couldn’t. I simply couldn’t. It wouldn’t have been true. It would have been false. I knew that he despised me for the falsity of my coming and the falsity of my not bringing the matter up, and that he despised himself equally for having done something irreparable. “Have you been to the grave?” he asked sharply. “No, but I’m going this afternoon. I’ve booked the boatman,” I said. “You’ll find Grania’s name and mine on my grandfather’s tomb . . . chiselled,” he said. “Chiselled.” The word seemed to cut through the shafts of suffocating air between us. I knew that he wanted me to leave. As it turned out, the trip across the lake was cancelled because the weather was so foul. The boatman deemed it too rough and too dangerous. It was the day of a big horse race and he and his wife were in their front room with the fire lit, the television on, and an open bottle of Tia Maria on a little brass table. Strange to say, neither Edward’s name nor Grania’s was on the tombstone when I went to his funeral, on a drizzling wet day that November. The grave had already been dug. “Ten fellas,” as Jacksie the boatman said, had turned up to do the job. Buckets of water had been bailed out of it, but the clay itself was still wet, with a dark boggy seepage. His coffin would rest on his wife’s, hers still new-looking, its varnish undimmed, and, in an exchange of maudlin condolences, women remarked that most likely Grania was in there still, waiting to welcome him. Underneath his wife’s remains were those of his mother, the woman she had quarrelled with and driven out of her home, and down in succession were others—husbands, wives, children, all with their differences silenced. When my turn came, I would rest on Edward’s coffin, with runners underneath to cushion the weight. These thoughts were passing through my mind as the priest shook holy water over the grave and three young girls threw in red roses. I did not recognize them. Neighbors’ children, I assumed. They threw the roses with a certain theatricality, and one of them blushed a fierce crimson. Death had not yet touched them. When the priest started the Rosary, there were nudges and blatant sighs, as it became clear that he was going to recite the full five decades, and not just one decade, as some priests did. He was in a wheelchair and had to have a boat all to himself. Men had had to support him up the gravel path to the graveyard. Despite his condition, his voice boomed out onto the lake, where the water birds shivered in the rushes, and over it to the main road, where crows had perched in a neat sepulchral line on the telephone wires as the coffin was being removed from the hearse. The mourners answered the Our Fathers and the Hail Marys with a routine solemnity, and the gravediggers stood by their shovels, expressionless, witnessing a scene such as they witnessed every other day. At the end of the prayers, a purple cloth was laid over Edward’s coffin, the undertaker tucking it in as if it were a living person that he was putting down to bed. I felt no sorrow, or, to be more precise, I felt nothing, only numbness. I watched a single flake of snow drift through the cold air, discolored and lonesome-looking. Most of the people ambled down toward the pier, but a few stayed behind to watch as the men closed the grave. The wreaths and artificial flowers in their glass domes were lifted off the strip of green plastic carpet, which had been temporarily placed over the grave to lessen the sense of grimness. The gravediggers shovelled hurriedly, gravel and small stones hopping off the coffins and the purple sheath, and finally they unrolled the piece of turf and laid it back where it belonged. Wildflowers of a darkish purple bloomed on graves nearby, but on the strip that had been dug up they had expired. The undertaker, who was full of cheer, said that they would grow again, as the birds scattered seeds all over and flowers of every description sprouted up. On the way down the steep path, Nurse Gleeson tugged at my arm as if we were old friends. First it was a slew of compliments about the tweed suit I was wearing, singling out the heather flecks in it, and she said what a pity it was that she was size 18, as I could not pass it on to her when I grew tired of it. Then it was my head scarf, an emerald green with an assortment of other garish colors, quite inappropriate for a funeral, except that it was the only one I had thrown into my suitcase. She remembered my flying visit to the hospital, had, in fact, gone to get a tray of tea and biscuits, when, holy cripes, on returning to the room, she saw that I had vanished. “Did he say anything?” I asked. “Oh, he sang dumb,” she said, then, gripping my arm even tighter, she indicated that there was something important that she needed to impart to me. A few days before the end, my cousin had asked her for a sheet of notepaper in order to write me a letter. There was a cranberry bowl in the kitchen at home, which he wished me to have, he had said. As it happened, she had found the sheet of paper in the top pocket of his pajamas after he died, but with nothing written on it. “The strength gave out,” she said and asked if I knew which bowl it was. I could see it quite clearly, as I had seen it one day, while waiting in his kitchen for a sun shower to pass, rays of sun alighting on it, divesting it of its sheath of brown dust, the red ripples flowing through it, so that it seemed to liquefy, as if it were being newly blown. It had been full of things—screwdrivers, a tiny torch, receipts, and pills for pain. When I admired it, he turned the contents out onto the table and held it in the palm of his hand, proudly, like a chalice of warm wine. I hoped that the unwritten letter had been an attempt at reconciliation. Sitting in the boat with a group of friendly people, I could still see the island, shrouded in a veil of thin gray rain. Why, I asked myself, did I want to be buried there? Why, given the different and gnawing perplexities? It was not love and it was not hate but something for which there is no name, because to name it would be to deprive it of its truth.