Julia and Byron When Julia was twenty-nine, her hair was already bar-coded. Now, at sixty-two, it was a solid helmet of bright pewter, level with her lean, brown jawbone. As she looked at her wedding ring, she could observe the bold play of tendons on the back of her tanned thin hands. The student doctor was telling her that she had cancer. Of the bone marrow. He had found her reading her file—left on the desk by the consultant—and assumed that she already knew the diagnosis. Perhaps he thought her doctorate in zoology was a doctorate in medicine. He wanted to be nice. “Myeloma. Broad term, actually. In your case,” he gestured at the crisp yellow folder on which her hands were resting, “it’s serious—well, it’s always serious—but not hopeless.” His fingernails were clean and cut short. She liked that. And he wasn’t entirely wrong about her medical knowledge. After the initial tests, she’d done some reading and asked various doctor friends a few questions. She’d looked on the Web. So she had a shrewd and accurate idea of her chances—two to five years, or, possibly, if her condition was stabilized, a longer, indeterminate period. She might reach seventy, with luck. Longer if she was luckier. When the consultant, Aaronovitch, returned and proposed to take her into his confidence, she pretended complete ignorance—to protect the student doctor and to hear the fullest possible account of her illness. Aaronovitch’s diagnosis differed from the student doctor’s in no significant particular. “I should tell you, Mr. Aaronovitch,” Julia said, “what you couldn’t possibly know unless you’ve got my G.P.’s notes from way back—that my blood count has always been very low. I mean, before all this. When I was well. So I’d say that I may be less ill than I look. On paper. So to speak.” Her acute hearing picked up the sound of his hairy hand palpating his chin. The sound of static. To show Julia that he was thinking. Considering. Weighing. Being judicious. Finally, he folded his arms across his waistcoat, leaned back in his chair, inclined his head a little, looked directly into Julia’s eyes—and proposed the experimental treatment that he had been contemplating for six months before the onset of her symptoms had brought her to his hospital. “In that case,” he said, “blood to make up the count, and chemo. One pill a month. That’s all. New thing. Massively powerful, of course. But definitely worth a try. Might just do the trick.” He clicked his Montblanc Rollerball twice. They looked each other in the eye. “They sent for some doctors / In sneezles / And wheezles,” Julia said gravely. “To tell them what ought / To be done.” Mr. Aaronovitch lifted a quizzical eyebrow. “All sorts and conditions / Of famous physicians / Came hurrying round / At a run,” Julia answered, without smiling. “You’re the expert, that’s all.” The medication had a beautiful name. Mandragorax. Made by a pharmaceutical company that knew its Shakespeare. In six months it had completely stripped the nerves of her hands. She could feel nothing. After the failure of Mandragorax to do anything except damage Julia, Mr. Aaronovitch adopted more conventional treatment—a gradualist chemotherapy, administered by IV and closely monitored in the hospital over half a day and a night. Julia endured nausea and massive temperature fluctuations—her green hospital shift black with sweat and vacuum-packed against her scalded body. But no hair loss. She began to stabilize. She played tennis. She swam. Here she is, her skin the reddish-brown of bresaola, trapping tennis balls between racquet and foot, crooking her knee, patting the plush. Here is the sweat shadow left by her hand on the red leather racquet handle. So tanned that her eyelids are pale if—pain—she closes her eyes. Here she is, bald—lifting the squeaky flap of her white rubber bathing hat to tuck out of sight strands of her livid hair. Folds, a cape of chlorinated water, gather at her neck as she strokes down the pool in little pulses, touches with two hands together, and turns in an eddy. She is a burglar in her black goggles and striped bathing costume. In the changing room, she hooks a finger under the rubber helmet and shakes her hair free. Bright gray, damp at the tips. Mr. Aaronovitch was surprised by her comparative recovery, surprised that her immune system was still operational and effective, given its virtual extinction a few months before. He persuaded Julia to take part in another experiment. His argument was calculated to appeal to her scientific instinct. Though unlikely to succeed in the short term, the new treatment might be valuable in the long term. Julia’s proven powers of recuperation suggested to Aaronovitch that this new course of chemo, though carrying a significant risk, was unlikely to be fatal. Its development, the necessary crucial refinements, however, depended on the use of a human guinea pig. Julia thought of her beloved lab rats—the healthy and sleek, the medicated and ungainly, carrying their single tumors like Quasimodo, their double tumors like Bactrians. And she signed the contract with Mr. Aaronovitch’s Montblanc Rollerball. Click-click. The contract promised that antibiotics would not be withheld. In the event, they were withheld. “If you could just hang in there a little bit longer, Julia.” Mr. Aaronovitch had stopped calling her Dr. Duddington when she had stopped being his patient and become, as it were, a colleague, on the signing of the contract. Here she is in her hospital gown—too tired to tie the telltails behind her. Her buttocks have vanished. You can see her coccyx. There is hair all over her body. She can hardly make her jaws move to eat. Her throat is so ulcerated that swallowing is impossible. An amber mosaic. Her tongue is black-indigo. She cannot keep food down. Talking is difficult. So many movements required that it takes her ten minutes, with rests between every whispered word, to say the first line of “They all made a note / Of the state of her throat.” It is so painful for Julia that Byron, her husband, tries to complete the second line as soon as he recognizes the quotation. But he fails at the pronoun—his? her?—and is so upset he has to leave the room. When Mr. Aaronovitch agreed at last to the suspension of treatment and the resumption of antibiotics, she was unable to take them orally. Byron had to push the suppositories up her rectum, taking gobs and shreds of flesh with them. She bled from her vagina and rectum and, as she declined, began to soil herself. At the end, she was very weak and found it hard to walk. Byron took her upstairs, holding her thin hands. Her face was very pale, so pale she looked as if she were wearing lipstick. He said, “You’re very weak. You’re finding it hard to walk.” She smiled and water came out of her mouth and she died in his arms. After the undertaker had left, Byron kissed her and realized how dead she was. She had gone. She wasn’t there. But he couldn’t put the lid on the coffin. After three days, the molded symmetrical smile began to pull to one side. It began to look more like a smirk. He wondered if he should turn off the central heating all over the house, not just in the spare room. Byron was unable to sleep, so he sat in Julia’s study, in the kneeling chair, working his way through the diaries she had kept in a beige filing cabinet. They recorded his bad behavior during their twenty-year marriage. Where were the tender moments? Unrecorded. He read on, compelled, remorseful, weeping, nodding off now and then, only to be woken by his own sobs. “B impossible. Drunk at Encaenia garden party. Told principal everyone bisexl. Sodomized at Central School S & D: enjoyed it. Explained that proximity of prostate to rectum wall accounts for male pleasure. Only drawback loose stools next morning. But that wd apply to wm also. In car I sd: B, why do you do this? What? What do I do? Make things up. You’re like a kid. Anything to be center of attentn. Fuck off. Rather be fucked up arse by poofter than service you.” All his jealousies, all his tantrums, all his sulks were here in the diaries, written up like experiments, in Julia’s methodical notation. And only Byron knew that these episodes were oblique expressions of his love for her. They had no children. She had been forty when they married and was committed to her career. Sometimes she’d joked that she had a daughter called Trilobites. So children had been out of the question—which had suited him fine—but he’d got into the habit of creating a scene whenever he felt her concentration falter, flicker, withdraw. Byron had wanted her attention undivided. He had succeeded. “Dread B’s rants. Think about them all time. Back of my mind all time. Hates me. Why?” He found no expressions of love. “I stripped the nerves of her heart,” he would say in the street to any of their mutual friends. “I was the chemo before the chemo. So domineering, so rude, so impossible. Christ, you should read her diaries. You find out. You think, She knows I care. But you find out she doesn’t. She doesn’t know. I tortured her.” And he would stand there crying, even after the friend had escaped. He didn’t burst into tears. He was already in tears as soon as he saw anyone who had known her. “I never learn. I never fucking learn, do I? Even the funeral. Even that. I made all the guests go in the Land Rover. And I made a fucking scene. I was embarrassing.” He had gone on all of Julia’s field trips with her in the Land Rover. At the graveside, there was a freak summer hailstorm. Byron’s black tie was pasted to his shirt. His face was so wet you couldn’t tell how hard he was crying. He took out a copy (with worn corners) of “Now We Are Six” and tried to read “Us Two.” The first stanza was a fight for control, looking away from the wet page, lips parted and dripping. The hailstones thrashed and popped. Where the clay began, the earth looked like tiger stone. Then everything seemed to speed up, until the final stanza—which took a lifetime because Byron’s mouth became suddenly difficult and stiff. So wherever I am, there’s always Pooh, There’s always Pooh and Me. “What would I do,” I said to Pooh, “If it wasn’t for you,” and Pooh said: “True, It isn’t much fun for One, but Two Can stick togeth . . . The slewed mouth of a stroke victim. Byron flung himself on the wet coffin, which slipped out of his embrace and dropped a wreath of chrysanthemums. He fell. One knee was muddied, and somehow his nose began to bleed. For two years he was a grief Automat, crying unstoppably at the mention of her name. Then he remarried—a younger woman—and was a difficult husband.
She’s the One The winter after her brother killed himself, Ally got a job at a writers’ center near her parents’ house, helping out with admin in the office. It wasn’t a satisfactory job, only part time and not well paid. She was twenty-two. She had just finished her degree in English literature and should have been building toward some sort of career; she had planned to move to Manchester, where she had been at university. But everything like that had had to be put on hold, while at home her family melted down into a kind of madness. It was a relief just to leave the madness behind and drive across the moors four mornings a week to the center, several miles away. She had the use of a car, because for the moment her mum wasn’t going to work. The moors that winter were often under a crust of snow—not enough to blanket them in white, but a mean, dirty frosting on the hard earth and wilted shrubs. Ally didn’t mind the bitter weather. Her guilt at getting out, even for a few hours, would fall away as she drove, leaving the town behind. Sometimes when she parked at the center, crunching into the gravelled space between the kitchen and the high black garden wall, where the stones were mossy and ferns grew in the cracks, she was really all right for a moment. I’m really all right, she would think, carefully, lightly, as she pulled the key from the ignition, trying not to examine the sensation too closely or lose it with any sudden movement, as if it were a thin-filmed shiny bubble poised in her chest. The center was in a big bleak house built in the early nineteenth century, isolated in a dip in the middle of the moors, beside a river. It had been modernized to suit its new function. A couple of outbuildings, along from the kitchen, had been converted into a studio for writing workshops and an office, homely with the comfortable ticking of computers and photocopier and fax machine. Fluorescent Post-it notes were stuck to the office shelves, reminding the staff of the things that needed doing, the set procedures for each group of students that came and went. Ally quickly mastered these; she was capable and sensible. The organizers of the center, Kit and Sam, were pleased to have her helping out. Also, because Ally had always loved reading, the idea was that she would enjoy meeting the writers who taught there—there would be something in it for her, too. Ally had got the job through the woman her mum had worked for as a secretary, when she was still at work. This woman was a barrister in employment law, and she was on the board of trustees for the center. In some people, the family’s disaster had produced this phenomenon—a crazy energy of organization on their behalf. Ally was grateful for the job, but it made her mother angry: “As usual, she comes barging in, thinking she knows best.” Mum was also angry, on the other hand, at their neighbors in the close of ex-council houses, some of whom had been her friends for years but now crept in and out trying to avoid meeting her. Ally appreciated their difficulty. What were they supposed to say, after the first few heartfelt encounters? All ordinary transactions were contaminated: “How are you?” and “How’s it going?” and “Nice day.” Even “Bloody awful day,” which it usually was, would seem to imply an ordinary scale of gloom, which her family was far removed from and couldn’t possibly yet find a way back to. Hilda came to the center for a week long fiction-writing course. She was one of those students you learned to pick out at the first encounter as a potential flash point, someone who might easily be offended, or offend others; you treated such students with special consideration, but kept them at arm’s length. She was Canadian, probably in her mid-fifties, small, with thick, perfectly white hair chopped off in a crisp line at her shoulders; she was a vegan, and had requested special dietary arrangements in advance. When everyone gathered around the wood stove in the drawing room of the old house for introductions, Hilda chose to sit cross-legged and straight-backed on the floor, her slight neat body supple like a child’s. Although she wasn’t unfriendly, Ally noticed that she didn’t join in with the others’ self-deprecation: a touch of impatience snapped in her expression. Yet she obviously suffered when she had to read out her own work. She must have been good-looking when she was younger, with Scandinavian features, wide mouth and hard cheekbones, something raw in her eyes, their hazel irises flecked with darker brown. She fixed the tutors, while they were talking, with a steady, critical, attentive gaze. Although Ally loved books, she had realized since she began working at the center that she didn’t have much interest in knowing how they were written—how characters were developed or plots structured or any of the other things the teachers held forth about and the students soaked up so avidly. All of them, writers and would-be writers, were consumed with a sort of fever over this process of writing and being published; some of the would-bes seemed to hope that by rubbing up close enough against the published ones they might catch something. That week, it was her turn to take the tutors into town for the mid-course lunch. Ann said that she liked Hilda—she’d had an interesting life. But Jim, who was from Glasgow, tall and loose-bodied, with a bald patch like a monk’s tonsure, complained that she was wearing him down with her persistence. “She’s stuck to my elbow whenever I look down, asking whether I’ve read her rewrites yet, or what I think of Robertson Davies. She’s so intense.” “Intense isn’t a bad thing.” “What’s her novel about?” Ally asked. “In the sixties, she hung around with arty types in some sort of commune. The central character has an affair with a rock star. It ought to be more interesting. How many Canadian rock stars do you know?” They could think of only Robbie Robertson. They decided that it wasn’t him—the character was a singer-songwriter. “She does this awful folksy thing: he’s called the Guitar Player. ‘The Guitar Player did this,’ ‘The Guitar Player did that, stuck a spliff under his strings, sent out his lonely song into the night, across the lake.’ Imagine writing about a crowd of egomaniacal hippies doing drugs and it’s not funny? Also, there’s too much nature in it. One tree will do, as far as I’m concerned. Symbolism. One tree can stand in for the whole caboodle.” Some of the writers who came to tutor the courses were nice, but not all of them were. Some were funny about the students, especially the crazies, the ones who brought the two thousand handwritten pages of their novel in a plastic bag, or wrote from the perspective of a donkey abused by its owner. These eccentrics might turn out to be geniuses but usually didn’t. Ally wasn’t disappointed in the writers: she hadn’t expected anything from them in the first place; it hadn’t occurred to her to be interested in writers as individuals beyond their work. To her relief, no one whose books she’d read ever came to the center, although sometimes she had to pretend to have read the writers who did. The writers could be fairly crazy, too; you had to be vigilant not to trip up over their vanity and anxiety. Luckily, most of her favorites were dead. At the end of the course, on her evaluation sheet, Hilda made a number of points about how it could have been better organized. Under the question “What was the most important thing you learned in your time here?,” she left the space empty. A few weeks later, Ally stood behind her in a queue at the supermarket. She hadn’t realized that Hilda lived nearby, but she couldn’t have mistaken her, with her crisp white hair, in stretch leggings and trainers and a red down jacket. Ally wasn’t working that afternoon. She had told her mum to go to bed and promised to cook tea. In her wire basket she had sausages and eggs and tins of baked beans and a plastic pack of four jam doughnuts, one each (she had another brother, James, fourteen): she’d put on weight since she’d been home, not much, but enough to make her aware of some new soft fat around her waistline and cushioning her chin. Outside it was already dark at four o’clock; a sleety rain was driving across the supermarket car park. In Hilda’s basket there was olive oil, a tin of cannellini beans, fresh pasta, a lemon, a bottle of white wine. Hilda had not noticed Ally waiting behind her, so Ally could easily not have said anything. Seeing the selection of things in Hilda’s basket, though—her brave indifference to her surroundings—Ally didn’t want her to go off into the night without acknowledgment. “Hello, Hilda,” she said. “How’s the novel going?” Usually it was the one question that couldn’t fail with course-goers. But Hilda turned from the checkout with a face of pure resentment, staring and challenging. “Who are you? Were you on that course? I don’t remember you.” People looked at them. Ally felt exposed, as if she were pretending to be something she wasn’t. Almost certainly some of the people looking would know what had happened to her family: it was a small town, and usually she was careful to make herself inconspicuous; her mother complained that she hid behind her long hair. While Ally explained, admitting that it was unlikely that Hilda would remember her—she’d mostly been in the office, present only once in the evening—Hilda was packing her shopping into the canvas bag she’d brought, deliberately, as if she had a system. She paid with a card, querying something on her bill. “I thought the olive oil was one-eighty-nine?” “That’s only if you buy two bottles,” the girl at the till said with flat indifference, not looking up from where she was staring at the slot that would spew the receipt. “If you only buy one, it’s two-nineteen. It’s a special offer.” “That isn’t made very clear on the labelling on the shelf.” Ally was aware that everything about Hilda, especially her ringing, reasonable, confident Canadian voice, was making the till girl resent and despise her. “I’m sorry I didn’t recognize you,” Hilda said to Ally, but not warmly, when she was finished. She hiked the canvas bag onto her shoulder. “I’m in a hurry, anyway. I have to go.” “It’s O.K., don’t worry.” The till girl extended the same hostility to Ally: she had been outed now as belonging to Hilda’s type, cooking with olive oil, betraying themselves in oblivious loud voices. Even the most minor setbacks, in those months, could throw Ally completely. When she left the supermarket, Hilda was waiting for her, where the positive neon universe of shopping bordered on the smudged antimatter outside, cars plashing out of the car park through the wet. “Shit, that was rude of me,” Hilda said. “What’s your name?” “Ally. No, really, it’s all right.” “Hey, you’re upset. I wasn’t that bad, was I? I think I owe you an explanation.” “There’s other stuff. It’s just been a bad day.” “You asked about my novel, that’s the thing. I’d waited a lot of years to write that novel. But, if you want to know, my novel died.” Ally wiped her face on her coat sleeve. “I’m sorry. Perhaps it isn’t really that bad. Maybe if you put it away for a few weeks and looked at it again you’d feel differently about it. I’ve heard writers at the center say that.” “No, really, take it from me, the novel died. What other stuff? What kind of bad day? Can I share? Can I give you a lift somewhere?” Share? Ally thought. No, I don’t think so. She said that she lived only ten minutes’ walk away, but Hilda insisted on driving her there—it was on her way—and it was easier to accept than to insist. The car was tiny, Continental-looking, green-colored with a lighter-green leaf stencilled on the door, as distinctively alien in the car park as Hilda had been among the shoppers inside. The interior smelled of dog, although there wasn’t one: Hilda explained that she had been at work all afternoon—she was a part-time receptionist at the health center—and she’d had to leave her dog at home. “Drop me here, please,” Ally said. “This is the end of my street. There’s no point in turning up into it—you’d only get stuck in the one-way.” Hilda pulled out of the stream of traffic onto the pavement. It was home time; there were queues at the lights going out of town. Ally’s parents’ house was on an estate at the town’s edge; ahead, she could just make out the black slopes of the moors. In the car, it was stuffy and slightly disgustingly cozy, the wipers going, the windows steaming up. “So what was the other stuff?” Hilda asked, with the engine still running. Ally, with her hand on the lever, about to open the car door, was thinking that nothing on earth was strong enough to pull this ugly secret out of her, least of all a woman who thought it mattered if her stupid novel had died. She was clenched up with the same resentment as the till girl, at Hilda’s ready wisdom shining about like a searchlight, the clean straight-backed way she sat at the steering wheel, her bag full of food for the wrong climate. The next moment, without even knowing that she’d changed her mind, she spilled over with her story—not the full version with all the details, but enough—surprising herself, as if she’d opened her mouth for something quite different. “Je-sus,” Hilda said. It was a relief to have told her. That would teach her not to ask. Ally watched the wipers push the water about in fan shapes on the windscreen. “I can’t just drop you off on the side of the road after you’ve told me that. Can’t I come in? Won’t you come home with me? I’ve got dinner for two. We could talk.” “I have to go. My mum’s waiting. I promised I’d make the tea. And I don’t need to talk.” “O.K., understood. But listen. Will you give me your phone number? I’d love to call. May I? We’ll fix up something. Come and meet the dog.” Only to be free of her, Ally wrote the number on an envelope that Hilda found in her bag. That’ll be the last I hear from her, she thought. “Your name’s Ally, right?” Hilda checked, leaning across the front seat after her. Ally read novels, wrapped up in her duvet beside the central-heating radiator in her bedroom, borrowing them from the center and the public library, sometimes finishing one and starting another without even changing her position or getting up to make coffee, like an addict. She knew that this wasn’t the right kind of reading. Studying for her literature degree, she had learned how to analyze the words and the themes; she had worked dutifully on her essay style, imitating academic articles. She imagined the reading she did now as like climbing inside one of those deep old beds she’d seen in a museum, with a sliding door to close behind you: even as she was suffering with a book and could hardly bear it, felt as if her heart would crack with emotion or with outrage at injustice, the act of reading it enclosed and saved her. Sometimes when she moved back out of the book and into her own life, just for a moment she could see her circumstances with a new interest and clarity, as if they were happening to someone else. It was around this time that Ally’s mum started wearing Ryan’s shirts under her clothes. The first time Ally caught her doing it, she arrived home early one lunchtime, and when she came in the back door Mum looked up with a guilty face from washing dishes at the sink. Through all those weeks, their house had never lapsed from its perfect tidiness and order. Last thing at night, her parents still rinsed out the coffee cups, plumped up the cushions on the sofa, unplugged the television. Her mother picked up threads from the carpet and put them in the wastepaper basket. Ally knew right away when she came into the kitchen that something was wrong in her mother’s shape, something bulky and distorting, when usually she was petite and trim. Ryan hadn’t been enormous for an eighteen-year-old, but on his mother his checked lumberjack shirt was swamping, enveloping. Her thin neck looked scrawny, poking out through the top of it; her neat faded face without its makeup seemed scoured clean. She hadn’t pulled the collar of the shirt out over the neck of her sweatshirt, as if she were hoping that no one would notice it, but it stuck up anyway. “What are you doing wearing that thing?” She shouldn’t have said anything, but she couldn’t help it. Swapping clothes was the kind of thing that Ryan had done with his girlfriend, Yvonne. Yvonne would come downstairs after the two of them had been shut up for hours in his bedroom, pink-faced, wearing one of Ryan’s tops, pulling the too long sleeves down over her hands, flaunting to the world this outward sign of her feminine smallness snuggled against his bulk. When Mum bought Ryan a perfectly good pair of black Thinsulate gloves, he exchanged them for some silly cheap spangly ones of Yvonne’s. No one in the family had exactly objected to this at the time, but there was no doubt that they’d thought it soppy. They’d teased Ryan for being sentimental—he was like their dad, still moony over Mum after all these years. Mum, in particular, didn’t have much time for Yvonne. Now she was wearing his shirt herself, and it was a sign of how far she had been broken down. “It makes me feel better if I can smell him.” Ally wrapped her arms around her from behind. She pressed her face into her neck, sniffing the shirt collar. Her mum held herself stiffly apart inside the embrace. “It doesn’t smell of anything, except fabric softener.” “Underneath it I can smell him.” Ally willed herself to remember real things about her brother, neutral things, uncontaminated by the new aura, like worship and dread, that was attached to the idea of him. She remembered that after he’d finished his A2 exams in the summer, for example, when he was supposed to be looking for a job, he had played his Nintendo Wii in the afternoons, downstairs in the sitting room, in the boxers and T-shirt and socks he had slept in, Ally protesting at the sight of his thickly hairy legs. Her mother wouldn’t have wanted to wrap herself in the smell of him then. Ally longed to climb back inside the safety of that time, when none of them wanted too much of one another. There had been some tormented to-and-fro between the two families, Ryan’s and Yvonne’s, telephone calls and visits, breakdowns and comfortings, an evening when Yvonne’s mother called Ally’s mum, begging her to talk to Yvonne, because she was threatening to do what Ryan had done, “since everyone blamed her for it anyway.” Yvonne was one of those miniature girls whom teen-age boys love: their smallness seems to promise that they will be sweetly malleable. She had a mass of curls the color of ripe wheat, tight golden skin, a child’s body so pliant that she could still do cartwheels and backflips. She wrote all over her hard tiny hands with ballpoint pen: telephone numbers, silly faces that changed their expression when she moved her fingers. But actually Yvonne wasn’t malleable—she was steely. She’d had Ryan running around after her whims as if she were a princess. “She might as well enjoy it,” Ally’s mum had said back then. “She’ll be a dowdy little cow by the time she’s thirty.” The awful intimacy between the two families subsided after the first weeks. They drew apart; they couldn’t speak to one another anymore. In those sessions they had dragged too deep, dredging up some rotten taste from the bottom of their lives which tainted all their interactions afterward. Then Yvonne began texting Ally, and lying in wait for James on his way home from school. Even James knew not to tell Mum about this. Yvonne claimed that she only wanted advice on what she should do with the stuff that Ryan had given her; she made James take a plastic bag full of his CDs. “Chuck it all out,” Ally texted back. “If you don’t want it.” At the inquest, it all came out about the letter that Ryan had left, with messages for Yvonne—how amazing she was, how his life wasn’t worth living without her. In the context, these seemed less like loving compliments than like punishments. Ally could imagine how it must feel to have these ideas stuck to you, impossible to clean off. But she couldn’t make herself like Yvonne any better. Hilda rang her. “Ally? Is that Ally? Remember me? I was the bitch in the supermarket. You’re having a hell of a time. Why don’t you come out here and yell about it?” Ally felt remote from anyone who talked like this. But her mum encouraged her to get out, make a new friend. Most of the girls Ally had known at school had moved away from home, to go to university or to find jobs. She’d had a boyfriend in Manchester, but that relationship had melted away in the fierce assault of the first days of crisis. She hadn’t wanted him anywhere near it. “She’s not exactly a friend, Mum. She’s older than you.” “Well, someone you can talk to. It’s not good for you, being stuck here all the time with us. At least James has got school.” “I don’t know why everyone thinks I need to talk.” She called in at Hilda’s one afternoon, after she had finished work at the center. The cottage wasn’t where she’d thought it was. She had to drive around for a while before she found it, at the top of a hill a mile outside Kirby, with a stand of woods beyond it. Hilda in her red down jacket came out with the dog as she parked: it was a short-haired terrier, alert and intelligent, white with a brown patch over one eye. Hilda proposed that they take a walk right away, before it got dark. Ally hadn’t imagined them walking. She was wearing her pink trainers, and had to borrow Wellingtons from Hilda. They followed a path invisible under the snow, down toward the woods along the side of a big L-shaped field, the dog scouting ahead of them, racing back on her tracks to herd her humans together, straining her ears yearningly at the perturbed, watchful sheep. The afternoon was still and soundless, frozen. There had been a fresh fall of snow the night before, and the fences and trees stood out black against it. Already the moon had risen, a flake of waxy alabaster in a blue sky thin with light. Hilda complained about the farmer whose land they were walking on. She said that she had contacted the R.S.P.C.A. because he didn’t treat the foot rot in his sheep, and that he’d tried to stop her walking there, although it was a public right of way. It was true that quite a few of the sheep seemed to be hobbling on three legs, or half kneeling, their front legs bent at the joint. Ally worried that the farmer would come out to confront them. She didn’t want to have to take sides. As she tramped beside Hilda on the way back, the day draining out of the sky seemed to empty her, too, leaving her weightless. When they arrived back at the cottage, they could still see each other clearly, but the light was at its moment of transition, and, as soon as they went inside, the night outside the windows appeared perfectly dark. In the cottage downstairs there was only one room, with a kitchen at one end and a sitting room at the other, a flagged floor and a wood fire smoldering in a wide stone hearth, one wall stripped back to the naked stone. Hilda put logs on the fire and switched on a couple of lamps. The room was uncluttered, considering how small it was, but everything in it was striking and eccentric: the faded rugs, the pictures on the walls, a wool blanket woven in bright colors flung over the back of the sofa, collections of stones and twisted weathered deadwood from the moors. The effect seemed spontaneous, but Ally knew that it must have taken a huge effort to get it to this state, removing all the layers of paint and wallpaper and carpeting and coziness. There were photographs of Hilda’s three grown children, two daughters and a son. Hilda said that she had divorced her husband twenty years ago and had mostly brought up the children by herself. He was an Englishman. The only good thing he’d ever done for her was introduce her to this part of the country. She’d lived in Leeds for years, had moved out to the cottage when her younger daughter left home. Then she’d saved and bought herself a whole year off work, to get on with her novel. When she abandoned the novel, and the money ran out, she’d decided to get a local job, part time. “I can manage,” she said. “Cut the consumer crap. We don’t need half as much as they want to persuade us to buy. How long I’ll stay at the health center I don’t know. The staff aren’t friendly.” Ally couldn’t imagine Hilda fitting in around here. People would think she was too full of herself: her neat frame seemed packed up tight with personality and experience. Her self-sufficiency made Ally feel unformed. She hung on to the mean little nugget of knowledge: that the writers on the course had said Hilda was too intense, had no sense of humor. There was no sign of a television anywhere in the cottage, only shelves of books. “Didn’t you ever want to go home to Canada?” “England’s home. I’ve lived here longer now than I lived there. Anyway, two of my children live in London, and one’s in Dundee. I couldn’t live thousands of miles away from them.” Hilda told Ally to wrap herself in the blanket in front of the fire: she explained that it was a button blanket, made by a Tlingit artist. Then she brought her tea and a slab of apple cake she’d made herself, without eggs or dairy. “I want to ask you how you are,” she said, sitting on a cushion on the hearthrug. “Real question, not the polite version. You can tell me it’s none of my business. We hardly know each other.” “I’m O.K.” “You honored me with your confidence the other day.” “I’m really O.K. Why don’t you tell me about your novel instead? You said you had been waiting all your life to write it.” She thought that Hilda flinched. “Outside the shop? Did I say that?” “Something like that.” Hilda considered carefully. “You’re angry because I talked about it so seriously, as if my novel were a disaster in the real world. But, of course, it can’t be weighed in that world. Against the life of one of my children, say, it isn’t a feather. Or against the life of anyone’s child.” “It mattered to you, though.” Ally wasn’t interested in the novel itself. She wanted to dig down to the raw shame of this failure in Hilda, this thing inside her, poisoning everything, cut off and spoiled and shrivelled up. Hilda told her the story of the Guitar Player. In the late sixties, when Hilda was fifteen, her mother had had an affair with a singer-songwriter. It had happened in a big house on a lake in Saskatchewan, where Hilda’s mother was employed as a live-in cook and cleaner. The house had belonged to a Toronto music producer, who brought his friends out to party in the summer. Even while the affair was happening, Hilda’s mother had gone on cleaning and washing up and cooking. She said she’d rather be busy than hang around doing nothing. She refused to take any money beyond her wages. She really was the kind of woman that folksingers sang about in those days, or she made herself into that kind of woman: good at growing things and cooking and healing and comforting. That summer, Hilda’s mother had gone around barefoot and worn long dresses, with her hair down to her waist, and the guests had treated her as if she were a kind of child of nature, because she lived out by the lake year round. All of them had been a bit in love with her, especially after the Guitar Player had chosen her. She hadn’t tried to explain to these guests the complications of her real life on the lake. At the end of the summer, the Guitar Player had moved on, and Hilda’s mother had never seen him again, but he’d had a success with a song that she always believed was about her: “She’s the One,” a hymn to beauty that could also be interpreted as a message of farewell or apology. Hilda’s mother had bought the album and learned all the words. And, after she married Hilda’s stepfather, whenever they had rows she would retreat to her den and play it over and over, singing along. By that time she’d cut her hair and was working as a receptionist at one of the lake hotels. But Hilda knew that the song wasn’t really about her mother, although she had never told her so. She knew this because those words—“She’s the one”—were what the Guitar Player had said to Hilda when he came looking for her for the first time. She’d slept in the attic of the big house: at night, she used to stand on a chair, craning her head out of the skylight to watch the grownups drinking and partying in the garden below or undressing to go skinny-dipping in the lake. When the Guitar Player had come into Hilda’s room and lifted the sheet on her bed, he’d said not “You’re the one” but “She’s the one,” as if he were describing her to somebody else, some objective judge watching. She had been afraid, of course, but not sorry, not at the time. He was as moody and skinny as a boy, but he had a power that drew all the yearning in the place toward him, including hers. He’d hardly spoken to her before that, but he must have noticed her watching him. His real presence in her room had seemed a kind of miracle, refracted and thickened through everyone’s adulation of him, through his pictures in magazines and on album covers. He’d been pretty high that night, exalted and weird; there were a lot of drugs around that summer. He’d said all kinds of strange things—Hilda was surprised that he could remember any of it afterward, but quite a lot of it had found its way into the song. Hilda told her the real name of the singer-songwriter and Ally didn’t recognize it. A crumb of apple cake had stuck to Hilda’s cheek as she talked. She was at that tipping point in middle age. Mostly she was animated, buoyant, and flexible, her skin was good, and in spite of her white hair she seemed to belong to the world of choice and strength. Then, in some trick of the light, or because she sagged her chin into her wrinkling neck, or her too short trousers rode up above her ankle socks as she was sitting cross-legged, Ally saw for a moment the old woman she would become, vulnerable and stubborn, cut adrift. Ally knew about the sixties—hippies and psychedelia and free love—but they seemed actually less real to her than Victorian times. If Hilda had said that she’d seen Catherine Earnshaw’s ghost tapping at the window, it would have had more of a thrill of possibility. “It was a kind of rape. It was child abuse. But that wasn’t how I saw it at the time. Later, in the seventies, I got very angry about it.” “What d’you think about it now?” “When I was trying to write the novel, I made such an effort to remember it exactly. I played all the old music. Of course, it can’t mean anything to you. How could I convey the power of those people? That was it, that was my failure—I couldn’t convey it. But it was real. It happened. It was almost a physical thing—you couldn’t separate out the music and the giftedness and the youth. There was like a hum of sex in the air all the time.” Ally made an effort to imagine Hilda as a fifteen-year-old, but even the room they were in made this difficult. Its uncompromising style conveyed the whole long adult effort of putting a life together. Hilda said that, in her twenties, the story of what had happened had blocked her; for years she hadn’t been able to get past the cheat or the promise of it. She hadn’t told anyone about it, certainly not her mother, not even her husband. She’d saved it up. She’d told herself that one day she would put it in a book, not to make a scandal—as if anyone would care!—but just to be finally free of it. And once she’d begun to think of it as a story it had stopped troubling her; the idea of writing it had even come to be a comfort to her in bad times, a resource stored inside her, opening possibilities in the future. “But it was a dud,” she said. “It was a wrong idea. I couldn’t do it. What I wanted to say died on me. It died inside.” Hilda gave Ally a key to the cottage. “You can come here any time, if you need space. Make yourself a fire if I’m not here. Grab what you like to eat. Tilly will love to see you—she hates to be locked up in the house alone.” Ally took the key, but couldn’t imagine that she’d ever need it. Then one afternoon when things were bad at home—trouble was blowing up around James’s refusing to go to school—she drove to the cottage and let herself in. She told her mother that she was walking Hilda’s dog, as a favor. She did take Tilly out, and then when they got back she made a fire and wrapped herself in the blanket and picked out one of the books from Hilda’s shelves, losing herself in it so completely and deeply that when Hilda came back from work, pushing open the door, Ally looked up startled and didn’t know for a moment where she was. After that, she started calling in at the cottage once or twice a week; sometimes Hilda was home and sometimes Ally was alone there. When Hilda went to Dundee for the weekend, to stay with her daughter who had cats, Ally slept at the cottage overnight, keeping Tilly company. One evening, when she and Hilda were sharing a bottle of red wine, she explained what Ryan had done to kill himself, cutting his wrists with razor blades and bleeding to death in the bath. She’d never had to tell anyone this before: either they knew already or they didn’t like to ask, but Hilda had come straight out with it. They were sitting staring at each other from opposite ends of the sofa, with their legs tucked under them; the dog in her basket was panting with pleasure in the warmth of the fire. “Mum would have found him,” Ally said. “Usually she gets home twenty minutes before my dad, except that day on an impulse she went the roundabout way to buy vegetables at the farm shop. I was away in Manchester. My other brother had football after school. It wouldn’t have made any difference to what happened—there was no chance of stopping him or anything. He had died already, hours before. But it meant that Mum didn’t have to find him. Dad found him instead. Dad said that that was the only saving grace in the whole thing, her buying those vegetables.” The wine made little waves in her glass, in time with the pounding of her heart. Hilda reached over to pull the blanket up around Ally’s shoulders. “Did you have any idea that he was so depressed?” “Now, when we go over the music he was playing, and what he put on Facebook, everything suggests it. At the time, we just thought he was going through a phase. In fact he was just going through a phase. Only, stupid moron, he didn’t leave himself any chance to come out of it.” “It’s a terrible thing for his girlfriend,” Hilda sighed. “It really fucks her up.” Ally couldn’t bear the idea that Hilda would imagine Yvonne as something she wasn’t, some kind of tragic heroine. “They were always splitting up and getting back together again, working themselves up into a lather of feeling, one way or another. It didn’t mean anything.” “But that’s what you think love’s all about when you’re a kid.” “That kind of love makes me sick. It’s such a fake.” When Hilda came back from Dundee, she brought Ally a stone she’d picked up on a beach there, oval and flat and black, striped with pinkish crystal, “pounded by the North Sea,” she said. In Hilda’s house, it was a beautiful thing, but it only looked odd among the ornaments on her bedroom shelf at home, as if a piece of outdoors had got indoors by mistake. One morning when Ally was at the writing center, double-checking the details of next year’s program of courses before they sent it off to press, Yvonne turned up, hovering outside the office door. Ally recognized her through the glass before she saw Ally inside: it was a fine day, brilliantly cold, so that blue sky was patched in the frame of the door behind Yvonne’s yellow hair and short white bomber jacket. Her shoulders were hunched with the cold, her skinny midriff bare, hardly bulging over the top of tight jeans. She put her face up close to the glass, peering in. Ally felt like a fish in a bowl, helpless to escape being seen. “I have to talk to you,” Yvonne said once she’d got the door open, looking around suspiciously and showing no sign of wanting to cross the threshold of the office. No “please” or “if you’re not busy.” Ally took down her coat and suggested they walk along the river. She left a note on the desk for Kit. It was the second day of a short-story course, and all the students were at loose outdoors with notebooks and pens. They must have been given some writing exercise. Everywhere you looked, one of them seemed to be staring at nothing, drinking it in, transfixed: a dead stalk of dock weed or the blank corner of a stone wall or an icicle dribbled from the lip of a gutter. Dedicatedly they scribbled in their notebooks, squinting at the nothing from all angles. “Shit a brick,” Yvonne muttered, keeping her eyes on the ground. “What are they supposed to be doing?” Ally felt bound to apologize for the center. She said that they were practicing observational skills. “Observing my arse,” Yvonne said. Her thin little face, which had used to look creamy, was peaky, blue around the lips. Ally had always guessed that underneath Yvonne’s neat sweetness—plucked straight brows, small nose, pink ears—something ferrety was waiting to appear. Yvonne walked rolling on her heels, with her arms wrapped across her chest, hands tucked up into her jacket sleeves for warmth. The path dropped to the river, and she looked around her, not enthusiastically, as if she didn’t often find herself in the country. Bare alders and ash and blackthorn made a twiggy haze against the sun, which was already close to dropping behind the steep side of the river valley; the cold brown water coiled thickly in its bed. Ally felt better once they were past the last of the writers. “Everybody hates me,” Yvonne said. “I suppose that’s what he wanted.” “We’ve been over all this,” Ally said. “Nobody hates you.” Yvonne fished for something in her tight jeans pocket, thrust it out closed in her fist. “I wanted to give you this back.” Ally put her hands behind her. “I don’t want it. What is it?” “A stupid ring Ryan gave me.” “I don’t want it.” In a spasm of temper Yvonne swung around and opened her hand, flinging away into the river something tiny that gave out one glint of light before it was swallowed without a splash, the water healing instantly behind it. The moment she’d done it she shrieked, pressing her hands across her mouth, and said that she hadn’t meant to let it go, it was an accident. “Ally, help me get it back!” “Don’t be silly. The water’s too deep. You can’t see to the bottom—you couldn’t find it in a million years. It doesn’t matter.” Yvonne went on shrieking and pleading. Crouching on the path, she started untying her trainers, dragging and clawing at the laces, as if she were going to wade in. On an impulse, because the whole scene disgusted her, Ally found herself calmly stepping into the river with her trainers still on, wading across the large flat submerged stones at its edge. At first she hardly felt the cold, only the pull of the moving water, as if something were clamped around her ankles. Then she stepped down into a deeper channel, among the smaller toffee-colored pebbles of the riverbed; the water here was halfway up to her calves, then up to her knees, soaking her trousers, wrapping them against her legs, snatching her breath away with the shock of the cold. The force of the current where the river ran faster almost knocked her off balance, though it looked lazy on the surface. She steadied herself by hanging on to a slippery boulder sticking up midstream and wondered if she should go any farther. Her jaw was clenched. It was difficult to remember how to move her feet in the trainers that began to feel numbingly huge and heavy. She didn’t care about the ring: she had stepped into the water only to make a point against the hysterical performance on the riverbank, to show it up in some way that was deliberate and disdainful. When she turned to look back at Yvonne, she was surprised at how far she had come: Yvonne on the path seemed distant, hugging her elbows, shouting directions that Ally couldn’t hear over the water rushing past. It seemed a different universe out here in the river. The whole scene, the sad story that had brought them together, was framed for her for a moment as if from some far-off future perspective, and her rage against Yvonne washed out of her. Wanting only to be kind, she began hunting for the ring in all seriousness, peering at the riverbed, fishing for gleams in the water, her hands aching from the cold as if the flesh were being dragged off her bones. She realized that Yvonne was shouting from the bank for her to come back, please come back. It didn’t matter, Yvonne shouted. It was only a ring. At that moment, Ally saw it, caught just underwater in a crevice in a jagged chunk of shale, its gold picked out where a beam of the late light slanted at an angle from the water’s surface. She reached out her hand to take it.
Wiggle Room Dean, Jr., with his green rubber pinkie finger, sat at his Tingle table in his chalk’s row in the rotes group’s wiggle room and did two more returns, then another one, then flexed his buttocks and held to a count of ten and imagined a warm pretty beach with mellow surf, as instructed in orientation the previous month. Then he did two more returns, checked the clock real quick, then two more, then bore down and did three in a row, then flexed and visualized and bore way down and did four without looking up once, except to put the completed files and memos in the two Out trays side by side up in the top tier of trays, where the cart boys could get them when they came by. After just an hour the beach was a winter beach, cold and gray and the dead kelp like the hair of the drowned, and it stayed that way despite all attempts. Then three more, including one 1040A, where the deductions for A.G.I. were added wrong and the Martinsburg printout hadn’t caught it and had to be amended on one of the Form 020-Cs in the lower left tray, and then a lot of the same information filled out on the regular 20, which you still had to do even if it was just a correspondence audit and the file going to Joliet instead of the District, each code for which had to be looked up on the pullout thing he had to scoot the chair awkwardly over to pull out all the way. Then another one, then a plummeting inside of him as the wall clock showed that what he’d thought was another hour had not been. Not even close. May 17, 1985. Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me, a poor sinner. Cross-checking W-2s for the return’s line 8 off the place in the Martinsburg printout where the perforation, if you wanted to separate the thing’s sheets, went right through the data and you had to hold it up against the light and almost sometimes guess, which his chalk leader said was a chronic bug with Systems but the wiggler was still accountable. The joke this week was: How was an I.R.S. rote examiner like a mushroom? Both kept in the dark and fed horseshit. He didn’t know how mushrooms even worked, if it was true that you scooped waste on them. Sheri’s cooking wasn’t what you would call at the level of adding mushrooms. Then another return. The rule was, the more you looked at the clock the slower the time went. None of the wigglers wore a watch, except he saw that some kept them in their pockets for breaks. Clocks on Tingles were not allowed, nor coffee or pop. Try as he might, he could not this last week help envisioning the inward lives of the older men to either side of him, doing this day after day. Getting up on a Monday and chewing their toast and putting their hats and coats on knowing what they were going out the door to come back to for eight hours. This was boredom beyond any boredom he’d ever felt. This made the routing desk at UPS look like a day at Six Flags. It was May 17th, early morning, or early midmorning you could maybe almost call it now. He could hear the squeak of the cart boys’ carts someplace off at a distance, where the vinyl panels between his chalk’s Tingles and the blond Oriental fellow’s chalk one row up blocked the sight of them, the kids with the carts. One of the carts had a crazy wheel that chattered when the boy pushed it; Lane Dean always knew when that cart was coming down the rows. He did another return; again the math squared and there were no itemizations on 32 and the printout’s numbers for W-2 and 1099 and Forms 2440 and 2441 appeared to square, and he filled out his codes for the middle tray’s 402 and signed his name and I.D. number that some part of him still refused to quite get memorized so he had to unclip his badge and check it each time and then stapled the 402 to the return and put the file in the top tier’s rightmost tray for 402s Out and refused to let himself count the number in the trays yet, and then unbidden came the thought that “boring” also meant something that drilled in and made a hole. His buttocks already ached from flexing, and the mere thought of envisioning the desolate beach unmanned him. He shut his eyes but, instead of praying for inward strength now, he found he was just looking at the strange reddish dark and the little flashes and floaters in there that got almost hypnotic when you really looked at them. Then, when he opened his eyes, the In tray’s stack of files looked to be still mainly the height it had been at 7:14, when he’d logged in in the chalk leader’s notebook and there weren’t enough files in his Out trays for Form 20s and 402s so that he could see any over the side of the trays, and he refused once more to stand up to check how many of them there were, for he knew that would make it worse. He had the sensation of a great type of hole or emptiness falling through him and continuing to fall and never hitting the floor. Never before in his life up to now had he once thought of suicide. He was doing a return at the same time he fought with his mind, with the sin and affront of even the passing thought. The room was silent, except for the adding machines and the chattering sound of that one kid’s cart that had a crazy wheel as the cart boy brought it down a certain row with more files, but also he kept hearing in his head the sound a piece of paper makes when you tear it in half over and over. His six-man chalk was a quarter of a row, separated off by the gray vinyl screens. A team is four chalks, plus the team leader and a cart boy, some of these from P.C.B., Peoria College of Business. The screens could be moved around to reconfigure the room’s layout. Similar rotes groups were in the rooms to either side. Far to the left, past three other chalks’ rows, was the Group Manager’s office, with the A.G.M.’s little cubicle of screens next to it. The little pinkie rubbers were for traction on the forms. You were supposed to save the rubber at the end of the day. The overhead lights cast no shadow, even of your hand if you held it out like you were reaching for a tray. Darren and Dianne Lotwis, of 402 Elk Court, Edina, Minnesota, who itemized and then some, had elected to have $1 go to the Presidential Election Campaign Fund, which was box 5 on the 402, and it took several minutes to cross-check everything on Schedule A, but nothing qualified for the specs of a promising audit, even though Mr. Lotwis had the jaggedy handwriting of a crazy man. Lane Dean had filed far less 20s than protocol called for. On Friday, he’d had the least 20s of anyone in the chalk. Nobody’d said anything. All the wastebaskets were full of the curled strips of paper from the adding machines. Everyone’s face was the color of wet lead in the fluorescent light. You could make a semiprivate cubicle out of the screens, like the team leader had. Then he looked up, despite all best prior intentions. In four minutes, it would be another hour; a half hour after that was the ten-minute break. Lane Dean imagined himself running around on the break, waving his arms and shouting gibberish and holding ten cigarettes at once in his mouth, like a panpipe. Year after year, a face the same color as your desk. Lord Jesus. Coffee wasn’t allowed because of spills on the files, but on the break he’d have a big cup of coffee in each hand while he pictured himself running around the outside grounds, shouting. He knew what he’d really do on the break was sit facing the wall clock in the lounge and, despite prayers and effort, count the seconds tick off until he had to come back and do this again. And again and again and again. The imagined sound made him remember different times he’d seen people rip paper in half. He thought of a circus strongman tearing a phone book; he was bald and had a handlebar mustache and wore a stripy all-body swimsuit like people wore in the distant past. Lane Dean summoned all his will and bore down and did three returns in a row, and began imagining different high places to jump off of. He felt in a position to say he knew now that hell had nothing to do with fires or frozen troops. Lock a fellow in a windowless room to perform rote tasks just tricky enough to make him have to think, but still rote, tasks involving numbers that connect to nothing he’ll ever see or care about, a stack of tasks that never goes down, and nail a clock to the wall where he can see it, and just leave the man there to his mind’s own devices. Tell him to pucker his butt and think beach when he starts to get antsy—and that would be just the word they’d use, antsy, like his mother. Let him find out in time’s fullness what a joke the word was, how it didn’t come anyplace close. He’d already dusted the desk with his cuff, moved his infant son’s photo in its rattly little frame where the front glass slid a bit if you shook it. He’d already tried switching the green rubber over and doing the adding machine with his left hand, pretending he’d had a stroke and was bravely soldiering on. The rubber made the pinkie’s tip all damp and pale beneath it. The beach now had solid cement instead of sand and the water was gray and barely moved, just quivered a little, like Jell-O that’s almost set. Unbidden came ways to kill himself with Jell-O. Lane Dean tried to control the rate of his heartbeat. He wondered if, with enough practice and concentration, you could stop your heart at will, the same way you hold your breath—like this right here. His heart rate felt dangerously slow and he became scared and tried to keep his head inclined by rolling his eyes way up and compared the rate to the clock’s second hand, but the second hand seemed impossibly slow. The sound of ripping paper again and again. Some cart boys brought you files with everything you needed; some did not. The buzzer to bring a cart boy was just under the iron desk’s edge, with a wire trailing down one of the desk’s sides and little welded-on leg, but it didn’t work. Atkins said the wiggler who’d been at the desk before him, who’d got transferred someplace, had pressed on it so much it burned the circuit. Small strange indentations in rows on the blotter’s front edge were, Lane Dean had realized, the prints of teeth that somebody had bent and pressed real carefully into the blotter so that the indentations went way down and stayed there. He felt he could understand. It was hard to keep from smelling his finger; at home, he’d find himself doing it, staring into space at the table. His baby boy’s face worked better than the beach; he imagined him doing all sorts of little things that he and his wife could talk about later, like curling his fist around one of their fingers or smiling when Sheri made that amazed face at him. He liked to watch her with the baby; for half a file it helped to have them in mind, because they were why, they were what made this worthwhile and the right thing and he had to remember it, but it kept slipping away down the hole that fell through him. Neither man on either side of him seemed to ever fidget or move, except to reach up and lift things onto the desk from their Tingles’ trays, like machines, and they were never in the lounge at break. Atkins claimed that after a year he could examine and cross-check two files at once, but you never saw him try to do it, though he could whistle one song and hum a different one. Lane Dean watched out of the corner of his eye as a parrot-faced man by the central aisle dividing teams pulled a file out of his tray and removed the return and detached the printout and centered both documents on his blotter. With his little homemade seat cushion and gray hat on its hook screwed into the 402s tray. Lane Dean stared down without seeing his own open file and imagined being that guy with his sad little cushion and customized banker’s lamp and wondered what he possibly had or did in his spare time to make up for these soul-murdering eight daily hours that weren’t even a quarter through until he just couldn’t stand it and did three returns in a row in a kind of frenzy where he might have missed things and so, on the next file, went very slowly and painstakingly and found a discrepancy between the 1040’s Schedule E and the R.R.A. annuity tables for poor old Clive R. Terry of Alton’s pissant railroad pension, but a discrepancy so small that you couldn’t tell if the Martinsburg printout had even made an error or had just accepted a wide roundoff for time’s sake, given the amount at stake, and he had to fill out both an 020-C and a Memo 402-C(1), kicking the return over to the Group Manager’s office to decide how to classify the error. Both had to be filled out with duplicated data on both sides, and signed. The whole issue was almost unbelievably meaningless and small. He thought about the word “meaning” and tried to summon up his baby’s face without looking at the photo, but all he could get was the heft of a full diaper and the plastic mobile over his crib turning in the breeze that the box fan in the doorway made. He imagined that the clock’s second hand possessed awareness and knew that it was a second hand and that its job was to go around and around inside a circle of numbers forever at the same slow, unvarying machinelike rate, going no place it hadn’t already been a million times before, and imagining the second hand was so awful it made his breath catch in his throat, and he looked quickly around to see if any of the examiners near him had heard it or were looking at him. When he started to see the baby’s photo face melting and lengthening and growing a long cleft jaw and aging years in just seconds and finally caving in from old age and falling away from the grinning yellow skull underneath, he knew he was half asleep and dreaming but did not know his own face was in his hands until he heard a human voice and opened his eyes but couldn’t see who it went with and then smelled the pinkie’s rubber right under his nose. He might have drooled on the open file. Getting a little taste, I see. It was a big older fellow with a seamed face and picket teeth. He wasn’t from any Tingle that Lane Dean had ever observed from his own. The man had on a headlamp with a tan cotton band, like some dentists wore, and a type of thick black marker in his breast pocket. He smelled of hair oil and some kind of food. He had part of his bottom on the edge of Lane’s desk and was cleaning under his thumbnail with a straightened-out paper clip and speaking softly. You could see an undershirt under his shirt; he wore no tie. He kept moving his upper body around in a slight kind of shape or circle, and the movements left a little bit of a visual trail. None of the wigglers in either adjoining row were paying attention to him. Dean checked the little face in the photo to make sure he wasn’t still dreaming. They don’t ever say it, though. Have you noticed? They talk around it. It’s too manifest. Like talking about the air you’re breathing, yes? It would be like saying, I see So-and-So with my eye. What would be the point? There was something wrong with one of his eyes; the pupil was bigger and stayed that way, making the eye look fixed. His headlamp wasn’t on. The slow upper-body motions brought him in closer and then back and away and around again. Yes, but now that you’re getting a taste consider it, the word. You know the one. Dean had the uneasy sense that the fellow wasn’t strictly speaking to him, which would mean that he was more like ranting. The one eye looked fixedly past him. Although hadn’t he just been thinking about a word? Was that word “dilated”? Had he said the word out loud? Lane Dean looked circumspectly to either side. The Group Manager’s frosted door was shut. Word appears suddenly in 1766. No known etymology. The Earl of March uses it in a letter describing a French peer of the realm. He didn’t cast a shadow, but that didn’t mean anything. For no reason, Lane Dean flexed his buttocks. In fact, the first three appearances of “bore” in English conjoin it with the adjective “French”—that French bore, that boring Frenchman, yes? The French, of course, had had malaise, ennui. See Pascal’s fourth Pensée—which Lane Dean heard as “pantsy.” He was checking for errant spit on the file before him. One ham in dark-blue work pants was inches from his elbow. The man moved slightly back and forth like his waist was hinged. He appeared to be inspecting Lane Dean’s upper body and face in a systematic gridlike fashion. His eyebrows were all over the place. The tan band was either soaked or stained. See La Rochefoucauld or the Marquise du Deffand’s well-known letters to Horace Walpole, specifically, I believe, Letter 96. But nothing in English prior to March, Earl of. This means a good five hundred years of no word for it, you see, yes? He rotated slightly away. In no way was this a vision. Lane Dean had heard of the phantom but never seen it. The phantom of the hallucination of repetitive concentration held for too long a time, like saying a word over and over until it kind of melted and got foreign. Mr. Bondurant’s high hard gray hair was just visible four Tingles down. No word for the Latin accidia made so much of by monks under Benedict. For the Greek ἀκηδία. Also the hermits of third-century Egypt, the so-called daemon meridianus, when their prayers were stultified by pointlessness and tedium and a longing for violent death. Now Lane Dean was looking openly around, as in, like, who is this fellow? The one eye was fixed at a point over past the row of vinyl screens. The tearing sound had gone, as had that one cart’s squeaky wheel. The fellow cleared his throat. Donne, of course, called it lethargie, and for a time it seems conjoined somewhat with melancholy, saturninia, otiositas, tristitia; that is, to be confused with sloth and torpor and lassitude and eremia and vexation and distemper and attributed to spleen—for example, see Winchilsea’s “black jaundice,” or, of course, Burton. The man was still on the same thumbnail. Quaker Green in, I believe, 1750 called it “spleen-fog.” Hair oil made Lane Dean think of the barber’s, of the stripy pole that seemed to spiral eternally upward but—you could see when the shop closed and it stopped—really didn’t. The hair oil had a name. No one under sixty used it. Mr. Bondurant used a men’s spray. The fellow appeared unconscious of his upper body’s underwater X-shaped rotations. Two of the wigglers in a team near the door had long beards and black derbies and bobbed at their Tingles as they examined returns, but their bobbing was rapid and back and forth only; this was different. The examiners on either side didn’t look up or pay attention; their fingers on the adders never slowed. Lane Dean couldn’t tell if this was a sign of their professional concentration or something else. Some wore the rubber on the left pinkie, most on the right. Atkins was ambidextrous—he could fill out different forms with each hand. The fellow on his left hadn’t blinked once all morning that Dean had been able to see. And then suddenly up it pops. Bore. As if from Athena’s forehead. Noun and verb, participle as adjective, whole nine yards. Origin unknown, really. We do not know. Nothing on it in Johnson. Partridge’s only entry is on “bored” as a subject complement and what preposition it takes, since “bored of,” as opposed to “with,” is a class marker, which is all that ever really concerns Partridge. Class class class. The only Partridge Lane Dean knew was the same TV Partridge everybody else knew. He had no earthly idea what this guy was talking about, but at the same time it unnerved him that he’d been thinking about “bore” as a word as well, the word, many returns ago. Philologists say it was a neologism, and just at the time of industry’s rise, too, yes? Of the mass man, the automated turbine and drill bit and bore, yes? Hollowed out? Forget Friedkin, have you seen “Metropolis”? All right, this really creeped Lane out. His inability to say anything to this guy or ask him what he even wanted felt a little like a bad dream as well. The night after his first day, he’d dreamed of a stick that kept breaking over and over but never got smaller. The Frenchman pushing that uphill stone throughout eternity. Look, for instance, at L. P. Smith’s “English Language,” ’56, I believe, yes? It was the bad eye, the frozen eye, that seemed to inspect what he leaned toward. Posits certain neologisms as “arising from their own cultural necessity”—his words, I believe. Yes, he said. When the kind of experience that you’re getting a man-sized taste of becomes possible, the word invents itself. The term. Now he switched nails. It was Vitalis that’d soaked the headlamp’s band, which looked more and more like a bandage. The Group Manager’s door had his name on it painted on the same pebbled-glass window thing that older high schools have. Personnel’s doors were the same as well. The wiggle rooms had windowless metal fire doors on struts up top, a newer model. Consider that the Oglok of Labrador have more than a hundred separate and distinct words for snow. Smith puts it that when anything assumes sufficient relevance it finds its name. The name springs up under cultural pressure. Really quite interesting when you consider it. Now, for the first time, the fellow at the Tingle to the right turned briefly to give the man a look and turned just as fast back around when the man made his hands into claws and held them out at the other wiggler like a demon or someone possessed. The whole thing happened almost too fast to be real to Lane Dean. The wiggler turned a page in the file before him. Someone else had also called it that: “soul-murdering.” Which now you will, too, yes? In the nineteenth century, then, suddenly the word’s everywhere; see, for example, Kierkegaard’s “Strange that boredom, in itself so staid and solid, should have such power to set in motion.” When he slid his big ham off the desktop, the movement made the smell stronger; it was Vitalis and Chinese food, the food in the little white bucket with the wire handle, Moo-goo something. The room’s light on the frosted glass was different because the door was slightly open, though Lane Dean hadn’t seen the door open. It occurred to him that he might pray. The man made the same gridlike swaying motion standing. The one eye was on the Group Manager’s door, open a crack. Note, too, that “interesting” first appears just two years after “bore.” 1768. Mark this, two years after. Can this be so? He was halfway down the row; now the fellow with the cushion looked up and then back down right away. Invents itself, yes? Not all it invents. Then something Lane Dean heard as “bone after tea.” The man was gone when he reached the row’s end. The file and its Schedules A/B and printout were right where they’d been, but Lane’s son’s picture was face down. He let himself look up and saw that no time had passed at all, again.
Brother on Sunday She is on the phone. He can see her reflection in the bathroom mirror, the headset wrapped around her ear as if she were an air-traffic controller or a Secret Service agent. “Are you sure?” she whispers. “I can’t believe it. I don’t want to believe it. If it’s true, it’s horrible. . . . Of course I don’t know anything! If I knew something, I’d tell you. . . . No, he doesn’t know anything, either. If he knew, he’d tell me. We vowed we wouldn’t keep secrets.” She pauses, listening for a moment. “Yes, of course, not a word.” “Tom,” she calls. “Tom, are you ready?” “In a minute,” he says. He examines himself in her makeup mirror. He raises his eyebrows, bares his teeth, smiles. And then he smiles again, harder, showing gum. He tilts his head, left and right, checking where the shadows fall. He turns on the light and flips the mirror to the magnifying side. A thin silver needle enters the reflection; there’s a closeup of skin, the glistening tip of the needle, surrounded by a halo of light. He blinks. The needle goes in; his hand is steady on the syringe. He injects a little here, a little there; it’s just a touchup, a filler-up. Later, when someone says, “You look great,” he’ll smile and his face will bend gently, but no lines will appear. “Doctor’s orders,” he’ll say. He recaps the syringe, tucks it into his shirt pocket, flips the toilet seat up, and pees. When he comes out of the bathroom, his wife, Sandy, is there, in the bedroom, waiting. “Who was that on the phone?” “Sara,” she says. “And?” “The usual.” He waits, knowing that silence will prompt her to say more. “Susie called Sara to say that she’s worried Scott is having an affair.” “Scott?” She nods. He says, quite honestly, “Of all people, I wouldn’t think Scott would be having an affair.” “She doesn’t know that he’s having an affair—she just suspects.” Sandy puts her coverup into a tote bag and hands him his camera. “Can’t leave without this,” she says. “Thanks,” he says. “Are you ready to go?” “Check my back,” she says. “I felt something.” She turns, lifting her blouse. “You have a tick,” he says, plucking it off her. Somewhere in the summer house, a loud buzzer goes off. “The towels are done,” she says. “Should we take wine?” he asks. “I packed a bottle of champagne and some orange juice. It’s Sunday, after all.” “My brother is coming, after all,” he says. His brother, Roger, visits the beach once a year, like a tropical storm that changes everything. “It’s a beautiful day,” she says. And she’s right. Tom sits in a low chair, facing the water, his feet buried in the sand. Just in front of him, hanging from the lifeguard stand, an American flag softly flutters. His sunglasses are his shield, his thick white lotion a kind of futuristic body armor that lets him imagine he is invisible. He believes that on the beach you are allowed to stare, as though you were looking not at the person but through the person, past the person at the water, past the water to the horizon, past the horizon into infinity. He is seeing things that he would otherwise not allow himself to see. He is staring. He is in awe, mesmerized by the body, by the grace and lack of grace. He takes pictures—“studies,” he calls them. It’s his habit, his hobby. What is he looking for? What is he thinking while he does this? This is something that he asks himself, noting that he often thinks of himself in the third person—a dispassionate observer. The beach fills up, towels are unrolled, umbrellas unfurl like party decorations, and, as the heat builds, bodies are slowly unwrapped. He, of all people, knows what’s real and what’s not. There are those who have starved the flesh off their bones, and those who have had it surgically removed or relocated. Each person wears it differently—the dimpling on the thighs, the love handles, the inevitable sag. He can’t help noticing. Around him, his friends talk. He’s not listening carefully enough to register exactly who is saying what—just the general impression, the flow. “Did you have the fish last night? I made a fish. We bought a fish. His brother loves to fish. I bought a necklace. We bought a house. I bought another watch. He’s thinking of getting a new car. Didn’t you just get one last year? I want to renovate. Your house is so beautiful. His wife used to be so beautiful. Do you remember her? Could never forget. Tom went out with her once.” “Just once?” “He doesn’t have the best social skills,” his wife says. Now they are talking about him. He knows he should defend himself. He lowers the camera and turns toward them. “Why do you always say that?” “Because it’s true,” Sandy says. “It may be, but that’s not why I only went out with her once.” “Why didn’t you date her again?” she wants to know. “Because I met you,” he says, raising the camera like a punctuation mark. The intensity of the sunlight is such that he has to squint in order to see, and at times he can’t see at all—there is a blinding abundance of light and reflection. He thinks of a blind girl who lived in his neighborhood when he was growing up: Audra Stevenson. She was smart and very pretty. She wore dark glasses and tapped her way down the sidewalk with her cane, a thick white bulb on the end of it. He used to watch her go down the street and wonder if she wore her glasses at home. He wondered what her eyes looked like. Perhaps they were very sensitive; perhaps she over-saw—that’s how he thought of it. Maybe she wasn’t blind in the sense of everything’s being black but blind in that there was too much light, so that everything was overexposed and turned a milky white with only spots of color punching through—a red shirt, a brown branch, the grayish shadows of people. He asked her out once. He stopped her on the street and introduced himself. “I know who you are,” she said. “You’re the boy who watches me go home.” “How do you know that?” he asked. “I’m blind,” she said, “not dumb.” He picked her up at her house, hooked his elbow through hers, and led her to the movie theatre. During the film, he whispered in her ear, an ongoing narration of the action, until finally she said, “Sh-h-h. I can’t hear what they’re saying if you keep talking to me.” After the date, Roger, who was two years older, made fun of him for being too shy to ask a “regular girl” out, and, no doubt, for going on a date long before Roger himself ever would. No girl was good enough for Roger: Rita’s eyebrows were too thick, Sara’s chin too long, Molly’s eyes too wide, Ruthie’s laugh too high-pitched. Every girl was just one twist of the genetic helix away from having a syndrome of some sort. Roger mocked “Tom the younger,” as he liked to call him, loudly, as Audra was walking away, and Tom was so mortified, so sure that Audra had heard every word, that he never spoke to her again. Behind him, they are still talking. “Arctic char. Orata. Sea bream, Chilean sea bass, swordfish, Ahi tuna. Mole sauce, ancho chili, a rub, a marinade, a pesto, a ragout, a teriyaki reduction.” They love to talk about food and exercise—running, biking, tennis, Pilates, trainers, workouts, cleansing diets. The one thing they don’t talk much about anymore is sex; the ones who are having it can’t imagine not having it, and the ones who aren’t having it remember all too well when they were the ones having it and saying they couldn’t imagine not having it. So it has become off limits. Also not discussed is the fact that some of them are having sex with one another’s spouses—i.e., hiding in plain sight. He is only half listening, thinking about how life changes. If he met these people now, he’s not sure he would be their friend, not sure he would have dinner with them every Saturday night, play tennis with them every Sunday, vacation with them twice a year, see the movies they see, eat at the places they eat at, do whatever it is that they all do together just because they’re a kind of club—all while worrying about what will happen if he strays, if he does something other than what they expect of him, and he doesn’t mean sex, he means something more. He looks at his friends; their wives all wear the same watches, like tribal decorations, trinkets of their status. The gold glints in the sun. He is looking at them as they absently sift sand with their hands, and imagining them as children in cotton hats, pouring sand from one bucket to another as their parents talk over and around them. He is thinking of their parents, now either dead or single in their eighties or attended by new “companions” they met in physical therapy or on Elderhostel vacations. He looks at his friends and wonders what they will be like if they make it to eighty. The men seem oblivious of the inevitability of aging, oblivious of the fact that they are no longer thirty, of the fact that they are not superheroes with special powers. He thinks of the night, a year ago, when they were all at a local restaurant and one of them went to grab something from the car. He ran across the street as though he thought he glowed in the dark. But he didn’t. The driver of an oncoming car didn’t see him. He flew up and over it. And, when someone came into the restaurant to call the police, Tom went out, not because he was thinking of his friend but because he was curious, always curious. Once outside, realizing what had happened, he ran to his friend and tried to help, but there was nothing to be done. The next day, driving by the spot, he saw one of his friend’s shoes—they had each bought a pair of the same kind the summer before—suspended from a tree. “What time is Roger coming?” someone asks. “Not sure,” he says. A friend’s wife leans over and shows him a red dot, buried between her breasts. “What do you think this is?” “Bug bite,” he says. “Not skin cancer?” “Not cancer,” he says. “Not infected?” “Bug bite,” he says. “And what about this?” She shows him something else, as though hoping for bonus points. This spot is on what his father jokingly used to call “the tenderloin,” her inner thigh. “Isn’t it funny that your father was a butcher and you’re in the business of dealing with human meat?” another of the friends asks. “It’s all flesh and blood,” he says, pressing the spot with his finger. “Pimple.” “Are you sure?” “Yes.” “Not skin cancer.” “No.” “Does it look infected?” “If you leave it alone, it’ll be fine,” he says. He is forever being asked to step into the spare bedroom, the bathroom, the kitchen, even the walk-in closet, because someone wants to show him something. It’s as though they were pulling him aside to make a confession. Mostly the answer is easy. Mostly whatever it is is nothing. But every now and then he’s surprised; they show him something that catches him off guard. “How’d you get that?” he asks. “You don’t want to know,” they say. But, of course, in the end they tell him more than he wants to know. “Was your father really a butcher?” the visiting sister of one of the friends asks. “Yep. And he really talked about women’s bodies like they were cuts of meat. ‘Boy, she’s got good veal cheeks! That girl would make one hell of a standing rib roast, trussed, bound, and stuffed.’ And then he’d laugh in a weird way. My mother thought of herself as an artist. She signed up for a life-drawing class when I was eleven and she took me with her, because she thought I’d appreciate it. I just sat there, not knowing where to look. Finally, the instructor said, ‘Draw with us?’ I’d never seen a bare breast before—drawing it was like touching it. I drew that breast again and again. And then I glanced at my mother’s easel and saw that she’d drawn everything but the woman. She’d drawn the table with the vase, the flowers, the window in the background, the drapes, but not the model. The instructor asked her, ‘Where’s the girl?’ ‘I prefer a still-life,’ my mother said. ‘But my son, on the other hand, look how beautiful he thinks she is!’ ” “Was she being mean?” He shrugs. “She shouldn’t have taken you to the class,” Sandy says. “She was teasing you.” “I thought maybe I’d take Roger out on the boat this afternoon,” one of the friends says. “Sound like fun?” “Only if you capsize,” he says, cryptically. The friend laughs, knowing that he isn’t kidding. Ahead of him on the beach, a boy is spreading lotion on an older woman. He imagines the viscous feel of lotion warm from the sun, gliding over her skin—friction. He imagines the boy painting the woman with lotion, and then using his fingernail to write his initials on her back. He thinks of a time in St. Bart’s, when Sandy was lying nude on the beach while he painted, and he picked up his brush and began making swirls on her skin. He painted her body and then he photographed her walking away from him into the water. In the sea, the paint ran down her skin in beautiful streaks of color. Later, one of the friends, the one with the boat, confessed, “I got hard just watching.” “You should try it sometime,” he said. “With your wife.” “Oh, we did, that night, but I didn’t have any paint. All I could find was a ballpoint pen. It wasn’t the same.” “Drink?” Sandy asks, snapping him back into the moment. “Sure,” he says. She pours a combination of orange juice and champagne into a plastic cup and leans toward him. He can smell her, her perfume, the salty beach. As he takes the drink, it splashes up out of the cup and onto his arm. He licks it, his tongue tickled by the carbonation, the flavor of citrus, of wine, mixed with salt and sweat. He thinks that it’s strange he can’t remember ever having tasted himself before. His tongue rakes the fur on his forearm and picks up a tinge of blood from a scrape this morning. The flavor is good, full of life. “Is Roger still with that woman?” one of the wives asks. “His hygienist?” he asks. “Is that who it was?” the friend asks. “Yep, he left his wife to fuck the hygienist.” “And he’s still with her,” Sandy says. “She must rinse and spit. I assume she doesn’t swallow,” he says. “Stop, you’re being crude.” He wonders when Roger is coming. On the one hand, he’s dreading his arrival; on the other, he’s starting to think it’s rude that Roger’s not there yet and hasn’t called to say he’s running late. Tom closes his eyes. The sun is high. He feels it baking him, and then, suddenly, a shadow, like a cloud, crosses over him. He shivers. One of the women, Terri, is standing in front of him, holding out a plate of muffins. “High-protein, high-fibre. Take one.” She had breast cancer a year ago—a mastectomy—and, six weeks later, they were all on their annual St. Bart’s adventure. When everyone went to the beach, she stayed in the house. They all talked about her behind her back, worrying that they were doing something that made her uncomfortable. Then, on the third day, just before lunch, she walked out onto the beach and stood before them. He took a picture. She unbuttoned her blouse. He took another picture. Her husband started to get up, to stop her, but one of the women grabbed his arm, holding him back. Terri unbuttoned her blouse and opened it, revealing the remaining breast and the red rope of a scar. Click, click, click. He shot her again and again. In the end, what was amazing about the images was not the scar but her expression—terrified, defiant, vulnerable, her face in a dance of emotion, frame by frame. He gave her a set of prints—it was one of the rare times that he was the one to take someone aside, into his study. When she opened the package, she wept. “For a million reasons,” she said. “For what was lost, for what remains, for how you saw what no one else did—they were all too busy looking at my boob.” “A meal in a muffin,” he says, biting it. “It’s perfect.” In front of them, a woman is stepping out of her shorts. One side of her bathing suit is unceremoniously wedged in the crack of her ass; she pulls it out with a loud snap. Her rear end is what Sandy calls “coagulated,” a cottage cheese of cellulite, and, below it, spider veins explode down her legs, like fireworks. “Do you ever look at something like that and think about how you could fix it?” Terri asks. “The interesting thing is that the woman doesn’t seem bothered by it. The people who come to me are bothered by their bodies. They don’t go to the beach and disrobe in public. They come into my office with a list of what they want fixed—like it’s a scratch-and-dent shop.” “Maybe she doesn’t realize how bad it looks?” “Maybe,” he says. “And maybe that’s O.K.” He thinks about Botox and Restylane and lasering spider veins and resurfacing a face, and sometimes he feels like a conservator, like the guy he once sat next to at a dinner, who worked at the Met, touching up art works when they chipped or when the ceiling leaked on them. He thinks about the time he volunteered to go on a mission with a group of doctors who were heading to an impoverished spot to do good for five days—a kind of spiritual recompense for the fortune that modern elective cosmetic procedures had brought them. He fixed cleft palates, treated skin rashes, gave routine immunizations. “I’ve heard of it,” his mother said. “What’s it called again, Doctors Without Licenses? Maybe next time you could take Roger—he’s an excellent dentist. Everyone needs a good dentist, rich or poor. It would be nice if the two of you did something together.” “Do you think he’d rather play tennis?” the friend asks. “Would it be more fun for Roger to play a round robin or to go out on the boat?” “I have no idea,” he says. “I’m not Roger.” “He always gets like this when his brother comes,” Sandy says. “Since I was five, Roger has been stealing my friends.” “Your friends are nice to him because he’s your brother. Roger can’t steal them.” “Roger thinks they’re his friends. He tells everyone that he was my parents’ favorite, that I was an afterthought, an accident.” “Were you?” someone asks. “All you have to do is get through it,” Sandy says. “It’ll be over soon.” “Not soon enough,” he says. “You have nice friends. Who wouldn’t want them?” the visiting sister says. As she rolls over, her top drops off. His eyes are reflexively drawn in—her nipples are large and brown, more beautiful than he would have imagined. “Hey, there.” A booming voice goes off like a bomb in his head. “Roger.” “I thought I’d find all you flabby asses here. If it’s Sunday, they must be at the beach.” Roger smiles, his hundred-thousand-dollar smile. Click. Tom catches the poppy seeds at the gum line. Click. He’s got Roger’s pink shorts with embroidered Martini glasses. Click. Roger is wearing crocodile tassel loafers. “Tommy, can you put the fucking camera down and actually say hello?” “Hello. Are you on your own? We thought maybe you’d bring what’s-her-name, your hygienist? We were just talking about her.” “She’s got her kids this weekend. Twins.” “Roger, come sit next to me.” Sandy gives her chair to Roger and pours him a drink. “Breakfast of champions,” Roger says, sipping the mimosa. “We were wondering when you’d get here,” Tom says. “I stopped to hit a bucket of balls. Oh, God,” Roger says, “isn’t that Blarney Stone?” “Who is Blarney Stone?” the visiting sister asks. “That rock star—what’s his name?” someone says. “Yeah, I think it is,” he says, and now they’re all squinting and staring at an exceptionally pale, skinny figure in a form-fitting swimsuit. “That suit must have been made for him,” Terri says. “As skinny as he is, he’s still got a little paunch,” Roger says. “Do you remember how Dad used to do a thousand situps every morning in his underwear?” “It wasn’t a thousand, more like a hundred.” “Whatever. He thought of himself as a perfect specimen.” “Yes. And Mom used to say, ‘Your father is a beautiful man.’ It gave me the creeps.” Tom puts his camera back in the bag. “What do you make of that guy?” Roger points to someone farther along the beach. “Don’t point,” Tom says, horrified. “Poliosis,” Roger says. “Actually, that’s piebaldism—dark and light patches on the skin. Poliosis is the white forelock.” “Like Susan Sontag,” the friend’s sister says. “Roger, what appeals—boat or tennis?” the friend asks. “I don’t know. Tom-Tom, what do you think?” “Boat,” Tom says. “If brother says boat, I go with tennis. A word to the wise: never do what brother says.” Roger laughs alone. Tom stands. “I’ve got a headache. I need to go home. Go on the boat—the water looks rough, it’ll be exciting—and I’ll see you later.” “Should I come home with you?” Sandy asks. “Are you O.K.?” “It’s just a headache from the champagne. I don’t usually drink at breakfast.” “I’ll come with you,” Sandy says. “Don’t,” he says firmly, hating her because he knows she doubts that the headache is legitimate. “I’ll see you later. We’re all set for dinner?” “All set,” Roger says. “I made the reservation myself.” Later, Tom and Sandy argue about it. “Of course I knew your headache was real. I offered to leave with you.” “You offered to leave because it was the thing to do in front of the others, but you didn’t mean it.” “I’m not doing this,” Sandy says. “I can’t prove that I meant what I said. You should take me at my word.” “You think I’m faking a headache because Roger is here, but you’re the one who brought champagne to the beach. Who does that, who pours people drinks at eleven in the morning when everyone is just sitting there baking in the sun?” “Now you’re blaming me for your headache,” Sandy says. “Next, you’ll say that I tried to poison you.” Roger knocks on their bedroom door. “Excuse me,” he says, knowing all too well that his timing is lousy. “I forgot my floss. Can you imagine that, a dentist forgetting his floss? Have you got some I could use?” “No,” Tom says. Sandy goes into the bathroom and returns with floss. “Thanks, sweetie,” Roger says. “No problem,” she says. Roger leaves the room. “Can we just stop for now? Let’s just get ready for dinner.” “Nice that Roger picked the best place in town. Is he paying?” “I have no idea,” Sandy says. “Do me a favor and don’t do that thing where you order two appetizers and then I get stuck paying the same as if you’d ordered a rack of lamb.” “Am I supposed to order something I don’t want?” “In this case, yes. Order something to special-treat yourself. Have the fish.” “Why don’t you just order two main courses? Instead of getting a starter, why don’t you just leap right in and have a fish and a steak?” “Because people would notice. They’d say, ‘Oh, you should pay more, you ate double.’ They never notice when you eat less.” “This is the least of your problems,” she says, spraying herself with perfume. Tom sits on the other side of the table, leaving Roger to the friends. When the waiter offers them the wine list, Roger takes it, studying carefully. “See something appealing?” Sandy asks. “The wine list is mediocre at best,” Roger says, “but I’ll find something. That’s the true test, finding quality where there is none.” At the table next to them, an old couple are having dinner with their adult child; the couple are in their eighties and refer to each other as Mommy and Daddy. “Daddy, what are you going to have?” “I don’t know, Mommy. How about you?” “I’ll have the snapper,” the son, who must be sixty, says. “I’ll go with the sole, as long as it’s not soaking in butter—it’s not soaking, is it?” Mommy asks the waiter. “It’s perfect for you,” the waiter says. After the first course, Tom gets up to go to the men’s room; one of his friends follows him. Here we go again, he thinks, imagining that the friend is going to show him something—a fungus between his toes, a ditzel on his chest. He doesn’t turn around. When they are side by side at the urinals, the friend says, “I’m leaving Terri.” “What are you talking about?” Tom says, genuinely shocked. “I can’t stand it anymore. I’m miserable.” “Is it because of the cancer?” The friend shakes his head no. “Everyone will think that’s why, but it has nothing to do with it. I was going to leave last year, before she got sick.” “Did you meet someone?” “Yes, but that’s not why.” “It’s always why. Men don’t leave unless they’ve met someone.” He shrugs. “Terri doesn’t know.” “About the other woman?” “About anything. I’m telling you first. I don’t know what to say to her. We’ve been married for twenty-six years.” “That’s a long time.” “She’ll be fine,” he says, “once she gets over the initial shock.” At the sink, Tom checks his face in the mirror. “When are you going to tell her?” he asks, watching himself talking. “I don’t know,” the friend says. “Please don’t tell Sandy. The girls can’t keep a secret.” “Not a word.” And they go back to the table. “Everything O.K.?” Sandy asks. “Wonderful,” he says, reaching for the wine. “If you have a headache, maybe you shouldn’t drink,” she says. “Trust me, I need a drink.” At the end of the meal, at the table next to them, Daddy is asleep. He has basically fallen asleep in his scallops, a dot of sour cream on his tie. “Daddy,” his wife says, waking him. “Do you want some dessert?” His head lifts, as if he had only been looking for his napkin under the table. “Do they have vanilla ice cream?” he asks. “We do,” the waiter says. “And what do they get for that?” Daddy asks. “Six-fifty,” Mommy says, looking at her menu. “I’ll have it at home,” Daddy says. And the son says to the waiter, “We’ll take the check.” Roger pays for dinner, and they all thank him. “You didn’t have to,” Sandy says. “I know I didn’t.” “You can buy them dinner, but you can’t buy their friendship,” Tom hisses into Roger’s ear. “Shall I drive?” Sandy asks. “I’ll drive,” Tom says. “You drank,” she says. “Not so much.” “Enough,” she says, taking the keys. Back at the house, Tom and Roger are having a drink in the living room, a nightcap and a cigar. Sandy excuses herself for a moment, and when she comes back the brothers are on the sofa, pummelling each other. “What happened?” she asks. Neither says a word. What happened was that Roger said something like “Really too bad about Sandy. She used to be such a looker.” And, not sure that he was hearing it right, Tom said, “What do you mean?” And Roger said, “Well, you know, she’s let herself go, and I imagine that, for someone like you, it must be depressing. I never was all about a great figure or a pretty face. As you know, for me it’s the smile—they’ve got to have the smile.” “I think you should leave,” Tom says. “Well, that would be awkward, wouldn’t it?” Roger says. “Not really.” “If I leave, I’m not coming back—ever,” Roger says. Tom is giddy with the idea but says nothing. “When Mom hears about this, she’s going to be very angry,” Roger says. “You’re fifty-three years old and still threatening to tell Mom?” Tom says. “Fine, you little fucker, how about I call your friend Bobby and tell him I can’t go on the boat tomorrow because you kicked me out of the house? And I’ll call your other friend and tell him you were staring at his wife’s one boob.” And, with that, Sandy says, “Get him,” and Tom punches Roger. “You ungrateful little . . . son of a . . . ” “Butcher and an artist,” Roger says.
The Daughters of the Moon Deprived, as it was, of a covering of air to act as a protective shield, the moon found itself exposed right from the start to a continual bombardment of meteorites and to the corrosive action of the sun’s rays. According to Thomas Gold, of Cornell University, the rocks on the moon’s surface were reduced to powder through constant attrition from meteorite particles. According to Gerard Kuiper, of the University of Chicago, the escape of gases from the moon’s magma may have given the satellite a light, porous consistency, like that of a pumice stone. The moon is old, Qfwfq agreed, pitted with holes, worn out. Rolling naked through the skies, it erodes and loses its flesh like a bone that’s been gnawed. This is not the first time that such a thing has happened. I remember moons that were even older and more battered than this one; I’ve seen loads of these moons, seen them being born and running across the sky and dying out, one punctured by hail from shooting stars, another exploding from all its craters, and yet another oozing drops of topaz-colored sweat that evaporated immediately, then being covered by greenish clouds and reduced to a dried-up, spongy shell. What happens on the earth when a moon dies is not easy to describe; I’ll try to do it by referring to the last instance I can remember. Following a lengthy period of evolution, the earth had more or less reached the point where we are now; in other words, it had entered the phase when cars wear out more quickly than the soles of shoes. Beings that were barely human manufactured and bought and sold things, and cities covered the continents with luminous color. These cities grew in approximately the same places as our cities do now, however different the shape of the continents was. There was even a New York that in some way resembled the New York familiar to all of you, but was much newer, or, rather, more awash with new products, new toothbrushes, a New York with its own Manhattan that stretched out dense with skyscrapers gleaming like the nylon bristles of a brand-new toothbrush. In this world where every object was thrown away at the slightest sign of breakage or aging, at the first dent or stain, and replaced with a new and perfect substitute, there was just one false note, one shadow: the moon. It wandered through the sky naked, corroded, and gray, more and more alien to the world down here, a hangover from a way of being that was now outdated. Ancient expressions like “full moon,” “half-moon,” “last-quarter-moon” continued to be used but were really only figures of speech: how could we call “full” a shape that was all cracks and holes and that always seemed on the point of crashing down on our heads in a shower of rubble? Not to mention when it was a waning moon! It was reduced to a kind of nibbled cheese rind, and it always disappeared before we expected it to. At each new moon, we wondered whether it would ever appear again (were we hoping that it would simply disappear?), and when it did reappear, looking more and more like a comb that had lost its teeth, we averted our eyes with a shudder. It was a depressing sight. We went out in the crowds, our arms laden with parcels, coming and going from the big department stores that were open day and night, and while we were scanning the neon signs that climbed higher and higher up the skyscrapers and notified us constantly of new products that had been launched, we’d suddenly see it advancing, pale amid those dazzling lights, slow and sick, and we could not get it out of our heads that every new thing, each product that we had just bought, could similarly wear out, deteriorate, fade away, and we would lose our enthusiasm for running around buying things and working like crazy—a loss that was not without consequences for industry and commerce. That was how we began to consider the problem of what to do with it, this counterproductive satellite. It did not serve any purpose; it was a useless wreck. As it lost weight, it started to incline its orbit toward the earth: it was dangerous, above and beyond anything else. And the nearer it got the more it slowed its course; we could no longer calculate its phases. Even the calendar, the rhythm of the months, had become a mere convention; the moon went forward in fits and starts, as though it were about to collapse. On these nights of low moon, people of a more unstable temperament began to do weird things. There was always a sleepwalker edging along the parapet of a skyscraper with his arms reaching toward the moon, or a werewolf starting to howl in the middle of Times Square, or a pyromaniac setting fire to the dock warehouses. By now these were common occurrences that no longer attracted the usual crowd of rubberneckers. But when I saw a girl sitting, completely naked, on a bench in Central Park I had to stop. Even before I saw her I’d had the feeling that something mysterious was about to happen. As I drove through Central Park at the wheel of my convertible, I felt myself bathed in a flickering light, like that of a fluorescent bulb emitting a series of livid, blinking flashes before it turns on fully. The view all around me was like that of a garden that had sunk into a lunar crater. The naked girl sat beside a pond reflecting a slice of moon. I braked. For a second I thought I recognized her. I ran out of the car toward her, but then I froze. I did not know who she was; I just felt that I urgently had to do something for her. Everything was scattered on the grass around the bench: her clothes, a stocking and shoe here and the others there, her earrings, necklace, and bracelets, purse and shopping bag with the contents spilled out in a wide arc, and countless packages and goods, almost as if the creature had felt herself called on her way back from a lavish shopping spree and had dropped everything, realizing that she had to free herself of all objects and signs that bound her to the earth, and she was now waiting to be assumed into the lunar sphere. “What’s happening?” I stammered. “Can I help you?” “Help?” she asked, with her eyes staring upward. “Nobody can help. Nobody can do anything.” And it was clear that she was talking not about herself but about the moon. The moon was above us, a convex shape almost crushing us, a ruined roof, studded with holes like a cheese grater. Just at that moment, the animals in the zoo began to growl. “Is this the end?” I asked mechanically, and I myself didn’t even know what I meant. She replied, “It’s the beginning,” or something like that. (She spoke almost without opening her lips.) “What do you mean? It’s the beginning of the end, or something else is beginning?” She got up, walked across the grass. She had long copper-colored hair that came down over her shoulders. She was so vulnerable that I felt the need to protect her in some way, to shield her, and I moved my hands toward her as though to be ready to catch her if she fell or to ward off anything that might harm her. But my hands did not dare even graze her, and always stayed a few centimetres from her skin. And as I followed her, in this way, past the flower gardens, I realized that her movements were similar to mine, that she, too, was trying to protect something fragile, something that might fall and shatter into pieces, and that needed thus to be led toward a place where it could settle gently, something that she could not touch but could only guide with her gestures: the moon. The moon seemed lost. Having abandoned the course of its orbit, it no longer knew where to go; it let itself be transported like a dry leaf. Sometimes it appeared to be plummeting toward the earth, at others corkscrewing in a spiral movement, and at still others it looked to be just drifting. It was losing height, that was certain: for a second it seemed as if it would crash into the Plaza Hotel, but instead it slid into the corridor between two skyscrapers and disappeared from view in the direction of the Hudson. It reappeared shortly afterward, on the opposite side of the city, popping out from behind a cloud, bathing Harlem and the East River in a chalky light, and, as though caught by a gust of wind, it rolled toward the Bronx. “There it is!” I shouted. “There—it stopped!” “It can’t stop!” the girl exclaimed, and she ran naked and barefoot over the grass. “Where are you going? You can’t wander around like that! Stop! Hey, I’m talking to you! What’s your name?” She shouted out a name like Diana or Deanna, something that could also have been an invocation. And she disappeared. In order to follow her, I jumped back into my car and began to search the drives of Central Park. The beams of my headlights lit up hedges, hills, obelisks, but the girl, Diana, was nowhere to be seen. By now I had gone too far: I must have passed her; I turned around to go back the way I’d come. A voice behind me said, “No, it’s there, keep going!” Sitting behind me on the trunk of my car was the naked girl, pointing toward the moon. I wanted to tell her to get down, to explain that I could not travel across the city with her so prominently on view in that condition, but I did not dare to distract her, intent as she was on not losing sight of the luminous glow that was disappearing and reappearing at the end of the drive. And in any case—and this was even stranger—no passerby seemed to notice this female apparition sitting up on the trunk of my car. We crossed one of the bridges that link Manhattan to the mainland. Now we were going along a multilane highway, with other cars alongside us, and I kept my eyes staring straight ahead, fearing the laughter and crude comments that the sight of the two of us was no doubt prompting in the cars around us. But when a sedan overtook us I nearly went off the road in surprise: crouched on its roof was a naked girl with her hair blowing in the wind. For a second, I thought that my passenger was leaping from one speeding car to another, but all I had to do was turn my head ever so slightly to see that Diana’s knees were still there, level with my nose. And her body was not the only one glowing before my eyes: now I saw girls everywhere, stretched out in the strangest poses, clinging to the radiators, doors, and fenders of the speeding cars, their golden or dark strands of hair contrasting with the pink or dark gleam of their naked skin. There was one of these mysterious female passengers on every car, all leaning forward, urging their drivers to follow the moon. They had been summoned by the endangered moon: I was certain of that. How many of them were there? More cars carrying lunar girls gathered at every crossroads and junction, converging from all quarters of the city to the place above which the moon seemed to have stopped. At the edge of the city, we found ourselves in front of an automobile scrap yard. The road petered out in an area with little valleys, ridges, hills, and peaks, but it was not the contours of the land that created the uneven surface but, rather, the layers of things that had been thrown away: everything that the consumerist city had used up and expelled so that it could immediately enjoy the pleasure of handling new things had ended up in this unprepossessing neighborhood. Over the course of many years, piles of battered fridges, yellowing issues of Life magazine, and burnt-out light bulbs had accumulated around an enormous wrecking yard. It was over this jagged, rusty territory that the moon now loomed, and the swaths of crumpled metal swelled as if carried on a high tide. They resembled each other, the decrepit moon and that crust of the earth which had been soldered into an amalgam of wreckage; the mountains of scrap metal formed a chain that closed in on itself like an amphitheatre, whose shape was precisely that of a volcanic crater or a lunar sea. The moon hung over this space, and it was as if the planet and its satellite were acting as mirror images of each other. Our car engines had all stopped: nothing intimidates cars as much as their own cemeteries. Diana got down, and all the other Dianas followed. But their energy now seemed to fade: they moved with uncertain steps, as though, on finding themselves amid those shards of scrap iron, they were suddenly seized by an awareness of their own nakedness; many of them folded their arms to cover their breasts as if shivering with cold. As they did this, they scattered, climbing over the mountains of useless scrap and down into the amphitheatre, where they found themselves forming a huge circle in the middle. Then they all raised their arms together. The moon gave a start, as though affected by that gesture of theirs, and it seemed for an instant to recover its energy and to climb again. The circle of girls stood with their arms outstretched and their faces and breasts turned toward the moon. Was that what the moon had asked of them? Did it need them to support it in the sky? I did not have time to ponder this question. At that very moment the crane entered the scene. The crane had been designed and built by the authorities, who had decided to cleanse the sky of its inelegant encumbrance. It was a bulldozer from which a kind of crab’s claw rose up. It came forward on its caterpillar treads, squat and stocky, just like a crab; and when it arrived at the place that had been prepared for the operation it seemed to become even more squat, to cling to the earth with all its surface. The winch spun quickly, and the crane raised its arm into the sky; nobody had believed that a crane with such a long arm could be built. Its bucket opened, revealing all its teeth; now, more than a crab’s claw, it resembled a shark’s mouth. The moon was right there. It wavered as though it wanted to escape, but the crane seemed to be magnetized: as we watched, the moon was vacuumed up, as it were, landing in the crane’s jaws, which closed around it with a dry sound—crack! For a second, it seemed as if the moon had crumbled like a meringue, but instead it rested there, half in and half out of the jaws of the bucket. It had been flattened into an oblong shape, a kind of thick cigar held between the bucket’s teeth. Down came a shower the color of ashes. The crane now tried to drag the moon down out of its orbit. The winch had started to wind backward: at this point, the winding required a huge effort. Diana and her friends had stayed motionless with their arms raised throughout this process, as though hoping to overcome the enemy’s aggression with the strength of their circle. It was only when the ash from the disintegrating moon rained down on their faces and breasts that they began to disperse. Diana let out a sharp cry of lament. At that point, the imprisoned moon lost what little light it had left: it became a black, shapeless rock. It would have crashed down onto the earth had it not been held back by the bucket’s teeth. Down below, the workmen had prepared a metal net, which was fixed to the ground with long nails, all around the space where the crane was slowly lowering its load. Once it was on the ground, the moon was a pockmarked, sandy boulder, so dull and opaque that it was incredible to think that it had once illuminated the sky with its shining reflection. The jaws of the bucket opened; the bulldozer retreated on its caterpillar treads and almost flipped over as it was suddenly lightened of its load. The workmen were ready with the net: they wrapped it around the moon, trapping it between the net and the ground. The moon struggled in its straitjacket: a tremor like that of an earthquake caused avalanches of empty cans to slide down from the mountain of refuse. Then all was peaceful again. The now moonless sky was drenched with bursts of light from big lamps. But the darkness was already fading, anyway. Dawn found the car cemetery holding one more wreck: the moon marooned at its center was almost indistinguishable from the other discarded objects; it was the same color, had the same condemned look as something you couldn’t imagine ever having been new. A low murmur resounded through the crater of terrestrial trash: the light of dawn revealed a swarm of living things slowly waking up. Hirsute creatures were advancing amid the trucks’ disembowelled carcasses, the shattered wheels, the crumpled metal. Among the discarded things lived a community of discarded people—people who had been marginalized, or who had willingly discarded themselves, people who had tired of racing all over the city to sell and buy new things that were destined to go instantly out of date, people who had decided that the things that had been thrown away were the only real riches of the world. Encircling the moon, throughout the amphitheatre, these lanky figures stood or sat, their faces framed by beards or unkempt hair. It was a tatterdemalion or bizarrely dressed crowd, and in its midst were my naked Diana and all the girls from the night before. They came forward, and began to loosen the steel wires of the net from the nails that had been driven into the ground. Immediately, like a blimp released from its moorings, the moon rose, hovering above the girls’ heads, above the grandstand full of hoboes, and hung there, held by the steel net whose wires Diana and her friends were operating, sometimes pulling them, sometimes letting them out, and when the girls started to run, still holding the ends of the wires, the moon followed them. As soon as the moon moved, a kind of wave began to rise from the valleys of wreckage: the old car carcasses crushed like accordions started to march, creakily arranging themselves in a procession, and a stream of battered cans rolled along making a noise like thunder, though you couldn’t tell whether they were dragging or being dragged by everything else. Following this moon that had been saved from the scrap heap, all the things and all the people who had been resigned to being tossed in a corner started on the road again, and swarmed toward the richest neighborhoods of the city. That morning, the city was celebrating Consumer Thanksgiving Day. This feast came around every year, on a day in November, and had been set up to allow shoppers to display their gratitude toward the god Production, who tirelessly satisfied their every desire. The biggest department store in town organized a parade every year: an enormous balloon in the shape of a garishly colored doll was paraded through the main streets, pulled by ribbons that sequin-clad girls held as they marched behind a musical band. That day, the procession was coming down Fifth Avenue: the majorette twirled her baton in the air, the big drums banged, and the balloon giant, representing the Satisfied Customer, flew among the skyscrapers, obediently advancing on leashes held by girls in kepis, tassels, and fringed epaulets, riding spangly motorcycles. At the same time, another parade was crossing Manhattan. The flaky, moldy moon was also advancing, sailing between the skyscrapers, pulled by the naked girls, and behind it came a line of beat-up cars and skeletons of trucks, amid a silent crowd that was gradually increasing in size. Thousands of people joined the throng that had been following the moon since the early hours of the morning, people of all colors, whole families with children of every age, especially as the procession filed past the crowded black and Puerto Rican areas of Harlem. The lunar procession zigzagged around uptown, then started down Broadway, and came quickly and silently to converge with the other procession, which was dragging its balloon giant along Fifth Avenue. At Madison Square, one procession met the other; or, more precisely, the two became a single procession. The Satisfied Customer, perhaps owing to a collision with the moon’s jagged surface, deflated into a rubber rag. On the motorcycles now were the Dianas, pulling the moon with multicolored ribbons; or, rather, since the number of naked women had at least doubled, the female motorcyclists must have thrown away their uniforms and kepis. A similar transformation had overtaken the motorcycles and the cars in the parade. You could no longer tell which were the old cars and which were the new: the twisted wheels, the rusty fenders were mixed together with bodywork as shiny as a mirror and paint that gleamed like enamel. And, behind the parade, shopwindows became covered with cobwebs and mold, skyscrapers’ elevators started to creak and groan, advertising posters turned yellow, the egg holders in refrigerators filled with chicks, as if they were incubators, televisions reported whirling atmospheric storms. The city had consumed itself at a stroke: it was a disposable city that now followed the moon on its last voyage. To the sound of the band drumming on empty gas cans, the procession arrived at the Brooklyn Bridge. Diana raised her majorette’s baton; her friends twirled their ribbons in the air. The moon made a last dash, traversed the curved grillework of the bridge, tipped toward the sea, crashed into the water like a brick, and sank, sending thousands of little bubbles to the surface. Meanwhile, instead of letting the ribbons go, the girls had stayed attached to them, and the moon had lifted them up, sending them flying over the parapet and off the bridge: they described arcs in the air like divers and disappeared into the water. We stood and stared in astonishment, some of us on the Brooklyn Bridge, others on the jetties on the shore, caught between the urge to dive in after them and the certainty that we would see them reappear again just as before. We did not have to wait long. The sea began to vibrate with waves that spread out in a circle. At the center of this circle there appeared an island, which grew like a mountain, like a hemisphere, like a globe resting on the water, or, rather, raised up just above it; no, like a moon rising in the sky. I say a moon, even though it did not resemble a moon any more than the one we had seen plunge into the depths a few moments before: however, this new moon had a very different way of being different. It emerged from the sea dripping a trail of green, glistening seaweed; spouts of water gushed in fountains from fields that lent it the sheen of an emerald. A steamy jungle covered it, but not with plants. This covering seemed to be made of peacock feathers, full of eyes and shimmering colors. This was the landscape that we hardly managed to glimpse before the sphere swiftly receded into the sky, and the more minute details were lost in a general impression of freshness and lushness. It was dusk: the contrasts of the colors were fading into a vibrant chiaroscuro; the lunar fields and woods were now just barely visible contours on the taut surface of the shining globe. But we were able to catch sight of some hammocks hanging from branches, rocked by the wind, and I saw, nestling in them, the girls who had led us to that place. I recognized Diana, at peace at last, fanning herself with a feather punkah, and perhaps sending me a signal of recognition. “There they are! There she is!” I shouted. We all shouted, and the happiness at having found them again was already fraught with the pain of having lost them now forever, as the moon rising in the dark sky sent out only the reflections of the sun on its lakes and fields. We were seized by a frenzy: we began to gallop across the continent, through the savannas and forests that had recovered the earth, burying cities and roads, obliterating all trace of what had been. And we trumpeted, lifting up to the sky our trunks and our long, thin tusks, shaking the shaggy hair of our croups with the violent anguish that takes hold of all us young mammoths when we realize that now is when life begins, and yet it is clear that what we desire we shall never have.
The Invasion from Outer Space From the beginning we were prepared, we knew just what to do, for hadn’t we seen it all a hundred times?—the good people of the town going about their business, the suddenly interrupted TV programs, the faces in the crowd looking up, the little girl pointing in the air, the mouths opening, the dog yapping, the traffic stopped, the shopping bag falling to the sidewalk, and there, in the sky, coming closer . . . And so, when it finally happened, because it was bound to happen, we all knew it was only a matter of time, we felt, in the midst of our curiosity and terror, a certain calm, the calm of familiarity, we knew what was expected of us, at such a moment. The story broke a little after ten in the morning. The TV anchors looked exactly the way we knew they’d look, their faces urgent, their hair neat, their shoulders tense, they were filling us with alarm but also assuring us that everything was under control, for they, too, had been prepared for this, in a sense had been waiting for it, already they were looking back at themselves during their great moment. The sighting was indisputable but, at the same time, inconclusive: something from out there had been detected, it appeared to be approaching our atmosphere at great speed, the Pentagon was monitoring the situation closely. We were urged to remain calm, to stay inside, to await further instructions. Some of us left work immediately and hurried home to our families, others stayed close to the TV, the radio, the computer, we were all talking into our cells. Through our windows we could see people at their windows, looking up at the sky. All that morning we followed the news fiercely, like children listening to a thunderstorm in the dark. Whatever was out there was still unknown, scientists had not yet been able to determine its nature, caution was advised but there was no reason for panic, our job was to stay tuned and sit tight and await further developments. And though we were anxious, though quivers of nervousness ran along our bodies like mice, we wanted to see whatever it was, we wanted to be there, since after all it was coming toward us, it was ours to witness, as if we were the ones they’d chosen, out there on the other side of the sky. For already it was being said that our town was the likely landing place, already the TV crews were rolling in. We wondered where it would land: between the duck pond and the seesaws in the public park, or deep in the woods at the north end of town, or maybe in the field out by the mall, where a new excavation was already under way, or maybe it would glide over the old department store on Main Street and crash through the second-floor apartments above Mangione’s Pizza and Café, with a great shattering of brick and glass, maybe it would land on the throughway and we’d see eighteen-wheelers turn over, great chunks of pavement rise up at sharp angles, and car after car swerve into the guardrail and roll down the embankment. Something appeared in the sky shortly before one o’clock. Many of us were still at lunch, others were already outside, standing motionless on the streets and sidewalks, gazing up. There were shouts and cries, arms in the air, a wildness of gesturing, pointing. And, sure enough, something was glittering, up there in the sky, something was shimmering, in the blue air of summer—we saw it clearly, whatever it was. Secretaries in offices rushed to windows, storekeepers abandoned their cash registers and hurried outdoors, road workers in orange hard hats looked up from the asphalt, shaded their eyes. It must have lasted—that faraway glow, that spot of shimmer—some three or four minutes. Then it began to grow larger, until it was the size of a dime, a quarter. Suddenly the entire sky seemed to be filled with points of gold. Then it was coming down on us, like fine pollen, like yellow dust. It lay on our roof slopes, it sifted down onto our sidewalks, covered our shirtsleeves and the tops of our cars. We did not know what to make of it. It continued to come down, that yellow dust, for nearly thirteen minutes. During that time we could not see the sky. Then it was over. The sun shone, the sky was blue. Throughout the downpour, we’d been warned to stay inside, to be careful, to avoid touching the substance from outer space, but it had happened so quickly that most of us had streaks of yellow on our clothes and in our hair. Soon after the warnings, we heard cautious reassurances: preliminary tests revealed nothing toxic, though the nature of the yellow dust remained unknown. Animals that had eaten it revealed no symptoms. We were urged to keep out of its way and await further test results. Meanwhile it lay over our lawns and sidewalks and front steps, it coated our maple trees and telephone poles. We were reminded of waking in the morning after the first snow. From our porches we watched the three-wheeled sweepers move slowly along our streets, carrying it off in big hoppers. We hosed down our grass, our front walks, our porch furniture. We looked up at the sky, we waited for more news—already we were hearing reports that the substance was composed of one-celled organisms—and through it all we could sense the swell of our disappointment. We had wanted, we had wanted—oh, who knew what we’d been looking for? We had wanted blood, crushed bones, howls of agony. We had wanted buildings crumbling onto streets, cars bursting into flame. We had wanted monstrous versions of ourselves with enlarged heads on stalklike necks, merciless polished robots armed with death rays. We had wanted noble lords of the universe with kind, soft eyes, who would usher in a glorious new era. We had wanted terror and ecstasy—anything but this yellow dust. Had it even been an invasion? Later that afternoon, we learned that scientists all agreed: the dust was a living thing. Samples had been flown to Boston, Chicago, Washington, D.C. The single-celled organisms appeared to be harmless, though we were cautioned not to touch anything, to keep the windows shut, to wash our hands. The cells reproduced by binary fission. They appeared to do nothing but multiply. In the morning, we woke to a world covered in yellow dust. It lay on the tops of our fences, on the crossbars of telephone poles. Black tire tracks showed in the yellow streets. Birds, shaking their wings, threw up sprays of yellow powder. Again the street-sweepers came, the hoses splashed on driveways and lawns, making a yellow mist and revealing the black and the green underneath. Within an hour the driveways and lawns resembled yellow fields. Lines of yellow ran along cables and telephone wires. According to the news, the unicellular microorganisms are rod-shaped and nourish themselves by photosynthesis. A single cell, placed in a brightly illuminated test tube, divides at such a rate that the tube will fill in about forty minutes. An entire room, in strong light, will fill in six hours. The organisms do not fit easily into our classification schemes, though in some respects they resemble blue-green algae. There is no evidence that they are harmful to human or animal life. We have been invaded by nothing, by emptiness, by animate dust. The invader appears to have no characteristic other than the ability to reproduce rapidly. It doesn’t hate us. It doesn’t seek our annihilation, our subjection and humiliation. Nor does it desire to protect us from danger, to save us, to teach us the secret of immortal life. What it wishes to do is replicate. It is possible that we will find a way of limiting the spread of this primitive intruder, or of eliminating it altogether; it’s also possible that we will fail and that our town will gradually disappear under a fatal accumulation. As we follow the reports from day to day, the feeling grows in us that we deserved something else, something bolder, something grander, something more thrilling, something bristling or fiery or fierce, something that might have represented a revelation or a destiny. We imagine ourselves surrounding the tilted spaceship, waiting for the door to open. We imagine ourselves protecting our children, slashing the tentacles that thrust in through the smashed cellar windows. Instead, we sweep our front walks, hose off our porches, shake out our shoes and sneakers. The invader has entered our homes. Despite our drawn shades and closed curtains, it lies in thick layers on our end tables and windowsills. It lies along the tops of our flat-screen televisions and the narrow edges of our shelved DVDs. Through our windows we can see the yellow dust covering everything, forming gentle undulations. We can almost see it rising slowly, like bread. Here and there it catches the sunlight and reminds us, for a moment, of fields of wheat. It is really quite peaceful, in its way.
Al Roosten Al Roosten stood nervously behind the paper screen. Was he nervous? Well, he was a little nervous. Although probably a lot less nervous than most people would be. Most people would probably be pissing themselves by now. Was he pissing himself? Not yet. Although, wow, he could understand how someone might actually— “Let’s fire it up!” shouted the m.c., a cheerleaderish blonde too old for braids, whose braids were flipping around as for some reason she pretended to jog. “Are we fighting drugs here today or what? Yes we are! Do us businesspeople approve of drugs for our kids? No way, we don’t, we’re very much against that! Do we use drugs ourselves? Kids, those of you who are here, believe me when I say we don’t, and never did! Because, as someone who does feng-shui for a living, there’s no way I could do my feng-shui if I was wacked out on crack, because my business is about discerning energy fields, and if you’re cracked up, or on pot, or even if you’ve had too much coffee, the energy field gets all wonky, believe me, I know, I used to smoke!” It was a lunchtime auction of Local Celebrities, a Local Celebrity being any sucker dopey enough to answer “Yes” when the Chamber of Commerce asked, “Willing to participate in community antidrug effort Celebrity Auction event tentatively entitled Boys of Summer?” “So that’s why we’re here raising money for LaffKidsOffCrack and their antidrug clowns!” the blonde shouted. “Such as Mr. BugOut, who, in his classroom work, with a balloon, makes this thing that starts out as a crack pipe and ends up as a coffin, which I think is so true!” Larry Donfrey of Larry Donfrey Realty stood near Roosten in just a swimsuit. Donfrey was a good guy. Good but flawed. Not that bright. Always tan. Yeow, what was his Boy of Summer? Surfer? Lifeguard? Partial Nudist? Was Donfrey attractive? Cute? Would the bidders consider Donfrey cuter than him, Al Roosten? Oh, how should he know? Did he like guys? Was he some kind of expert judge on the cuteness of guys? No, he didn’t like guys and never had. There had been a period in junior high, yes, when he had been somewhat worried that he might perhaps like guys, and had constantly lost in wrestling, because, instead of concentrating on his holds he was always mentally assessing whether his thing was hurting inside his cup because he was popping a mild pre-bone or because the tip was sticking out an airhole, and once he was almost sure he’d popped a mild pre-bone when he found his face pressed against Tom Reed’s hard abs, which smelled of coconut, but, after practice, obsessing about this in the woods, he realized that he sometimes popped a similar mild pre-bone when the cat sat on his groin in a beam of sun, which proved he didn’t have sexual feelings for Tom, since he knew for sure he didn’t have sexual feelings for the cat, since he’d never even heard that described as being possible. And from that day on, whenever he found himself wondering whether he liked guys he always remembered walking exultantly in the woods after the liberating realization that he was no more attracted to guys than to cats, just happily kicking the tops off mushrooms in a spirit of tremendous relief. A sort of music started up, consisting of a series of loud, thick bumps punctuated by a smattering of feminine groans and something that sounded like a squeaky door, and Larry Donfrey headed down the runway to sudden cheers and whoops. What the heck? thought Roosten. Whoops? Cheers? Would he get cheers? Whoops? He doubted it. Who whooped/cheered for the round bald guy in the gondolier costume? If he were a woman, he’d cheer/whoop for Donfrey, the guy with the tight ass and ripped brown arms. The blonde cued Roosten by pointing at him while pretending to walk in place. Oh God oh God. Roosten stepped warily out from behind the paper screen. No one whooped. He started down the runway. No cheering. The room made the sound a room makes when attempting not to laugh. He tried to smile sexily but his mouth was too dry. Probably his yellow teeth were showing and the place where his gums dipped down. Frozen in the harsh spotlight, he looked so crazy and old and forlorn and yet residually arrogant that an intense discomfort settled on the room, a discomfort that, in a non-charity situation, might have led to shouted insults or thrown objects but in this case drew a kind of pity-whoop from near the salad bar. Roosten brightened and sent a relieved half wave in the direction of the whoop, and the awkwardness of this gesture, the way it inadvertently revealed how terrified he was, endeared him to the crowd that seconds before had been ready to mock him, and someone else pity-whooped, and Roosten smiled a big loopy grin, which caused a wave of mercy-cheers. Roosten was deaf to the charity in this. What a super level of whoops and cheers. Suddenly he remembered the special turn. Should he try it? Ho ho, he should, he would, and he did, increasing the level of whoops/cheers, which, to his ear, were already at least equal to Donfrey’s. Plus Donfrey had been basically naked, which meant that technically he’d beaten Donfrey, since Donfrey had needed to get naked just to manage a tie with him, Al Roosten. Ha-ha! Poor Donfrey! Running around in his skivvies, and to no avail. The blonde threw a butterfly net over Roosten’s head and he joined Donfrey in the cardboard jail. Now that he had thrashed Donfrey, he felt a surge of affection for him. Good old Donfrey. He and Donfrey were the twin pillars of the local business community. He didn’t know Donfrey well. Just admired him from afar. Just like Donfrey admired him from afar. Once, the whole Donfrey clan had filed into Roosten’s shop, Bygone Daze. Donfrey’s wife had been beautiful. Nice legs, slim back, long hair. You looked at her and couldn’t look away. Donfrey’s kids had also seemed great, two elflike androgynes politely debating something, possibly the history of the Supreme Court? Each Celeb had his own barred window in the cardboard jail. Donfrey now stepped away from his and toward Roosten’s. How gracious. What a prince. They’d have a chat. The crowd would jealously wonder what the twin pillars were chatting about in private. But, sorry, no: this was between pillars, rabble need not apply. Donfrey was saying something, but the music was blaring and Roosten was partly deaf. Roosten leaned in. “I said, Don’t worry about it, Ed,” Donfrey was shouting. “You did fine. Really. No biggie. Give it a week, nobody will even remember it.” What? What the hell? By saying he’d done fine, was Donfrey implying that he hadn’t? That he’d done badly? Humiliated himself? Was Donfrey on some other planet? On drugs? On drugs at an antidrug event? Had Donfrey called him Ed? Donfrey could kiss his ass. That fake. That snob. He’d forgotten that. He’d forgotten that Donfrey was a snobby fake. That time the Donfreys came into Bygone Daze, they’d immediately turned and walked out again, as if they’d found Roosten’s vintage collectibles too dusty and ill-selected for the Donfrey house, a literal mansion on a hill. Donfrey’s wife wasn’t beautiful, Roosten suddenly honestly admitted; she was an overgroomed scarecrow. As far as Donfrey’s kids—if those kids belonged to him? He’d scruff them up a bit. Try and de-elfify them. Were they girls or boys? You honestly couldn’t tell. He didn’t have kids himself. Had never married. He had the boys, however. The boys were his nephews. The boys were not elfin. Au contraire. The boys were great. The boys were all-boy. And how. Possibly too much so. Why his sister Mag insisted on taking them to Budgi-Cutz when Budgi-Cutz made them look like three hulking versions of the same odd Germanic roundhead, their bangs cut straight across, he did not know. Every night was a three-way grunting/wrestling fest in the basement, the boys calling one another Skuzzknuckles or FartIngestron until one of them bonked his round head into something metal and they all helped the hurt one upstairs, tears running down their wrestling-engorged cheeks, like three suddenly repentant Nazis— Not Nazis. Jeez. Germans. Energetic Germanic lads, healthy young Beethovens. Although as far as Beethoven, he doubted Beethoven had ever pried a prayer-book rack off the pew with his bare hands on a dare from another Beethoven, while a third Beethoven proudly displayed, on a hymnal, four tightly rolled snot towers he’d just— It was the divorce. It was Mag’s divorce that had made the boys wild. It was sad about Mag. In high school, Al had been the popular wrestler and Mag had been the thin girl in ChristLife with a big crush on Christ. They’d lived on their parents’ farm, but somehow only Mag had turned out farmish. Junior year, she’d started dating Ken Glenn, equally agrarian, with plate-size ears. There’d been jokes at the time about Mag and Ken being married in overalls. There’d been jokes about Mag and Ken being married in a church full of barnyard animals. If there was ever a marriage you’d expect to last, this one was it: two homely Christian farmers. But no, Ken had left Mag for another farmer’s— Mag was not homely. She was simple, she had a kind of simple earthy— She was handsome. A handsome woman. She—everything was where it should be. She carried herself well. Except when bellowing at the boys. Then her face became a red contorted mask. You saw her frustration at being the only divorced woman in her extremely strict church, her embarrassment at having had to move in with her brother, her worry that, if he lost the shop (as it now appeared almost certain he would), she’d have to quit school and get a third job. Last night, he’d found her at the kitchen table after her shift at Costco, fast asleep across her community-college nursing text. A nurse at forty-five. That was a laugh. He found that laughable. Although he didn’t find it laughable. He found it admirable. A snob like Donfrey might find it laughable. A snob like Donfrey would take one look at Mag in her baggy nurse’s outfit and hustle his spoiled elves back to the stupendous Donfrey mansion, which had recently been featured in the Lifestyles section of the— Oh, mansion shmansion. Did Gandhi’s house have the largest outdoor trampoline in the tri-state area? Did Jesus have a two-acre remote-controlled car track, with mountains to scale and a little village that lit up at night? Not in his Bible. Huh. The cardboard jail was now filled with Celebs. How had that happened? He’d apparently missed the runway walks of Max of Max’s Auto, Ed Berden of Steak-n-Roll, and the freakishly tall twin hippie brothers who ran CoffeeMinded. The blonde was standing silently now, head down, as if waiting for her experience-based profundity to overflow into the showstopping heartfelt speech that would establish her once and for all as the most pain-racked person in the place. “Folks, we’ve arrived at our most important aspect,” she said softly. “Which is our auction, which is silent. Without you, LaffKidsOffCrack is just some guys with strong antidrug feelings, wearing weird clothes in their own homes. Write down your bid, someone will come around. Later, if you are the one who won, you’ll be taken to lunch by your Celebrity who you bid for.” Was it over? It appeared to be over. Could he sneak out? He could if he bent low. He bent low and booked it as the blonde droned on. In the changing area, he found Donfrey’s clothes slopped over a chair: expensive pleated pants, nice silk shirt. On the floor were Donfrey’s keys and wallet. Just like Donfrey to junk up a perfectly nice changing area. Oh, why be mad at Donfrey? Donfrey hadn’t done anything to him. He’d just made a comment, trying to be nice. Trying to be charitable. To someone beneath him. Roosten took a step forward and gave the wallet a kick. Wow, did it ever slide, right under a stack of risers. Like a hockey puck. There were the keys, alone now, underscoring the absence of the wallet. Yikes. He could say he’d accidentally kicked the wallet under there. Which was sort of true. He hadn’t thought about it, really. He’d just felt like kicking it and then he had. He was impulsive like that. That was one of the good things about him. It was how he’d bought the shop. Failing shop. He gave the keys a kick. What the hell? Why had he done that? They slid even better than the wallet. Now wallet and keys were far under the risers. Gosh, too bad. Too bad he’d accidentally kicked those things under there. Donfrey burst into the changing area, talking loudly on his cell in a know-it-all voice. She was fine, Donfrey was bellowing. Nervous but psyched. Being brave. Stiff upper lip. Kid was solid gold. Always did her share: carried the laundry down on her day, dragged the trash to the street. Hadn’t slept all week. Too excited. What she was looking forward to most? Finally running with her class in gym. Imagine: all your life you’re limping around with a bent-in foot, then they finally figure out a way to fix it. It was scary, yes, Jesus, the brace literally broke and reformed the foot. Poor thing had been waiting so long. They had to haul ass pronto, pick her up, shoot over to the place. They were running late, the auction thing had gone on and on. He probably should’ve skipped it but it was such a terrific cause. Roosten finished dressing quickly and left the changing area. Jeez, what was all that about? Apparently, one of the elves wasn’t as perfect as she— Well, that was sad. The sickness of a kid was—the children were the future. He’d do anything to help that kid. If one of the boys had a bent foot, he’d move heaven and earth to get it fixed. He’d rob a bank. And if the boy was a girl, even worse. Who’d ask a clubfoot or bentfoot or whatever to dance? There your daughter sat, with her crutch, all dressed up, not dancing. Hundreds of dry leaf fragments were skittering across the FlapJackers parking lot. A bird on a parking bumper bolted, alarmed at the advance of the leaves. Stupid leaves, they’d never catch that bird. Unless he killed it with a stone, left it lying there. They’d be so grateful they’d declare him King of Leaves. Ha-ha. He gave a pile of leaves a vicious kick. Shit. He felt like crying. Why, what was it, what was making him sad? Off he drove through the town where he’d lived his whole life. The river was high. The grade school had a new bike rack. A ton of dogs leaped to the fence as usual as he passed the Flannery Kennel. Next to the kennel was Mike’s Gyros. Once during seventh grade Mom had taken him to Mike’s for a Coke. “What seems to be the problem, Al?” Mom said. “Everyone’s calling me bossy and fat,” he said. “Plus they say I’m sneaky.” “Well, Al,” she said, “you are bossy, you are fat. And I’m guessing you can be pretty sneaky. But you know what else you are? You have what is called moral courage. When you know something is right, you do it, no matter what the cost.” Mom could sometimes be full of it. Once, she said she could tell by the way he ran upstairs that he’d make a great mountain climber. Once, when he managed a B-minus in math, she said he should be an astronomer. Good old Mom. She’d always made him feel special. Suddenly his face was hot. He felt Mom looking at him from Heaven, sternly but wryly, in that way she’d had, as if saying, Hello, are we maybe forgetting something? Well, it had been an accident. He had just accidentally misplaced some things inadvertently. With his foot. Via spontaneously kicking them erroneously. Mom’s eyes narrowed in Heaven. They were being mean to me, he said. Mom in Heaven tapped her foot. What was he supposed to do? Go racing back and tell them to move the risers? They’d know he’d done it. Plus Donfrey was probably long gone. Probably Donfrey’s wife had a set of spare keys. Or someone else had driven them home. But they weren’t going home. They were going to the foot thing for their kid. Shit. Roosten pulled into a white-stoned driveway. He had to think. A Yorkie rushed up to the fence, barking ceremonially. Then a chicken came up. Huh. A chicken and a Yorkie, living in the same yard. They stood side by side, looking at Roosten. Eureka. He saw how he could do it. He’d sneak back in, pretend he’d never left. Everyone would be searching for the wallet and keys. He’d look alongside them awhile. When they were about to give up, he’d say, I assume you’ve already looked under those risers? Uh, well, no, Donfrey would say. Might be worth a try, Roosten would say. They’d get some guys and move the risers. And there would be the wallet and there would be the keys. Wow, Donfrey would say. Just a hunch, Roosten would say. I simply mentally eliminated all other possible options. I’m afraid we’ve underestimated you, Donfrey’s wife would say. We have to have you over to the house soon. To the mansion, Donfrey would say. And Al? Donfrey’s wife would say. Sorry about that time we walked out of your shop. That was rude. And Al? Donfrey would say. Sorry I called you Ed earlier. No problem, Roosten would say. I didn’t even really notice. Dinner at the mansion would go well. Soon he’d basically be part of the family. He’d just drop by whenever. That would be nice. Nice to hang out in a mansion. Sometimes Mag and the boys might come along. Although the boys had better not break anything. They’d have to wrestle outside. One thing he did not need was his friends’ mansion trashed. He saw Donfrey’s wife, distressed by all the things the boys had broken, collapse into a chair and start weeping. Thanks, boys, great, thanks a lot for that. Go outside. Go outside and sit quietly. Now the moon is full in the big window and he and Donfrey are wearing tuxes and Donfrey’s wife is wearing something low-cut and golden. This dinner is great, he says. All your dinners have been great. It’s the least we could do, says Donfrey. You helped us out so much that time I stupidly lost my keys. Ha-ha, yes, well, about that? Roosten says. Then he tells them all about it: how he did an unfortunate thing, saw the light, raced back to help. What a riot! says Donfrey. That took guts, says Donfrey’s wife. Coming back like that. I’d say it took moral courage, says Donfrey. Your honesty makes us admire you all the more, says Donfrey’s wife. Mag was there, too. What was she doing there? Well, it was fine, she could stay. Mag was a good egg. Decent conversationalist. The Donfreys would appreciate her good qualities, just like they appreciated his good qualities, and wouldn’t Mom love seeing that, her kids finally getting their due from sophisticated people in a beautiful mansion. An odd inadvertent sound of contentment jerked Roosten out of his reverie. Ha-ha. What the hell. Where was he? The Yorkie was sniffing the chicken. The chicken didn’t seem to mind. Or notice. The chicken had a laser-like focus on him, Al Roosten. Yeah, right. Like that was happening. Like he was racing back. They’d see through him. They’d fry his ass. People were always seeing through him and frying his ass. When he’d stolen Kirk Desner’s flip-downs, the kids on the team had seen through him and fried his ass. The time he’d cheated on Syl, Syl had seen through him, broken off their engagement, and cheated on him, with Charles, which had fried his ass possibly worse than any single other ass-frying he’d ever had, in a life that, it recently seemed, was simply a series of escalating ass-fries. What, that Donfrey doofus never made a mistake in his life? Mom said in his head. Was never inadvertently involved in something unfortunate that sadly occurred? And now wants to label you a dick, or scum, or a bad immature person, because of one small mistake? Does that seem fair? Don’t you think he’s probably needed forgiveness sometime in his life? Probably, Roosten said. Oh, definitely, Mom said. I’ve known and loved you all your life, Al, and there’s not a mean bone in your body. You are Al Roosten. Don’t forget that. Sometimes you think something’s wrong with you, but every time, turns out, there isn’t. Why beat yourself up about this and, in so doing, miss the beauty of the actual moment? The lilt of Mom’s voice in his head cheered him. He pulled out of the driveway. Mom was right. The world was beautiful. Here was the pioneer graveyard with its leaning yellowed stones. Here was the very vivid Jiffy Lube. A dense ball of birds went linear, then settled into the branches of a lightning-blasted tree. He knew it wasn’t really Mom in his head. He was just imagining what Mom would have said. Who knew what Mom would have said? She could be a crazy old broad there at the end. But he sure missed her. He thought again of the crippled girl. They’d missed the appointment and had to reschedule. The only available slot was months away. In the dark of night, she reached down for her bent foot and let out a groan. She’d been so close, so close to getting— That was crap. That was negative. You had to let the healing begin. You had to forgive yourself. Everyone knew that. You had to love yourself. What was positive? The shop: thinking up ways to improve it, make it halfway decent, bring it back to life. He could put in a coffee bar. Tear out that old stained rug. There, he was feeling better already. You had to have joy. Joy kept a guy going. Once he got the shop viable, he’d go beyond that, make it great. Lines of people would be waiting when he arrived every morning. As he pushed his way through the crowd in his mind, everyone seemed to be asking, with smiles and pats on his back, would he consider running for mayor? Would he do for the town what he’d done for Bygone Daze? Ha-ha, what a fun deal that would be, running for mayor. What colors would his banners be? What was his slogan? Al Roosten, Friend to All. That was good. Al Roosten, the Best Among Us. Too vain. Al Roosten: Like You, Only Better. Ha-ha. Here was the shop. Nobody was waiting to get in. A muddy tarp had blown over from the junk yard and plastered itself against the window. Across from the junk yard was the viaduct where the hoboes hung out. Those hoboes were ruining his— He believed they preferred to be called “homeless.” Hadn’t he read that? “Hobo” being derogatory? Jesus, that took nerve. Guy never works a day in his life, just goes around stealing pies off windowsills, then starts yelping about his rights? He’d like to walk up to a homeless and call him a hobo. He would, he’d do it, he’d grab that damn hobo by the collar and go, Hey, hobo, you’re ruining my business. I’ve missed my rent two months in a row. Go back to the foreign country you probably— He just really hated those beggars walking past his shop with their crude signs. Couldn’t they at least spell right? Yesterday one had walked by with a sign that said, “Please help homless.” He’d felt like shouting, Hey, sorry you lost your hom! They spent enough time under that viaduct, couldn’t they at least proofread each other’s— As he parked the car, his mind went strangely blank. Where was he? The shop. Ugh. Where were his keys? On the same old ugly lanyard, impossible to get out of your pocket. Jesus, he couldn’t stand the thought of going in. Mag and the boys were counting on him. He sat a minute, breathing deeply. An old man in filthy clothes staggered up the street, dragging a cardboard square on which, no doubt, he slept. His teeth were ghoulish, his eyes wet and red. Roosten imagined himself leaping from the car, knocking the man to the ground, kicking him and kicking him, teaching him, in this way, a valuable lesson on how to behave. The man gave Roosten a weak smile, and Roosten gave the man a weak smile back.
The Elephant All the employees of the furniture shop had gathered in a semicircle around Mr. Ganesh Pai’s table. It was a special day: Mrs. Engineer had come to the shop in person. She had seen her TV table, and now she was approaching Mr. Pai’s desk to finalize the deal. His face was smeared with sandalwood, and he wore a loose-fitting silk shirt through which a dark triangle of chest hair stuck out. On the wall behind his chair he had hung gold foil images of Lakshmi, goddess of wealth, and the fat elephant god, Ganapati. An incense stick smoked below the images. Mrs. Engineer sat down slowly at the desk. Mr. Pai reached into his drawer, then held out four red cards to her. Mrs. Engineer paused, bit her lip, and snatched at one of the cards. “A set of stainless-steel glasses!” Mr. Pai said, showing her the bonus card she had picked. “A truly wonderful gift, Madam. Something you’ll treasure for years and years.” Mrs. Engineer beamed. She counted off four hundred-rupee notes, which she put down on the desk before Mr. Pai. Mr. Pai, moistening the tip of his finger in a small bowl filled with water which he kept on his desk just for this purpose, counted the notes afresh. Then he looked at Mrs. Engineer and smiled, as if expecting something more. “The rest after delivery,” she said, getting up from her chair. “And don’t forget to send the bonus gift.” “She may be the wife of the richest man in town, but she’s still a stingy old cunt,” Mr. Pai said, after seeing her out of the store, and an assistant laughed behind him. He turned and glared at the assistant, a small, dark Tamilian boy. “Get one of the coolies to deliver it, fast,” Mr. Pai said. The Tamilian boy ran out of the shop. The cycle-cart pullers were in their usual position—lying on their carts, staring into space, smoking beedis. Some of them were gazing with dull avarice at the store on the other side of the road, the Ideal Traders Ice Cream Parlor, where fat kids in T-shirts were licking vanilla cones. The boy stuck out his index finger and motioned to one of the men. “Chenayya—your number is up!” Chenayya pedalled hard. He had been told to take the quick route to Rose Lane, so he had to go over Lighthouse Hill. He struggled to move the cart with the TV table, which was attached to his cycle. Once he was over the hump of the hill, he let the cycle glide. He slowed down on Rose Lane, found the house number, which he had memorized, and rang the bell. A plump, fair-skinned woman opened the door: Mrs. Engineer herself. Chenayya brought the TV table into the house and put it down in the spot she indicated. He went out, and returned with a saw. Mrs. Engineer watched him draw the instrument out at arm’s length, and suddenly it seemed enormous: a foot and a half long, with a serrated edge, rusty, but with patches of the original metal-gray color still showing through, like a sculpture of a shark made by a tribal artist. Chenayya saw the woman’s eyes grow large with anxiety. To dispel her fear, he grinned ingratiatingly at her—it was the exaggerated death-mask grin of a person not used to grovelling—then he looked around to figure out where he had left the table. The legs were not all even. Chenayya closed an eye and examined them one by one; then he began moving the saw over each of the legs, creating a fine dust on the floor. He examined them again, to make sure they were level, and then dropped the saw. He searched his dirty white sarong, which was the only garment on his body, for a relatively clean corner, and wiped the table off. Mrs. Engineer had not been watching; she had retreated into an inner room. She returned and counted off seven hundred and forty-two rupees. Hesitating a moment, she added three one-rupee notes to it. “Give me something more, Madam?” Chenayya blurted. “Give me three more rupees?” “Six rupees? Nothing doing,” she said. “It’s a long way, Madam.” He picked up his saw and pointed to his neck. “I had to haul it all that way, Madam, on my cycle-cart. It hurts my neck very much.” “Nothing doing. Get out, or I’ll call the police, you thug. Get out, and take your big knife!” As he left the house, grumbling and sulking, he folded the money into a wad, then tied it into a knot on his sarong. He threw the saw into the cart. He picked up a rotting banana skin and hung it on the leaves of a neem tree that grew near the gate of the house, so that it would startle the owners when they came out. He was so pleased with himself for this that he smiled. About ten minutes later, he was on his bike again, heading back to Umbrella Street. He was cycling, as always, with his butt elevated off the seat, his spine inclined at sixty degrees. Only at traffic intersections did he straighten himself, relax, and ease back into his seat. The road, as he drew near Umbrella Street, was jammed once again; pushing his front wheel into the car ahead of him, Chenayya yelled, “Son of a bitch, move!” At last, he saw to his right the sign for Ganesh Pai Fan and Furniture Store, and stopped his cycle. Chenayya wiped his palm against his sarong, pushed the door open, went into the store, and crouched by a corner of Mr. Pai’s table. Neither Mr. Pai nor the Tamilian assistant took any notice of him. His neck was hurting again; he moved it from side to side to relieve the pain. “Stop doing that.” Mr. Pai motioned for him to hand over the cash. He moved slowly to the boss man’s desk and handed over the notes to Mr. Ganesh Pai, who moistened his finger in the water bowl and counted off seven hundred and forty-two rupees. Chenayya stared at the water bowl; he noticed how its sides were lobed to make them look like lotus petals, and how the artisan had even traced the pattern of a trellis around the bottom of the bowl. Mr. Pai snapped his fingers. He had tied a rubber band around the notes, and was holding out a palm in Chenayya’s direction. “Two rupees short.” Chenayya undid the knot in the side of his sarong and handed over two one-rupee notes. That was the sum he was expected to give Mr. Pai at the end of every trip: one rupee for the dinner he would be given at around nine o’clock, one rupee for the privilege of having been picked to work for Mr. Ganesh Pai. It would be some time before Chenayya’s number was called again, so he walked down the road to a spot where a man was sitting at a desk on the pavement, selling bundles of small rectangular tickets that were as colorful as pieces of candy. He smiled at Chenayya; his fingers began flipping through one of the bundles. “Yellow?” “First tell me if my number won last time,” Chenayya said. He brought out a dirty piece of paper from the knot on his sarong. The seller took out a newspaper and glanced down at the bottom-right-hand corner. He read aloud, “Winning Lottery Numbers: 17, 8, 9, 9, 643, 455.” Chenayya had learned enough about English numerals to recognize his own ticket number; he squinted for several moments, and then let the ticket float to the ground. “People buy for fifteen, sixteen years before they win, Chenayya,” the lottery seller said, by way of consolation. “But in the end those who believe always win. That is the way the world works.” “I can’t go on this way forever,” Chenayya said. “My neck hurts. I can’t go on like this.” The lottery seller nodded. “Another yellow ticket?” Tying the ticket into his bundle, Chenayya staggered back and collapsed on his cart. For a while, he lay like that, feeling not refreshed from the rest but only numb. Then a finger tapped on his head. “Number’s up, Chenayya.” It was the Tamilian boy from the store. To be delivered to 54 Rose Lane. He repeated it aloud: “54 Rose Lane.” “Good.” The route took him over Lighthouse Hill again. Halfway up the hill, he alighted and began dragging the cart. The sinews bulged out of his neck like webbing, and, as he inhaled, the air burned through his chest and lungs. You can’t go on, his tired limbs and burning chest told him. You can’t go on. This was when the sense of resistance to his fate waxed greatest within him, and, as he pushed, the restlessness and anger that had been inside him all day became articulate at last: You will not break me, motherfuckers! You will never break me! If the thing to be delivered was something light, like a mattress, he was not allowed to take a cycle-cart; it had to be carried on his head. Repeating the address to the Tamilian boy from the shop, he set off with a slow, light step, like a fat man jogging. In a short while, the weight of the mattress seemed unbearable; it compressed his neck and spine and sent a shaft of pain down his back. He was virtually in a trance. This morning, he was taking a mattress to the train station. The client turned out to be a North Indian family that was leaving Kittur; the owner, as he had guessed beforehand (from his demeanor—you can tell which of these rich people have a sense of decency and which don’t), refused to tip him. Chenayya stood his ground. “You motherfucker! Give me my money!” It was a triumph for him: the man relented. The odors and the noise of the train station made him sick. Outside, he squatted down by the tracks, pulled his sarong up, and held his breath. As he was squatting there, the train roared by. He turned around; he wanted to shit into the faces of the people on the train. Yes, that would be good. As the train thundered by, he forced out the turds into the faces of the passengers. Next to him, a pig was doing the same thing. He thought, God, what am I declining into? He crawled behind a bush and finished defecating there. He closed his eyes. He looked up and took a deep breath. The sky is clean, he thought. There is purity up there. He tore off a few leaves, wiped his arse with them, then rubbed his left hand against the earth in a bid to neutralize the smell. At two o’clock, he got his next number: the delivery of a giant stack of boxes to an address in Valencia. “There’s a lot of work today, Chenayya,” the Tamilian boy said. “Make sure you go the quick way—over Lighthouse Hill.” He grunted, rose up off his seat, shifted his weight onto the pedals, and was on his way. The rusty iron chain that double-locked the cart to the front wheels of the cycle began to squeal as he rode. Down the main road, he got stuck in a traffic jam. When he didn’t have the cart, he could do something—wiggle into the spaces between cars, climb onto the pavement—but now he could only curse from behind. His neck hurt. The sun seared his back. Why are some mornings hard, some mornings simple? The other pullers never had “good” or “bad” days; they did their work like machines. Only he had his moods. He looked down, to relieve his neck, and stared at the rusty chain at his feet, coiled around the metal rod that connected the cycle to the cart. Time to oil the chain, he told himself. Must remember. Uphill again. Leaning forward from his seat, Chenayya was straining hard; the breath went into his lungs like a hot poker. Halfway up the hill, he saw an elephant coming down, with a small bundle of leaves on its back and a mahout poking its ear with an iron rod. He stopped; he could not believe his eyes. He began to shout at the elephant: “Hey, you, what are you doing with a bundle of twigs? Take this load from me! It’s more fitted to your size, you motherfucker!” Cars honked behind him. The mahout turned and gesticulated at him with his iron rod. A passerby yelled at him not to block traffic. “What is wrong with this world,” he asked the driver of the car behind him, who, irate on the other side of his windshield, was jabbing his horn with the fleshy part of his palm again and again, “when an elephant gets to lounge down the road, doing no work, and a human being has to pull a cart with so much weight on it?” The drivers behind him honked, and the cacophony grew louder. “Don’t you see something is wrong here?” he shouted. They honked back. The world was furious at his fury. It wanted him to move out of its path, but he was enjoying being exactly where he was, blocking all these rich and important people. That evening, there were great streaks of pink in the sky. After the shop closed, the cart pullers moved to the alley behind the store; they took turns buying small bottles of country liquor, which they shared amongst themselves, getting giddy quickly and belting out Kannada film songs off key. Chenayya never joined them. “You’re wasting your money, you idiots!” he sometimes shouted; they jeered back at him. He would not drink; he would not squander the hard-earned fruits of his labor on alcohol, he had promised himself. Yet the smell of liquor made his mouth water; the good humor and bonhomie of the other pullers made him lonely. He closed his eyes. A tinkling noise made him open them. Nearby, on the steps of a vacant building, a fat prostitute had come out to ply her trade. She clapped her hands and made music by striking two coins together. A customer came up; they began haggling over the price. The deal was not consummated, and the man left, cursing. Chenayya, lying in his cart with his feet sticking out, watched the action with a dull grin. “Hey, Kamala!” he shouted at the prostitute. “Why not give me a chance tonight?” She looked away and went on clinking the coins together. He stared at her plump breasts, at the dark tip of her cleavage that showed through her blouse, at her garishly painted lips. He turned his eyes to the sky: he had to stop thinking about sex. Streaks of pink amid the clouds. Isn’t there a god, or someone there, Chenayya wondered, watching down on this earth? One evening, at the train station to deliver a parcel, he had noticed a wild Muslim dervish talking to himself in a corner about how the Mahdi, the last of the Imams, would come for this earth, and the evil would face their due. “Allah is the maker of all men,” the dervish had mumbled as Chenayya edged closer to listen. “And He observes our hurt, and when we suffer He suffers with us. And He will send, at the end of the days, the Mahdi, on a white horse with a sword of fire, to put the rich in their place and correct all that is wrong with the world.” Chenayya had never forgotten about the Mahdi; whenever he saw a streak of pink in the sky at the end of the day, he thought he could detect some god of fairness watching over the earth and glowering with anger. Chenayya closed his eyes and heard again the tinkling of coins. He tossed about restlessly, and then covered his face with a rag, so the sun wouldn’t sting him awake, and went to sleep. Half an hour later, he woke up with a sharp pain in his ribs. A policeman was jabbing his lathis into the bodies of the pullers. A truck was entering this part of the market. All you cycle-cart pullers! Get up and move your carts! Chenayya spat, and walked a few feet away to urinate against a wall. Behind him he heard jeers. The other pullers were urinating right where they had slept. He said nothing to them. Chenayya rarely talked to his fellow cart pullers. He could barely stand the sight of them—the way they bent and grovelled to Mr. Ganesh Pai. Yes, he might do the same, but he was furious, he was angry inside. These fellows who pulled their carts with such big grins seemed incapable of even thinking badly of their employer. When the Tamilian boy brought out the tea, Chenayya reluctantly rejoined the pullers. He heard them talking, as they did every morning, about the autorickshaws they were going to buy once they got out of here, or the small tea shops they were going to open. “Think about it,” he wanted to say to them. “Just think about it.” Mr. Ganesh Pai allowed them two rupees for each trip, meaning that, at the rate of three trips a day, they were making six rupees. Once you deducted for lotteries, and liquor, you were lucky to save two rupees. Sundays were off, as were Hindu holidays, so by the month’s end you had saved only forty or forty-five rupees. A trip to the village, an evening with a whore, an extra-long drinking binge, and your whole month’s savings would be dust. Assuming you saved everything you could, you’d be lucky to earn four hundred a year. An autorickshaw would cost twelve, fourteen thousand to buy, a small tea shop four times as much. That meant thirty, thirty-five years of such work before they could do anything else. Did they think their bodies would last that long? Was there a single cart puller over the age of forty around them? Don’t you ever think about such things, you baboons? Yet, when he had tried once to get them to understand this, they had refused to demand more collectively. They thought they were lucky: thousands would take their jobs at a moment’s notice. He knew they were right, too. Nevertheless, despite the logic, despite their valid fears, their sheer spinelessness grated on him. That is why, he thought, Mr. Ganesh Pai could be confident that a customer could hand over thousands of rupees in cash and it would all come to him, every last rupee, without the cart puller taking any of it. Naturally, Chenayya had long planned on stealing the money that a customer gave him. He would take the money and leave town. This much he was certain he would do—someday very soon. Chenayya felt a tap on his shoulder. It was the Tamilian boy from Mr. Ganesh Pai’s shop. As he went up Lighthouse Hill, as he forced his cart over the hump, his usual sense of exultation was gone entirely. At every turn of his cycle, the thought intruded itself, undid him, and slowed him down: You are unmaking yourself—destroying your guts and fibre and being! As he was cycling, he was working the wheel of life backward, crushing his muscle and fibre into the pulp from which they were formed in his mother’s womb; he was unmaking himself. All at once, in the middle of traffic, he stopped and got off his cycle, with the simple and clear thought: I can’t go on like this. That evening, the men were huddled around. A man in a blue safari suit, an important, educated man, was asking them questions; he had a small notepad in his hand. He said he had come from Madras. He asked one of the cart pullers for his age. No one was sure. When he said, “Can you make a rough guess?” they simply nodded. When he said, “Are you eighteen, or twenty, or thirty—you must have some idea,” they simply nodded again. “Tell me, who are you?” Chenayya, who had kept his distance, asked. “Why are you asking us all these questions?” He said that he was a journalist, and the cart pullers were impressed. He worked for an English-language newspaper in Madras, and that impressed them even more. Then he wanted to know what they were eating. While they waited expectantly, he made a list of everything they ate every day. At the end, with a wide, almost triumphant grin, he declared, “The work you are doing exceeds the amount of calories you take in. Every day, every trip you take—you are slowly killing yourselves.” He held out his notepad, with its squiggles and zigzags and numbers, as proof of his claim. “Why don’t you do something else, like work in a factory? Anything else? Why don’t you learn to read and write?” Chenayya jumped off his cart. “Don’t patronize us, you son of a bitch!” he shouted. “Those who are born poor in this country are fated to die poor. There is no hope for us, and no need of pity—certainly not from you, who never lift a hand to help us. I spit on you. I spit on your newspaper. Nothing ever changes. Look at me.” He held his palms out. “I am twenty-nine years old. I am already bent and black and twisted like this. If I live to forty, what is my fate? To be a twisted black rod of a man. You think I need your notepad and your English to tell me this? You keep us like this, you people from the cities, you rich fucks. It is in your interest to treat us like cattle! You English-speaking fuck!” The man put his notepad away. He looked at the ground, and seemed to be groping for a response. Chenayya felt a tap on his shoulder. It was the Tamilian boy. “Stop talking so much! Your number has come up!” Some of the other cart pullers began chuckling, as if to say, Serves you right. Strangely, the man from Madras was not grinning; he had turned his face away, as if he were ashamed at what Chenayya had said. Why don’t you do something, work in a factory, anything, to improve yourself? After all, for years you have taken things to the gates of factories—it is just a question of getting inside. The next day, he went to the factory. He saw thousands of men going in for work, and he thought, What a fool I have been, never even to have tried to get work here. He sat down, and none of the guards asked any questions, thinking he was waiting to pick up some goods. He waited till noon, and then a man came out. From the number of people following him, Chenayya thought, he must be the big man. He went running past the guard and got down on his knees: “Sir. I want to work.” The man stared at him. The guards came running up to drag Chenayya back, but the big man said, “I have two thousand workers, and not one of them wants to work, and here this man is, down on his knees, begging for work. That’s the attitude we need to move this country forward.” He pointed a finger at Chenayya. “You won’t get offered any contract. Understand. Day by day.” “Anything, anything you want.” “What kind of work can you do?” “Anything, anything you want.” “All right, come back tomorrow. We don’t need a coolie right now.” “O.K., sir.” The big man took out a pack of cigarettes and lit one. “Hear what this man has to say,” he said, when a group of other men, who were also smoking, gathered around. And Chenayya repeated that he would do anything, under any conditions, for any sort of pay. “Say it again!” the big man ordered, and another group of men came and listened to Chenayya. That evening, he went back to Mr. Ganesh Pai’s shop and shouted at the other workers, “I’ve found a real job, you motherfuckers. I’m out of here.” The Tamilian boy alone cautioned him. “Chenayya, why don’t you wait a day and make sure the other job is good? Then you can quit here.” “Nothing doing, I quit!” he yelled, and walked away. The next day at dawn, he was back at the front gate of the factory. “I want to see the manager,” he said, shaking the bars of the gate for attention. “He told me to come today.” The guard, who was reading the newspaper, looked up fiercely. “Get out!” “Don’t you remember me? I came—” “Get out!” He waited near the gate. After an hour, it opened, and a car with tinted windows pulled out. Running alongside the car, he banged on the window. “Sir! Sir! Sir!” A dozen hands seized him from behind; he was shoved to the ground and kicked. When he wandered back to Mr. Pai’s shop in the evening, the Tamilian boy was waiting for him. He said, “I never told the boss you quit. I knew you’d come back.” The other pullers did not tease Chenayya that night. One of them left him a bottle of liquor, still half full. The rain fell down without stop. Chenayya rode his cycle through the rain, splashing down the road. He wore a long white plastic sheet over his body, like a shroud. When it rained, the road turned into mud; the mud turned into wet clay. This was the most dangerous time for a puller. Wherever the road had broken up into a pothole, he had to slow down to avoid tipping his cycle-cart over. The pain in his neck began biting again. I can’t go on like this, he thought. From across the road, one of the other pullers, a young one, drove up side by side with Chenayya. “Have to deliver this fast and get back,” he said. “Boss man said he’s depending on me to get back within an hour.” He grinned, and Chenayya wanted to ram his fist into the grin. God, how full of suckers the world is, he thought, counting to ten to calm himself down. How happy this idiot seems to be, to destroy himself with overwork. You baboon! he wanted to shout. You and all the others! Baboons! He put his head down, and suddenly it seemed a great strain to move the cart. “You’ve got no air in one tire!” the baboon shouted. “You’ll have to stop!” He grinned one of his baboon grins, and rode on. Stop? Chenayya thought. No, that is what a baboon would do: not me. Putting his head down, he pedalled on, forcing his flat tire along: Move, motherfucker! Move! And the cart, slowly and noisily, its old wheels and its unoiled chains rattling, moved. It is raining now, Chenayya thought, lying in his cart that night, with the plastic sheet over his head. That means we are through half of this year. It must be June or July. I must be nearly thirty now. He pulled the sheet down and lifted his head to relieve the pain in his neck. He could not believe his eyes: even in this rain, some motherfucker was flying a kite! As if taunting the heavens, the lightning, to strike them. In the morning, he went to the lottery seller. A boy, a total stranger, was sitting at the desk, kicking his legs merrily. “What happened to the old fellow?” “Gone.” “Gone where?” “Gone into politics.” The boy described what had happened to the old seller. He had joined the campaign of a B.J.P. candidate for the corporation elections. His candidate had won. Now he sat on the veranda of the politician’s house. If you wanted to see the politician, you paid him fifty rupees first. “That’s the politician’s life—it’s the fastest way to get rich these days,” the boy said. He flipped through his pieces of colored paper. “What’ll you have, uncle? A yellow? Or a green?” Chenayya turned around without buying any of the colored papers. Why, he thought at night, can’t that be me—the fellow who goes into politics to get rich? He did not want to forget what he had just heard, so he pinched himself sharply around the joint of his foot. It was Sunday again. The free day. Chenayya woke up when it got too hot, then brushed his teeth lazily, looking up to see if kites were flying in the sky. The other pullers were going to see the new Hoyka temple that the Member of Parliament had opened, just for Hoykas, with their own Hoyka deity and Hoyka priests. “Aren’t you coming, Chenayya?” the others shouted at him. “What has any god ever done for me?” he shouted back. They giggled at his recklessness. Baboons, he thought, as he lay down in his cart again. Going to worship some idol in a temple, thinking it’ll make them rich. Baboons! He lay with an arm over his face. Then he heard the tinkling of two coins. “Come over, Kamala!” he called out to the prostitute, who was in her usual spot, playing with coins. When he taunted her for the sixth time, she snapped, “Get lost, or I’ll call Brother.” At this reference to the don who controlled the hookers in this part of town, Chenayya sighed, and turned over in his cart. He thought, Perhaps it is time for me to get married. He had lost contact with all his relatives. Plus, he did not want to get married. Bring children—into what future? That was the most baboonlike thing the other pullers did, he thought: to procreate, as if to say they were satisfied with their fate, they were happy to replenish the world that had consigned them to this task. There was nothing in him but anger, and if he married he thought he would lose his anger. As he turned around in his cart, he noticed the welt on his foot. He frowned, trying hard to remember how he had got it. The next morning, on the way back from a delivery, he took a by-route and went to the office of the Congress Party on Umbrella Street. He crouched on the veranda of the office and waited for someone important-looking to come out. There was a sign outside, with an image of Indira Gandhi raising her hand, and the slogan “Mother Indira will protect the poor.” He smirked. Were they completely nuts? Did they really think that anyone would expect a politician to protect the poor? But then he thought, Maybe this woman, Indira Gandhi, was someone special; maybe they were right. In the end, she was shot dead, wasn’t she? That seemed evidence to him that she had wanted to help the world. Suddenly, it seemed that the world did have some good-hearted people who wanted to help the poor. He felt he had cut himself off from all of that with his excessive bitterness. He saw a man in loose white clothes coming in, followed by two or three hangers-on. Chenayya rushed up to him and got down on his knees, his palms pressed together. For the next week, whenever he knew his number was not going to be called for a while, he went around on his cycle, sticking up posters of the Congress candidates in all the Muslim-dominated streets of the town, shouting, “Vote for Congress—the party of Muslims! Defeat the B.J.P.!” The week passed. The elections were over, the results were declared. Chenayya rode his cycle to the Congress Party office, parked it outside, went to the door-keeper, and asked to see the candidate. “He’s a busy man now—just wait out here a moment,” the doorkeeper said. He put a hand on Chenayya’s back. “We would never have won except for your work, Chenayya. The B.J.P. defeated us everywhere else, but you got the Muslims to vote!” Chenayya beamed. He waited outside the Party headquarters and watched the cars drive up and disgorge rich and important men, who hurried in to see the candidate. He saw them and thought, This is where I will wait to collect money from the rich. Not much. Just five rupees from everyone who comes to see the candidate. That should do. His heart beat with excitement. An hour passed. Chenayya decided to go into the waiting room, to make sure that he, too, got to see the man when he finally came out. There were benches and stools in the room; a dozen other men were waiting. Chenayya saw an empty spot and wondered if he should sit down. Why not? He had worked, too. He was about to sit down on a bench when the doorkeeper said, “Use the floor, Chenayya.” Another hour passed. Finally, the doorkeeper came to him with a box full of round yellow sweets. “Take one.” Chenayya took a sweet, almost put it in his mouth, and then put it back. “I don’t want a sweet.” His voice rose quickly. “I put up posters all over this town! Now I want to see the big man! I want to get a job with—” The doorkeeper slapped him. I am the biggest fool here, Chenayya thought, back in his alley. The other pullers were lying in their carts, snoring hard. It was late at night, and he was the only one who could not sleep. I am the biggest fool. I am the biggest baboon here. On the way to his first assignment the next morning, there was another traffic jam on Umbrella Street—the biggest one he had ever seen. When he finally got to his destination, he found that the owner of the house was a European. He insisted on helping to unload the furniture, which confused Chenayya terribly. The whole time, he spoke in English, as if he expected everyone in Kittur to be familiar with the language. He held his hand out at the end, shook Chenayya’s, and gave him a fifty-rupee note. Chenayya was in a panic—where was he expected to get change? He tried to explain, but the European just grinned and closed the door. Then he understood. He bowed deeply to the closed door. Buying four lottery tickets, he broke the note into forty-six one-rupee notes; stuffing forty of them near his groin, he gave the six to the shopkeeper. He came back with a bottle of liquor, and he saw the other cart pullers staring at him. “Where did you get money for that, Chenayya?” “None of your business.” He drank the bottle dry, then went over to the liquor shop and bought another bottle. When he woke the next morning, he realized he had spent his money on liquor. All of it. He put his face in his hands and began to cry. He went to drink water from a faucet. He could not switch off his mind. Like the faucet, it dripped. Think, think, think. He passed a statue of Gandhi, and he began thinking again. Gandhi dressed like a poor man—he dressed as Chenayya did. But what did Gandhi do for the poor? Did Gandhi even exist? he wondered. These things—India, the River Ganga, the world beyond India—were they even real? How would he ever know? Only one level of society was lower than him: the beggars. Just one slide, and he would be down with them, he thought. One accident. And that would be him. How did the others deal with this? They did not. They preferred not to think. When he stopped at an intersection that night, an old beggar put his hands in front of Chenayya. He turned his face away and cycled down the road to Mr. Ganesh Pai’s shop. The next morning, he was going over the hill again, with five cardboard boxes piled up one above the other in his cart, thinking, Because we acquiesce. Because we do not dare leave with that wad of fifty thousand rupees—because we know other poor people will catch us and drag us before the rich man. Because we dare not kill the rich, out of fear of their police. We poor have built the prison around ourselves. In the evening, he lay down exhausted. The others had built a fire. Someone would come and give him some rice. He was the hardest worker, so the boss man had let it be known that he ought to be fed regularly. He saw two dogs humping. Life is so simple for them, he thought. It was a kind of release. There was no passion in them at all. That is all I want to do right now. Hump something. Instead of humping, I have to lie here, thinking. The prostitute sat on the steps. “Let me come up,” he said. She did not look at him; she shook her head. “Just one time. I’ll pay you next time.” “Get out of here, or I’ll call Brother,” she said. He gave in; he bought a small bottle of liquor, and he began drinking. Why do I think so much? My thoughts are like thorns inside my head; I want them out. And even when I drink they’re there. I wake up in the night, my throat burning, and I find all the thoughts still in my head. He was awake, lying in his cart. He was sure he had been hounded by the rich even in his dreams, because he woke up furious and sweating. Then he heard the noise of coitus close to him. He saw another cart puller humping the prostitute. Right next to him, it went on. He wondered: Why not me? Why not me? He knew the fellow had no money—so she was doing it out of charity. Why not me? Every sigh, every groan of the coupling pair was like a chastisement. Chenayya got off his cart, looked around till he found a puddle of cow dung on the ground, and scooped up a handful. He flung the shit at the lovers. There was a cry; he rushed up to them, and dabbed the whore’s face with shit. He put his shit-smeared fingers into her mouth, and kept them there, even though she bit them; the harder she bit the more he enjoyed it, and he kept his fingers there until the other pullers descended on him and dragged him away. One day, he got an assignment that took him out of the city limits, into Bajpe; he was delivering a doorframe to a construction site. “There used to be a big coconut grove here,” one of the construction workers told him. “But now that’s all that’s left.” He pointed to a distant clump of green. Chenayya looked at the man, and asked, “Is there any work here for me?” On his way back, he took a detour off the road and went out to the patch of green. When he got there, he left his bike and walked around; seeing a high rock, he climbed up and looked at the trees around him. Yes, he could live out here. If only he had a little food, what more would he want? His aching muscles could be rested. He put his head down on the rock and looked at the sky. It was nighttime when he cycled back. To get to the shop faster, he took the route down over Lighthouse Hill. As he was descending, he saw a red light and then a green light attached to the back of a large black cloud moving down the road. It was the elephant he had seen earlier, only now there were red and green traffic lights tied with string to its rump. “What’s the meaning of this?” he shouted to the mahout. He shouted back, “Well, I have to make sure no one bumps into us from behind at night—there are no lights anywhere!” Chenayya threw his head back and laughed—it was the funniest thing he had ever seen, an elephant with traffic lights on its rump. “They didn’t pay me,” the mahout said. He had tied the beast to the side of the road and was chatting to Chenayya. He had some peanuts with him, and he didn’t want to eat them alone, so he was glad to split a few with Chenayya. “They made me take their kid on a ride, and they didn’t pay me. You should have seen them drink and drink. And they wouldn’t pay me fifty rupees, which was all I asked.” The mahout slapped the side of his elephant. “After all that Rani did for them—” “That’s the way of the world,” Chenayya said. “Then it’s a rotten world.” The mahout chewed a few more peanuts. “A rotten world.” He slapped the side of his elephant again. Chenayya looked at the beast. The behemoth’s eyes were gazing sidelong at him; they glistened darkly, almost as if they were tearing. The beast also seemed to be saying, “Things should not be this way.” The mahout pissed against the wall, turning his head up, arching his back, and exhaling in relief, as if it were the best thing he had done all day. Chenayya kept looking at the elephant, its sad wet eyes. “I am sorry I ever cursed you, brother,” he said aloud as he rubbed its trunk. The mahout stood near the wall he had just pissed on, watching Chenayya talking to the elephant, a sense of apprehension growing within him. Outside the ice-cream shop, two kids were licking ice creams and staring right at Chenayya. He was sprawled on his cart, dead tired after another day’s work. “Don’t you see me?” Chenayya wanted to shout out over the traffic. His stomach was grumbling; he was tired and hungry, and there was still an hour before the Tamilian boy from Mr. Ganesh Pai’s shop would bring out dinner. One of the kids across the street turned away, as if the fury in the cart puller’s eyes had become obvious. But the other one, a fat light-skinned fellow, stayed put, sliding his tongue up and down his ice cream, staring nonchalantly at Chenayya. Don’t you have any shame, any sense of decency, you fat fuck? He thought he would black out in anger, and turned around in his cart and began talking aloud to calm his nerves. “Maker of all men, why have you . . .” His gaze fell on the rusty saw lying in his cart. “What stops me now,” he said aloud, “from crossing the street and slashing that rich motherfucker into shreds?” Just saying it made him feel more powerful. A finger began tapping on his shoulder. If that’s the fat motherfucker with his ice cream, I will pick up that saw and slice him in two, I swear to God. It was the Tamilian assistant from the store. “Your number has come up, Chenayya.” He took his cart to the door of the store, where the boy handed him a small package wrapped in newspaper and tied with white string. “It’s to the same place you went a while back to deliver the TV table. Mrs. Engineer’s house. We forgot to send the bonus gift, and she’s been complaining.” “Oh, no,” he groaned. “She doesn’t tip at all. She’s a complete cunt.” “You have to go, Chenayya. Your number came up.” He cycled there slowly. At every intersection and traffic light, he looked at the saw in his cart. Mrs. Engineer opened the door herself. She said she was on the phone, and told him to wait outside. “The food at the Lions Club is so fattening,” he heard her saying. “I’ve put on ten kilos in the past year.” He grabbed the saw and went in. She had her back to him; he saw the whiteness of her flesh peeping out in the space between her blouse and her skirt. He went closer. She turned around, then covered the receiver with her hand. “Not in here, you idiot! Just put the bonus gift on the floor and get out!” He stood confused for a moment. “On the floor!” she screamed at him. “Then get out!” He nodded, and dropped the saw on the floor and ran out. “Hey! Don’t leave the saw in here!” He ran back, picked up the saw, and left the house, ducking low to avoid the neem-tree leaves. He tossed the saw into the cart: a loud crash. The bonus gift . . . where was it? He grabbed it, ran into the house, left it somewhere, and slammed the door. There was a startled meow. A cat was sitting up on a branch of the tree, watching him closely. How beautiful its eyes were, he thought. This wonderful creature was part of that world, like a small jewel that had fallen off the throne, a hint of a world of beauty beyond his knowledge and reach. He stretched out his arms for it, and it came to him. “Kitty, kitty,” he said, stroking its fur slowly. It wriggled about in his arms, restless already. Somewhere, I hope, a poor man will strike a blow against the world, Chenayya thought. Because there is no god watching over the world. There is no one coming to release us from the jail in which we have locked ourselves. He wanted to tell all this to the cat; maybe it could tell it to another cart puller, the one who would be brave enough to strike the blow. He sat down by the wall slowly, still holding on to the cat and stroking its fur. Maybe I can take you along, kitty. How would he feed it? It had found some way to survive here, this cat; it was better off for being left on its own, so he released it again. He sat with his back to the wall and watched the cat move around, padding cautiously up to a car and then slinking under it. He was craning his neck to see what it was doing down there when he heard a shout from high above. It was Mrs. Engineer, yelling at him from the top of her mansion: “I know what you’re up to, thug—I can read your mind! You won’t get another rupee from me! Get moving!” He was not even angry; he knew she was right. He had to go back to the store. His number would come up again soon. He got on his cart and pedalled. There was a traffic jam in the city center, and Chenayya had to go over Lighthouse Hill again. Traffic was bad here, too. It moved a few inches at a time, and then Chenayya had to stop mid-hill and clamp his foot down on the road to hold his cart in place. When the horns began to sound, he rose from his seat and pedalled; behind him, a long line of cars and buses moved, as if he were pulling the traffic along with an invisible chain.
Soldier’s Joy In her dream, her husband had written her a love letter. It closed with the following sentence: I’ve looked at myself in the mirror—an admittedly warped and unreliable façade—and been keenly aware of how lucky I am that you still want to live with me. “Humble bugger, aren’t I?” her husband said when she told him about the dream letter. “But what about me?” Nana answered. “So self-aggrandizing! So passive-aggressive!” He rose up on an elbow to blink down at her, his large head and leonine hair eclipsing all else. “I dreamed that some friend of ours, some preposterously impossible person, was pregnant.” “Someone like Helen?” He agreed: Helen. “I was very impressed, in the dream. It seemed so goddam optimistic.” “What was I doing, in your dream?” “You weren’t there.” He fell back upon his pillow. Mention of Helen, who had been their hostess the previous evening, reminded Nana that she had a phone call to make. It was not an uncommon call; it might not even be necessary with this particular hostess. Yet perhaps that’s what Nana had been trying to tell herself in the dream—that her husband was lucky to have her. Drunk the night before, he’d made a pass at Helen’s nineteen-year-old daughter. “I hope Rebecca wasn’t alarmed,” Nana said to Helen on the phone. “Please. She was flattered, just like anybody.” Nana heard the faint sniff of competitiveness, the knotted business between mother and daughter. This vexed tolerance wouldn’t have been the response if one of Helen’s sons had been kissed on the ear or patted on the fanny by a family friend. As a young girl, Rebecca had been overweight and overly furred, with a mustache, thick arm hair, heavy brows; other children had called her Ape Face. The transformation into confident womanhood had been impressive. Her parents weren’t native Texans, but lately they’d been participating in their own version of unveiling the débutante—buying a new wardrobe and bringing her to parties. Nana’s husband had been exceedingly complimentary. “My God, you’re gorgeous!” he’d declared one evening, genuinely astonished. “Look, everyone, isn’t she spectacular?” And there Rebecca had stood, turning red in her tight-fitting green dress. “No worries,” Helen said. Nana made out the cigarette-lighter flick, the deep, first-of-the-day inhalation. Helen’s bad habit made her less likely to judge others’. She and Nana had met in graduate school and ended up in the same city a dozen years later. Nana wasn’t sure she would have agreed to move to Houston had Helen not been there. Helen was her best friend, although she suspected that she was not Helen’s. “I was thinking of wearing the poppy dress tonight,” Nana said, “unless you were?” “We should match on purpose. Just to make Libby less bitchy. She’d love to be able to ridicule us. What a generous hostess gift that would be, us in our matching dresses, sizes S and L. She couldn’t keep hating us, if we gave her that.” Nana was the S—in every way less than Helen, not only physically smaller but with fewer attachments, no children, less money, renter rather than owner. “I’ll wear the poppy dress, and you can decide whether we’ll match or not. Will you apologize to Rebecca?” “She isn’t so innocent as you think, Nana. I’m sure she was flirting. Just spreading her wings, testing the water. Et cetera.” Nana closed her eyes, visited the scene, her husband with his arm around Rebecca’s bare shoulders, his mouth at her ear, his diving glance into the décolletage, solicitous, drunk, benevolent, happy. He could not resist beautiful women. “Sometimes he sort of oversteps the avuncular role,” she said. “Young girls are teases. You and I were, right?” Nana and Helen were a generation younger than Nana’s husband, their former professor, Dr. Shock; back in graduate school, it hadn’t been clear for a while which of them he favored, brash Helen or tagalong sidekick Nana. Nana hung up the phone, thinking about those flirtatious days, knowing that the circumstances hadn’t been the same. She and Helen had met her husband when they were all at an apex, his as a certified academic celebrity, theirs as nubile acolytes. Back then, he had been a casual tenant of his attractive, still-young body; now he was a fearfully vain and anxious occupant of an older model. For two recent consecutive years, he had gone around claiming to be sixty-nine, not even consciously, so averse was he to the number seventy. Now he was seventy-one. Before climbing into bed at night, he would perform his exercises—chin-ups, sit-ups, pushups. “And sometimes throw-ups,” he would always cheerfully conclude the list. Of Nana he had the expectation, never put into words yet understood nonetheless, that she would keep herself fit and trim and youthful, and that the effort, like the expectation, would be invisible. To that end, she now fixed herself a viscous muddy sludge in the blender, consumed it, and then pulled on her gear, gathered the dogs and their leashes, and took herself for her morning run, all before Dr. Shock, her husband, the emeritus, rolled out of bed. “Your mother called,” he said without looking up from the Chronicle, when she returned. “Hello, fellows,” he said to the corgis, who dropped themselves panting at his feet, back legs splayed like chicken drumsticks. He’d sat there and not answered the phone. On the machine was her mother’s tentative inquiry into Nana’s life. Her parents had not known what to make of her marriage to a man their age; they still, many years later, were perplexed, treating Nana as if she’d suddenly transformed from the girl they’d known into an adult they couldn’t fathom. Which was, essentially, the truth. She was an only child, the first on either side of her family to go to college. They could not debate what she’d learned there, or what she’d acquired: a husband who not only was old enough to be her father but was divorced, with two estranged sons who were her age. Never mind her degrees, undergraduate and graduate, a redundant pedigree that appeared to have led her no further than to housewifery, in the end. When her parents visited, they tried not to bother anybody, inhabiting the guest room like ghosts, treading lightly. They brought her news of her old neighborhood in Wichita, and of their ailing siblings, and a box of waxy chocolates from the local candymaker. They sat working not to wince as they sipped the wine that Nana’s husband insisted on serving them, an expensive bottle, always perfect with whatever meal they would politely eat but not enjoy, a recipe that Nana had chosen from a gourmet magazine and that was, she would realize as soon as she was in their presence, far removed from their modest tastes. They wanted sweet tea and cream gravy. They wanted grandchildren. Her husband, the professor, had assumed that he’d be able to expand his in-laws’ horizons. He had been confident that he would seduce them, as he was famous for doing with students and colleagues, by means of generosity, immodesty, flamboyant declarations, sodden affection. But although Nana’s parents were nothing but gracious to him, they were never going to fall under his spell. “Daddy’s had an accident,” Nana’s mother told her when she called her back. Her father had lost control of his car, driven onto a sidewalk and into an outdoor café. Nana hadn’t even known that Wichita had outdoor cafés, and, fortunately, the place wasn’t popular enough for there to have been anyone sitting at the tables he’d crashed through. Her father had been injured, though, and then cited, requiring, first, surgery and, next, perhaps, a lawyer. He came onto the phone now, clearing his throat, speaking weakly from his hospital bed. “Nana, honey, could you come help Mom?” And within the hour Nana was behind the wheel of her car, headed from Houston to Kansas, Dr. Shock left behind to hold down the fort: care for the dogs and make an appearance at Libby’s dinner party. When she spoke with her husband, the next day, he dismissed her question about the party. “Dull,” he declared. This meant one of several things. Least likely was that the evening was actually dull; more plausible was that he’d got too drunk to recall events in a narrative worth retelling; most probable was that he’d done something he could remember very well and did not wish to discuss. Nana sighed, wondering if she should phone Libby to give a generic apology, then decided to consult with Helen first, and discover what it was that her husband wasn’t saying. “Was Helen wearing her poppy dress?” Nana asked. He paused before responding. “I don’t recall.” This was a lie, Nana could tell. But why lie about something so trivial as that? “Was Rebecca there?” “Yes,” he said. “Her dress was black, in case you’re wondering. A little black dress.” The dogs began to bark then. Nana guessed that her husband had incited their racket, just to give him a good reason to hang up. It was easy to work them into such a state. You had merely to lead them to the plate-glass porch door and point out a squirrel or a cat running on the railing, or the automatic pool vacuum flipping its tail in the water as it carried on, side to side, end to end. They were brothers, two and a half years old. Lacking children, Nana and her husband had settled for dogs; their friends no doubt joked about their misplaced affection. This was the third pair of siblings they’d owned, first black Labs, next cocker spaniels, now the corgis—each set a slightly smaller breed. “We’ll die with Chihuahuas,” Nana had once told her husband. “You’ll die with Chihuahuas,” he had corrected her. “I’ll die during the dachshunds.” In the past, he had enjoyed pointing out the discrepancy in their ages. He didn’t do that anymore. “The lads are protesting,” he now said faintly into the phone. “I’ll call you later.” Nana’s mother asked about the dogs before she did her son-in-law. And how she struggled to call a man her own age her “son-in-law.” The title begged to be inflected with irony, and Nana’s mother wasn’t capable of irony. “All well?” she said cheerfully, disallowing any answer other than an affirmative. She was rooting in her purse for lipstick, preparing herself for the morning’s trip to the hospital. Nana had arrived too late to visit her father the night before. “Whose shoes are those?” Nana asked as they headed out, noticing for the first time an array of children’s footwear—snow boots, flip-flops, plastic high heels—by her parents’ back door. “Didn’t I tell you who moved into the Dixons’ old place?” “Remind me,” Nana said. Peter Hinshaw. Nana’s first boyfriend. Who now had a wife, and two children. He’d come to the open house only because he’d mistaken the address, thought it was Nana’s home on the market. On a bored Sunday whim, he’d brought his wife and son and daughter, expecting to revisit the rooms where he’d first had sex, first got drunk, first dropped acid, but, instead, had found himself in the house next door, and his wife, untutored in any kind of context, had fallen in love. Pete’s wife had fallen for her new neighbors, Nana’s parents, as well. Her children had become their surrogate grandkids, running through the drive and yard that connected the properties, charging up the back steps, kicking off their shoes, and entering Nana’s kitchen as if it were their own. They called Nana’s parents by their first names, Bud and Lil. They had favorite places around the house, stations that they visited: the piano with its glass dish of meltaway mints; the base of the dining-room table, where a town of blocks and thimbles was set up; a giant jar of change in the sewing room, too heavy to lift but lovely to study; and the aquarium full of fish, into whose gawping mouths they took turns dropping the minutest bits of food. Nana’s mother’s joy in these children, her father’s reputed amused lenience, stung Nana. Nothing she could do would transport her parents in quite the same way. Indulging these two small people, ages three and five, was as much as they could ever wish for. Nana and her mother came home from the hospital to find the children waiting on the back steps. With their pink skin and blond mops, they did not resemble their father. Peter’s skin had always been sallow, his hair a dark kinky mess, his eyes sunk in gloomy sockets. These drug-addict, rock-star features had attracted Nana in high school. She was not immune to their appeal now. Pete had broken up with her to date a college girl, trading up. Nana hadn’t held this against him, although for a long while she had suffered—suffered as if kicked in the ribs by a horse, in tremendous pain but with no real hostility toward the animal itself. It was perhaps that college girl, all those years ago, whose allure had convinced Nana that she absolutely had to attend college herself. And a better one than the local U. She would be a coed from a school with a national reputation. She would show Peter Hinshaw. In fact, her eventual marriage to her professor could very well have been the fruition of that seed sown by Peter. “Hey, Pete,” she greeted him, when he slouched into her parents’ house to retrieve his children. She wished that he had lost hair and gained weight; instead, he looked as she remembered him, which is to say that she felt herself attuned to him, to everything about him, once again. She knew what those lips felt like, that coiled hair; she remembered the odor of breath mint, smoke, beer when he kissed her on the cheek. Still indulging and hiding his vices. The badly shaved rough neck. “Ba-Nana,” he said drolly, not bothering to disguise his lazy leering scan, dragged from foot to head like the amplified snarl of a guitar riff. From the hallway came the commotion of his children, the little boy and girl running headlong into the room then, suddenly silenced—brought up short—by his presence. It was as if he beat them. Except that he wouldn’t beat them. He would embarrass them. He would make them self-conscious. He would not laugh at what wasn’t amusing, or praise indiscriminately, out of politeness. He was finicky, and frank, and relentless. “Intense,” everyone had agreed uneasily, in high school; it had been a coup to be his girlfriend, to pass his peculiar muster. “What are you no-necks up to?” he asked the girl, turning in her direction without releasing Nana from his glance. “Playing,” she said shyly, edging behind Nana’s mother’s knees. “Playing,” her brother echoed, a plea. In his hand he held an unravelling cardboard tube from gift wrap; they’d been charging around the house, sword fighting. “Peter,” Nana’s mother said, ecstatic as hostess, mother, ersatz grandmother, queen of the castle, bestower of cardboard swords. “Sit down. Say hello to Nana. She’s come to help.” Her mother had no idea what had happened in her house, all those years ago. The blow-outs in the basement, the escapades in Nana’s bedroom, the hidden niches where the bottles and pills and baggies had been stashed—her own little stations, Nana thought. Her parents had been notoriously oblivious. The woman’s innocence, compounded by the children’s, returned them to high school, Peter and Nana staring at each other through the whir of sweetness that ensued: bright-pink juice being drunk and spilled, cookies offered and crumbled, sugar suffusing the atmosphere, while across the table, across years and other partners, a snaking heat coalesced between them, something engineered out of naughtiness and nostalgia, the knowledge of a shared history, wavering there like a faint layer of pollution. Which would be thoroughly whisked away by the arrival of the wife. She wasn’t the cool coed from back when. He’d married a physical therapist, an upbeat, wide-faced young woman, a leader of cheers. She, like her children, entered Nana’s old home as if its inhabitants were her close relations; it was a confidence that had to do with good intentions, purity. “Honey, I’m so sorry about Bud” were her first words to Nana’s mother. “I took him a can of cashews and a puzzle book. Pete, you know you have messages on the machine?” “Unemployed,” Pete explained to Nana. “Downsized.” “Taking stock, sweetheart,” the wife scolded. “Weighing other options.” Pete’s wife held out her hand to shake Nana’s. “I would recognize you anywhere! All those pictures in the albums.” Her smile made her eyes wrinkle atop her apple-round cheeks. She was so unlikely, Nana thought, though perhaps Pete needed such a girl to keep him in line—to provide cover for him by making small talk, uttering pleasantries. A person person, as opposed to a misanthrope. To her every address she appended a term of endearment: sweetness, monkey, pie-pie. Her children scooted onto chairs beside her as she sat at the table, each leaning close to her radiant good will. But what did he offer her? Martyrdom? “Come see my tree house?” Pete said to Nana. “It was our tree house,” the little girl said, “but Daddy took it.” “Our tree house,” the boy repeated sadly. Pete stood, patting the shirt pocket over his heart, where a hard-pack of Camels showed itself. “I’ll check the messages,” he told his wife. “Bye, Lil. Coming?” he asked Nana. Nana’s husband wanted to hear all about her ex-boyfriend. “Why didn’t you answer, before?” Nana asked. She imagined him ignoring the ringing phone, humming boredly right beside the machine as she left her messages. It was nearly midnight, and she was up on the porch roof, beneath the tree limbs, looking down at the Dixons’ old house. Pete’s house. Faint pink night-lights lit the upstairs hall; in the basement, another light was on, this of the bare-bulb variety. Nana guessed that Pete was under that bulb, either there or in his tree house, designed for the children, co-opted by him. He’d led her up its circular metal stairway treads, into its boys’-club confines. First he’d got her stoned, then he’d leaned over to put his lips on hers. The night had turned brisk, as it always did just before Halloween; a wind had whipped up, and what few leaves were left in the trees slapped against the porch roof, switched at Nana’s legs. Her mother would have been horrified to find her there, imperilled on the roof, as she had been in the old days. Would Nana never cease scaring that poor woman? Meanwhile, Nana’s husband was drinking. “The old soldier’s joy,” he informed her jauntily. He would be snug in his reading chair in their Houston study, paging through weighty art books. He couldn’t concentrate on words in this state but enjoyed falling into the large color plates of these expensive volumes. His Rauschenbergs, his de Koonings, his Twomblys, and, saddest of all, his Rothkos. In this abstract mood (“This is when I relish visions of suicide,” he’d told her once), he tonight discerned something about her commentary, peeled back her father’s (stable) condition, her mother’s (chatty) busyness, to inquire into the neighbor, the former boyfriend, the surprise, the narrative aside. Underpainting, Nana thought, the hidden figures beneath the public subject. He could perceive it anywhere. “Tell me about the reunion with the boyfriend,” her husband said. “Spare no detail. A hug?” “Uh-huh.” “Peck on the cheek? Kiss? Lingering glance?” Nana heard his longing to have her say that they had fooled around. He wanted to be titillated by the situation, turned on by the scenario, have a little phone-sex intermission before returning to his art books. He liked it when men flirted with Nana, when they stood too close or stared overlong, tucked in her dress tag or brushed against her. And, in the past, Nana had exaggerated these incidents, especially while making love with her husband, so that he could feel like the winner, so that she could feel like the prize. He made use of it as foreplay; also, he seemed to think that it excused his own lecherous tendencies. But now that his inquiry might lead to something true, Nana found it difficult to remember how she usually played the game. “You sound like you want me to sleep with him,” she said eventually. “Do I?” “You do.” “Maybe I do. If you did, would you tell me about it?” “I don’t want to sleep with him,” she lied. “We already did that, a long time ago.” “Therefore, if you slept with him again, your over-all stats wouldn’t change.” Her “stats” were known to her husband. A mere handful. Nana had been timid. His number of partners was much higher, higher even than might be expected, given his twenty-plus-year head start. He couldn’t remember all their names, those many women with whom he’d had sex. “The stats would change.” She had never been unfaithful, had never wanted to be unfaithful. “Nana,” he said, laughing. He was so confident, she thought, so sure that she still felt herself the lucky object of the esteemed professor’s attention. In her mind, she opened the drawer of his night table, just to be appalled by the number of pill bottles there, the dirty secret of his decline. At that moment, the side door at the Dixons’ clattered open; it was Pete emerging. He didn’t let the storm door rattle shut behind him, but held it on its wheezing hydraulic arm, then simply sat on his side steps and lit a cigarette. Nana watched him from her perch. “Sh-h-h,” she whispered to her husband, without thinking. They made love in her bedroom, on the bed where they’d first made love, when they were sixteen years old. Their bodies loved each other, she thought; they remembered—they knew what to do when put together. Outside, the sky was tin-can gray, a depressing light that softened Nana’s embarrassment. Yet, naked, there was no longer awkwardness between them; his suit of flesh, unlike her husband’s, did not hang loose upon a discernible skeleton. His mouth tasted of marijuana, his body temperature seemed to be precisely the same as hers, his arrangement of limbs designed to perfectly match hers, so that embracing him was like entering a dream, like falling under a spell. They moved with the familiarity of instinct, and when they rolled over, still attached, it reminded Nana of her dogs at play, harmonious intimacy. Was she really comparing them to animals? Forsaking words, or articulate thought at all? Was that a way to disclaim the significance of what passed between them? In fact, mightn’t she find it all the more profound for that reason? She wanted to say that she loved him—because she loved what had just happened, because she loved the strange intoxicant they had recovered and shared—but only a fool made that claim first. “Last time we used a rubber,” he eventually said, a half-smile on his contemptuous lips. Nana hadn’t even thought about protection, proof of her innocence. “Last time it moved along a little faster.” She was trying to match his nonchalance, but nothing could have been further from the truth of how she felt. They heard her mother arrive home downstairs. Nana had claimed a headache that morning, watching from her window as, first, her neighbors took themselves away, the mom in the car with the boy and the girl in the back, waving to Pete in his sweatpants on the porch. He’d raised his eyes from their car as it pulled down the drive, seeing Nana through the glass. Not long after her mother had also driven away, he had rapped on the back door. She’d opened it and then had not moved out of the way, forcing him, if he planned to come in, to step up and into her arms. They hardly spoke as they wandered the familiar path from kitchen to dining room, then upstairs and down the hall to Nana’s girlhood room. “Haven’t been up here lately,” he murmured as she shut the door and latched the hook and eye that she’d screwed into the woodwork years ago. Later, they’d listened as her mother made her slow way along the same route, then knocked on the bedroom door. Nana finally registered something of what she’d expected: guilt, shame, delinquency. Till that moment, she’d been operating in a sort of fog, acting on the hazy excited intuition of what felt good and of the merciful absence of her mind. She called out that she’d be right down. “Daddy’s coming home this afternoon,” her mother said through the door. “Maybe you could pick him up while I fix supper?” Pete was sitting on the edge of the bed by then, still naked, like an athlete on the bench, after a game, revving, yet worn out. He turned and gave her a devilish grin. “Sure,” Nana called. “Daddy,” he mouthed. “Supper.” She laid her head on Pete’s back, on the soft top knobs of his spinal column, where his hair reached her cheek. Again, she wished to say that she loved him—not because she was sure she loved him but because it was such a perfectly insular sentence. No one knew that they were here, together. She wished never to leave this instant, its singularity and repleteness. “Keep her in the kitchen,” he said into Nana’s ear. “I’ll go out the front.” Her father reclined across the back seat, pain medication making his sentences syrupy, his bare toes at the end of a heavy full-leg cast resting on the door handle. Without meaning to, he’d lowered the back window. The air was wet and cool, and Nana cracked her own window. The chill felt good; it cleared the odor of antiseptic and plaster from the vehicle. Her husband was only four years younger than this man. Of course she had always known that. It was because her father was sedated and prostrate, because he hadn’t bothered to put on his eyeglasses, that his age and vulnerability, and by extension her husband’s age and vulnerability, now suddenly upset her. And also because of Pete, because making love with him had left her younger. “Mom’s fixing meat loaf,” she announced, over-loud. “Mom,” he said, the only word he’d ever need; it would be his last, she thought. For the rest of the ride, Nana let herself fall into a full flashback of sex with Pete. In the windy car, it warmed her like a glowing pilot light, steady, ready to flare into action. On the phone to her husband, she lied, claiming that her father wasn’t home yet. She was sitting on the roof again, as a cold dusk settled, the sky tinged green. “They’re worried about infection,” she said. “He still has a fever. And diarrhea,” she added, for the verity that only a non sequitur could provide. “And how’s the boyfriend? That good neighbor?” “Pete?” She looked down automatically, to the places he might occupy, and felt a faint ignition in her chest. “Peter, the boy next door, that one. How’s the reunion shaping up? Nothing like a rekindled romance, in my experience.” “What do you mean?” “I mean I fucked Deborah, a few years after the divorce, and it was terrific. Much better than when we were married, light-years better, like strangers, like Anaïs Nin characters. Ahh,” he sighed happily, for a moment off in memory somewhere, then back. “Of course, that was long before I met you. Now, tell me about Peter.” Pete, Nana corrected, as if cradling his warm head in her palm. “I don’t like that word,” she said. “You use it all the time.” “Not as a verb.” She hadn’t fucked anybody, ever. “He’s fine,” she said, of Pete, wondering what her husband really hoped to learn. It bothered Nana to hear his self-assured voice, his confession about his ex, which seemed to demand a reciprocal response, tit for tat. It was like a parent trying to coax a lying child into admitting an obvious truth. Or maybe it felt like that because that was what it so closely, factually, resembled. “He’s pathetic,” she plunged ahead. “Unemployed, hanging around like a sullen teen-ager. Even down to the tree house. He’ll be lucky if his wife doesn’t leave him.” Her husband laughed. “Just like me! Isn’t that what I wrote in that letter in your dream?” Then he told her that he had been invited to the Merrills’ for dinner, was leaving in a little while. Their friends would take care of him, in Nana’s absence, would rally round to feed and entertain him. “Stay away from the stemware,” she warned. He’d broken many glasses, over time, at the Merrills’. They insisted on serving wine in extremely fine crystal; sometimes he demanded to use a jelly jar, prophylactically. It was a standing joke. Their friends found him charming; he was famous for his passionate arguments, his stormy exits, followed by exorbitant apologies, heartfelt embraces, exquisite handwritten notes. Beloved, he was, flaws and all. He said one more thing before hanging up: “I don’t care if you sleep with him, but you have to tell me. Agreed?” “I’m not going to sleep with him,” Nana said. She closed the cell phone and held it to her throat, shut her eyes, and felt Pete all around her. Now she debated phoning Helen. One wanted to tell, she realized. After the initial crucial privacy, one wished to speak aloud what had transpired. As an excuse, as an opening gambit, she could ask Helen to keep an eye on her husband’s drinking at the Merrills’; also, she could thank Helen for the flowers, which had arrived that afternoon, lurid non-native blossoms that vaguely alarmed Lil. Nana could ask what Helen would be wearing tonight, what had happened at Libby’s, two evenings before. Rebecca answered at Helen’s house. “She’s over at your place,” the girl said. “No, I’m in Kansas. My father was in an accident.” Nana started to fill in with the information about his hospitalization, when Rebecca cut her off with an exasperated sigh. “Come on, Nana. Do you really not know what’s going on with them? Are you really so totally out of touch?” “I’m sorry?” Nana’s first thought was that Rebecca was drunk or high, that she had regressed to the terrifying adolescence that her parents believed had, thank God, passed. “It’s been, like, years,” Rebecca went on. “If I know, if my brothers know, it just seems impossible that you don’t know. Doesn’t it?” The girl paused. Nana had pushed herself back to the window that led onto the roof, was beginning to climb inside. Fear had gripped her; she felt as if she might suddenly, after all these years, truly be at risk of falling from her perch. “O.K., whatever,” Rebecca said. “I’ll tell her you called.” Nana was out the front door before she realized she’d gone down the stairs. They’d flown beneath her feet, lightly, as if she had floated from second to first floor, noting on her way the purple-and-black flowers from Helen, obscene red stamens lingering on her retina as she left her parents’ porch. She went straight to the Dixons’ house, stepping up Pete’s walkway and to his front, rather than side, door. Her mother did not have a view of the front door from her kitchen window. Her father could not see it from where he was propped before the television in the den. Pete did not immediately ask her in, but stood on the other side of a torn black screen. She must have had a look about her, because his expression grew more guarded. Had she come here to test for that guardedness? From the kitchen, at the back of the house, came the sound of singing, of children laughing. That was what he was guarding. “I came to say goodbye,” Nana chose to say. Now he unhooked the door, pushed it open. He hadn’t shaved; she longed to bury her face in his rough warm throat. She wished to banish both her husband and Helen, forget Rebecca’s no-nonsense voice, and disappear in Pete’s embrace. But he turned his back, picked up a beer from the end table next to a chair. Why was he in here, in the dark, instead of in the lighted kitchen? What had he been doing when she rang the bell? Back when he’d found the college girl, when he’d shrugged his helpless farewell to Nana, she’d taken her cue from him, too: she would not show her need. “Daddy’s home?” he asked. “Daddy’s home.” “No complications? Lawsuits?” She shook her head. “He’s fully insured,” she said. “Over-insured, maybe.” “Good to be insured,” Pete agreed. When her husband was being courted by the department in Houston, he had been taken out to dinner with the other endowed chairs in the liberal arts. Helen was married to one. Nana’s husband had phoned her later, in California, to tell her the news: her old friend, now Mrs. Helen Nolan, was ready to reënter her life, lucky happenstance, a sign. Helen might have been standing beside him in the hotel room even then, pulling earrings out of her ears, or replacing them, lighting a cigarette, pre- or post-coital. Nana could not say which of these people, her husband or her best friend, was the most responsible for the pain she felt now, that kicked-in-the-ribs sensation. “Beer?” Pete finally said, glancing reluctantly toward the noisy kitchen, where the beer was apparently kept. “Do you think I should stay here?” she asked, and, when he scowled, as if she meant his living room, added, “In Wichita, I mean? Should I stay with them for a while?” “I don’t know. They’d be happy.” He fell back into his chair, looked at the ceiling. He could be cold, she remembered; it was all coming back to her. When she began crying, he jumped up and hustled her out the front door. “This way,” he said, not waiting for her to agree, but leading her around the drive, to the back, to his tree house, where he lit the gas heater. “Don’t tell the codes people,” he said, “but this is an illegal appliance.” The small space filled with the odor of both the gas and the struck match. They sat on the floor beside each other, knees touching. Nana put her hand on his, and he removed it. “No,” he said. “That would be a mistake.” Why? she wanted to wail. Why aren’t I enough? For anyone, it seemed? Instead, he reached for the hookah. “Mr. Dixon died in your basement,” Nana told him. “Yeah,” Pete said as he slowly exhaled. “It’s got that aura.” From the tree house they could see both kitchens below, his and hers, figures moving in the lighted windows. Nana took her turn with the hookah, inhaled, felt the blue glow enter her. She and Pete had first kissed at a party in the country, sitting around a fire, smoking pot. They hadn’t said much, just leaned away from the group and into each other. Now Pete held a lighter to the bowl, circling it expertly with the flame. “You’d rather get high than kiss,” she said. “Or make love.” He looked up, his eyes reflecting the lighter’s yellow flame. “Or anything,” he said. The hashish had calmed him, made him the beautiful boy he’d been. She nodded, hoping that she looked to him like the girl she’d been. She came home red-eyed, her shoes filthy with mud from the yard between their houses. She slipped them off at the back door, left them with the children’s shoes there. Her father had somehow ambulated in from the den, and was arranged sideways at the kitchen table, his bright-white cast propped on a second chair. Her mother fussed between stove and table, narrating happily, like a twittering bird. As usual, her parents were oblivious of the redness of Nana’s eyes, of the odor she had surely brought with her. On the table, meat loaf. Milk. Soft bread and margarine. Nana fell into her chair as if she’d been pushed. It was so exhausting to consider, the whole past that she would now have to revisit and amend, unstitch and patch back together, her husband and her friend Helen, from graduate-school days to the current moment. Right now those two would be sitting under the twinkling lights and the elaborate bug zappers in the Merrills’ courtyard sculpture garden, passing appetizers, discussing art and politics, staring at each other over the rims of fine stemware. “Just in time!” her mother said, hovering above the food, filling three plates, then settling in her customary seat. “Thanks, Mom,” Nana’s father said. “We’re so glad to have you here,” Nana’s mother said to her. “I was telling Dad, even in these crazy circumstances, it’s awfully nice.” Concentrating hard through the foggy effects of Pete’s hashish, Nana picked up her fork and faced this simple meal. It was very difficult, as if she were starting all the way back at the beginning.
Pumpkin Head In late March, there’d been a sleet storm throughout north-central New Jersey. Her husband had died several days before. There was no connection, she knew. But since that time she’d begun to notice at twilight a curious glistening to the air. Often, she found herself in the doorway of her house, or outside, not remembering how she’d got there. For long minutes, she would stare as the colors faded and a glassy light emerged from the sky and from the Scotch pines surrounding the house. It did not seem to her a natural light, and in weak moments she thought, This is the crossing-over time. She watched, not knowing what she might be seeing. She felt aroused, vigilant. She felt apprehension. She wondered if the strange glistening to the air had always been there but in her previous, protected life she hadn’t noticed it. This October evening, before the sun had entirely set, a pair of headlights turned in to the driveway, some distance away by the road. She was startled into alertness—at first not sure where she was. Then she remembered: Anton Kruppev was dropping by to see her. Dropping by, he’d said. Or maybe she’d said, Why don’t you drop by? She couldn’t make out his face. He was driving a pickup truck with white lettering on one side. He climbed down from the driver’s seat in the high cab and lurched toward her on the shadowy path—a tall male scarecrow figure with a misshapen Halloween pumpkin for a head. What a shock! Hadley backed away, not sure what she was seeing. A grinning pumpkin head on a man’s shoulders, its leering cutout eyes not lit from within, like a jack-o’-lantern, but dark, glassy. And the voice issuing through the grinning slash-mouth in heavily accented English: “Ma’am? Is correct address? You are—lady of the house?” She laughed, nervously. She supposed she was meant to laugh. With grating mock gravity, the voice persevered: “You are—resident here, Ma’am? I am—welcome here? Yes?” It was a joke. One of Anton Kruppev’s awkward jokes. He’d succeeded in frightening Hadley, though probably that hadn’t been his intention—probably he’d just meant to make her laugh. It was embarrassing that she’d been genuinely frightened, for she had known perfectly well that Anton was coming. And who else but Anton Kruppev would show up like this, with a Halloween pumpkin for a head? At the co-op, Anton was the most eager and courteous of workers. He was the one who joked with customers, and laughed at his own jokes; he was boyish, vulnerable, and touching. His halting speech was itself a kind of laughter, not fully intelligible yet contagious. For all his clumsiness, you could tell that he was an exceptionally intelligent man. Hadley could see that he’d gone to painstaking trouble carving the pumpkin head: it was large, bulbous, weirdly veined and striated, twice the size of a normal man’s head, with triangular eyes, a triangular nose, and a mouth studded with fang-teeth. Somehow, he’d managed to force the thing over his head—Hadley couldn’t quite see how. “How ingenious, Anton! Did you carve it yourself?” This was the sort of inane question you asked Anton Kruppev. For you had to say something to alleviate the tension of the man’s aggressive-doggy eagerness to please, to impress, to make you laugh. Hadley recalled the first time Anton had come by to see her, which had been the previous week—the strained and protracted conversation between them when, after Hadley had served him coffee and little sandwiches on multigrain bread, Anton hadn’t seemed to know how to depart; his lurching over her, his spasm of a handshake, and his clumsy wet kiss on her cheek which had seemed to sting her, and to thrill her, like the brush of a bat’s wings. “Yes, Ma’am. You think—you will buy?” “That depends, Anton. How much . . . ” “For you, Ma’am, no charge!” This forced joke, how long would it be kept up? Hadley wondered in exasperation. In middle school, boys like Anton Kruppev were snubbed—Ha ha, very funny!—but once you were an adult how could you discourage such humor without being rude? Hadley was thirty-nine. Anton couldn’t have been more than twenty-nine. He’d been born in what was now called Bosnia and Herzegovina, had lost his parents, and was brought to the United States by a surviving grandparent. He’d gone to American schools, including M.I.T., and yet in all those years had not become convincingly American. Trying too hard, Hadley thought. The sign of the foreign-born. In a kind of anxious triumph, sensing his hostess’s exasperation yet determined not to acknowledge it, Anton swung the lurid pumpkin head down from his shoulders, holding it in his chafed-looking, big-knuckled hands. Now Hadley could see that the pumpkin was only two-thirds of a shell. It had been gutted and carved and its back part cut away—the back of what would be, in a human, the cranium. So the uncanny pumpkin head was a kind of pumpkin mask set on Anton’s shoulders and held in place by hand. Yet it was so lifelike; as the scarecrow figure had lurched up the walk in her direction, the face had appeared alive. “Is good? Is—surprise? ‘Happy Halloween’ is right?” Was it Halloween? Hadley was sure it was not. October 31st wasn’t for several more days. “Is for you, Hedley. To set here.” He was red-faced now and smiling in a shyly aggressive manner. On his angular face and in the stiff, wiry hair that receded sharply from his forehead were bits of pumpkin flesh and seeds, at which Anton wiped, surreptitiously, the way a boy might wipe at his runny nose. Hadley thought, If he kisses me, he will smell of pumpkin. Her husband had died and abandoned her. Now other men would drop by the house. Anton presented Hadley with the misshapen pumpkin. The damned thing must have weighed fifteen pounds. It almost slipped from her hands. Hadley thought it would have served Anton Kruppev right if she’d dropped the pumpkin and it had smashed on the brick. No doubt, he’d have offered to clean it up. “Anton, thank you! This is very. . . ” Their hands brushed together. Anton was standing close beside her. He was several inches taller than Hadley, though his posture was slouched, his back prematurely rounded. Perhaps there was something wrong with his spine. And he breathed quickly, audibly, as if he’d been running. Or as if he’d been about to declare something and then thought better of it. Lanky Anton Kruppev had appeared perhaps a year earlier at the organic-food-and-gardening co-op where Hadley had once shopped regularly—back when she’d prepared elaborate meals for herself and her husband—and now shopped only from time to time. He’d always been alert and attentive to Hadley. Since late March, she’d been in a trance of self-absorption that was like a narcotic to her—in fact, to get through the worst of her insomniac nights Hadley had had to take sleeping pills, which left her dazed and groggy throughout the day—and she’d scarcely been aware of Anton Kruppev except as a helpful and persistent presence, a worker who seemed always to be waiting on her. It was only recently that he’d dared to be more direct, asking if he might come by her house after the co-op closed one evening, to bring her several bags of peat moss that were too heavy and cumbersome for Hadley to remove from the trunk of her car by herself. He’d offered to spread the peat moss wherever she wanted it spread. Hadley had hesitated before saying yes. It was true, she was attracted to Anton Kruppev, to a degree. He reminded her of the foreign-born classmates she’d known in middle school, in north Philadelphia; skinny, pasty-faced boys with round eyeglasses and tortured ways of speaking, as if their tongues were malformed. Hadley had been drawn to them, but she’d never befriended them. But now, in weak moments, she was grateful for anyone who was kind to her; since her husband’s premature death, she’d felt eviscerated, worthless. There is not one person to whom you matter now. This is the crossing over. In a sort of hypnotic state, she found herself listening to a voice not her own yet couched in the cadences of her own most intimate speech. This voice did not accuse her, or pass judgment, and yet she knew herself judged, contemptible. Not one person. This is the crossing over. She had signed the paper for her husband’s cremation. In her memory, distorted and blurred by tears, her own name had been printed on the contract, beside her husband’s name. She’d felt that, signing for him, she’d signed for herself as well. It was finished for her—the life of the emotions, the ability to feel. Yet with another part of her mind Hadley remained alert, prudent. She was not an adventurous woman, nor was she reckless. She’d been married to one man for nearly twenty years; she was childless and had virtually no family. She had a circle of friends in whom she confided sparingly. Normally, she would never have consented to a stranger dropping by her house, but she’d learned that Anton Kruppev was a postdoc fellow at the prestigious Molecular Biology Institute. He had a Ph.D. from M.I.T. and he’d taught at Caltech; his area of specialization was microbial genetics. She’d once seen him at a string-quartet recital on campus. Another time, she’d seen him walking along the canal towpath, alone. He’d been wearing headphones, and he’d kept his head sharply bowed, working his mouth as if he were arguing with someone. He’d been so lost in concentration that his gaze had drifted over her without seeing her—his favorite co-op customer in a cable-knit sweater, wool slacks, and boots, invisible to him. She’d liked it that Anton Kruppev hadn’t noticed her. That she could observe the young man without his observing her. She’d thought, He’s a scientist. He won’t see anything that isn’t crucial for him to see. Now, in her house, Hadley felt a frisson of power over her awkward visitor. She was certain that Anton hadn’t known her husband and wasn’t aware that she was recently widowed. (Hadley still wore her engagement ring and wedding ring, of course.) Her power, she thought, lay in her essential indifference to the man, to his very maleness, his sexuality as clumsy as an odd-sized package he was obliged to carry, to proffer to strangers like her. He had the malnourished look of someone who has been rebuffed many times yet remains determined. There are men of surpassing ugliness with whom women fall in love, but Anton Kruppev was not one of them. His ugliness was not charismatic; his maleness was of another species altogether. Thinking of this, Hadley felt a swell of elation. If he kisses me tonight, he will smell of—garbage. Hadley was smiling. She saw how Anton stared at her, as if her smile were for him. She thanked him for the pumpkin yet again. Her voice was warm, welcoming. What an “original” gift it was, and so “cleverly” carved. Anton’s face glowed with pleasure. “W-wait, Hedley! There is more.” “Hedley,” he called her. At the co-op, it was “Mrs. Schelle,” with an emphasis on the final “e.” Hadley felt no impulse to correct him. Anton seized Hadley’s hand—her fingers must have been icy, unresponsive—and pulled her with him out to the driveway. In the rear of the pickup was a large pot of what appeared to be cream-colored chrysanthemums, past their prime, and a long narrow cardboard box of produce: gnarly carrots with foot-long untrimmed greens, misshapen peppers and pears, bruised McIntosh apples that the co-op couldn’t sell, even at reduced prices. And a loaf of multigrain bread that Anton insisted had been baked only that morning but hadn’t sold and so would be labelled “day-old” the next morning. “In this country, there is much ignorant prejudice of ‘day-old.’ Everything has to be ‘new,’ ‘perfect shape.’ It is a mystery to me why to 6 P.M., when the co-op closes, this bread is good to sell but tomorrow by 8:30 A.M., when the co-op opens, it is ‘old.’ In the place where we come from, my family and neighbors. . . ” Moral vehemence thickened Anton’s accent; his breath came ever more audible. Hadley would have liked to ask Anton more about his background. He’d lived through a nightmare, she knew. Ethnic cleansing. Genocide. Yet she felt uneasy in his presence. Very likely, it had been a mistake to allow the eccentric young biologist to drop by her house a second time; she didn’t want to mislead him. She was a widow who had caused her husband to be burnt to ashes and was unrepentant, unpunished. Since March, she’d been declining invitations from friends who had known her and her husband for years. She felt impatient with their solicitude, their concern for her, which she did not deserve. I’m sorry! I don’t want to go out. I’m very tired. I go to bed and can’t sleep and at 1 A.M. I take a sleeping pill. At 4 A.M., I take another. Forget me! I am something that is finished. She thought now that possibly she didn’t have to invite her visitor into the house, that Anton might not notice her rudeness, might not know enough to interpret it as rudeness. He set the mums and the box with the produce on a white bench near Hadley’s front walk. He’d boasted of being “Mister Fix-It”—and he was quick to see that the terrace behind Hadley’s house contained a number of broken flagstones, which he offered to replace for her. Next he examined the garden gate, which had become warped. He managed to fix it with several deft motions of his hands. “There. It is good as ‘new,’ eh?” he said. He laughed as if he’d said something unexpectedly witty. Hadley was grateful that for all his clumsiness Anton had made no mention of the terrible profusion of weeds amid a lush tangle of black-eyed Susans, Russian sage, and morning-glory vines in Hadley’s husband’s garden, which had been allowed to go wild. She was impressed by her visitor’s energy; it brimmed and thrummed like rising yeast. She would have supposed that after a day presumably spent at the lab and several hours at the co-op Anton would be dazed with exhaustion. Yet there he was, tireless in his inspection of the exterior of Hadley’s house—checking windows and locks, dragging aside broken limbs and storm debris. You’d have thought that Anton Kruppev was an old friend of the family for whom the discovery that one of the floodlights on Hadley’s garage had burnt out was something of a coup, inciting him to immediate action. “You have a bulb to replace, yes? And a ladder with ‘steps’—‘stepladder’? I will put in—now—before it is too dark.” So adamant that Hadley had no choice but to give in. And no choice but to invite Anton Kruppev inside, for just a while. Politely and with regret, she explained that she had a dinner engagement later that evening, but would he like to come inside, for a drink? “Hedley, yes, thank you! I would like—yes—so much.” Stammering with gratitude, Anton scraped his hiking boots against the welcome mat. The soles were muddy and stuck with leaves. Though Hadley insisted that it wasn’t necessary, Anton removed the boots with a grunt and carefully placed them on the front step, side by side. What large boots they were, like a horse’s hooves! The sodden shoelaces trailed out—left, right—in perfect symmetry. Inside, most of the downstairs rooms were dark. Now that it was late October, night came quickly. Pleasantly excited, a little nervous, Hadley went about switching on lights. There was a curious intimacy between her and Anton Kruppev, in this matter of switching on lights. Hadley heard her voice warmly uplifted—no idea what she was saying—as her tall guest came to stand in his gray wool socks at the threshold of the living room, which he hadn’t seen previously. He stared into the long, beautifully furnished room with a shoulder-high stone fireplace at its far end, book-filled shelves, Chinese carpets on a gleaming hardwood floor. Above the fireplace hung an Impressionist Wolf Kahn landscape of gorgeous pastel colors. Excitedly, Anton Kruppev asked if the painting was by Cézanne. “Cézanne! Hardly.” Hadley laughed, the question was so naïve. Except for the surreal pastel colors and a high degree of abstraction in the rendering of massed tree trunks and foliage, there was little in the canvas to suggest the earlier master. Outside, while Anton had been changing the floodlight, Hadley had thought, I will offer him coffee. That’s enough for tonight. But now that they were out of the October chill and inside the warm house she offered him a glass of dark-red Catena wine, from a bottle originally purchased by her husband. Anton thanked her profusely—a flush of pleasure rose into his odd, angular face. In his wiry hair that was the color of ditchwater a small pumpkin seed shone. Hadley poured herself half a glass of wine. Her hand shook just slightly. She thought, If I don’t offer him a second glass. If I don’t ask him to stay. Since there was an opened jar of Brazil nuts on the sideboard, Hadley offered these to Anton, too. A cascade of nuts into a blue ceramic bowl. Gratefully Anton drank, and Anton ate. Thirstily, hungrily. He drifted about Hadley’s living room, peering at her bookshelves. Excitedly he talked—he had so much to say! He reminded Hadley of a chattering bird, a large endearingly gawky bird like an ostrich, long-legged, long-necked, with a beaky face, quick-darting inquisitive eyes. His upper body, now that he’d removed his nylon parka, was bony, concave. Hadley imagined that he would be waxy-pale beneath his shirt. A hairless chest. A little potbelly, and spindly legs. Hadley laughed. Already she’d almost finished her wine. A warm sensation suffused her throat and spread to the region of her heart. Politely she tried to listen—to concentrate—as her eccentric guest babbled rapidly and nervously and with an air of schoolboy enthusiasm. How annoying Anton was! Like many shy people, once he began talking he seemed not to know how to stop; he lacked the social sleight of hand to change the subject, and he had no idea how to engage another person. Like a runaway vehicle, he plunged on, heedless. And yet there was something undeniably attractive about him. He was becoming more incensed now, impassioned—though he seemed to be joking, too—speaking of American politics, American pop culture, and “American fundamentalist ignorance” about stem-cell research. And, how ignorant! More than ninety per cent of Americans believed in God—and in the Devil. Hadley frowned at this. Ninety per cent? Was that so? It didn’t seem plausible that as many people would believe in the Devil as believed in God. “Yes, yes! To believe in the Christian God is to believe in His enemy, the Devil. That is known.” Anton drained his glass of wine and then helped himself to a second glass, scooping up another handful of the Brazil nuts. Hadley wondered if he meant to be rude, or if he simply didn’t know any better. “I really can’t think,” she persisted, “that as many Americans believe in the Devil as believe in God. I’m sure that isn’t so. Americans are—we are—a tolerant nation.” How smug this sounded. Hadley paused, not knowing what she meant to say. The dark wine had gone quickly to her head. With a snort of derision, Anton said, “A tolerant nation—is it? Such ‘tolerance’ as swallows up everything and what it cannot it makes of an enemy.” “Enemy? What do you mean?” “It makes of war. First is declared the enemy, then the war.” Anton laughed, baring his teeth. Chunky yellow teeth they were, and the gums pale pink. Seeing how Hadley stared at him, he said, in a voice heavy with sarcasm, “First, there is the ‘tolerance’—then the ‘preëmpt strike.’ ” Hadley’s face filled with the heat of indignation. This was insulting, deliberately so. Anton Kruppev, who’d lived in the United States for years, knew very well the history of the Iraq war, how Americans had been misled, deceived by the Republican leadership. Of course he knew. She opened her mouth to protest, then thought better of it. Surreptitiously, she glanced at her wristwatch. Only 6:48 P.M.! Her guest had been inside the house for less than half an hour, but the strain of his visit was such that it seemed much longer. Still Anton was prowling about, snooping. Artifacts from trips that Hadley and her husband had taken, over the years—Indonesian pottery, Chinese wall scrolls and watercolors, beautifully carved wooden figures from Bali, a wall of brightly colored “primitive” paintings from Mexico, Costa Rica, Guatemala. Anton seemed particularly interested in the books on Hadley’s shelves, as if the hundreds of titles acquired years earlier by Hadley’s husband—who’d earned both a Ph.D. in European history and a law degree from Columbia University—possessed an immediate significance and were not simply relics of a lost and irretrievable private past. “You have read all these, Hedley, yes?” Hadley laughed, embarrassed. No, she had not. “Then—someone else? All these?” Hadley laughed again, uncertain. Was Anton Kruppev mocking her? He was peering at her, as at her art objects and bookshelves, with an almost hostile intensity; yet she could not help it, so American was her nature, so female, that she was still anxious that he like her, and admire her—if she could be sure that he did, then she would send him away in triumph. She thought again of the foreign-born youths she’d known in school. In middle school, they had seemed pitiful—objects of sympathy, charity, and condescension, if not derision. In high school, they’d become A students, star athletes. There was a drivenness to them, something that the complacent Americans had initially mistaken for weakness. In his soiled wool socks, Anton seemed more childlike than aggressive. Hadley supposed that his own living quarters, in university-owned housing, were minimal, cramped, somewhere in the row of subsidized apartments along the river. “Ah! This is solar room?” He had wandered into the glass-walled room at the rear of the stone house which had been added on by Hadley and her husband; the “solarium,” intended to be sun-warmed, was furnished with white wicker furniture, chintz pillows, and a white wrought-iron table and chairs, like an outdoor porch. But now the room was dark and shadowed, and the bright festive colors were almost invisible. Through the vertical glass panels shone a faint crescent moon, entangled in the tops of the tall pines. “Such a beautiful house—it is old, is it?—so big, for one person. You are so very lucky, Hedley. You know this, yes?” Lucky! Hadley smiled, confused. She tried to see this. “Yes, I think so. I mean—yes.” “So many houses in this ‘village,’ as it is called, they are so big. For so few people. On each acre of land, it may be one person—the demographics would show. Yes?” Hadley wasn’t sure what Anton Kruppev was saying. A brash sort of merriment shone in his eyes, widened behind the smudged lenses of his wire-rimmed glasses. He asked Hadley how long she’d lived in the house, and when she told him that she and her husband had moved there in 1988 he maintained his pained, fixed smile but did not ask about her husband. He must know, then, she thought. Someone at the co-op has told him. Bluntly, Anton said, “Yes, it is luck. America is the land of opportunity—all that is deserved is not always granted.” “But it wasn’t luck. My husband worked. What we have he earned.” “And you, Hedley? You have ‘earned’ also?” “I—I—I don’t take anything for granted. Not any longer.” Anton peered at her closely. It was as if the biologist were trying to determine the meaning of her words by looking at her. A kind of perverse echolocation—was that the word?—like a bat following a trail of high-pitched beeps. Except that Anton was staring. Hadley saw that the pumpkin seed—unless it was a second seed, or a bit of pumpkin gristle—still glistened in his wiry hair, which looked as if it needed shampooing and would be coarse to the touch. She felt a reckless impulse to pluck the seed out, though she could not risk the intimacy. He would misunderstand. He is such a fool, he would misinterpret. But if I wanted a lover. A lover for whom I felt no love. As if Anton had heard these words, his mood suddenly changed. His smile became startled, less strained. He asked Hadley if there were any more repairs for Mister Fix-It, and Hadley said quickly, “No. No more.” “Your basement—furnace—that I could check. I am trained. You smile, Hedley, but it is so. To support myself in school—” Hadley was sure that she wasn’t smiling. More firmly, she thanked Anton and told him she had to leave soon. “I’m meeting friends for dinner in town.” This was clearly a lie. Hadley could lie only flatly, brazenly. Anton took a step closer. “I would come back another day, if needed. I would be happy to do this, Hedley. You know this—I am your friend Anton—yes?” “No. I mean—yes. Some other time, maybe.” Hadley began to lead her guest back out into the living room, into the lighted gallery and the foyer near the front door. He followed in her wake muttering to himself—unless he was talking to Hadley, and meant her to hear, to laugh, for it seemed that Anton was laughing, under his breath. He’d drained his second glass of wine and his movements had become jerky, uncoördinated, like those of a partially animate scarecrow. It was then that Anton began to confide in Hadley, in a lowered and agitated voice: the head of his laboratory at the institute had cheated him; he’d taken the discoveries of Anton Kruppev to claim for his own; he’d published a paper in which Anton was cited merely in a list of graduate assistants, and now that Anton had protested he was exiling Anton from the lab. He’d refused to speak to Anton at the institute and had banished him, and so Anton had gone to the university president—he had demanded to be allowed to speak to him, but of course he’d been turned away. Anton had returned the next morning, and when he was again told no he demanded to speak with the provost—and the university attorney. Their offices were near one another in the administration building. But they were all in conspiracy together, with the head of the institute and the head of Anton’s laboratory—he knew this! He was not such a fool, not to know this! Anton had become excited and someone had called security. The campus police had arrived and led him away protesting; they had threatened to turn him over to the town police, who would arrest him for “trespassing” and “threatening bodily harm.” Anton had been terrified—he would be deported by Homeland Security. He did not yet have his American citizenship— “You are smiling, Hedley? What is the joke?” Smiling? During this long, breathless, disjointed speech, Hadley had been staring at Anton Kruppev in astonishment. “It is amusing to you, yes? That after all my work, my effort—I am most hardworking in the lab—our supervisor exploits my good nature. He was always saying, ‘Anton is the stoic among us’—what this means, this flattery of Americans, is that you can be used. To be used—that is our purpose, to the institute. But you must not indicate that you are in the know.” Anton spoke like someone whose grievances were so far in excess of his ability to express them that he might have been the bearer of an ancient, tribal burden. “And now, after three years, when my findings are cheated from me and I am of no more use, it is time to toss away into the Dumpster. That is good word, good joke, eh? ‘Dumpster’—very good American joke. The institute is saying my contract will not be renewed, for the federal grant is ended. And my supervisor has not ever got around to aiding me with my citizenship application—years it has been. Of course, I have been dialtory myself—I have been working so hard in the lab. Yesterday morning it was, the decision came to me by e-mail. You—you must not smile, Hedley! That is very selfish. That is very selfish and very cruel.” The indignant man loomed over Hadley, his angular face hardened with strain. His jaws were clenched. A sweaty-garbagey smell wafted from his heated body. Behind the smudged lenses his eyes were deep-socketed, wary. Hadley said nervously, “Maybe you should leave, Anton. I’m expecting friends. I mean . . . they’re stopping by, to take me with them. To dinner in town . . . ” Hadley didn’t want her agitated visitor to sense how frightened she was of him. Her mistake was in turning away to lead him to the door. Insulting him. He looped an arm around her neck, and in an instant they were struggling off balance. He grabbed at her, and kissed her—kissed and bit at her lips, like a suddenly ravenous rodent. Both their wineglasses went flying, clattering to the floor. She was trying to draw breath to scream but he’d pushed her down. She thought he was trying to strangle her, then it seemed that he was still kissing her, or trying to. Panicked, she jammed her elbows into his chest, his ribs; his mouth closed over hers and she thought that he would bite off her lip. With a kind of manic elation, he was murmuring what sounded like You like me! You want this! Grunting with effort, he straddled her, his face flushed with emotion; their struggle had become purely physical, and urgent, enacted now in near-silence, except for their panting. Hadley had no idea what she was doing, moving her head from side to side, trying to avoid the man’s mouth, his sharp yellow teeth, the smell of his breath. In a paroxysm of desperation, Hadley managed to squirm out from beneath him, like an animal crawling on hands and knees, and in that instant she almost believed that she might escape Anton Kruppev—but he had only to lunge after her, seize her ankle in his strong fingers, laughing and climbing over her, straddling her again, more forcibly this time, closing his fingers around her neck. In a choked voice, Anton was saying, “You want me here! You asked for this. You have no right to laugh at me. You and your ‘trustee’ husband.” Hadley had no idea what Anton was saying. Trustee? Her husband had served on an advisory board for the history department; he’d had no association with the molecular-biology institute. She could not have explained this; she had not the strength, or the breath, yet she had time to think, almost calmly, This can’t be happening. This is wrong. She seemed to see herself in that instant with a strange stillness and detachment, as she had during her marriage when while she was making love with her husband her mind had slipped free and all that was physical, visceral, and immediate was at a little distance. Though now, tasting the wine on Anton’s tongue, the sour-feral wine taste of a man’s mouth, Hadley knew that she was loathed by the man; his hatred was pure and fiery as she begged him, Please don’t hurt me, Anton. I want to be your friend, Anton. I will help you. It wasn’t wine she was tasting but blood from her upper lip. He disengaged from her roughly and got to his feet, looming over her, his shirt loose, splattered with blood. In a voice of anguish, rage, incoherence, he uttered something that she did not understand, then staggered away to the front door. Then—to her astonishment—he was gone. She lay very still, her heart pounding, her body bathed in sweat and the smell of him, her brain blank, oblivious of her surroundings. After several minutes—it may have been as many as ten or fifteen—she understood that she was alone. It had not quite happened to her the way that she’d believed it would happen, the crossing over. She managed to stand. She was dazed, sobbing. She leaned against a chair in the hall, touching the walls, then stumbled to the open doorway and stood, staring outside. The front walk was dimly illuminated by the moon overhead. There was a meagre light, a near-to-fading light. She saw that the pumpkin head had fallen from the step, or had been kicked. It lay shattered on its side. She could see that the innards had been scooped out, but negligently, so that seeds remained, bits of pumpkin gristle. She stepped outside. She wiped at her mouth, which was still bleeding. She would run back into the house and dial 911. She would report an assault. She would summon help. For she required help, badly; she knew that Anton Kruppev would return. Certainly he would return. On the front walk, she stood gazing toward the road—what she could see of the road in the darkness. There were headlights there. An unmoving vehicle. It was very dark, a winter dark had come upon them. She called out, “Hello? Hello? Who is it?” Headlights on the roadway, where his vehicle was parked.
The Limner Mr. Tuttle had been argumentative from the beginning: about the fee—twelve dollars—the size of the canvas, and the prospect to be shown through the window. Fortunately, there had been swift accord about the pose and the costume. Over these, Wadsworth was happy to oblige the customs collector; happy also to give him the appearance, as far as it was within his skill, of a gentleman. That was, after all, his business. He was a limner but also an artisan, and paid at an artisan’s rate to produce what suited the client. In thirty years, few would remember what the collector of customs had looked like; the only relic of his physical presence after he had met his Maker would be this portrait. And, in Wadsworth’s experience, clients held it more important to be pictured as sober, God-fearing men and women than they did to be offered a true likeness. This was not a matter that perturbed him. From the edge of his eye, Wadsworth became aware that his client had spoken, but he did not divert his gaze from the tip of his brush. Instead he pointed to the bound notebook in which so many sitters had written comments, expressed their praise and blame, wisdom and fatuity. He might as well have opened the book at any page and asked his client to select the appropriate remark left by a predecessor five or ten years before. The opinions of this customs collector so far had been as predictable as his waistcoat buttons, if less interesting. Fortunately, Wadsworth was paid to represent waistcoats, not opinions. Of course, it was more complicated than that: to represent the waistcoat, and the wig, and the breeches, was to represent an opinion—indeed, a whole corpus of them. The waistcoat and breeches showed the body beneath, as the wig and hat showed the brain beneath—though, in some cases, it was a pictorial exaggeration to suggest that any brains lay beneath. He would be happy to leave this town, to pack his brushes and canvases, his pigments and palette, into the small cart, to saddle his mare, and then take the forest trails that, in three days, would lead him home. There he would rest, and reflect, and perhaps decide to live differently, without this constant travail of the itinerant. A peddler’s life; also a supplicant’s. As always, he had come to this town, taken lodgings by the night, and placed an advertisement in the newspaper, indicating his competence, his prices, and his availability. “If no application is made within six days,” the advertisement ended, “Mr. Wadsworth will quit the town.” He had already painted the small daughter of the drygoods salesman, and Deacon Zebediah Harries, who had given him Christian hospitality in his house, and recommended him to the collector of customs. Mr. Tuttle had not offered lodging, but the limner willingly slept in the stable with his mare for company, and ate in the kitchen. And then there had been that incident on the third evening, against which he had failed—or felt unable—to protest. It had made him sleep uneasily. It had wounded him, too, if the truth were known. He ought to have written the collector down for an oaf and a bully—he had painted enough in his years—and forgotten the matter. Perhaps he should indeed consider his retirement, let his mare grow fat, and live from what crops he could grow and what farm stock he could raise. He could always paint windows and doors for a trade, instead of people; he would not judge this an indignity. Late on the first morning, Wadsworth had been obliged to introduce the collector of customs to the notebook. The fellow, like many another, had imagined that merely opening his mouth wider might be enough to effect communication. Wadsworth had watched the pen travel across the page, and then the fore-finger tap impatiently. “If God is merciful,” the man had written, “perhaps in Heaven you will hear.” In reply, he had half smiled, and given a brief nod, from which surprise and gratitude might be inferred. He had read the thought many times before. Often it was a true expression of Christian feeling and sympathetic hope; occasionally, it represented, as now, a scarcely concealed dismay that the world contained those with such frustrating defects. Mr. Tuttle was among the masters who preferred their servants to be mute, deaf, and blind—except when his convenience required the matter otherwise. Of course, masters and servants had become citizens and hired help once the juster republic had declared itself. But masters and servants did not die out; nor did the essential inclinations of man. Wadsworth did not think that he was judging the collector in an un-Christian fashion. His opinion had been forged on first contact, and confirmed on that third evening. The incident had been the crueller in that it had involved a child, a garden boy who had scarcely entered the years of understanding. The limner always felt tenderly toward children: for themselves, for the grateful fact that they overlooked his defect, and also because he had no issue himself. He had never known the company of a wife. Perhaps he might yet do so, though he would have to insure that she was beyond childbearing years. He could not inflict his defect on others. Some had tried explaining that his fears were unfounded, since the affliction had arrived not at birth but after an attack of the spotted fever when he was a boy of five. Further, they pressed, had he not made his way in the world, and might not a son of his, howsoever constructed, do likewise? Perhaps that would be the case, but what of a daughter? The notion of a girl living as an outcast was too much for him. True, she might stay at home, and there would be a shared sympathy between them. But what would happen to such a child after his death? No, he would go home and paint his mare. This had always been his intention, and perhaps now he would execute it. She had been his companion for twelve years, understood him easily, and took no heed of the noises that issued from his mouth when they were alone in the forest. His plan had been this: to paint her, on the same size of canvas used for Mr. Tuttle, though turned on its horizontal axis, and, afterward, to cast a blanket over the picture and uncover it only on the mare’s death. It was presumptuous to compare the daily reality of God’s living creation with a human simulacrum formed by an inadequate hand—even if this was the very purpose for which his clients employed him. He did not expect it would be easy to paint the mare. She would lack the patience, and the vanity, to stand immobile for him, one hoof proudly advanced. But, then, neither would his mare have the vanity to come around and examine the canvas even as he worked on it. The collector of customs was now doing so, leaning over his shoulder, peering and pointing. There was something he did not approve. Wadsworth glanced upward, from the immobile face to the mobile one. Even though he had a distant memory of speaking and hearing, he had never learned the facility of reading words upon the tongue. Wadsworth raised the narrowest of his brushes from the waistcoat button’s boss and transferred his eye to the notebook as the collector dipped his pen. “More dignity,” the man wrote, and then underlined the words. Wadsworth felt that he had already given Mr. Tuttle dignity enough. He had increased his height, reduced his belly, ignored the hairy moles on the fellow’s neck, and generally attempted to represent surliness as diligence, irascibility as moral principle. And now he wanted more of it! This was an un-Christian demand, and it would be an un-Christian act on Wadsworth’s part to accede to it. It would do the man no service in God’s eyes if the limner allowed him to appear puffed up with all the dignity he demanded. He had painted infants, children, men, and women, and even corpses. Three times he had urged his mare to a deathbed where he was asked to perform resuscitation—to represent as living someone he had just met as dead. If he could do that, surely he should be able to render the quickness of his mare as she shook her tail against the flies, or impatiently raised her neck while he prepared the little painting cart, or pricked her ears as he made noises to the forest. At one time he had tried to make his meaning plain to his fellow-mortals by gesture and by sound. It was true that a few simple actions could be easily imitated: he could indicate, for example, how a client might wish to stand. But other gestures often resulted in humiliating games of guessing, while the sounds he was able to utter failed to establish either his requirements or his shared nature as a human being—part of the Almighty’s work, if differently made. Women judged the noises he made embarrassing, children found them a source of amusement, men a proof of imbecility. He had tried to advance in this way, but had not succeeded, and so he had retreated into the muteness they expected, and perhaps preferred. It was at this point that he had purchased his calfskin logbook, in which all human statement and opinion recurred. Do you think, sir, there will be painting in Heaven? Do you think, sir, there will be hearing in Heaven? But his understanding of men, such as it had developed, came less from what they wrote down, more from his mute observation. Men—and women, too—imagined that they could alter their voice and meaning without its showing in their face. In this they were much deceived. His own face, as he observed the human carnival, was as inexpressive as his tongue, but his eye told him more than they could guess. Formerly, he had carried, inside his logbook, a set of handwritten cards, bearing useful responses, necessary suggestions, and civil corrections to what was being proposed. He even had one special card, for when he was being condescended to by his interlocutor beyond what he found proper. It read, “Sir, the understanding does not cease to function when the portals of the mind are blocked.” This was sometimes accepted as a just rebuke, sometimes held to be an impertinence from a mere artisan who slept in the stable. Wadsworth had abandoned its use, not because of either response but because it admitted too much knowledge. Those in the world of tongue held the advantage: they were his paymasters, they exercised authority, they entered society, they exchanged thoughts and opinions naturally. Though, for all this, Wadsworth did not see that speaking was in itself a promoter of virtue. His own advantages were only two: that he could represent on canvas those who spoke, and could silently perceive their meaning. It would have been foolish to give away this second advantage. The business with the piano, for instance. Wadsworth had first inquired, by pointing to his fee scale, if the collector of customs wished for a portrait of the entire family, matching portraits of himself and his wife, or a joint portrait, with perhaps miniatures of the children. Mr. Tuttle, without looking at his wife, had pointed to his own breast and written on the fee sheet, “Myself alone.” Then he had glanced at his wife, put one hand to his chin, and added, “Beside the piano.” Wadsworth had noticed the handsome, claw-footed rosewood instrument, and asked with a gesture if he might go across to it. Whereupon he had demonstrated several poses: from sitting informally beside the open keyboard with a favorite song on display to standing more formally beside the instrument. Tuttle had taken Wadsworth’s place, arranged himself, advanced one foot, and then, after consideration, closed the piano lid. Wadsworth deduced from this that only Mrs. Tuttle played the piano; further, that Tuttle’s desire to include it was an indirect way of including her in the portrait. Indirect, and also less expensive. The limner had shown the customs collector some miniatures of children, hoping to change his mind, but Tuttle merely shook his head. Wadsworth was disappointed, partly for reasons of money but more because his delight in painting children had increased as that in painting their progenitors had declined. Children were more mobile than adults, more deliquescent of shape, it was true. But they also looked him in the eye, and when you were deaf you heard with your eyes. Children held his gaze, and he thereby perceived their nature. Adults often looked away, whether from modesty or a desire for concealment, while some, like the collector, held his gaze challengingly, with a false honesty, as if to say, Yes, of course my eyes are concealing things, but you lack the discernment to realize it. Such clients judged Wadsworth’s affinity with children proof that he was as deficient in understanding as the children were. Whereas Wadsworth believed children’s affinity with him proof that they saw as clearly as he did. When he had first taken up his trade, he had carried his brushes and pigments on his back, and walked the forest trails like a peddler. He found himself on his own, reliant upon recommendation and advertisement. But he was industrious and, being possessed of a companionable nature, grateful that his skill allowed him access to the lives of others. He would enter a household, and, whether placed in the stable, quartered with the help, or, very occasionally, and only in the most Christian of dwellings, treated like a guest, he had, for those few days, a function and a recognition. This did not mean that he was treated with any less condescension than other artisans, but at least he was being judged a normal human being; that is to say, one who merited condescension. He was happy, perhaps for the first time in his life. And then, without any help beyond his own perceptions, he began to understand that he had more than just a function; he had strength of his own. This was not something that those who employed him would admit, but his eyes told him that it was the case. Slowly, he realized the truth of his craft: that the client was the master, except when he, James Wadsworth, was the client’s master. For a start, he was the client’s master when his eye discerned what the client would prefer him not to know. A husband’s contempt. A wife’s dissatisfaction. A deacon’s hypocrisy. A child’s suffering. A man’s pleasure at having his wife’s money to spend. A husband’s eye for the hired girl. Large matters in small kingdoms. And, beyond this, he realized that when he rose in the stable and brushed the horsehair from his clothes, then crossed to the house and took up a brush made from the hair of another animal, he became more than he was taken for. Those who sat for him and paid him did not truly know what their money would buy. They knew what they had agreed on—the size of the canvas, the pose and the decorative elements (the bowl of strawberries, the bird on a string, the piano, the view from the window)—and from this agreement they inferred mastery. But this was the very moment at which mastery passed to the other side of the canvas. Hitherto in their lives they had seen themselves in looking glasses and hand mirrors, in the backs of spoons, and, dimly, in clear still water. It was even said that lovers were able to see their reflections in each other’s eyes, but the limner had no experience of this. Yet all such images depended upon the person in front of the glass, the spoon, the water, the eye. When Wadsworth provided his clients with their portraits, it was habitually the first time that they had seen themselves as someone else saw them. Sometimes, when the picture was presented, the limner would detect a sudden chill passing over the subject’s skin, as if he were thinking, So this is how I truly am? It was a moment of unaccountable seriousness: this image was how he would be remembered when he was dead. And there was a seriousness beyond even this. Wadsworth did not think himself presumptuous when his eye told him that often the subject’s next reflection was “And is this perhaps how the Almighty sees me, too?” Those who did not have the modesty to be struck by such doubts tended to comport themselves as the collector now did: to ask for adjustments and improvements, to tell the limner that his hand and eye were faulty. Would they have the vanity to complain to God in His turn? “More dignity, more dignity.” An instruction all the more repugnant given Mr. Tuttle’s behavior in the kitchen two nights ago. Wadsworth had been taking his supper, content with his day’s labor. He had just finished the piano. The instrument’s narrow leg, which ran parallel to Tuttle’s more massive limb, ended in a gilt claw, which Wadsworth had had some trouble representing. But now he was able to refresh himself, to stretch by the fire, to feed, and to observe the society of the help. There were more of these than expected. A collector of customs might earn fifteen dollars a week, enough to keep a hired girl. Yet Tuttle also kept a cook and a boy to work the garden. Since the collector did not appear to be a man lavish with his own money, Wadsworth deduced that it was Mrs. Tuttle’s portion that permitted such luxury of attention. Once they became accustomed to his defect, the help treated him easily, as if his deafness rendered him their equal. It was an equality that Wadsworth was happy to concede. The garden boy, an elf with eyes of burnt umber, had taken to entertaining him with tricks. It was as if he imagined that the limner, being shorn of words, thereby lacked amusement. This was not the case, but Wadsworth indulged this indulgence of him and smiled as the boy turned cartwheels, stole up behind the cook while she bent to the bake oven, or played a guessing game with acorns hidden in his fists. The limner had finished his broth and was warming himself before the fire—an element that Mr. Tuttle was not generous with elsewhere in the house—when an idea came to him. He drew a charred stick from the edge of the ashes, touched the garden boy on the shoulder to make him stay as he was, then pulled a drawing book from his pocket. The cook and the hired girl tried to watch what he was doing, but he held them away with a hand, as if to say that this particular trick, one he was offering in thanks for the boy’s own tricks, would not work if observed. It was a rough sketch—it could only be so, given the crudeness of the instrument—but it contained some part of a likeness. He tore the page from the book and handed it to the boy. The child looked up at him, with astonishment and gratitude, placed the sketch on the table, took Wadsworth’s drawing hand, and kissed it. I should always paint children, the limner thought, looking the boy in the eye. He was almost unaware of the laughing tumult that broke out when the other two examined the drawing, and then of the silence that fell when the collector of customs, drawn by the sudden noise, entered the kitchen. The limner watched as Tuttle stood there, one foot advanced, as in his portrait, his mouth opening and closing in a manner that did not suggest dignity. He watched as the cook and the girl rearranged themselves in more decorous attitudes. He watched as the boy, alert to his master’s gaze, picked up the drawing and modestly, proudly, handed it over. He watched as Tuttle took the paper calmly, examined it, looked at the boy, glanced at Wadsworth, nodded, then deliberately tore the sketch in four, placed it in the fire, waited until it blazed, said something further when in quarter-profile to the limner, and made his exit. He watched as the boy wept. The portrait was finished: both rosewood piano and collector of customs gleamed. A small white customs house filled the window at Mr. Tuttle’s elbow—not that there was any real window there, or, if there had been, any customs house visible through it. Yet everyone understood this modest transcendence of reality. And perhaps the collector, in his own mind, was only asking for a similar transcendence of reality when he demanded more dignity. He was still leaning over Wadsworth, gesturing at the representation of his face, chest, leg. It did not matter in the least that the limner could not hear what he was saying. He knew exactly what was meant, and also how little it signified. Indeed, it was an advantage not to hear, for the particularities would doubtless have raised him to an even greater anger than that which he presently felt. He reached for his notebook. “Sir,” he wrote, “We agreed upon five days for my labor. I must leave tomorrow morning by daybreak. We agreed that you would pay me tonight. Pay me, give me three candles, and by the morning I shall work such improvement as you require.” It was rare for him to treat a client with so little deference. It would be bad for his reputation in the county, but he no longer cared. He offered the pen in the direction of Mr. Tuttle, who did not deign to receive it. Instead, he left the room. While waiting, the limner examined his work. It was well done: the proportions were pleasing, the colors harmonious, and the likeness within the bounds of honesty. The collector ought to be satisfied, posterity impressed, and his Maker—always assuming he was vouchsafed Heaven—not too rebuking. Tuttle returned and handed over six dollars—half the fee—and two candles. Doubtless the cost of them would be deducted from the second half of the fee when it came to be paid. If it came to be paid. Wadsworth looked long at the portrait, which, over the last days, had come to assume for him equal reality with its fleshly subject, and then he made several decisions. He took his supper as usual in the kitchen. His companions had been subdued these last two nights. He did not think they blamed him for the incident with the garden boy; at most, they thought his presence had led to their own misjudgment, and so they were chastened. This, at any rate, was how Wadsworth saw matters, and he did not think that their meaning would be clearer if he could hear speech or read lips; indeed, perhaps the opposite. If his notebook of men’s thoughts and observations was anything to judge by, the world’s knowledge of itself, when spoken and written down, did not amount to much. This time, he selected a piece of charcoal more carefully and, with his pocketknife, scraped its end to a semblance of sharpness. Then, as the boy sat opposite him, immobile more through apprehension than through a sitter’s sense of duty, the limner drew him again. When he had finished, he tore out the sheet and, with the boy’s eyes upon him, folded it, mimed the act of concealing it beneath his shirt, and handed it across the table. The boy immediately did as he had seen, and smiled for the first time that evening. Then, sharpening his piece of charcoal before each task, Wadsworth drew the cook and the hired girl. Each took the folded sheet and concealed it without looking. Then he rose, shook their hands, embraced the garden boy, and returned to his night’s work. “More dignity,” he repeated to himself as he lit the candles and took up his brush. Well, then, a dignified man is one whose appearance implies a lifetime of thought, one whose brow expresses it. Yes, there was an improvement to be made there. He measured the distance between the eyebrow and the hairline, and at the midpoint, in line with the right eyeball, he developed the brow: an enlargement, a small mound, almost as if something were beginning to grow. Then he did the same above the left eye. Yes, that was better. But dignity was also to be inferred from the state of a man’s chin. Not that there was anything patently insufficient about Tuttle’s jawline. But perhaps the discernible beginnings of a beard might help—a few touches on each point of the chin. Nothing to cause immediate remark, let alone offense, merely an indication. And perhaps another indication was required. He followed the collector’s sturdily dignified leg down its stockinged calf to the buckled shoe. Then he followed the parallel leg of the piano down from the closed keyboard lid to the gilt claw that had so delayed him. Perhaps that trouble could have been avoided? The collector had not specified that the piano be rendered exactly. If a little transcendence had been applied to the window and the customs house, why not to the piano as well? The more so since the spectacle of a claw beside a customs man might suggest a grasping and rapacious nature, which no client would wish implied, whether there was evidence for it or not. Wadsworth therefore painted out the feline paw and replaced it with a quieter hoof, gray in color and lightly bifurcated. Habit and prudence urged him to snuff out the two candles he had been awarded, but the limner decided to leave them burning. They were his now—or, at least, he would have paid for them soon. He washed his brushes in the kitchen, packed his painting box, saddled his mare, and harnessed the little cart to her. She seemed as happy to leave as he. As they walked from the stable, he saw windows outlined by candlelight. He hauled himself into the saddle, the mare moved beneath him, and he began to feel cold air on his face. At daybreak, an hour from now, his penultimate portrait would be examined by the hired girl pinching out the wasteful candles. He hoped that there would be painting in Heaven, but more than this he hoped that there would be deafness in Heaven. The mare, soon to be the subject of his final portrait, found her own way to the trail. After a while, with Mr. Tuttle’s house far behind them, Wadsworth shouted into the silence of the forest.
Another Manhattan They had lied to each other so many times, over so many years, that deceptions between them had become commonplace, practically repertoire. Everyone knew this about them—it wasn’t news among their friends. That night, they had dinner reservations with Elliot and Susan, who were accustomed to following the shifts in attitude and tone—Kate’s theatrical sighs, for instance, in reaction to Jim’s mournful looks across the table at her—brought on by the strain of living in an atmosphere of worry and betrayal. It was winter, and dark, and the air in their little apartment was dry and nauseatingly warm; and yet what they needed, it seemed to Jim, was not to flee their home for another night of exciting conversational pauses and sly four-way flirting. They needed to sit down together, no matter how stuffy it got in the living room, no matter how loudly the radiators hissed and banged, and take turns speaking their minds. They had to talk. But first he would stop at the florist’s on his way home from the outpatient clinic. If he walked through the door carrying a bouquet, there was a chance that Kate might smile. There was a chance also that it wouldn’t look awkward or strange when, at the end of the evening—he didn’t really believe that he and Kate would be staying in—he paired with Susan for the walk through the cold, from the restaurant to Elliot’s car. It might look, in other words, as if he were not bothered by Kate’s whispering to another man. (She had a way, with Elliot, of bowing her head and mumbling furiously through the strands of hair that fell across the side of her face, so that, in order to make out her words, Elliot was forced to stoop and lean into the fog of her breath.) Jim’s own affair, his affair with Susan, had been over for almost five months, long enough, he thought, as he approached the florist’s on the corner by his and Kate’s building, for him to begin experimenting—later that same night, if the mood was right—with innocently putting his arm around Susan’s shoulder while she and he and Kate and Elliot walked in two sets of two toward the parking garage. Of course, he wanted to be careful not to punish Kate, or, at least, not to seem to punish her, for her success in adultery. Elliot made her laugh—in a sweet way. Anyone meeting them for the first time would think they were a new couple. It was wrong to hate her. He’d arrived at the florist’s. Inside, he went straight over to the roses in their refrigerated case. Though it was a cold day, cold and very windy, and he’d come in chilled, the short walk across the heated space warmed him, and he could feel the frigid air hit him in the face when he yanked open the glass door. He leaned in and peered at the flowers. He asked the girl, “Do you have yellow roses that haven’t already bloomed and, you know, opened?” Yellow roses, signifying friendship more than eros, seemed right, given the complex potentials of the evening. “We only have these.” “They’re pretty, but they’re not going to last.” She was pretty as well, the girl showing him roses. Had he seen her in here before and somehow not noticed? How old was she? Should he risk looking into her eyes? Was she wearing a ring? What about her ass? And what had he said to her just now? Blooming and opening meant the same thing in relation to flowers. He’d become inarticulate in her presence. Kate, in the meantime, was upstairs in the apartment, talking on the phone to Elliot. The call had gone on for more than five hours. Kate had had to use all available phones: her cell phone and, before the cell, the apartment’s two cheap cordless handsets, one in the kitchen and one in the bedroom. “Can you hear beeping? I’ve got to switch phones. Hang on,” she’d exclaimed when the kitchen phone’s battery began dying. Carrying that phone (her first of the call), she’d gone into the bedroom, picked up its brother from the night table, and said, into this new phone, “Are you there? Can you hear me? Hold on while I hang up the other phone,” after which she’d taken both phones to the kitchen and dropped the dead one into its cradle on the wall. A small cabinet door beside this phone opened onto a narrow and dark airshaft that had once housed a dumbwaiter. Kate opened and closed this empty cabinet several times while explaining, on the bedroom phone, why Elliot’s being married and her being married shouldn’t necessarily be considered something they had in common. That they were both childless could stand as an area of emotional parity, she felt, considering the fact that they both remained unsure as to whether to have children, while their spouses frequently made it clear that, in their opinions—Susan’s specifically regarding Elliot, Jim’s specifically regarding Kate, and neither Susan nor Jim meaning to suggest a marital reconfiguration—they’d make “a great dad” or “a great mom.” Elliot interrupted: “Don’t you get tired of hearing that?” “It’s beside the point,” Kate answered, and went on, “Oh, Elliot, why is talking to you so damn fucking difficult?” “Do you need an answer?” “You know me, always curious.” How stupid was that? She’d been trying, not for the first time, to lovingly make clear to Elliot why she could no longer sleep with him. During the first hours of the conversation she’d been able to control the impulse to bait and flirt. But the business of swapping phones, the walking from room to room in the stuffy apartment, had, as it were, weakened her. It was as if, in losing that first phone, she’d lost a line of defense, however symbolic, against Elliot’s desire. Or maybe, she thought as she stood in the kitchen, opening and closing the dumbwaiter door with one hand, the necessary act of sacrificing one phone for another could be read as a veiled enactment of the sort of ambivalence required for alternating between lovers in the first place. Or was that too absurd? “Say that once more. I didn’t hear what you were saying,” she said to Elliot. The heating pipes banged; day was turning to dusk. She listened to the hiss of steam escaping from the radiator beneath the kitchen window. Elliot began again, “I was saying that I sometimes think that you think that because I’m a psychiatrist I can automatically see all the different sides of a situation. But I’m not that kind of psychiatrist.” “Please don’t talk to me like I’m one of your postdocs,” she said, and he took a long breath. He said, “Kate, we’re involved with each other, Kate.” “Jim’s your friend.” “And so are you my friend.” “Your wife is my friend, too.” She continued, “Fuck, I hate this. Now this motherfucking phone is beeping. Hold on. Elliot, can you hold on?” She swapped the bedroom phone for the insufficiently charged kitchen phone, went with that phone back into the bedroom, and sat on the edge of the bed. “Kate, why are you bringing up Susan? I need to know what your point is. We agreed that we weren’t going to talk about Susan. So where are you going with this? Kate? Are you there?” He waited. “Will you talk to me? Please, don’t do this. Don’t do this, Kate. All right, fuck this, fuck this, fuck—” His phone was beeping. It wasn’t the battery. It was another call. He said, “Kate, hang on a minute. Hang on, Kate.” He took the call. “Hello?” “It’s me,” she said, and then informed him in a miserable voice that both her home phones were dead, and that she was on her cell phone and just wanted to say that she didn’t much enjoy dishonesty. “You’ll have to speak up,” he said. “Can you hear me? Tell me when the signal is clear.” She pressed the cell phone against her ear and walked from the bedroom to the living room, then into the kitchen, then straight down the hall, passing the tiny second bathroom, with the broken, unusable toilet, to the apartment’s miniature front foyer. “Here?” she said. “Here?” “I’m losing you,” he said. And so she retraced her route, winding up back in the living room, where she turned on a lamp. The sky was dark. Everywhere on the city’s horizon she saw other people’s lit windows. Once again, Elliot had bullied her—or she’d let him bully her—into leaving open the question of their affair. What was the use in arguing, anyway? Jim would come home any minute, and, a little later, the two of them would go out and meet Elliot and Susan for dinner. How crazy was that? She still had to shower and dress. She conceded to Elliot, “All right, I’ll think about it.” “Tomorrow, then?” Elliot said, and added, “I knew you’d come to your senses.” He joked that if he didn’t get out of his office in the next few minutes he’d be forced to show up at the restaurant in his white coat. They said goodbye, and she put down the phone and wept for a quarter of an hour. Downstairs at the florist’s, Jim’s bouquet for Kate was growing and growing. It featured not only yellow roses but red and pink solitaires, along with sprigs of heather, freesia, and alstroemeria; green and white calla lilies; blue irises; mums; and some other things the girl had plucked from buckets and waved in the air for him to see and approve. “What else? What does she like?” she’d asked him, as she leaned into the refrigerator and reached for more. “That looks so nice. I think she’ll like just what you like,” he said, and wondered whether it was O.K. for him to have said it. Was it provocative? There were no other customers in the shop. Staying close but keeping his distance, he followed the girl from one display case to another. He might as well have been buying lingerie, he felt; and, in fact, it seemed to him that the bouquet was somehow intended for the girl, as much as for Kate, who would’ve been, well, not exactly mortified to know that her husband was downstairs using a shopgirl as a proxy to get himself worked up for sex later that night. “Baby’s breath,” the girl said to him. “Excuse me?” “I love baby’s breath.” “In that case, we’ll have to have a bunch,” Jim said. “Good.” She turned away, laid the unfinished bouquet on its side on the countertop beside the cash register, and, with her back to him, said, “We have a lot to work with here.” She glanced back over her shoulder (did she want him to come closer?), then, quickly—what a great flirt, he thought—turned away again and set to work breaking down the bouquet and separating the flowers into groups, a variegated series of stacks that she arranged not by color or type (except in the case of the combined red, pink, and yellow roses) but, as became clear, by stem length. When she had her piles, she picked up clippers. “This will take a minute,” she said. He watched her snip the stems. He said, “Take your time.” But there was a problem: what were these flowers going to cost? The bouquet as she assembled it—as it came to be, in her hands—was broader and taller by far than what he’d come into the florist’s wanting. It was less a bouquet than a proper arrangement, a centerpiece, thanks in part to the leafy green branches the girl stuffed between blossoms, and the pale-white baby’s breath, which she didn’t so much layer as clump into the globular mass. “Can we take some out?” he asked, and wished he hadn’t. What kind of man courts a woman by letting her make an enormous bouquet for his wife, then asks her to pare back? “What would you like me to take out?” the girl asked. Was she annoyed? She had her back to him. Did she think less of him? Did she think he was a cheap bastard who cheats on his wife? “It’s just that I was hoping to use a particular Arts and Crafts vase on the mantel, which, in my opinion, these would look lovely in,” he elaborately lied. (Actually, there was a vase on the mantel—but so what?) He went on, “What I mean to say is that the vase I have in mind isn’t very big.” Did he need excuses? Did he need to bring up his home life? He went into reverse. “Come to think of it, never mind about that vase on the mantel. It would be a shame to wreck such a nice bouquet.” “I’m not going to wreck anything.” Was she scolding him? Were things heating up between them? He waited for her next move. “I can give you a bigger vase,” she proposed, finally. He held his breath. She had to be at least twenty years younger than he. But it wasn’t their age difference, nor the fact that he was married, that made him feel uncertain of himself. The problem was his thought process: the lithium he was taking in small doses brought a slower speed to reality. It was the lithium or the antidepressant cocktail or all of it in concert. At times, when he spoke, he felt as if a kind of mental wind were blowing his thoughts back at him, forcing him to self-consciously order his syntax as he pushed words out. “I just got—I just got out of the hospital!” he blurted. He watched her as she turned to face him; in her hands she held white lilies and a red satin bow, and her eyes looked left, right, left. “I shouldn’t’ve said that! Forget I said that! I didn’t mean to say that! Give me the vase. I want a vase.” “Oh!” she said, as if startled to realize that she was still clutching pieces of the bouquet. “Let me run in the back and get one.” While Jim and the girl sorted themselves out downstairs, Kate was marching around the apartment in her red platform heels, shoving items into her purse and looking in the usual places for her keys. She had to flee before Jim walked in. She could phone him from the street and tell him that she’d meet him at the restaurant. Going from Elliot to Jim to Elliot and Jim and Susan without a break was bullshit. But, seriously, where was she going to go? It was too cold out to sit on a bench. The bar next door to the restaurant was bleak and depressing, an old men’s dive, and the bar inside the restaurant would be a mob scene of people pushing for tables. She could stand idly flipping through magazines at the newsstand across Broadway, but that would mean accommodating the line of men squeezing past her to look at porn at the rear of the store. She slammed the apartment door behind her and started down the five flights of stairs. Too often in winter she failed to leave the apartment before sunset. It worked hell on her mood. Outside, the wind was blowing hard. She wasn’t wearing a hat. She tightened her scarf around her neck, tugged up her coat collar, lowered her head, and walked toward Broadway with her fists punched down into her pockets and her purse clinched under her arm. If only it would snow. But when did it ever snow anymore? Hat or no hat, she wouldn’t’ve minded a few snowflakes swirling down through the city light to settle on her head. When she’d been a girl, snow had lain on the ground all winter. That was what she remembered. Of course, she was thinking of the farm, of New England, not New York. So what was her point? These days, it rarely snowed the way it had back in the years before her parents died. The snowfalls she remembered from her childhood seemed lost to time and, she supposed, the changing climate. She hurried along as quickly as she could in her high heels. At Broadway, she turned uptown and passed the florist’s, where the pretty shop assistant had just come out from the back with the flowers—flowers for her, for Kate—in their vase. “Here we are,” the girl announced to Jim. She extended her arms and held the flowers out in front of her, presenting them. Before he could move to take them from her, however—it was the medication, warping his mind and delaying his reaction—she heaved the arrangement onto the counter and explained that she’d had to search high and low for an extra-heavy vase, one that was not only broad enough but also deep enough to properly anchor the bouquet. Jim and the girl admired her creation. With its stalks vertical and free to fan out or droop down, the bouquet’s real immensity became apparent. Roses with their thorns stuck out everywhere, and the lilies, whose columnar stalks the girl had bunched at the center, shot up through the top of the bouquet like, like, like—like insane trees towering above some insane world, he thought. He was light-headed when he spoke. “I love the way you’ve used ribbons and bows to tie the blossoms into clusters. It looks like a bouquet made of little bouquets! There’s so much to see! I can smell the lilies. Don’t you want to inhale that scent? Do you know the painter Fragonard? Do you know Boucher? Look at Boucher’s flowers. They’re practically obscene. There might be a Boucher hanging at the Frick.” He went for it. “Do you like museums?” “When I have time.” “I could show you the Frick!” He grinned widely and shrugged his shoulders and tipped his head, and she mirrored him, shrugging her own shoulders and making a funny face. “You’re very good at what you do,” he added, and she said, “Thank you,” then asked him, “How would you like to pay?” He tried to imagine what he’d be forced to spend. Whatever the amount, it would be too great. The bills from his recent hospitalizations were mainly covered by Kate’s insurance—the policy was hers; they’d gone ahead and got married in order for him to take advantage of it during this protracted (Kate’s word, sometimes used sarcastically) time of crisis in his life—but there were nevertheless many outstanding fees, brand-new bills arriving every other week, plus the only partly reimbursable expense of the aftercare program he attended across town, on the Upper East Side. “Let’s charge it.” He handed the girl his debit card. She swiped the card. “It’s not going through,” she said. After passing the card through the machine a second time, she apologized. “This doesn’t automatically mean that there’s a problem with the account,” she said. “You’ll have to contact your bank. Would you like to try another account?” “I don’t have another. Tell me the total?” “Three hundred and forty-one dollars and sixty cents.” His anxiety spiked and he took a breath. How could a bouquet of flowers be that much? He put his hand in his pocket and felt around for cash, but what was the point? “Hold on a minute,” he said. What to do, what to do? He was going to have to call his wife. Was he going to have to call her? He was going to have to call her. He took out his phone and dialled—in that moment he was glad that he had his meds on board—and right away Kate picked up and hollered, “Where are you? I’m at the restaurant with Susan! Elliot is out parking the car. Did you go to your therapy?” “Could you not shout, Kate?” “It’s goddam packed in here!” “I need to talk to you, privately,” he said, and turned away from the shopgirl. But there was no way, in the small space, to keep the girl from overhearing, so he put his hand over the phone, leaned toward her, and whispered, “I’ll be right back,” then stepped out of the shop, stood on the sidewalk in the freezing wind, and slowly, deliberately humiliated himself, saying to Kate, “I stopped on my way home and bought you flowers, but the bank account isn’t coöperating with my card for some reason and now I’m stuck at the florist’s because I don’t have enough cash on me, and I think the problem is simply that—shit, I don’t know what the problem is, I must not have kept my eye on the balance, and it’s possible that we’re overdrawn. I know we’ve talked about this. But it’s not a serious problem, I promise.” “Oh, Jim. Are you spending? How much have you spent?” Kate cried, and he winced. He said, “Is Susan there?” “Do you not hear a word I say? She’s right here! We’re drinking Manhattans. Are you coming? We’re waiting for you. Why do you want to talk to Susan? Jim, are you spending our money?” “I don’t want to talk to Susan. I’d just prefer that this conversation be private between the two of us.” “Please, Jim, as if everyone we know doesn’t already know everything there is to know?” “I’m not—I am not spending our money.” “You’re agitated.” “Why are you diagnosing me? I’m not agitated. I wanted to surprise you with flowers. But clearly it was just another of my many mistakes. I’ll think twice next time. Everything I do is unwanted.” “Stop it,” Kate said to him then. Through the phone he could hear sounds from the restaurant bar, voices and other noises in the after-work crush. Then the wind came up, and the only sound he heard was the phone’s own static. The wind died, and Kate’s voice was saying, “Elliot is here now, and Lorenzo is clearing us a table. Let me talk to someone about the flowers.” In this way he was forced to trudge back into the shop, hold the phone out, and say to the girl, “She wants to talk to you.” The girl hesitated, then reached out and let him pass the phone into her hand. “Hello?” she said into his phone. He retreated to a corner of the store. Joking aside, he didn’t care to loiter about, smelling the flowers, while the girl wrote down his wife’s American Express number. He would never learn the girl’s name, not now, Kate would see to that, he told himself as he peered out from his hiding place behind a leafy potted tree. He saw the shop’s buckets of flowers and the refrigerators in a row, and the door leading to the back, but where was the girl? He heard her laugh in response to some remark Kate must’ve made, and realized that she was standing behind the bouquet. “Oh, don’t I just know that about men and their important purchases!” she exclaimed. What was Kate saying to her? Was he being made fun of, as usual? Was she calling him bipolar? He had a problem with anxiety and suicidality, and, as Kate had reminded him in their conversation a moment earlier, everyone knew about his previous autumn’s sojourns on the Fifty-ninth Street Bridge and his games of chicken—no, not games, not at all, really—on the fire escape outside their bedroom window. He didn’t want to think about any of that. Yet it was the reason he was now crouched behind a ficus, eavesdropping while a girl he wanted to fuck got treated to an earful of Kate—on his phone! And what was the big problem, anyway, if, a handful of times on his way home from day care, as he sometimes called his ongoing treatment, he’d got excited about life and jumped off the crosstown bus at Fifth Avenue and run into Bergdorf Goodman and ridden the elevator to the second floor and tried on clothes until closing? Was that unhealthy? His doctors didn’t think he was manic-depressive; in fact, they’d ruled it out. Kate had been reading the clinical literature, though, and felt autodidactically certain that the Payne Whitney professionals were minimizing something in plain sight: his death-trip history, considered alongside the “conspicuous” spending on coats, ties, shirts, and shoes, represented, at the least, she thought, a mixed-state depression. “Why don’t they have you on Olanzapine?” she’d got in the habit of asking him. He begged her not to interfere with his treatment, and suggested—thinking of her father’s death and the forfeiture of the family farm in Massachusetts, when she was a teen-ager—that her consuming anxiety about bankruptcy, her emphasis on this as a potentially mortal trauma, might have less to do with his new handmade suits than with the ways in which his almost dying had reactivated an old mourning in her. He peered from behind the ficus. He was wearing a ridiculous cashmere overcoat, and his suit today was a medium-gray flannel herringbone. It featured, on the jacket, minimal shoulder padding, dual vents, and a graceful, three-rolled-to-two-button stance (his current favorite lapel style), and, on the pants, singlereverse pleats and one-and-a-quarter-inch-cuffed trouser legs. Why would a man ever not cuff his trousers? He kept a single jacket-sleeve button open on the left, another open on the right. He didn’t look like blown credit. Did he? Kate was going to kill him. She was mad enough to kill him. That was a fact. What was he doing, charging expensive flowers for no reason on an average night in the middle of the week when they were already committed to a crippling tab—it was sure to be a huge bar bill, by evening’s close—for dinner with Elliot and Susan? But, Kate thought, as she sat with their friends, waiting for him at a tiny table near the back of the restaurant, this was how it went with her husband: he made the gestures; she absorbed the costs. “How awful this all is,” she sighed. She was on the phone to the girl at the florist’s. Kate hadn’t meant to be audible, not to the girl, and certainly not to Elliot, who would take her vexation over Jim as a cue to call her up the next day and argue for more afternoons at the hotel. She’d been going once or sometimes twice a week to the East Side to meet Elliot at the Lowell Hotel, on Sixty-third Street between Madison and Park. She rode the bus. Typically, she arrived first. She got the room key, went up, and showered; if Elliot was held up at the lab and the day was growing dark, she might unlock the minibar and concoct a Manhattan or an approximation of a Manhattan, then recline naked by the window and look north toward the East Nineties, Carnegie Hill, where her mother, an only child, like Kate, had lived before marrying her father and moving to the farm. Manhattans had been her mother’s drink. Unlike her mother, Kate tried to keep herself to three an evening. At Lorenzo’s that night, she was ahead of pace, finishing her second before having eaten a bite. She held her glass in one hand and her phone in the other, listening hard through the restaurant noise as the girl at the florist’s recited back her AmEx number. Elliot sat quietly beside her. He had his arms crossed, and his chair pushed back at an angle to make room for his legs. Susan had got up from the table; she’d announced to Kate—sounding well on the way to being tight—“Kate, you’re my best friend, but I don’t know how you drink such a strong drink.” To Kate and Elliot together, she’d added, “Will you two do me a big giant favor? Will you snag Lorenzo and ask him to bring me a Cosmo?” “Don’t utter a word to me about my husband,” Kate warned Elliot, once Susan had gone to the bathroom. Into the phone, to the girl, she said, “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean you. I was talking to somebody else.” Meanwhile, in the women’s room, Susan was on her own phone, calling Jim’s number from a stall. It was the girl who answered, of course. “Hello, can you hold?” the girl said. The line went briefly dead. After a pause, the girl came back and said, “May I ask who is calling?” “May I ask who’s answering?” “Hold, please.” “Sir?” the girl called out to Jim. She looked this way and that for him. Where had he gone? The shop closed at eight. It was nearly closing time. “A woman is calling you!” “I’m here! I’m right here!” he answered from behind his tree. “He’ll be with you in one second,” he heard her promise the caller. After that, there was a pause, before, in a businesslike tone, the girl resumed with Kate. “I’m sorry to have to ask you this again. Would you mind verifying the last five digits and the expiration date?” Back when he was in the hospital—in the past six months, there had been three emergency-room visits and two locked-ward admissions—he had spent day after day lying on a mattress, crying. His doctors (along with the psychiatric nurses and the social workers who led the daily therapy groups) had encouraged him to uncurl himself from the fetal position and try, at least try, to watch television or play a board game with the other patients, but this had mostly proved too great a challenge. There had been times when, walking to or from the bathroom or the water fountain or the patients’ common room, or standing in line to receive his medications at the nurses’ station, or even simply sitting upright on the table in the examining room, he’d had the strong sensation that the air through which he moved was gathering around him and becoming—really, no word was sufficient to name it—substantive. Its weight pressed in on him. This hurt, it hurt terribly, yet when he tried to locate the source of the pain he could not: it came, as he knew, only from himself. On the mattress, shattered and sobbing over, say, Kate and their messedup love, he’d lain crushed, as if by atmospheres. “Sir?” The girl’s voice seemed to echo through the shop. He peeked up. When had she come out from behind the bouquet? He could see her standing on the other side of the tree. She was looking at him through the leaves. “Are you all right, sir?” “I maybe—I need a minute.” His mouth was dry and his heart was beating fast. That could be his meds, of course. “There’s someone who wants to talk to you. Do you think you can take the call? Would you like to try?” She held his phone out with one hand, reaching toward him through the branches. He had to reach into the tree to meet her hand. He was sweating. “Hello?” he said into the phone. “What the hell, Jim?” Susan said to him from the women’s-room toilet at Lorenzo’s. “Susan, how are you?” he said. “I’ve been better.” “I’m sorry.” “We’re all here, Jim. We’re waiting and waiting for you.” “I’m doing my best to get there. Have you ordered yet? What are the specials? What looks good?” “Kate is beside herself. She says the two of you are bankrupt. She says you’ve spent all the money.” “I haven’t.” “Don’t lie to me, Jim. Please, don’t lie to me.” She was sniffling, beginning to weep, lightly. “Stop crying, stop crying, baby,” he whispered into the phone. Then he laid his hand over the receiver and said to the girl, who was still peering down at him through the leaves of the tree, “You’ll have to excuse me one more time.” With a powerful effort of will, he stood upright and came out from behind the ficus. He didn’t dare look at the girl, but he heard her telling him, as he pushed painfully past her toward the door, that it looked like his wife’s American Express card wasn’t working, either—and was there any way for him to pay for the flowers? He waved his hand, motioning that he’d return. He stepped out into the cold on Broadway. He pulled up his overcoat’s shawl collar. The door to the florist’s closed behind him. Back at their table for four, Kate and Elliot had hit a snag. “Let me talk to him,” Elliot said. He had his elbows on the table. He’d drunk almost none of his Scotch. “That’s not a good idea.” “Give me your phone.” He held out his hand. “I’m on hold.” “Kate,” he said. “Leave me alone.” “As you wish,” he said, leaning back in his chair, and she burst out at him, “How can you act like this? You’re a doctor. How can you be so unfeeling?” He said, “What does my being a doctor have to do with my feelings?” (She rolled her eyes at this, but he didn’t appear to notice.) He went on, “I may be a doctor, but I’m not your husband’s doctor.” “His name is Jim, remember?” “I think you’re drunk. That’s what I think.” He got up from the table, patted his pockets—checking for his own phone—and said, “God damn it, I do research. I don’t treat patients. He has excellent doctors. I’ll call him myself.” When he’d gone and Kate was alone, Lorenzo arrived with Susan’s Cosmopolitan. “Everybody has gone away and left you,” Lorenzo said, and Kate chirped back, “Everybody’s gone!” “Let me bring you another Manhattan.” Lorenzo placed Susan’s cocktail on the table and picked up Kate’s empty glass. Kate managed a little smile. She held her phone to her ear. “Jim? Jim, are you there?” she whispered. Six blocks downtown, Jim was on the line to Susan. “I’m here, I’m here with you, baby,” he assured her. In fact, he wasn’t thinking of sleeping with her again. Oh, he’d loved sleeping with Susan—that wasn’t the problem. But that evening his body was compressing: the weight of the air was on him, flattening his libido and his trust in humankind. “Susan,” he said. “Susan.” “What is it?” she said. Her voice filled the stall. “What is happening? Is it happening? Is it happening to you now? I’m so scared. What do I do?” “Susan,” he said. “Susan.” He explained to her that in a few minutes he was going to calmly walk back inside the florist’s and steal a mysterious and beautiful bouquet that he and an angel had made for Kate. He’d helped the angel, he pointed out. He was feeling honest. He acknowledged to Susan that he was speaking metaphorically when it came to angels—in order to seem aboveboard and keep her trust. He needed her to be cool when he entered the restaurant, he told her. Then he ended the call and switched over to Kate. “I’m coming,” he said. “I’m glad,” she said. “I love you,” he said. “I love you, I love you,” she said. She was alone at their table. She said, “Have you talked to Elliot?” He said, “I haven’t heard from him.” Elliot, in the meantime, had been unable to get through, Jim’s phone lines having been taken up by both their wives. He’d left two messages already, one saying, “Jim, call me, all right?,” the other, “Jim, will you call me?” His third attempt got through, but Jim didn’t answer. He heard the beeping, plucked the phone away from his ear, glanced at it, saw who was calling, and said, to Kate, “It’s him. There is no way that I want to speak to him right now.” “I understand,” she said. Then she said, “Just get here, dear, and have dinner with us. We all need food. We need to eat.” He said, “Has he taken care with you, since I’ve been gone?” “Gone?” she said. “I don’t know how else to put it.” She asked, “Will you stay where you are, until people come?” “Don’t send an ambulance,” he said to her. He put his phone in his pocket. He turned and faced the door to the flower shop. A few people swept past him on the windy avenue—or so it seemed; his thoughts were with the pain that was coalescing beneath his temple. He wanted to put it out. He could imagine different ways to do this. This was how it was when his mind turned to high open windows or unlocked rooftop fire doors or breaks in the chain-link fences lining bridge walkways. He took a step forward. The door was made partly of glass, and he could see into the shop. It occurred to him that it would be easy to break the window with his fist and deliberately cut up the veins in his arms. Instead, he put his hand on the doorframe and pushed. He stuck his head inside. He was acting guiltily, though he knew there was no reason to, not at the florist’s—he hadn’t done anything yet. Still, he snuck in, ashamed. The girl was nowhere in sight. The bouquet looked bigger than it had the last time he’d sized it up. How would he manage to get it up Broadway in his trembling hands? Beside it on the table—careful, he had to be careful—were the girl’s pruning shears, as well as regular scissors and a small sharp knife. He told himself to let those things lie. Uptown at the restaurant, Lorenzo brought Kate her drink. She asked for bread, and apologized to him for taking so long to order dinner. “We’ll all be here together soon,” she sighed. She was right about that. Elliot had given up trying to reach Jim, and the cold had driven him back inside. He was threading his way down the aisle to their table. Susan, too, would return, as soon as she had peed. Pride had made her unable to, while on the phone. And that left Jim, who had no desire to become a thief. Might he, instead, offer something in barter for the flowers? His wristwatch wasn’t worth much. His overcoat was brand-new, and cost well more than the watch and the bouquet combined. He decided to leave an I.O.U., promising to come back another day with money, or, if not with actual money, then with a clear idea of when one or another of his or his wife’s credit cards might again be active and usable. But when he tried to hold a pen in his hand, he could not; and when he tried to focus his eyes on the piece of paper lying beside the cash register—it was the scrap of a receipt on which the girl had pencilled Kate’s American Express information—he found that his mind was frantic. This was his disorder. This was the descent. He crumpled the receipt and shoved it into his pocket. He reached for the bouquet. The girl had put water in the vase. Had you been walking downtown on Broadway that February night at a little past eight, you might have seen a man hurrying toward you with a great concrescence of blooms. You might have noticed that he did not even pause for traffic signals, but charged across streets against the lights; and so you might rightly have supposed that he could not see through the floral arrangement that he held (doing what he could to keep clear of thorns) at arm’s length before him. Whenever a siren sounded in the distance—and, once, beating helicopter blades in the night sky caused him to sprint up a side street—he dropped into a furtive, crouching gait. His balance was off; he was paranoid about police. Windblown flowers lashed at his head. Seen from a distance, he might have brought to mind an old, out-of-favor stereotype: the savage in a headdress. But as he came closer, you would have noticed his European clothes, his stylish haircut; and you might have asked yourself, “What’s wrong with that man?” Had you stepped to the side as he hurtled past, tightened your scarf securely around your neck, and continued on your way, you might next have encountered a young woman on a street corner, distraught and coatless. “Did you happen to see a man carrying a bouquet of flowers?” she might have asked in a startled voice, and you would have looked away from her bare, pale legs, pointed upwind, and told her, “He went that way.” By then, the first snowflakes would have been swirling through the caverns between the apartment buildings, down onto the thoroughfare. Jim looked up and saw the snow on his way into Lorenzo’s. For an instant, he took it as an omen—of what, though? He pulled hard on the restaurant door, forcing it open, and stumbled with his tattered flowers into the dark realm between the door and the velvet drapes that had been hung to keep the cold from sweeping in over diners at the front of the room. He parted the curtains. “Pardon me,” he said to the people seated near the entrance. Long- and short-stemmed flowers alike had snagged on the drapes. Now a waiter approached—and here came Lorenzo, too, calling, in his soft, ristoratore’s voice, “Ciao, James. Ciao. I cannot call you Jim, you know.” “Lorenzo, ciao,” Jim said. The waiter was busy tugging on the curtains. Lorenzo lent a hand. “This way, try this way,” Lorenzo instructed. Jim spun left then right, enshrouding himself—and the bouquet—within the folds of drapery fabric. There followed a flurry of petals. The rose thorns came loose; the bouquet’s topmost stems sprung free. He tumbled out into the room. “I’m good, I’m fine,” he said, nodding reassuringly (he hoped) to Lorenzo, the waiter, the people who’d turned in their seats to stare. “What has happened to you, James?” Lorenzo pulled his white silk pocket square from his breast pocket and reached around the yellow and pink and blue and white flowers to dab at Jim’s forehead. “I ran all the way here,” Jim said. “You’re bleeding,” Lorenzo told him. Jim saw the blood spotting Lorenzo’s handkerchief. Lorenzo said, “You have a lot of scratches. You look like you’ve been in a fight with some squirrels or something.” He laughed, nicely. “I’ve—I have been fighting, Lorenzo. Not with squirrels. Roses,” Jim specified, and Lorenzo said, “Ah, of course. Let me take them.” He spoke to the waiter. “Paul, will you please take these from James?” To Jim, he added, “We will bring them to your table.” “No, no,” Jim said. He explained to Lorenzo that the flowers were a gift for Kate, and that he needed to present them himself. This was crucial, he informed Lorenzo. He clutched the vase. His pants were wet from water that had sloshed over the rim. Water stained his shoes. He could see tiny snags marking the sleeves of his overcoat and the front of his suit. How frustrating, after having labored so hard to avoid the thorns. His clothes would have to go to a reweaver, he thought. Then his thinking disintegrated into bitter resignation. Everything he touched was ruined. The flowers were almost destroyed. Nonetheless, he bore them down the aisle. Here and there, people ducked forward in their chairs, or to the side, letting him through. As he progressed toward the back, the room quieted. People put down their silverware, their wineglasses; Jim felt eyes watching him. “Eat! Live while you can!” he wanted to proclaim to the crowd. But what did he have to teach anyone? He was a thief, a common criminal—worse. He’d stolen a bouquet to give to the love of his life. When she saw him, she was filled with happiness. She’d had a lot to drink—but, well, it wasn’t that alone. “Kate,” he said. She stood, and he lurched toward her. Elliot and Susan stood as well. They flanked Kate, who came out from between them—not unlike Jim, she was unsteady on her feet—saying, “I’m sorry, excuse me,” as she tacked her way through the sea of tables. They met near the bathrooms. The bar was to their right. Kate raised her open hands to wipe the blood from his face. Blood had run down his neck, and stained the collar of his shirt. “These are for you,” he told her. She was quietly crying, whispering, “They’re beautiful, beautiful.” Then her crying began in force, and she wailed, “You made it, oh, you made it, we were all so scared, and I felt so lost.” “I’m here,” he said, and his own tears started. He wanted to tell her that everything would be better, that he would be better, that one day soon he would work again, and start paying some bills, and take the burden off her shoulders; that they would be able, at last, to leave the little apartment with the busted plumbing. He wanted to tell her how much he needed her. But he could see, out of the corner of his eye, his horrid reflection in the mirror behind the bar. He looked down at Kate’s hands, the blood smeared across her palms. And he saw the restaurant-goers and the waiters and waitresses and busboys, who, not knowing what to make of the bleeding and the crying and the broken lilies arcing over Jim and Kate’s heads like some insane wedding canopy, had come from the kitchen or the bar to stand mutely around them. The pain in his body grew, and the words that spilled out of him were not words of love. Or they were. He spoke to his wife, as he spoke to the people gathered. “Don’t you see, Kate? Don’t you see? It’s time for me to go. I can’t do this anymore. I have no place here. I don’t belong. I hurt so. You can live and be happy. That will never be for me.” “No, no, baby,” she wept at him. Someone touched his arm. It was Elliot, who’d come up behind him. He said to Jim, “Let’s get in the car.” Lorenzo was there, too. Kate said to Jim, “Honey, let Lorenzo take the flowers. Just for now,” and he did. A moment later, Lorenzo came back with a wet cloth. Kate used it to wipe her eyes and to clean Jim’s face and her hands. She tied the belt around his overcoat. She said, “There.” They went out of the restaurant, the four of them. Susan let Jim lean on her, and Elliot steadied Kate. On the way out the door, they heard Lorenzo, behind them, telling his patrons, “Everything is all right. Our friend has had a bad time. Please, let me buy everyone a drink.” On Broadway, the wind had died, and the air seemed to have warmed. They walked out into new snow. And, wouldn’t you know, Jim did wrap his arm around Susan’s shoulders, and Elliot ducked down close to Kate, listening to her mumble whatever it was she had to say to him. At the garage, Jim and Kate got into the back seat of Elliot’s car. Susan sat beside Elliot. Elliot started the engine, turned on the headlights and the windshield wipers. Thump, thump, thump. He steered east. During the trip, Jim took his belt from around his waist. He gave Kate his scarf and his phone and his keys and all his money, which amounted to about thirty dollars. Later, she would get on her knees on the emergency-room floor and extract the laces from his shoes. A nurse would come, then another, and a doctor promising sleeping pills. By that time, after midnight, Elliot and Susan would have driven up the F.D.R. Drive and out of Manhattan, through the Bronx, and into Westchester County. “You can go home now, if you’d like,” the doctor said to Kate. “We won’t let anything happen to him.” He gave Kate a plastic garbage bag, into which she put Jim’s overcoat and his suit jacket. She would use the last of his money for her crosstown taxi, and for milk and cereal at the Korean market near the apartment. In the deep of the night, they came for him. A male nurse helped him into a wheelchair, and then pushed him through the white labyrinth of hallways and waited for the elevator. Margaret, one of the night nurses, met him on the ward. She said, “Hello, Mr. Davis. You’re back with us again, I see.” She asked, “Do you think you can walk?” She gave him Ativan and a paper cup of water, and watched while he swallowed. Then she showed him to a room of his own.
Some Women I am amazed sometimes to think how old I am. I can remember when the streets of the town I lived in were sprinkled with water to lay the dust in summer, and when girls wore waist cinchers and crinolines that could stand up by themselves, and when there was nothing much to be done about things like polio and leukemia. Some people who got polio got better, crippled or not, but people with leukemia went to bed, and, after some weeks’ or months’ decline in a tragic atmosphere, they died. It was because of such a case that I got my first job, in the summer holidays, when I was thirteen. Old Mrs. Crozier lived on the other side of town. Her stepson, Bruce, who was usually called Young Mr. Crozier, had come safely home from the war, where he had been a fighter pilot, had gone to college and studied history, and got married, and now he had leukemia. He and his wife were staying with Old Mrs. Crozier. The wife, Sylvia, taught summer school two afternoons a week at the college where they had met, some forty miles away. I was hired to look after Young Mr. Crozier while she wasn’t there. He was in bed in the front-corner bedroom upstairs, and he could still get to the bathroom by himself. All I had to do was bring him fresh water and pull the shades up or down and see what he wanted when he rang the little bell on his bedside table. Usually what he wanted was to have the fan moved. He liked the breeze it created but was disturbed by the noise. So he’d want the fan in the room for a while and then he’d want it out in the hall, but close to his open door. When my mother heard about this, she wondered why they hadn’t put him in a bed downstairs, where they surely had high ceilings and he would have been cooler. I told her that they did not have any bedrooms downstairs. “Well, my heavens, couldn’t they fix one up? Temporarily?” That showed how little she knew about the Crozier household and the rule of Old Mrs. Crozier. Old Mrs. Crozier walked with a cane. She made one ominous-sounding journey up the stairs to see her stepson on the afternoons that I was there, and I suppose no more than that on the afternoons when I was not. But the idea of a bedroom downstairs would have outraged her as much as the notion of a toilet in the parlor. Fortunately, there was already a toilet downstairs, behind the kitchen, but I was sure that, if the upstairs one had been the only one, she would have made the laborious climb as often as necessary, rather than pursue a change so radical and unnerving. My mother was thinking of going into the antique business, so she was very interested in the inside of the Crozier house, which was old and far grander than ours. She did get in, once, my very first afternoon there. I was in the kitchen, and I stood petrified, hearing her yoo-hoo and my own merrily called name. Then her perfunctory knock, her steps on the kitchen stairs. And Old Mrs. Crozier stumping out from the sunroom. My mother said that she had just dropped by to see how her daughter was getting along. “She’s all right,” Old Mrs. Crozier said, standing in the hall doorway, blocking the view of antiques. My mother made a few more mortifying remarks and took herself off. That night, she said that Old Mrs. Crozier had no manners, because she was only a second wife, picked up on a business trip to Detroit, which was why she smoked and dyed her hair black as tar and put on lipstick like a smear of jam. She was not even the mother of the invalid upstairs. She did not have the brains to be. (We were having one of our fights then, this one relating to her visit, but that is neither here nor there.) The way Old Mrs. Crozier saw it, I must have seemed just as intrusive as my mother, just as cheerily self-regarding. Shortly after I began working there, I went into the back parlor and opened the bookcase and took stock of the Harvard Classics set out in a perfect row. Most of them discouraged me, but I took out one that looked like it might be fiction, despite its foreign title, “I Promessi Sposi.” It was fiction all right, and it was in English. I must have had the idea then that all books were free, wherever you found them. Like water from a public tap. When Old Mrs. Crozier saw me with the book, she asked where I had got it and what I was doing with it. From the bookcase, I said, and I had brought it upstairs to read. The thing that most perplexed her seemed to be that I had got it downstairs but brought it upstairs. The reading part she appeared to let go, as if such an activity were too alien for her to contemplate. Finally, she said that if I wanted a book I should bring one from home. Of course, there were books in the sickroom. Reading seemed to be acceptable there. But they were mostly open and face down, as if Mr. Crozier just read a little here and there, then put them aside. And their titles did not tempt me. “Civilization on Trial.” “The Great Conspiracy Against Russia.” My grandmother had warned me that if I could help it I should not touch anything that the patient had touched, because of germs, and I should always keep a cloth between my fingers and his water glass. My mother said that leukemia did not come from germs. “So what does it come from?” my grandmother said. “The medical men don’t know.” “Hunh.” It was Young Mrs. Crozier who picked me up and drove me home, though the distance across town was not far. She was a tall, thin, fair-haired woman with a variable complexion. Sometimes there were patches of red on her cheeks as if she had scratched them. Word had been passed that she was older than her husband, that he had been her student at college. My mother said that nobody seemed to have got around to figuring out that, since he was a war veteran, he could easily have been her student without that making her older. People were just down on her because she had got an education. Another thing they said was that she should have stayed home and looked after him, as she had promised in the marriage ceremony, instead of going out to teach. My mother again defended her, saying that it was only two afternoons a week and she had to keep up her profession, seeing as how she would be on her own soon enough. And if she didn’t get out of the old lady’s way once in a while wouldn’t you think she’d go crazy? My mother always defended women who worked, and my grandmother always got after her for it. One day I tried a conversation with Young Mrs. Crozier, Sylvia. She was the only college graduate I knew. Except for her husband, of course, and he had stopped counting. “Did Toynbee write history books?” “Beg pardon? Oh. Yes.” None of us mattered to her—not me, or her critics or her defenders. We were no more than bugs on a lampshade. As for Old Mrs. Crozier, all she re ally cared about was her flower garden. She had a man who came and helped her; he was about her age, but more limber than she was. His name was Hervey. He lived on our street, and, in fact, it was through him that she had heard about me as a possible employee. At home, he only gossiped and grew weeds, but here he plucked and mulched and fussed, while she followed him around, leaning on her stick and shaded by her big straw hat. Sometimes she sat on a bench, still commenting and giving orders, and smoking a cigarette. Early on, I dared to go between the perfect hedges to ask if she or her helper would like a glass of water, and she cried out, “Mind my borders!” before saying no. Flowers were never brought into the house. Some poppies had escaped and were growing wild beyond the hedge, almost on the road, so I asked if I could pick a bouquet to brighten the sickroom. “They’d only die,” Mrs. Crozier said, not seeming to realize that this remark had a double edge to it, under the circumstances. Certain suggestions or notions would make the muscles of her lean spotty face quiver, her eyes go sharp and black, and her mouth work as if there were a despicable taste in it. She could stop you in your tracks then, like a savage thornbush. T he two days a week that I worked were not consecutive. Let us say they were Tuesdays and Thursdays. The first day, I was alone with the sick man and Old Mrs. Crozier. The second day, somebody arrived whom I had not been told about. I was sitting upstairs when I heard a car in the driveway, and someone running briskly up the back steps and entering the kitchen without knocking. Then the person called “Dorothy,” which I had not known was Old Mrs. Crozier’s name. The voice was a woman’s or a girl’s, and it was bold and teasing all at once. I ran down the back stairs, saying, “I think she’s in the sunroom.” “Holy Toledo! Who are you?” I told her who I was and what I was doing there, and the young woman said that her name was Roxanne. “I’m the masseuse.” I didn’t like being caught by a word I didn’t know. I didn’t say anything, but she saw how things were. “Got you stumped, eh? I give massages. You ever heard of that?” Now she was unpacking the bag she had with her. Various pads and cloths and flat velour-covered brushes appeared. “I’ll need some hot water to warm these up,” she said. “You can heat me some in the kettle.” (The Crozier house was grand, but there was still only cold water on tap, as in my house at home.) Roxanne had sized me up, apparently, as somebody who was willing to take orders—especially, perhaps, orders given in such a coaxing voice. And she was right, though she may not have guessed that my willingness had more to do with my own curiosity than with her charm. She was tanned, although it was still early in the summer, and her pageboy hair had a copper sheen—something that you could get easily from a bottle nowadays but that was unusual and enviable then. Brown eyes, a dimple in one cheek—she did so much smiling and joking that you never got a good enough look at her to say whether she was really pretty, or how old she was. I was impressed by the way her rump curved out handsomely to the back, instead of spreading to the sides. I learned quickly that she was new in town, married to the mechanic at the Esso station, and that she had two little boys, one four years old and one three. (“It took me a while to figure out what was causing them,” she said, with one of her conspiratorial twinkles.) In Hamilton, where they used to live, she had trained to be a masseuse and it had turned out to be just the sort of thing she’d always had a knack for. “Dor-thee?” “She’s in the sunroom,” I told her again. “I know, I’m just kidding her. Now, maybe you don’t know about getting a massage, but when you get one you got to take off all your clothes. Not such a problem when you’re young, but when you’re older, you know, you can get all embarrassed.” She was wrong about one thing, at least as far as I was concerned. About its not being a problem to take off all your clothes when you’re young. “So maybe you should skedaddle. You’re supposed to be upstairs anyway, aren’t you?” This time I took the front staircase, while she was busy with the hot water. That way I got a glance in through the open door of the sunroom—which was not much of a sunroom at all, having its windows on three sides all filled up with the fat leaves of catalpa trees. There I saw Old Mrs. Crozier stretched out on a daybed, on her stomach, her face turned away from me, absolutely naked. A skinny streak of pale flesh. The usually covered length of her body didn’t look as old as the parts of her that were daily exposed—her freckled, dark-veined hands and forearms, her brown-blotched cheeks. The skin of her back and legs was yellow-white, like wood freshly stripped of its bark. I sat on the top step and listened to the sounds of the massage. Thumps and grunts. Roxanne’s voice bossy now, cheerful but full of exhortation. “Stiff knot here. Oh, brother. I’m going to have to whack you one. Just kidding. Aw, come on, just loosen up for me. You know, you got nice skin here. Small of your back—what do they say? It’s like a baby’s bum. Now I gotta bear down a bit—you’re going to feel it here. Take away the tension. Good girl.” Old Mrs. Crozier was making little yelps. Sounds of complaint and gratitude. It went on for quite a while, and I got bored. I went back to reading some old Canadian Home Journals that I had found in a cabinet. I read recipes and checked on old-time fashions till I heard Roxanne say, “Now I’ll just clean this stuff up and we’ll go on upstairs, like you said.” Upstairs. I slid the magazines back into their place in the cabinet that my mother would have coveted, and went into Mr. Crozier’s room. He was asleep, or at least he had his eyes closed. I moved the fan a few inches and smoothed his cover and went and stood by the window, twiddling with the blind. Sure enough, there came a noise on the back stairs, Old Mrs. Crozier with her slow and threatening cane steps, Roxanne running ahead and calling, “Look out, look out, wherever you are. We’re coming to get you, wherever you are.” Mr. Crozier had his eyes open now. Behind his usual weariness was a faint expression of alarm. But before he could pretend to be asleep again Roxanne burst into the room. “So here’s where you’re hiding. I just told your stepmom I thought it was about time I got introduced to you.” Mr. Crozier said, “How do you do, Roxanne?” “How did you know my name?” “Word gets around.” “Fresh fellow you got here,” Roxanne said to Old Mrs. Crozier, who now came stumping into the room. “Stop fooling around with that blind,” Old Mrs. Crozier said to me. “Go and fetch me a drink of cool water, if you want something to do. Not cold, just cool.” “You’re a mess,” Roxanne said to Mr. Crozier. “Who gave you that shave and when was it?” “A few days ago,” he said. “I handle it myself as well as I can.” “That’s what I thought,” Roxanne said. And to me, “When you’re getting her water, how’d you like to heat some more up for me and I’ll undertake to give him a decent shave?” Shaving him became a regular thing, once a week, following the massage. Roxanne told Mr. Crozier that first day not to worry. “I’m not going to pound on you like you must have heard me doing to Dorothy-doodle downstairs. Before I got my massage training I used to be a nurse. Well, a nurse’s aide. One of the ones who do all the work and then the nurses come around and boss you. Anyway, I learned how to make people comfortable.” Dorothy-doodle? Mr. Crozier grinned. But the odd thing was that Old Mrs. Crozier grinned, too. Roxanne shaved him deftly. She sponged his face and neck and torso and arms and hands. She pulled his sheets around, somehow managing not to disturb him, and she punched and rearranged his pillows. Talking all the while, pure nonsense. “Dorothy, you’re a liar. You said you had a sick man upstairs, and I walk in here and I think, Where’s the sick man? I don’t see a sick man around here. Do I?” Mr. Crozier said, “What would you say I am, then?” “Recovering. That’s what I would say. I don’t mean you should be up and running around, I’m not so stupid as all that. I know you need your bed rest. But I say recovering. Nobody who was sick like you’re supposed to be ever looked as good as what you do.” I thought this flirtatious prattle insulting. Mr. Crozier looked terrible. A tall man whose ribs showed like those of a famine survivor when she sponged him, whose head was partly bald, and whose skin looked as if it had the texture of a plucked chicken’s, his neck corded like an old man’s. Whenever I had waited on him in any way I had avoided looking at him. Though this was not really because he was sick and ugly. It was because he was dying. I would have felt a similar reticence even if he had been angelically handsome. I was aware of an atmosphere of death in the house, which grew thicker as you approached his room, and he was at the center of it, like the Host the Catholics kept in the box so powerfully called the tabernacle. He was the one stricken, marked out from everybody else, and here was Roxanne trespassing on his ground with her jokes and her swagger and her notions of entertainment. On her second visit, she asked him what he did all day. “Read sometimes. Sleep.” And how did he sleep at night? “If I can’t sleep I lie awake. Think. Sometimes read.” “Doesn’t that disturb your wife?” “She sleeps in the back bedroom.” “Uh-huh. You need some entertainment.” “Are you going to sing and dance for me?” I saw Old Mrs. Crozier look aside with her odd involuntary grin. “Don’t you get cheeky,” Roxanne said. “Are you up to cards?” “I hate cards.” “Well, have you got Chinese checkers in the house?” Roxanne directed this question at Old Mrs. Crozier, who first said she had no idea, then wondered if there might be a board in a drawer of the dining-room buffet. So I was sent down to look and came back with the board and a jar of marbles. Roxanne set the game up over Mr. Crozier’s legs, and she and I and Mr. Crozier played, Old Mrs. Crozier saying that she had never understood the game or been able to keep her marbles straight. (To my surprise, she seemed to offer this as a joke.) Roxanne might squeal when she made a move or groan whenever somebody jumped over one of her marbles, but she was careful never to disturb the patient. She held her body still and set her marbles down like feathers. I tried to do the same, because she would widen her eyes warningly at me if I didn’t. All without losing her dimple. I remembered Young Mrs. Crozier, Sylvia, saying to me in the car that her husband did not welcome conversation. It tired him out, she told me, and when he was tired he could become irritable. So I thought, If ever there was a time for him to become irritable, it’s now. Being forced to play a silly game on his deathbed, when you could feel his fever in the sheets. But Sylvia must have been wrong. He had developed greater patience and courtesy than she was perhaps aware of. With inferior people—Roxanne was surely an inferior person—he made himself tolerant, gentle. When likely all he wanted to do was lie there and meditate on the pathways of his life and gear up for his future. Roxanne patted the sweat off his forehead, saying, “Don’t get excited. You haven’t won yet!” “Roxanne,” he said. “Roxanne. Do you know whose name that was, Roxanne?” “Hmm?” she said, and I broke in. I couldn’t help it. “It was Alexander the Great’s wife’s name.” My head was a magpie’s nest lined with such bright scraps of information. “Is that so?” Roxanne said. “And who is that supposed to be? Great Alexander?” I realized something when I looked at Mr. Crozier at that moment. Something shocking, saddening. He liked her not knowing. Her ignorance was a pleasure that melted on his tongue, like a lick of toffee. On the first day, she had worn shorts, as I did, but the next time and always after that Roxanne wore a dress of some stiff and shiny light-green material. You could hear it rustle as she ran up the stairs. She brought a fleecy pad for Mr. Crozier, so that he would not develop bedsores. She was dissatisfied with the arrangement of his bedclothes, always had to put them to rights. But however she scolded her movements never irritated him, and she made him admit to feeling more comfortable afterward. She was never at a loss. Sometimes she came equipped with riddles. Or jokes. Some of the jokes were what my mother would have called smutty and would not have allowed around our house, except when they came from certain of my father’s relatives, who had practically no other kind of conversation. These jokes usually started off with serious-sounding but absurd questions. Did you hear about the nun who went shopping for a meat grinder? Did you hear what the bride and groom went and ordered for dessert on their wedding night? The answers always came with a double meaning, so that whoever told the joke could pretend to be shocked and accuse the listener of having a dirty mind. And after she had got everybody used to her telling these jokes Roxanne went on to the sort of joke I didn’t believe my mother knew existed, often involving sex with sheep or hens or porcupines. “Isn’t that awful?” she always said at the finish. She said she wouldn’t know this stuff if her husband didn’t bring it home from the garage. The fact that Old Mrs. Crozier snickered disturbed me as much as the jokes themselves. I wondered if she didn’t actually get the jokes but simply enjoyed listening to whatever Roxanne said. She sat there with that chewed-in yet absent-minded smile on her face, as if she’d been given a present that she knew she’d like, even though she hadn’t got the wrapping off it yet. Mr. Crozier didn’t laugh, but he never laughed, really. He raised his eyebrows, pretending to disapprove, as if he found Roxanne outrageous but endearing all the same. I tried to tell myself that this was just good manners, or gratitude for her efforts, whatever they might be. I myself made sure to laugh so that Roxanne would not put me down as an innocent prig. The other thing she did to keep things lively was tell us about her life—how she had come down from some lost little town in northern Ontario to Toronto to visit her older sister, when she was only fourteen, then got a job at Eaton’s, first cleaning up in the cafeteria, then being noticed by one of the managers, because she worked fast and was always cheerful, and suddenly finding herself a salesgirl in the glove department. (She made this sound like being discovered by Warner Bros.) And who should have come in one day but Barbara Ann Scott, the skating star, who bought a pair of elbow-length white kid gloves. Meanwhile, Roxanne’s sister had so many boyfriends that she’d flip a coin to see whom she’d go out with almost every night, and she employed Roxanne to meet the rejects regretfully at the front door of the rooming house where they lived, while she herself and her pick of the night sneaked out the back. Roxanne said that maybe that was how she had developed such a gift of gab. And pretty soon some of the boys she had met this way were taking her out, instead of her sister. They did not know her real age. “I had me a ball,” she said. I began to understand that there were certain talkers—certain girls—whom people liked to listen to, not because of what they, the girls, had to say but because of the delight they took in saying it. A delight in themselves, a shine on their faces, a conviction that whatever they were telling was remarkable and that they themselves could not help but give pleasure. There might be other people—people like me—who didn’t concede this, but that was their loss. And people like me would never be the audience these girls were after, anyway. Mr. Crozier sat propped up on his pillows and looked for all the world as if he were happy. Happy just to close his eyes and let her talk, then open his eyes and find her still there, like a chocolate bunny on Easter morning. And then with his eyes open follow every twitch of her candy lips and sway of her sumptuous bottom. The time Roxanne spent upstairs was as long as the time she spent downstairs, giving the massage. I wondered if she was being paid. If she wasn’t, how could she afford to stay so long? And who could be paying her but Old Mrs. Crozier? Why? To keep her stepson happy and comfortable? To keep herself entertained in a curious way? One afternoon, when Roxanne had gone downstairs, Mr. Crozier said that he felt thirstier than usual. I went to get him some more water from the pitcher that was always in the refrigerator. Roxanne was packing up to go home. “I never meant to stay so late,” she said. “I wouldn’t want to run into that schoolteacher.” I didn’t understand for a moment. “You know. Syl-vi-a. She’s not crazy about me, either, is she? She ever mention me when she drives you home?” I said that Sylvia had never mentioned Roxanne to me during any of our drives. “Dorothy says she doesn’t know how to handle him. She says I make him a lot happier than what she does. Dorothy says that. I wouldn’t be surprised if she even told her that to her face.” I thought of how Sylvia ran upstairs to her husband’s room every afternoon when she got home, before even speaking to me or her mother-in-law, her face flushed with eagerness and desperation. I wanted to say something about that—I wanted to defend her—but I didn’t know how. And people as confident as Roxanne often seemed to get the better of me. “You sure she never says anything about me?” I said again that she didn’t. “She’s tired when she gets home.” “Yeah. Everybody’s tired. Some just learn to act like they aren’t.” I did say something then, to balk her. “I quite like her.” “You qwat like her?” Roxanne mocked. Playfully, sharply, she jerked at a strand of the bangs I had recently cut for myself. “You ought to do something decent with your hair.” Dorothy says. If Roxanne wanted admiration, which was her nature, what was it that Old Mrs. Crozier wanted? I had a feeling that there was mischief stirring, but I could not pin it down. Maybe it was just a desire to have Roxanne, her liveliness, in the house, double time? Midsummer passed. Water was low in the wells. The sprinkler truck stopped coming and some stores put up sheets of what looked like yellow cellophane in their windows to keep their goods from fading. Leaves were spotty, the grass dry. Old Mrs. Crozier kept her garden man hoeing, day after day. That’s what you do in dry weather, hoe and hoe to bring up any moisture that you can find in the ground underneath. Summer school at the college would end after the second week of August, and then Sylvia Crozier would be home every day. Mr. Crozier still seemed glad to see Roxanne, but he often fell asleep. He could drift off without letting his head fall back, during one of her jokes or anecdotes. Then after a moment he would wake up again and ask where he was. “Right here, you sleepy noodle. You’re supposed to be paying attention to me. I should bat you one. Or how about I try tickling you instead?” Anybody could see how he was failing. There were hollows in his cheeks like an old man’s, and the light shone through the tops of his ears, as if they were not flesh but plastic. (Though we didn’t say plastic then; we said celluloid.) My last day of work, Sylvia’s last day of teaching, was a massage day. Sylvia had to leave for the college early, because of some ceremony, so I walked across town, arriving when Roxanne was already there. She and Old Mrs. Crozier were in the kitchen, and they both looked at me as if they had forgotten I was coming, as if I had interrupted them. “I ordered them specially,” Old Mrs. Crozier said. She must have been talking about the macaroons sitting in the baker’s box on the table. “Yeah, but I told you,” Roxanne said. “I can’t eat that stuff. Not no way no how.” “I sent Hervey down to the bakeshop to get them.” “O.K., let Hervey eat them. I’m not kidding—I break out something awful.” “I thought we’d have a treat,” Old Mrs. Crozier said. “Seeing it’s the last day we’ve got before—” “Last day before she parks her butt here permanently? Yeah, I know. Doesn’t help to have me breaking out like a spotted hyena.” Who was it whose butt was parked permanently? Sylvia’s. Sylvia. Old Mrs. Crozier was wearing a beautiful black silk wrapper, with water lilies and geese on it. She said, “No chance of having anything special with her around. You’ll see. You won’t be able to even get to see him with her around.” “So let’s get going and get some time today. Don’t bother about this stuff. It’s not your fault. I know you got it to be nice.” “ ‘I know you got it to be nice,’ ” Old Mrs. Crozier imitated in a mean, mincing voice, and then they both looked at me, and Roxanne said, “Pitcher’s where it always is.” I took Mr. Crozier’s water out of the fridge. It occurred to me that they could offer me one of the golden macaroons sitting in the box, but apparently it did not occur to them. I’d expected Mr. Crozier to be lying back on the pillows with his eyes closed, but he was wide awake. “I’ve been waiting,” he said, and took a breath. “For you to get here,” he said. “I want to ask you—do something for me. Will you?” I said sure. “Keep it a secret?” I had been worried that he might ask me to help him to the commode that had recently appeared in his room, but surely that would not have to be a secret. He told me to go to the bureau across from his bed and open the left-hand drawer, and see if I could find a key there. I did so. I found a large, heavy, old-fashioned key. He wanted me to go out of his room and shut the door and lock it. Then hide the key in a safe place, perhaps in the pocket of my shorts. I was not to tell anybody what I had done. I was not to let anybody know I had the key until his wife came home, and then I was to give it to her privately. Did I understand? O.K. He thanked me. O.K. All the time he was talking to me there was a film of sweat on his face and his eyes were as bright as if Roxanne were in the room. “Nobody is to get in.” “Nobody is to get in,” I repeated. “Not my stepmother or—Roxanne. Just my wife.” I locked the door from the outside and put the key in my pocket. But then I was afraid that it could be seen through the light cotton material, so I went downstairs and into the back parlor and hid it between the pages of “I Promessi Sposi.” I knew that Roxanne and Old Mrs. Crozier would not hear me, because the massage was going on, and Roxanne was using her professional voice. “I got my work cut out for me getting these knots out of you today.” And I heard Old Mrs. Crozier’s voice, full of her new displeasure. “ . . . punching harder than you normally do.” “Well, I gotta.” I was headed upstairs when a further thought came to me. If he had locked the door himself—which was evidently what he wanted the others to think—and I had been sitting on the top step as usual, I would certainly have heard him and called out and roused the others in the house. So I went back down and sat on the bottom step of the front stairs, a position from which I could conceivably not have heard a thing. The massage seemed to be brisk and businesslike today; Roxanne was evidently not making jokes. Pretty soon I could hear her running up the back stairs. She stopped. She said, “Hey, Bruce.” Bruce. She rattled the knob of the door. “Bruce.” Then she must have put her mouth to the keyhole, so that he would hear but nobody else would. I could not make out exactly what she was saying, but I could tell that she was pleading. First teasing, then pleading. After a while she sounded as if she were saying her prayers. When she gave that up, she started pounding on the door with her fists, not too hard but urgently. Eventually, she stopped that, too. “Come on,” she said in a firmer voice. “If you got to the door to lock it, you can get there to open it up.” Nothing happened. She came and looked over the bannister and saw me. “Did you take Mr. Crozier’s water into his room?” I said yes. “So his door wasn’t locked or anything then?” No. “Did he say anything to you?” “He just said thanks.” “Well, he’s got his door locked and I can’t get him to answer.” I heard Old Mrs. Crozier’s stick reaching the top of the back stairs. “What’s the commotion up here?” “He’s locked hisself in and I can’t get him to answer me.” “What do you mean, locked himself in? Likely the door’s stuck. Wind blew it shut and it stuck.” There was no wind that day. “Try it yourself,” Roxanne said. “It’s locked.” “I wasn’t aware there was a key to this door,” Old Mrs. Crozier said, as if her not being aware could negate the fact. Then, perfunctorily, she tried the knob and said, “Well. It’d appear to be locked.” He had counted on this, I thought. That they would not suspect me, that they would assume that he was in charge. And in fact he was. “We have to get in,” Roxanne said. She gave the door a kick. “Stop that,” Old Mrs. Crozier said. “Do you want to wreck the door? You couldn’t get through it, anyway—it’s solid oak. Every door in this house is solid oak.” “Then we have to call the police.” There was a pause. “They could get up to the window,” Roxanne said. Old Mrs. Crozier drew in her breath and spoke decisively. “You don’t know what you are saying. I won’t have the police in this house. I won’t have them climbing all over my walls like caterpillars.” “We don’t know what he could be doing in there.” “Well, then, that’s up to him. Isn’t it?” Another pause. Now steps—Roxanne’s—retreating to the back staircase. “Yes. You’d better just take yourself away before you forget whose house this is.” Roxanne was going down the stairs. A couple of stomps of the stick went after her, then stopped. “And don’t get the idea you’ll go to the constable behind my back. He’s not going to take his orders from you. Who gives the orders around here, anyway? It’s certainly not you. You understand me?” Very soon I heard the kitchen door slam shut. And then Roxanne’s car start. I was no more worried about the police than Old Mrs. Crozier was. The police in our town meant Constable McClarty, who came to the school to warn us about sledding on the streets in winter and swimming in the mill-race in summer, both of which we continued to do. It was ridiculous to think of him climbing up a ladder or lecturing Mr. Crozier through a locked door. He would tell Roxanne to mind her own business and let the Croziers mind theirs. It was not ridiculous, however, to think of Old Mrs. Crozier giving orders, and I thought she might do so now that Roxanne—whom she apparently did not like anymore—was gone. But although I heard her go back to Mr. Crozier’s door and stand there, she did not even rattle the knob. She just said one thing. “Stronger than you’d think,” she muttered. Then made her way downstairs. The usual punishing noises with her steady stick. I waited awhile and then I went out to the kitchen. Old Mrs. Crozier wasn’t there. She wasn’t in either parlor or in the dining room or the sunroom. I got up my nerve and knocked on the toilet door, then opened it, and she was not there, either. Then I looked out the window over the kitchen sink and I saw her straw hat moving slowly along the cedar hedge. She was out in the garden in the heat, stumping along between her flower beds. I was not worried by the thought that seemed to have troubled Roxanne. I did not even stop to consider it, because I believed that it would be quite absurd for a person with only a short time to live to commit suicide. All the same, I was nervous. I ate two of the macaroons that were still sitting on the kitchen table. I ate them hoping that pleasure would bring back normalcy, but I barely tasted them. Then I shoved the box into the refrigerator so that I would not hope to turn the trick by eating more. Old Mrs. Crozier was still outside when Sylvia got home. I retrieved the key from between the pages of the book as soon as I heard the car and I told Sylvia quickly what had happened, leaving out most of the fuss. She would not have waited to listen to it, anyway. She went running upstairs. I stood at the bottom of the stairs to hear what I could hear. Nothing. Nothing. Then Sylvia’s voice, surprised but in no way desperate, and too low for me to make out what she was saying. Within about five minutes she was downstairs, saying that it was time to get me home. She was flushed, as if the spots on her cheeks had spread all over her face, and she looked shocked, but unable to resist her happiness. Then, “Oh. Where is Mother Crozier?” “In the flower garden, I think.” “Well, I suppose I’d better speak to her, just for a moment.” After she had done that, she no longer looked quite so happy. “I suppose you know,” she said as she backed out the car. “I suppose you can imagine Mother Crozier is upset. Not that I am blaming you. It was very good and loyal of you. Doing what Mr. Crozier asked you to do. You weren’t scared of anything happening, were you?” I said no. Then I said, “I think Roxanne was.” “Mrs. Hoy? Yes. That’s too bad.” As we were driving down what was known as Crozier’s Hill, she said, “I don’t think he wanted to frighten them. You know, when you’re sick, sick for a long time, you can get not to appreciate other people’s feelings. You can get turned against people even when they’re doing what they can to help you. Mrs. Crozier and Mrs. Hoy were certainly trying their best. But Mr. Crozier just didn’t feel that he wanted them around anymore today. He’d just had enough of them. You understand?” She did not seem to know that she was smiling when she said this. Mrs. Hoy. Had I ever heard that name before? And spoken so gently and respectfully, yet with light-years of condescension. Did I believe what Sylvia had said? I believed that it was what he had told her. I did see Roxanne again that day. I saw her just as Sylvia was introducing me to this new name. Mrs. Hoy. She—Roxanne—was in her car and she had stopped at the first cross street at the bottom of Crozier’s Hill to watch us drive by. I didn’t turn to look at her, because it was all too confusing, with Sylvia talking to me. Of course, Sylvia would not have known whose car that was. She wouldn’t have known that Roxanne must have been waiting to see what was going on, driving around the block all the time since she had left the Croziers’ house. Roxanne would have recognized Sylvia’s car, though. She would have noticed me. She would have known that things were all right, from the kindly serious faintly smiling way that Sylvia was talking to me. She didn’t turn the corner and drive back up the hill to the Croziers’ house. Oh, no. She drove across the street—I watched in the sideview mirror—toward the east part of town, where the wartime houses had been put up. That was where she lived. “Feel the breeze,” Sylvia said. “Maybe those clouds are going to bring us rain.” The clouds were high and white, glaring. They looked nothing like rain clouds, and there was a breeze only because we were in a moving car with the windows rolled down. I understood pretty well the winning and losing that had taken place between Sylvia and Roxanne, but it was strange to think of the almost obliterated prize, Mr. Crozier—and to think that he could have had the will to make a decision, even to deprive himself, so late in his life. The carnality at death’s door—or the true love, for that matter—was something I wanted to shake off back then, just as I would shake caterpillars off my sleeve.Sylvia took Mr. Crozier away to a rented cottage on the lake, where he died sometime before the leaves were off. The Hoy family moved on, as mechanics’ families often did. My mother struggled with a crippling disease, which put an end to all her money-making dreams. Dorothy Crozier had a stroke, but recovered, and famously bought Halloween candy for the children whose older brothers and sisters she had ordered from her door. I grew up, and old.
Meeting with Enrique In 1999, after returning from Venezuela, I dreamed that I was being taken to Enrique Lihn’s apartment, in a country that could well have been Chile, in a city that could well have been Santiago, bearing in mind that Chile and Santiago once resembled Hell, a resemblance that, in some subterranean layer of the real city and the imaginary city, will forever remain. Of course, I knew that Lihn was dead, but when the people I was with offered to take me to meet him I accepted without hesitation. Maybe I thought that they were playing a joke, or that a miracle might be possible. But probably I just wasn’t thinking, or had misunderstood the invitation. In any case, we came to a seven-story building with a façade painted a faded yellow and a bar on the ground floor, a bar of considerable dimensions, with a long counter and several booths, and my friends (although it seems odd to describe them that way; let’s just say the enthusiasts who had offered to take me to meet the poet) led me to a booth, and there was Lihn. At first, I could hardly recognize him, it wasn’t the face I had seen on his books; he’d grown thinner and younger, he’d become handsomer, and his eyes looked much brighter than the black-and-white eyes in the jacket photographs. In fact, Lihn didn’t look like Lihn at all; he looked like a Hollywood actor, a B-list actor, the kind who stars in TV movies or films that are never shown in European cinemas and go straight to video. But at the same time he was Lihn; I was in no doubt about that. The enthusiasts greeted him, calling him Enrique with a fake-sounding familiarity, and asked him questions I couldn’t understand, and then they introduced us, although to tell the truth I didn’t need to be introduced, because for a time, a short time, I had corresponded with him, and his letters had, in a way, kept me going; I’m talking about 1981 or 1982, when I was living like a recluse in a house outside Gerona, with no money and no prospect of ever having any, and literature was a vast minefield occupied by enemies, except for a few classic authors (just a few), and every day I had to walk through that minefield, where any false move could be fatal, with only the poems of Archilochus to guide me. It’s like that for all young writers. There comes a time when you have no support, not even from friends, forget about mentors, and there’s no one to give you a hand; publication, prizes, and grants are reserved for the others, the ones who said “Yes, sir,” over and over, or those who praised the literary mandarins, a never-ending horde distinguished only by their aptitude for discipline and punishment—nothing escapes them and they forgive nothing. Anyway, as I was saying, all young writers feel this way at some point or other in their lives. But at the time I was twenty-eight years old and under no circumstances could I consider myself a young writer. I was adrift. I wasn’t the typical Latin-American writer living in Europe thanks to some government sinecure. I was a nobody and not inclined to beg for mercy or to show it. Then I started corresponding with Enrique Lihn. Naturally, I was the one who initiated the correspondence. I didn’t have to wait long for his reply. A long, crotchety letter, as we might say in Chile: gloomy and irritable. In my reply I told him about my life, my house in the country, on one of the hills outside Gerona, the medieval city in front of it, the countryside or the void behind. I also told him about my dog, Laika, and said that in my opinion Chilean literature, with one or two exceptions, was shit. It was evident from his next letter that we were already friends. What followed was what typically happens when a famous poet befriends an unknown. He read my poems and included some of them in a kind of reading he organized to present the work of the younger generation at a Chilean-North American institute. In his letter he identified a group of hopefuls destined, so he thought, to be the six tigers of Chilean poetry in the year 2000. The six tigers were Bertoni, Maquieira, Gonzalo Muñoz, Martínez, Rodrigo Lira, and myself. I think. Maybe there were seven tigers. But I think there were only six. It would have been hard for the six of us to be anything much in 2000, because by then Rodrigo Lira, the best of the lot, had killed himself, and what was left of him had either been rotting for years in some cemetery or was ash, blowing around the streets and mingling with the filth of Santiago. Cats would have been more appropriate than tigers. Bertoni, as far as I know, is a kind of hippie who lives by the sea collecting shells and seaweed. Maquieira wrote a careful study of Cardenal and Coronel Urtecho’s anthology of North American poetry, published two books, and then settled down to drinking. Gonzalo Muñoz went to Mexico, I heard, where he disappeared, not into ethylic oblivion, like Lowry’s consul, but into the advertising industry. Martínez did a critical analysis of “Duchamp du Signe” and then died. As for Rodrigo Lira, well, I already explained what had become of him. Not so much tigers as cats, however you want to look at it. The kittens of a far-flung province. Anyway, what I wanted to say is that I knew Lihn, so no introduction was necessary. Nevertheless, the enthusiasts proceeded to introduce me, and neither I nor Lihn objected. So there we were, in a booth, and voices were saying, This is Roberto Bolaño, and I held out my hand, my arm enveloped by the darkness of the booth, and I grasped Lihn’s hand, a slightly cold hand, which squeezed mine for a few seconds—the hand of a sad person, I thought, a hand and a handshake that corresponded perfectly to the face that was scrutinizing me without showing any sign of recognition. That correspondence was gestural, bodily, and opened onto an opaque eloquence that had nothing to say, or at least not to me. Once that moment was past, the enthusiasts started talking again and the silence receded; they were all asking Lihn for his opinions on the most disparate issues and events, and at that point my disdain for them evaporated, because I realized that they were just as I had once been: young poets with no support, kids who’d been shut out by the new center-left Chilean government and didn’t have any backing or patronage, all they had was Lihn, a Lihn who looked not like the real Enrique Lihn as he appeared in his author photos but like a much handsomer and more prepossessing Lihn, a Lihn who resembled his poems, who had adopted their age, who lived in a building similar to his poems, and who could vanish in the elegant, resolute way that his poems sometimes had of vanishing. When I realized this, I remember, I felt better. I mean I began to make sense of the situation and find it amusing. I had nothing to fear: I was at home, with friends, with a writer I had always admired. It wasn’t a horror movie. Or not an out-and-out horror movie, but a horror movie leavened with large doses of black humor. And just as I thought of black humor Lihn extracted a little bottle of pills from his pocket. I have to take one every three hours, he said. The enthusiasts fell silent once again. A waiter brought a glass of water. The pill was big. That’s what I thought when I saw it fall into the glass of water. But in fact it wasn’t big. It was dense. Lihn began to break it up with a spoon, and I realized that the pill looked like an onion with countless layers. I leaned forward and peered into the glass. For a moment I was quite sure that it was an infinite pill. The curved glass had a magnifying effect, like a lens: inside, the pale-pink pill was disintegrating as if giving birth to a galaxy or the universe. But galaxies are born or die (I forget which) suddenly, and what I could see through the curved side of that glass was unfolding in slow motion, each incomprehensible stage, every retraction and shudder drawn out as I watched. Then, feeling exhausted, I sat back, and my gaze, detached from the medicine, rose to meet Lihn’s, which seemed to be saying, No comment, it’s bad enough having to swallow this concoction every three hours, don’t go looking for symbolic meanings—the water, the onion, the slow march of the stars. The enthusiasts had moved away from our table. Some were at the bar. I couldn’t see the others. But when I looked at Lihn again there was an enthusiast with him, whispering something in his ear before leaving the booth to find his friends, who were scattered around the room. And at that moment I knew that Lihn knew he was dead. My heart’s given up on me, he said. It doesn’t exist anymore. Something’s not right here, I thought. Lihn died of cancer, not a heart attack. An enormous heaviness was coming over me. So I got up and went to stretch my legs, but not in the bar; I went out into the street. The sidewalks were gray and uneven, and the sky looked like a mirror without a tain, the place where everything should have been reflected but where, in the end, nothing was. Nevertheless, a feeling of normality prevailed and pervaded all vision. When I felt I’d had enough fresh air and it was time to get back to the bar, I climbed the steps up to the door (stone steps, single blocks of a stone that had a granitelike consistency and the sheen of a gem) and ran into a guy who was shorter than me and dressed like a fifties gangster, a guy who had something of the caricature about him, the classic affable killer, who got me mixed up with someone he knew and greeted me. I replied to his greeting, although from the start I was sure that I didn’t know him and that he was mistaken, but I behaved as if I knew him, as if I, too, had mixed him up with someone else, so the two of us greeted each other as we attempted ineffectively to climb those shining (yet deeply humble) stone steps. But the hit man’s confusion lasted no more than a few seconds, he soon realized that he was mistaken, and then he looked at me in a different way, as if he were asking himself if I was mistaken, too, or if, on the contrary, I had been having him on from the start, and since he was thick and suspicious (though sharp in his own paradoxical way), he asked me who I was, he asked me with a malicious smile on his lips, and I said, Shit, Jara, it’s me, Bolaño, and it would have been clear to anyone from his smile that he wasn’t Jara, but he played the game, as if suddenly, struck by a lightning bolt (and no, I’m not quoting one of Lihn’s poems, much less one of mine), he fancied the idea of living the life of that unknown Jara for a minute or two, the Jara he would never be, except right there, stalled at the top of those radiant steps, and he asked me about my life, he asked me (thick as a plank) who I was, admitting de facto that he was Jara, but a Jara who had forgotten the very existence of Bolaño, which is perfectly understandable, after all, so I explained to him who I was and, while I was at it, who he was, too, thereby creating a Jara to suit me and him, that is, to suit that moment—an improbable, intelligent, courageous, rich, generous, daring Jara, in love with a beautiful woman and loved by her in return—and then the gangster smiled, more and more deeply convinced that I was having him on but unable to bring the episode to a close, as if he had suddenly fallen for the image I was constructing for him, and encouraged me to go on telling him not just about Jara but also about Jara’s friends and finally the world, a world that seemed too wide even for Jara, a world in which the great Jara was an ant whose death on a shining stair would not have mattered at all to anyone, and then, at last, his friends appeared, two taller hit men wearing light-colored double-breasted suits, who looked at me and at the false Jara as if to ask him who I was, and he had no choice but to say, It’s Bolaño, and the two hit men greeted me. I shook their hands (rings, expensive watches, gold bracelets), and when they invited me to have a drink with them I said, I can’t, I’m with a friend, and pushed past Jara through the door and disappeared inside. Lihn was still in the booth. But now there were no enthusiasts to be seen in his vicinity. The glass was empty. He had taken the medicine and was waiting. Without saying a word, we went up to his apartment. He lived on the seventh floor, and we took the elevator, a very large elevator, into which more than thirty people could have fit. His apartment was rather small, especially for a Chilean writer, and there were no books. To a question from me he replied that he hardly needed to read anymore. But there are always books, he added. You could see the bar from his apartment. As if the floor were made of glass. I spent a while on my knees, watching the people down there, looking for the enthusiasts, or the three gangsters, but I could see only unfamiliar people, eating or drinking, but mostly moving from one table or booth to another, or up and down the bar, all seized by a feverish excitement, as if in a novel from the first half of the twentieth century. After a while, I reached the conclusion that something was wrong. If the floor of Lihn’s apartment was glass and so was the ceiling of the bar, what about all the stories from the second to the sixth? Were they made of glass, too? Then I looked down again and realized that between the first floor and the seventh floor there was nothing but empty space. This discovery distressed me. Jesus, Lihn, where have you brought me, I thought, though soon I was thinking, Jesus, Lihn, where have they brought you? I got to my feet carefully, because I knew that in that place, as opposed to the normal world, objects were more fragile than people, and I went looking for Lihn, who had disappeared, in the various rooms of the apartment, which didn’t seem small anymore, like a European writer’s apartment, but spacious, enormous, like a writer’s apartment in Chile, in the Third World, with cheap domestic help and expensive, delicate objects, an apartment full of shifting shadows and rooms in semi-darkness, in which I found two books, one a classic, like a smooth stone, the other modern, timeless, like shit, and gradually, as I looked for Lihn, I, too, began to grow cold, increasingly manic and cold. I started feeling ill, as if the apartment were turning on an imaginary axis, but then a door opened and I saw a swimming pool, and there was Lihn, swimming, and before I could open my mouth and say something about entropy Lihn said that the bad thing about his medicine, the medicine he was taking to keep him alive, was that in a way it was turning him into a guinea pig for the drug company, words that I had somehow expected to hear, as if the whole thing were a play and I had suddenly remembered my lines and the lines of my fellow-actors, and then Lihn got out of the swimming pool and we went down to the ground floor, and we made our way through the crowded bar, and Lihn said, The tigers are finished, and, It was sweet while it lasted, and, You’re not going to believe this, Bolaño, but in this neighborhood only the dead go out for a walk. And by then we had reached the front of the bar and were standing at a window, looking out at the streets and the façades of the buildings in that peculiar neighborhood where the only people walking around were dead. And we looked and looked, and the façades were clearly the façades of another time, like the sidewalks covered with parked cars that also belonged to another time, a time that was silent yet mobile (Lihn was watching it move), a terrible time that endured for no reason other than sheer inertia. Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Gangsters First, you had to settle the question of out. When did you get out? Asking this was like showing off, even though anyone you could ask had already received the same gift: the same sun wrapped in shiny paper, the same soft benevolent sky, the same gravel road that sooner or later would skin you, pure joy in the town of Sag Harbor. Still, it was hard not to believe that it all belonged to you more than to anyone else, that it had been made for you, had been waiting for years for you to come along. We all felt that way. We were so grateful just to be there, in the heat, after a long bleak year in the city. When did you get out? In the summer of 1985, I was fifteen years old. My brother, Reggie, was fourteen. That year, we got out the second Saturday in June, in an hour and a half flat from the Upper West Side, having beat the traffic. Over the course of the summer, you heard a lot of different strategies for how to beat the traffic, or at least slap it around a little. There were those who ditched the office early on Friday afternoon, casually letting their co-workers know the reason for their departure, in order to enjoy a little low-pressure envy. Others headed back to the city late on Sunday evening, choking every last pulse of joy from the weekend with cocoa-buttered hands. They stopped to grab a bite and watched the slow red surge outside the restaurant window while dragging clam strips through tartar sauce—soon, soon, not yet—until the coast was clear. My father’s method was easy and brutal: hit the road at five in the morning, so that we were the only living souls on the Long Island Expressway, making a break for it in the haunted dark. Well, it wasn’t really dark—June sunrises are up and at ’em—but I always remember the drives that way, perhaps because my eyes were closed most of the time. The trick of those early-morning jaunts was to wake up just enough to haul a bag of clothes down to the car, nestle in, and then retreat back into sleep. My brother and I did a zombie march, slow and mute, to the back seat, where we turned into our separate nooks, sniffing the upholstery, butt to butt, looking more or less like a Rorschach test. What do you see in this picture? Two brothers going off in different directions. We had recently ceased to be twins. We were born ten months apart, and until I started high school we had come as a matched set, more Siamese than identical, defined by our uncanny inseparability. Joined not at the hip or the spleen or the nervous system but at that most important place—that spot on your self where you meet the world. There was something in the human DNA that had compelled people to say “Benji ’n’ Reggie, Benji ’n’ Reggie” in a singsong way, as if we were cartoon characters. On the rare occasions when we’d been caught alone, the first thing people had asked was “Where’s Benji?” or “Where’s Reggie?,” whereupon we’d delivered a thorough account of our other’s whereabouts, quickly including context, as if embarrassed to be caught out in the sunlight with only half a shadow: “He rode into town. He lost his CAT Diesel Power cap at the beach and went to get a new one at the five-and-ten.” Where is the surgeon gifted enough to undertake separating these hapless conjoined? Paging Doc Puberty, arms scrubbed, smocked to the hilt, smacking the nurses on the ass and well versed in the latest techniques. More suction! Javelin and shot put—that’s about right. Hormones had sent me up and air-borne, tall and skinny, a knock-kneed reed, while Reggie, always chubby in the cheeks and arms, had bulged out into something round and pinchable. Through junior high, we had disentangled week by week, one new hair at a time. There were no complications of the physical separation, but what about the mental one—severing the phantom connection whereby if Reggie stubbed his toe I cried out in pain, and vice versa? By the time we left for Sag Harbor in the summer of 1985, we’d reached the point where if someone asked, “Where’s Reggie?” I didn’t always know. My mother said, “We’re making good time.” The L.I.E. had stopped slicing towns in half and now cut through untamed Nassau County greenery, always a good sign. I tried to claw my way back into sleep until we’d ditched Route 27 and cruise control and weaved down Scuttlehole Road, zipping past the white fencing and rusting wire that held back the bulging acres at the side of the road. I smelled the sweetly muddy fumes of the potato fields and pictured the cornstalks in their long regiments. My mother said, “That sweet Long Island corn,” as she always did. She’d been coming out since she was a kid, her father part of the first wave of black folks from the city to start spending their summers in Sag Harbor. Which made my brother and me, and all our raggedy friends out there, the third generation. For what it was worth. Reggie had been farting for the last five minutes while pretending to be asleep. My feet scrabbled under the front seat in anticipation. Almost there. We slowed by the old red barn at the Turnpike and made the left. From there to our house was like falling down a chute: nothing left to do but prepare for landing. It was six-thirty in the morning. That was that. We were out for the summer. All the ill shit went down on Thursdays. Our parents went back to the city every Sunday night, leaving us alone in Sag for five days while they brought home the bacon. Mondays Reggie and I slept in, lulled by the silence in the rest of the house. The only racket was the sound of the carpenter ants gnawing the soft wood under the deck—not much of a racket at all. When we met up with the rest of our crew—most of our friends in Sag were similarly unsupervised during the week—we traded baroque schemes about what we’d get up to before all our parents came out again. The week was a vast continent for us to explore and conquer. Then suddenly we ran out of land. Wednesdays we woke up agitated, realizing that our idyll was half over. We got busy trying to cram it all in between minimum-wage shifts at the local fast-food spots. Sometimes we messed up on Wednesdays, but it was never a Thursday-size mess-up. No, Thursday we reserved for the thoroughly botched mishaps that called for shame and first aid and apologies. All the ill shit—the disasters we made with our own hands—went down on Thursdays, because on Fridays the parents returned and disasters were out of our control. The first gun was Randy’s. Which should have been a sign that we were heading toward a classic Thursday. This was Randy’s first summer in our group of friends, the blame for which falls on his parents’ lovemaking schedule. He was an in-betweener, living like a weed in the cracks between the micro-demographic groups of the Sag Harbor developments. Too old to hang out with us, really, and too young to be fully accepted by the older kids, he had wafted in a social netherworld for years. Now he had just finished his freshman year in college but, against usual custom, he still came out to Sag. He drove a moss-green Toyota hatchback that he claimed to have bought for a hundred bucks. Its fenders were dented and dimpled, rust mottled the frame in leprous clumps, and the inside smelled like hippie anarchists on the lam had made it their commune. But who was I to cast aspersions? Randy had a car, he was old enough to buy us beer, and for this we accepted him into our tribe and overlooked his shortcomings. I usually didn’t go to Randy’s—he didn’t have a hanging-out house. But everybody else was working that day. Nick at the Jonni Waffle ice-cream shop, where I worked, too, Clive bar-backing at the Long Wharf Restaurant, Reggie and Bobby flipping Whoppers at Burger King. I felt like I hadn’t seen Reggie in weeks. We had contrary schedules, me working in town, him in Southampton. When we overlapped in the house we were usually too exhausted from work to even bicker properly. I had no other option but to call N.P., not my No. 1 choice, and his mother told me that he was at Randy’s. Normally I would have said forget it, but there was a chance that they might be driving somewhere, an expedition to Karts-A-Go-Go or Hither Hills, and later I’d have to hear them exaggerate how much fun they had. Randy lived in Sag Harbor Hills, on Hillside Drive, a dead-end street off our usual circuit. I knew it as the street where the Yellow House was, the one Mark Barrows used to stay in. Mark was a nerdy kid I got along with, who came out for a few summers to visit his grandmother. When I turned the corner to Hillside, I saw that the Yellow House’s yard was overgrown and the blinds were drawn, as they had been for years now. I hadn’t seen Mark in a long time, but a few weeks before I’d happened to ask my mother if she knew why he didn’t come out anymore, and she’d said, “Oh, it turned out that Mr. Barrows had another family.” There was a lot of Other Family going around that summer. For a while it verged on an epidemic. I found it fascinating, wondering at the mechanics of it all. One family in New Jersey and one in Kansas—what kind of cover story hid those miles? These were lies to aspire to. And who was to say which was the Real Family and which was the Other Family? Was the Sag Harbor family of our acquaintance the shadowy antimatter family, or was it the other way around— that family living in a new Delaware subdivision, the one gobbling crumbs with a smile? I pictured the kids scrambling to the front door at the sound of Daddy’s car in the driveway at last (the brief phone calls from the road only magnify his absence), and Daddy taking a moment after he turned off the ignition to orient himself and figure out who and where he was this time. Yes, I recognize those people standing in the doorway—that’s my family. Everyone tucked in tight. The family ate together and communicated. And then Daddy lit out for this Zip Code, changed his face, and everything was reversed. One man, two houses. Two faces. Which house you lived in, kids, was the luck of the draw. Randy and N.P. were in the street. They were bent over, looking at something on the ground. I yelled, “Yo!” They didn’t respond. I walked up. “Look at that,” N.P. said. “What happened to it?” I asked. A robin was lying on the asphalt, but it didn’t have the familiar tread-mark tattoo of most roadkill. It was tiny and still. “Randy shot it,” N.P. said. Randy grinned and held up his BB rifle proudly. The metal was sleek, inky black, the fake wood grain of the stock and forearm glossy in the sun. “I got it at Caldor,” he said. We looked down at the robin again. “It landed on the power pole and I just took the shot,” Randy said. “I’ve been practicing all day.” “Is it dead?” I asked. “I don’t see any blood,” N.P. answered. “Maybe it’s just a concussion,” I said. “You should stuff it and mount it,” N.P. said. I thought, That’s uncool, a judgment I’d picked up from the stoners at my “predominately white” private school, who had decided, toward the end of the spring semester, that I was O.K., and let me hang out in their vicinity, or at least linger unmolested, as a prelude to a provisional adoption by their clan next fall. I liked “uncool” because it meant that there was a code that everyone agreed on. The rules didn’t change—everything in the universe was either cool or uncool, no confusion. “That’s uncool,” someone said, and “That is so uncool,” another affirmed, the voice of justice itself, nasal and uncomplicated. Randy let N.P. take the rifle and N.P. held it in his hands, testing its weight. It looked solid and formidable. He aimed at invisible knuckleheads loitering at the end of the street: “Stick ’em up!” He pumped the stock three times, clack clack clack, and pulled the trigger. And again. “It’s empty, dummy,” Randy said. To observe N.P. was to witness a haphazard choreography of joints and limbs. His invisible puppeteer had shaky hands, making it seem as if N.P. were always on the verge of busting out into some freaky dance move. Looking back, I think that his condition was more likely caused by him trying to keep his freaky dance moves in check—whatever convulsive thing he’d taken notes on at a party the week before and had just finished practicing in his room. That I wouldn’t have heard of the dance was a given—the Phillie Bugaloo, the Reverse Cabbage Patch. To hang out with N.P. was to try to catch up on nine months of black slang and other sundry soulful artifacts I’d missed out on at school. Not that I didn’t learn anything at school, culturewise. The hallways between classes were a tutelage into the wide range of diversions that our country’s white youth had come up with to occupy themselves. When I had free time between engineering my own humiliations, I was introduced to the hacky sack, a sort of miniature leather beanbag that compelled white kids to juggle with their feet. It was a wholesome communal activity, I saw, as they lobbed the object among each other, cheering themselves on. It appeared to foster teamwork and good will among its adherents. Bravo! There was also a kind of magical rod called a lacrosse stick. It directed the more outgoing and athletic specimens of my school to stalk the carpeted floors and obsessively wring their hands around it, as if to call forth popularity or a higher degree of social acceptance through diligent application of friction. You heard them muttering “hut hut hut” in a masturbatory fervor as they approached. Good stuff, in an anthropological sense. But these things were not the Technotronic Bunny Hop, or the Go Go Bump-Stomp, the assorted field exercises of black boot camp. We called him N.P., for “Nigger, please,” because no matter what came out of his mouth, that was usually the most appropriate response. He was our best liar, a raconteur of baroque teen-age shenanigans. Everything in his field of vision reminded him of some escapade he needed to share, or directed him to some escapade about to begin, as soon as all the witnesses had departed. He was dependable for nonsense like “Yo, last night, after you left, I went back to that party and got with that Queens girl. She told me she was raised strict, but I was all up in those titties! She paid me fifty dollars!” Nigger, please. “Yo, yo, listen: I was walking by the Miller house and I went to take a look at their Rolls, and get this, I was, like, they left the keys in the ignition. You know I took that shit for a spin. I was like Thurston Howell III up in that bitch! With Gilligan!” Nigger, please. Like me and Reggie, N.P. had come out to Sag every summer of his life—and even before he was born, as his mother had waded out into the bay to cool her pregnant belly. We had beaten each other up, stolen each other’s toys, fallen asleep in the back seats of station wagons together as we caravanned back from double features at the Bridgehampton Drive-In, the stars scrolling beyond the back window. We were copying our parents, who had been beating each other up, eating each other’s barbecue, chasing each other down the hacked-out footpaths to the beach, thirty years earlier, under the same sky. According to the world, we were the definition of paradox: black boys with beach houses. What kind of bourgie sellout Negroes were we, with BMWs (Black Man’s Wagons, in case you didn’t know) in our driveways and private schools to teach us how to use a knife and fork, and sort that from dat? What about keeping it real? What about the news, the statistics, the great narrative of black pathology? Just check out the newspapers, preferably in a movie-style montage sequence, the alarming headlines dropping in-frame with a thud, one after the other: “CRISIS IN THE INNER CITY!”; “WHITHER ALL THE BABY DADDIES”; “THE TRUTH ABOUT THE WELFARE STATE: THEY JUST DON’T WANT TO WORK”; “NOT LIKE IN THE GOOD OLD DAYS.” Black boys with beach houses. It could mess with your head sometimes, if you were the susceptible sort. And if it messed with your head, got under your brown skin, there were some typical and well-known remedies. You could embrace the beach part—revel in the luxury, the perception of status, wallow without care in what it meant to be born in America with money, or the appearance of money, as the case may be. No apologies. Or you could embrace the black part—take some idea you had about what real blackness was, and make theatre out of it, your own 24/7 one-man show. Street, ghetto. Act hard, act out, act in a way that would come to be called gangsterish, pulling petty crimes, a soft kind of tough, knowing that there’d always be someone to post bail if one of your grubby schemes fell apart. Or you could embrace the contradiction. You could say, What you call paradox, I call myself. At least, in theory: those inclined to this remedy didn’t have a lot of obvious models. We headed into Randy’s house to get some more ammo. He opened the screen door and yelled, “Mom, I’m inside with my friends!” and the sound of a TV was silenced as a door closed with a thud. Randy got the BBs from his room, then led us out through the kitchen into the back yard. Brown leaves drifted in dirty pools in the butts of chairs. Behind the house were woods, which allowed him to convert the patio into a firing range. He’d dragged the barbecue grill to the edge of the trees—I saw a trail of ashes—and around its three feet lay cans and cups riddled with tiny holes. Steve Austin, the Six Million Dollar Man, who had been rebuilt at great expense with taxpayers’ money, stood on the red dome of the barbecue, his bionic hands in eternal search of necks to throttle. Randy took aim. The action figure stared impassively, his extensive time on the operating table having granted him a stoic’s quiet grace. It took five shots, Randy pumping and clacking the stock with increasing fury as we observed his shitty marksmanship. Then Steve Austin tumbled off the lid and lay on his side, his pose undisturbed in the dirt. Didn’t even blink. They really knew how to make an action figure back then. “I want to get the optional scope for greater accuracy,” Randy explained, “but that costs more money.” “Lemme try that shit now,” N.P. said. I left soon after. I threw out a “You guys want to head to East Hampton to buy records?,” but no one bit. I’d thought we were past playing with guns. I walked around the side of the house, and when I got to the street the bird was gone. That was the first gun. The next was Bobby’s. This one was a pistol, a replica of a 9-mm. Bobby was still in the early stages of his transformation into that weird creature the prep-school militant. The usual schedule for good middle-class black boys and girls called for them to get militant and fashionably Afrocentric in the first semester of freshman year of college: underlining key passages in “The Autobiography of Malcolm X” and that passed-around paperback of “Black Skin, White Masks”; organizing a march or two to protest the lack of tenure for that controversial professor in the Department of Black Studies; organizing a march or two to protest the lack of a Department of Black Studies. It passed the time until business school. But Bobby got an early start on all that, returning to Sag from his sophomore year of high school with a new, clipped pronunciation of the word “whitey,” and a fondness for using the phrases “white-identified” and “false consciousness” while watching “The Cosby Show.” It caused problems as he fretted over his Zip Code (“Scarsdale ain’t nothing but a high-class shantytown. It’s a gilded lean-to”) and how changing his name might affect his Ivy League prospects (“Your transcript says Bobby Emerson, but you said your name was Sadat X”). We used to make fun of him for being so light-skinned, and this probably contributed to some of his overcompensating. The joke was that, if the K.K.K. came pounding on Bobby’s door and demanded, “Where the black people at?” (it’s well known—the fondness of the K.K.K. for ending sentences with a preposition), he’d say, “They went thataway!” with a minstrel eye-roll and a vaudeville arm flourish. He rebelled against his genes, the Caucasian DNA in his veins square-dancing with strong African DNA. It’s a tough battle, defending one flank against nature while nurture sneaks in from the east with whole battalions. He directed most of his hostile talk at his mother, who worked on Wall Street. “My mom wouldn’t give me twenty dollars for the weekend. She’s sucking the white man’s dick all day, Morgan Stanley cracker, and can’t give me twenty dollars!” His mother bore the brunt of his misguided rage, even though his father worked at Goldman Sachs and wasn’t exactly a dashiki-clad community leader. But get a bunch of teen-age virgins together, and you’re bound to rub up against some mother issues. Let he who is without sin cast the first plucked-out orb of Oedipal horror. We were in Bobby’s room. He had invited me over to play Lode Runner on his Apple II+, but when I got up there he dug under his mattress and pulled out a BB pistol. I jerked my head toward the open door. “What about your grandpa?” He pointed to his alarm clock. It was 7:35 P.M. Which meant that his grandparents had been asleep for five minutes. Bobby’s parents were there only on weekends, like ours; unlike us, he was not completely unsupervised during the week. His grandparents were there to make sure that he got fed. But after seven-thirty he crawled over the wall. “Me and N.P. went with Randy to Caldor and got one,” Bobby said. “He got the silver one, but I wanted the black one. It’s the joint, right? Greg Tiller’s cousin has a gun like this,” he added, squinting down the pistol’s sight. “I saw it once at his house. You know what he’s into, right?” “No, what?” “You know, some hardcore shit. He was in jail.” He held it out. “Do you want to hold it?” “No, that’s all right.” “What are you, a pussy?” I shrugged. “Me and Reggie were shooting stuff over at the creek today,” Bobby said. “He has good aim. He should be a sniper in the Marine Corps.” I’d seen Reggie before he went off to Burger King, asked him what he’d been up to. “Nothing,” he’d said. “Let me see that,” I said. It was heavier than it looked. I curled my finger around the trigger. O.K. Got the gist. I pretended to study it for a moment more, then gave it back to him. “I’m going to bring this shit to school,” Bobby said. He put his crazy face on. “Stick up some pink motherfuckers. Bla-blam!” Which was bullshit. Hunting preppies—the Deadliest Game of All—would have cut into his daily vigil outside the college counsellor’s office. This BB-gun shit was making people act like dummies. To wit: he pointed it at me. “Hands in the air!” I shielded my eyes with my hand. “Get that shit outta my face!” He laughed. “Hot oil! Hot oil!” he said, rolling his eyes manically. Reggie had started saying “Hot oil! Hot oil!” whenever I bossed him around or said something lame. After the twentieth time, I asked him why he kept saying that, and he said that there was a semi-retarded guy who worked at Burger King through a special program, and he always got agitated when he walked by the fryers, squealing “Hot oil! Hot oil!” to remind himself. “Don’t worry. I got the safety on,” Bobby said, pulling the trigger. A BB shot out, hit the wall, ricocheted into his computer monitor, bounced against the window, and disappeared under his bed. “Sorry, man! Sorry, sorry!” he yelped. Downstairs, one might conjecture, Grandpa stirred in his sleep. At least it was a plastic BB. Randy had copper BBs. The plastic ones didn’t hurt that much. The copper ones could do some real damage, as I saw the following week when I found myself out on “target practice.” We were on our way to Bridgehampton to walk around, Randy driving, Clive, N.P., and me. Then Randy pulled into the parking lot of Mashashimuet Park. “I thought we were going to Bridgehampton,” I said. “After we go shooting,” Randy said. We walked onto the trails behind the park. N.P. carried a moldy cardboard box. When I asked him what was inside, he said, “That would be telling.” Randy had the spot all picked out. The abandoned Karmann Ghia. It made sense. We’d tried to make a plaything of it many a boredom-crazed afternoon, but it was too rusted to incorporate into high jinks beyond throwing rocks through its dwindling windows. (We were a tetanus-phobic group, lockjaw being the most sinister villain we could imagine.) But not anymore. The guns gave us the distance to hasten the car’s ruin. Randy’s first attempts were unspectacular, his BBs zipping straight through the car’s exterior, leaving a tiny, fingertip-size hole you had to get up close to see. But, as his aim improved and he figured out the key pressure points, a BB disintegrated a nice section of the car’s weakened frame. “You see how I pump it?” he asked rhetorically. “The more you pump it, the faster the f.p.s.” Feet per second, I guessed, and later confirmed when I sat on some ketchup-stained rifle literature in the back seat of Randy’s car. “Low f.p.s. is good if you just want to scare a deer or another critter off your property. Higher f.p.s. is when you really want to send a message.” Yee-haw! N.P. and Clive took turns with N.P.’s pistol—Randy was clinging tight to his baby today—and although it was diverting for a while, I started to wonder if we’d have enough time to drive to Bridgehampton and back before my shift. “We just got here, dag,” N.P. said. “I’m not ready to go,” Randy said as he reloaded his rifle. Clive had taken a few shots. He seemed to be enjoying himself. “Why don’t you go ahead and try it?” he asked me. Clive had always been the leader of our group. He was just cool, no joke. He was that rare thing among us: halfway normal, socialized, capable, and charismatic. Tall and muscular, he had the physical might to beat us up, but he broke up fights instead, separating combatants while dodging their whirling fists, and no one complained. Plus, he knew how to talk to girls, had girlfriends, plural. Good-looking girlfriends, too, by all accounts, with all their teeth and everything. Last summer he’d even dated an older woman—in her twenties! Who lived in Springs! Who had a kid! He had his problems, like the rest of us, but he hadn’t let them deform his character. Not back then. I took N.P.’s gun. Clive offered me the carton of BBs. In their small blue box, the copper BBs turned molten in the sun. N.P. said, “Let’s break out the stuff,” and opened the box he’d brought along. It was filled with items scavenged from his basement—a porcelain vase, a bunch of drinking glasses with groovy sixties designs, a Nerf football with tooth marks in it, a bottle of red nail polish, and other junk chosen for its breakable quality. “Here, do the radio,” N.P. said. He dug into the box and perched an old transistor radio on top of the Karmann Ghia. I took my time. I wiped the sweat off my forehead. I held my shooting arm with my left hand, gunslinger style. Drew a bead. The radio made a sad ting, tottered in cheap suspense, and fell into the dirt. I’d hit it toward the top, knocking it off balance. The words “center of gravity” came to me, secondhand track-and-field lingo from my vain attempt to place out of P.E. that spring. I couldn’t throw a ball worth shit with my girly arm, but somehow I’d hit the radio. N.P. whooped it up, slapping me on the back. Clive offered a terse “Good shooting,” like a drill instructor trying not to be too affirming. I grinned. We positioned the other relics from N.P.’s basement. The vase didn’t explode, but each time it was hit another jagged section fell off, so that we could see more of its insides. It finally collapsed on its own while we were reloading. I aimed at an old lampshade of rainbow-colored glass, and, though I didn’t re-create the swell marksmanship of my first attempt, I had to admit it was fun. Not the shooting itself, but the satisfaction of discovering a new way to kill a chunk of summer. It was like scraping out a little cave, making a new space in the hours to hide in for a time. I placed the final victim on top of the car—the neon-green Nerf football. We’d saved it for last because nothing topped Nerf abuse. It was Randy’s turn, but, as it was N.P.’s Nerf ball, he established dibs. It turned out that N.P. couldn’t hit it. Time after time. We’d been out there in the sun for hours and we were dehydrated. The rush, the novelty, was gone, and we all felt it. Finally, N.P. gave up and handed his pistol to Clive. Randy said, “N.P. couldn’t hit the broad side of a barn,” that hoary marksman’s slur. N.P. exploded. He always had put-downs to spare, but now he grasped after his trademark finesse. “I could hit your fat fuckin’ ass fine, you fuckin’ Rerun-from-‘What’s Happ’ning’-looking motherfucker.” “What the fuck did you say?” “You fuckin’ biscuit-eatin’ bitch!” Randy’s hours of picking off his old toys in the back yard finally found their true outlet. He stroked his rifle, clack clack, and started shooting the dirt at N.P.’s feet. “Dance, nigger, dance!” he shouted, in Old West saloon fashion, which was pretty fucked-up, and the copper BBs detonated in the ground in brief puffs. N.P. skipped from foot to foot, his bright-white sneakers flashing like surrender flags. “Dance!” I don’t think Randy was aiming at N.P.’s feet, but I couldn’t be sure. What if he missed? One of those BBs, depending on the f.p.s., would rip through the sneaker, definitely. How much deeper I didn’t know. Clive and I shouted for Randy to knock it off. Clive took a step toward Randy, hands out defensively. He was fast enough to rush him, but nevertheless. Randy glared at Clive—I swear he made a calculation—and then lowered the rifle, with an “I was just playing.” N.P. charged Randy, cursing like a motherfucker. Clive restrained him. “That’s uncool,” I said, but no one chimed in with the other-shoe “That’s so uncool.” The boys boiled off in their neutral corners, and we left soon after, scratching the Bridgehampton excursion without discussion. That was on a Wednesday. The next Monday, we were back at the threshold of another empty week we needed to fill. We convened at our place that night: Reggie, Randy, Bobby, Clive, and Nick, who was living out there full time now. He’d been a summer kid, one of our gang through many adventures, but something had happened between his parents—we never asked about family processes, only accepted the results when informed—and now he and his mom were living in Sag Harbor Hills. He went to Pierson High School, was technically a townie, by definitions that he himself would have upheld, and was embarrassed by this. “This whole Sag thing is just temporary,” he frequently told us, to reassure himself. I saw that he had a new gold chain. His old one had said “Nick,” in two-inch letters. His new chain said “Big Nick,” in two-inch letters, and was studded with tiny white rhinestones. “Nice,” I said. “Got my man in Queens Plaza to do it,” he said. My father would’ve kicked me out of the house if I’d walked in with a gold chain around my neck. Not that it ever would’ve occurred to me to get a gold chain. But Nick! Circumstances had forced Nick to embrace the early-eighties fashions of urban black boys with verve and unashamed gusto. He loved two-tone jeans, gray in the front, black in the back, months out of fashion but authentic city artifacts out there in Sag. The laces on his Adidases were puffy and magnificent, and if he wasn’t wearing his Jonni Waffle T-shirt with the sleeves rolled up, juvenile-delinquent style, he wore a Knicks jersey that showed off his muscles. Muscles that had been produced by lugging his enormous boom box around. His radio was the most ridiculous thing, the biggest radio any of us had ever seen or ever would see. It was a yard wide, half as much tall, a gleaming silver slab of stereophonic dynamism. It didn’t do much. Played the terrible East End radio stations. Played cassettes. Made a dub at the touch of a button. For all I know it was mostly air inside, save for the bushel of double-D batteries it took to power the thing, and which Nick spent most of his wages on. Randy had brought beer, which was a new feature of our lives that summer. The drinking age was nineteen then, which made Randy legal and Clive tall enough to buy take-out six-packs at the corner bar unchallenged. One beer and I was buzzed, two beers I was drunk. We asked one another, “Which one are you on?,” to see who was ahead and who was falling behind. Pointing at the empties for proof. “Why don’t you open the screen door to let the air in here?” Randy said. “It’s a screen door. The air comes through,” Reggie said. “Plus the mosquitoes will get us.” “Then leave the lights out. They won’t come in,” Randy said. “I’m hot.” Reggie opened the screen door, and we hunkered in the gloom. We had three days to fill. Clive suggested night blue-fishing off Montauk. But the rest of us agreed that it was too expensive to go more than once a season, given the realities of minimum wage, and we’d already been once. Reggie, who this summer had decided that he was no longer afraid of the water, disavowing a key tenet of the men in our family, said that we should borrow Nick’s uncle’s motorboat again. But Nick said that his uncle was having the hull refinished. Bobby busted out that old chestnut Ask Mrs. Upland if We Can Go in Her Pool, but Clive and Nick immediately said no dice. Mrs. Upland’s son had died five years before. He’d grown up in Sag in a crew with Clive’s father and Nick’s father, and the last time they’d used her pool she’d kept calling them by their fathers’ names and it had creeped them out. Stumped, and it wasn’t even August yet. “Let’s show dicks,” Randy suggested. Cricket, cricket. “Why the hell would we do that?” Clive asked, finally. “To see who has the biggest dick,” Randy said. “Next time we go to Karts-A-Go-Go, we should race for money and time ourselves to see who’s the fastest,” I said, steering the proceedings like a good host. I wasn’t much of a go-cart driver, but I thought the novelty of the scheme might appeal. Bobby turned on his m.c. voice: “One Two Three, in the place to be.” And Reggie said, “All right!” They started their routine and I rolled my eyes in the darkness. Bobby and my brother had memorized the lyrics to Run-D.M.C.’s “Here We Go” and had to perform it at least ten times a day. Bobby was Run, Reggie was D.M.C. Bobby took the lead, Reggie sidekicking after each line like an exclamation point. Back and forth, a real fucking duo. Clive kept the beat with his hands. “It’s like that, y’all.” “That y’all!” “It’s like that, y’all.” “That y’all.” “It’s like that-a-tha-that, a-like that, y’all.” “That y’all!” “Cool chief rocker, I don’t drink vodka, but keep a bag of cheeba inside my locker.” “HUH!” “Go to school every day.” “HUH!” “Always time to get paid.” “HA HUH!” “ ’Cause I’m rockin’ on the mic until the break of day!” Run-D.M.C. boasting about staying in school—quaint days in the history of hip-hop. To my chagrin, I had never heard the song before Reggie and Bobby started singing it. I thought I knew all of Run-D.M.C.’s records, the self-titled début and “King of Rock,” but I was a square. The song was a limited-edition live recording made at a club called the Funhouse, taped “Funky fresh for 1983,” according to the lyrics. Bobby had introduced the song to Reggie, who dubbed a copy on Nick’s boom box. Distracted, no one followed up on my Karts-A-Go-Go plan. In my jealousy, I pictured Bobby and Reggie performing their bit behind the counter at Burger King, their clubhouse where I was not allowed, in their paper Burger King caps and hairnets, while the retarded guy chimed in with “Hot oil! Hot oil!” like an amen. We continued to brainstorm. No progress. Then someone said, “We should have a BB-gun fight,” and it stuck. The only thing to silence the new hunger. That was that. Our house was full of mosquitoes for a week, and Reggie and I had to sleep with our heads under the sheets to keep them out of our ears. The next day, Randy drove me and Clive to Caldor, the East End’s one-stop emporium for action figures and beach towels, insect-repelling candles and beach chairs, lighter fluid and flip-flops. After consulting our savings, kept in battered envelopes in topnotch hiding places around the house to prevent each other from skimming some off the top, Reggie and I had decided that it would be best if we shared a BB pistol, with one of us borrowing Randy’s spare for the fight itself. This arrangement would also allow me to keep track of Reggie’s gun activity. I was sure he was going to hurt himself. Bobby would cook up some dumb idea and Reggie would go along with it and he’d get hurt. I had to look out for him; in fact, the night of the Mosquito Summit, I decided to try to get the BB-gun fight scheduled to overlap with one of his shifts at Burger King. We all missed key shenanigans because of work. There was no reason that this couldn’t be one of Reggie’s turns to listen to glorious tales and rue his absence until the end of time. Reggie and I hadn’t had toy guns, growing up, so we had to catch up. Green or orange water pistols had been O.K., but anything else had sent our father speechifying. “That’s some white-man shit,” he’d say, confiscating the cap gun from a birthday-party goody bag. “Whitey loves his guns. Shoot somebody—he loves that shit. So let him. No kid of mine is going to get that mind-set.” I practiced solo, deep in the recesses of the creek, out of sight of beachgoers and homeowners. Why startle the happy vacationers with the sight of a skinny, slouching teen-ager, the sun glinting off his braces and his handgun? When it was Reggie’s turn to practice, he’d disappear with Bobby for one of their secret confabs, probably a razzle-dazzle rapping/shooting extravaganza of great theatre. It’s like that, y’all. Not that the rest of us were immune. N.P. tucked his piece into his belt like a swaggering cop on the take or the cracker sheriff of a Jim Crow Podunk. Clive was observed busting a Dirty Harry move when he thought we weren’t looking, and Randy was often found cradling his rifle to his chest, a gruesome sneer on his face, as if he were about to take an East Hampton bistro hostage. I myself favored a two-handed promising-rookie pose, the kind used by “Starsky and Hutch” extras who got clipped before the first commercial and were avenged for the rest of the hour. “He woulda made a good cop, just like his old man.” It was only a matter of time before we started posing for album covers. Not one from innocent ’85, but one from a few years later, after the music had changed from this: Rhymes so def Rhymes rhymes galore Rhymes that you’ve never even heard before Now if you say you heard my rhyme We gonna have to fight ’Cause I just made the motherfuckers up last night to this: “Hey yo, Cube, there go that motherfucker right there.” “No shit. Watch this . . . Hey, what’s up, man?” “Not too much.” “You know you won, G.” “Won what?” “The wet T-shirt contest, motherfucker!” [sounds of gunfire] Lyrics from the aforementioned “Here We Go” and “Now I Gotta Wet ’Cha,” copyright 1992, by Ice Cube, born the same year as me, who grew up on Run-D.M.C. just like we all did. “Wet ’cha,” as in “wet your shirt with blood.” Something happened in those nine years. Something happened that changed the terms, and we went from fighting (I’ll knock that grin off your face) to annihilation (I will wipe you from this earth). How we got from here to there is a key passage in the history of young black men that no one cares to write. On Wednesday, we went over the rules at Clive’s house. No shooting at the eyes or face—that was a no-brainer. No cheating—if you’re hit, you’re hit, don’t be a bitch about it. Sag Harbor Hills was the boundary of the battlefield—no cutting through to other developments and sneaking back to emerge ambush-style. I said that we should all wear goggles, just in case, and to my surprise the others seemed to agree. There was talk of synchronizing watches, but no one wore a watch in the summer except me, because summer is its own time and I was the only one who didn’t know this. When the scheduling question came up, I said, “Tomorrow night?,” and everyone but Reggie was free then. The weekend was out—too many people around—and no one wanted to put it off till the following week. Reggie was benched and I was glad. Not that it could have gone down any other way. Although we had hatched the plan for a BB-gun war on a Monday, there was no question that in the end it would go down on a Thursday. There was just one matter left to discuss: the issue of Randy’s rifle and the f.p.s. A metal BB from one of the pistols, at the range we were going to be shooting at one another, would hurt a little but not that much, according to hearsay. Pump the rifle enough times, however, and it was going to break the skin. “But if I can’t pump I’ll be at a disadvantage,” Randy moaned. “We have to figure out how many rifle pumps is equal to the standard pistol shot,” I offered. “How do we figure that out?” Clive asked. “We can test it out on Marcus,” Randy said. Marcus said, “O.K.,” and we headed out into the yard. Marcus was a key player in our group, in that he reassured us that there was someone more unfortunate than ourselves. He possessed three primary mutant powers. 1) He was able to attract to his person all the free-floating derision in the vicinity through a strange magnetism. 2) He bent light waves, rendering the rest of us invisible to bullies; when Marcus was present, the big kids were incapable of seeing us, picking on him exclusively, delivering noogies, knuckle punches, and Indian rope burns to his waiting flesh. 3) He had superior olfactory capability; he could smell barbecue from four miles away, attaining such mastery that he could ascertain, with the faintest nostril quivering, if the stuff on the grill had just been thrown on, or was about to come off, and acted accordingly. Like a knife and fork, he appeared around dinner time. Call him a mooch to hurt his feelings, and he’d just smile, wipe his mouth on his wrist, and snatch the last piece of chicken—probably a wing, damn him. Marcus took off his shirt, and Randy loaded his rifle. “Let’s start at one,” he said. I said, “Marcus, why don’t you turn around so it doesn’t go in your face or something?” Marcus turned around and gritted his teeth. There was a routine he did when one of us got mad at him, pulling up his shirt and clowning, “Please, Massa, Massa, Massa, please,” anticipating the whip, “Roots”-style. He had the same expression on his face now. Randy stood four yards away, aimed, and fired. The BB hit Marcus in the spine and bounced off. “Shit, that didn’t hurt,” Marcus said. “Do I have a mark?” We told him no. Randy said, “Then let’s try three times,” and stepped closer. “Ow,” Marcus cried. But it still didn’t break the skin. Clack clack clack clack clack. I noticed that Randy kept creeping closer between shots, but I didn’t say anything. Neither did Clive. Five times and Marcus screamed and a crescent of blood smiled on his skin. “So don’t pump it more than four times,” Clive said. “Yo, that hurt,” Marcus said. “Let’s make it no more than two, just to be safe,” I said. I couldn’t sleep that night. I was thinking about Thursday and its tally over the years: the time N.P. broke his ankle sneaking into his bedroom window after hanging out late at the Rec Room with those townie girls; the time I didn’t properly hose off the lounge chairs on the deck, and the next day I got confined to the property line for a week and obediently stuck around like a fool even when my parents were out of town and would never know; fight after fight, too many to count. When the chain fell off Marcus’s bike and he smeared his bare feet all the way across the gravel of the Hill trying to stop—that was Thursday all over. Our weekly full moon. I woke up late. I heard noises in the living room. It should have been quiet. “Why aren’t you at work?” I asked my brother. “I switched my shift so I can be in the war,” he said. I told him he couldn’t go. He’d get hurt. “When Mom and Dad are away, I’m in charge,” I reminded him. “You’re not in charge of me.” “Yes, I am.” “What are you going to do—tell on me?” he said, and he had me there. I couldn’t rat him out or else I’d get it, too. He went off to get in some last-minute practice. At fight time, I headed up Walker. I passed the stop sign at Meredith and noticed that it was freckled with silver, the red paint chipped away—target practice for one of our friends, probably Marcus, who lived two houses down. Nice cluster on the “T” and the “O.” He had good aim, depending on how far away he’d been standing. When I got to Clive’s house, we were all there, except for Nick. He’d called, whispering about how his mom was home and he couldn’t get out of the house with his BB gun. Marcus suggested that we start without him. “But then we’d have uneven teams,” Bobby said. “One of us can sit out,” I said. “Youngest first?” “Four is better than three,” Clive announced, and we caved. By the time Nick arrived, it was almost dark, so we got busy making teams. Everybody wanted to be on Clive’s team because Clive’s team always won, but Randy was a factor with his rifle expertise. Reggie said, “Me and Bobby are a mini-team because we’ve been practicing together,” and I was appalled. Reggie and I had never not been a mini-team, what with the whole “Benji ’n’ Reggie, Benji ’n’ Reggie” singsong thing through the years. The only thing that had kept me calm that afternoon was knowing that I could protect him if he was on my team. Send him on some crazy mission out of the way. He didn’t look at me. The final teams were: me, Clive, Marcus, and Nick on the Vice (for “Miami Vice”) and Randy, Bobby, Reggie, and N.P. on the Cool Chief Rockers. When Nick finally got his ass over there, I pulled out the paint goggles I’d rescued from the cobwebs under our deck, and N.P. said, “Goggles?” “No one said anything about goggles.” “I don’t got goggles.” “I’m not wearing any pussy-ass goggles,” Marcus said. Nor was Reggie—I didn’t even bother to fight with him about it. I didn’t wear them, either. The sky was getting dark. We went over the rules again and then it was on. We started counting to two hundred, per the guidelines, as we ran away, scattering according to haywire teen-age logic toward the highway, toward the beach. I jogged around the corner, checking to see if I was in anyone’s sights, and jumped into the undeveloped lot next to the Nichols House. I waded in deep enough that I couldn’t be seen from the road, but shallow enough that I could see anyone coming. Fifty-two, fifty-three. Getting there. It was almost too dark to play at this point, but the poor visibility would help me. I was going to wait for one of the Cool Chief Rockers to recon my way and then ambush him, a favorite tactic of mine to this day. Wait for the right moment in an argument with a loved one, then ambush her with some hurt I’ve held on to for years, the list of indictments nurtured in the darkness of my hideout, and say, “Gotcha!” See how you ruined me. If I was lucky, Bobby and Reggie would stop right in front of where I was hiding, to regroup or break into song, and I’d take them both out. A firefly blinked into existence, drew half a word in the air. Then it was gone. I moved closer to the street so that I could get a better view and someone hit me in the face with a rock. Hot oil! Hot oil! A rock. That’s what it felt like. My head snapped back and the top half of my face throbbed like I’d been slapped. I cursed and stumbled out into the street. Who throws rocks at a BB-gun fight? I yelled for a time-out. Randy popped out of the woods on the other side of the street. “I hit you,” he said, in surprise and pride. “Why are you throwing rocks?” “No, it was a BB.” I poked gingerly around my left eye. He’d hit me in the socket, in the hollow between the tear duct and the eyebrow. There may be a proper anatomical name for that part of the eye socket, but I don’t know it. It felt like a rock. I couldn’t see out of that eye. There was stuff in it. Randy reached forward and I batted his hand away. I heard N.P. say, “What’s up?” I traced my fingertip along the lumpy hole in my face, the stinging flesh. It had broken the skin. He’d pumped it more than two times. “What happened?” Clive asked. “Benji’s out. I hit him,” Randy declared. “I’m not out,” I said. “He pumped it more than twice! I’m bleeding! He’s disqualified!” I touched the hole in my face and staggered into the cone of the street light. Fat June bugs crawled over each other on the ground in their wretched street-light ritual. I held up my finger. It was bloody. Bobby and Reggie appeared, and then all the Cool Chief Rockers and Vicers, guns dangling. Reggie grabbed my arm and wanted to know if I was all right. I hadn’t heard him sound so concerned in a long time. I shook my head drunkenly. “What the hell did you do, Randy?” Reggie said. “He pumped it more than twice,” I said. Everybody murmured “dag,” in their disparate dag registers. When they got a look at the wound, they re-dagged at how close it had come to my eye. Then I realized the Horrible Thing. I probed around the wound. The skin was tough and swollen, but beneath that was something harder, like a pearl. “It’s still in there,” I said. Randy didn’t believe it. “Let me see,” he said, his hands out. “Get away from him,” Reggie shouted. He stepped between us. “Benji,” he started, squinting at the bloody hole in the poor light, “you have to go to the hospital.” “We can’t do that,” Marcus said. “We’ll get in trouble.” “We’ll all be in some serious trouble when our parents come out tomorrow.” I looked around. They had decided. Even Clive, who in his alpha-dogness could have grabbed Randy’s car keys and taken me if he wanted, fuck everybody. He was looking down the street, as if he heard his parents pulling up, avoiding my gaze. Half-gaze. Randy said, “How are you going to get there?” “That’s uncool,” Reggie said. He was my brother. I loved him. The way he said it, I knew. He’d found the stoners, too. Maybe he was going to be all right after all. “That’s so uncool,” I said. Justice according to brothers and stoners: If someone needs to go to the hospital and you’ve got the car, you have to take them. Reggie said, “Bobby, your grandpa can drive us!” Bobby got weaselly. “He’s asleep—look, it’s dark.” “I don’t have to go to the hospital. I’m O.K.,” I said. Reggie protested, but everyone else was so thoroughly relieved that it was someone else’s Thursday that the point was moot. I’d take one for the team—I’d take the hit because that’s what I did. The other guys turned on Randy for having put them in this position, bitching about the pumping and whether his aiming for my face was an accident or not. He didn’t give an inch—“It just happened”—but he did offer me “automatic shotgun for two weeks” as compensation. My plan was to go home and try to squeeze the BB out, pimple-style. My brother and I walked away. I had one palm over my eye and my other hand on his shoulder. In the bathroom mirror, my eye looked disgusting. Like I’d gone a few rounds with a real heavyweight. The socket was all swollen, and blood was trickling down over my nose and older, dried-up trickles of blood. I washed my face and got a better look. I could feel the BB in there. I couldn’t move it. It was lodged in the flesh or something. Reggie hovered around, trying to be helpful, but he was freaking me out so I asked him to give me a minute. I tried to wiggle the BB again, applying the time-honored zit-popping principles of strategic leverage like a modern-day Archimedes. Nothing happened, and the inflamed flesh was so tender that I couldn’t really have at it. Blood with dark little bits in it dribbled over my fingers. We’d thought it all out and decided that metal BBs were O.K. because, in theory, they weren’t going to break the skin, but now I had a tetanus-covered time bomb in my head. I was going to wake up with lockjaw and waste away in bone-popping misery. Should I have occasion to fly before my death day—to visit an international lockjaw specialist at his mountaintop clinic, for example—metal detectors would go off and I’d have to explain the whole dumb story. We drank some of our father’s seven-ounce Miller bottles. I put ice on my eye and we watched the last half of “The Paper Chase.” I decided to try again in the morning. The next morning, the swelling had gone down a little and the hole was scabbed over. I tried squeezing it again. The BB wasn’t stuck in the tough flesh anymore, but now the “entry wound” had closed over. Our parents were coming out that night and they were going to murder us. Playing with BB guns. Allowing Reggie to play with BB guns when I was in charge of the house. Each of us letting the other play with BB guns when we should have known better. Three capital offenses right there. We didn’t know what to do. It was like the good old days when we broke a lamp or put a hole in the couch and ran around each other like crazy cockroaches waiting for the Big Shoe. We prayed they’d decide at the last minute not to come out. We cleaned the house extra special; we even used Windex for the fingerprints on the fridge. Maybe that would distract them. We stuck the wad of bloody paper towels and a blood-soaked washcloth into a plastic King Kullen bag and shoved it way down in the garbage. In the middle of the afternoon, Reggie went out to sell our gun to N.P., who bought it for fifty cents on the dollar. We rehearsed cover stories and settled on: We were running through the woods to Clive’s house and I ran into a branch that was sticking out! I coulda poked my eye out! That way they could scold us for running in the woods, and leave it at that. But they got home and never noticed. This big thing almost in my eye. The BB guns didn’t come out again that summer. The thrill was gone. Those were our first guns, a rehearsal. I’d like to say, all these years later, now that one of us is dead and another paralyzed from the waist down by actual bullets—drug-related, as the papers put it—that the game back then was innocent. But it’s not true. We always fought for real. Only the nature of the fight changed. As time went on, we learned to arm ourselves in our different ways. Some of us with real guns, some of us with more ephemeral weapons—an improbable plan or some sort of formulation about how best to move through the world. An idea that would let us be. Protect us and keep us safe. But a weapon, nonetheless. The BB is still there. Under the skin. It’s good for a story, something to shock people with after I’ve known them for years and feel a need to surprise them with the boy I was. It’s not a scar that people notice. I asked a doctor about it once, about blood poisoning over time. He shook his head. Then he shrugged. “It hasn’t killed you yet,” he said.
The Woman of the House “Well, there’s that if you’d want it,” the crippled man said. “It’s a long time waiting for attention. You’d need tend the mortar.” The two men who had come to the farmhouse consulted one another, not saying anything, only nodding and gesturing. Then they gave a price for painting the outside walls of the house and the crippled man said it was too much. He quoted a lesser figure, saying that had been the cost the last time. The men who had come looking for work said nothing. The tall one hitched up his trousers. “We’ll split the difference if that’s the way of it,” the crippled man said. Still not speaking, the two men shook their heads. “Be off with you in that case,” the crippled man said. They didn’t go, as if they hadn’t understood. It was a ploy of theirs to pretend not to understand, to frown and simulate confusion because, in any conversation, it was convenient sometimes to appear to be at a loss. “Two coats we’re talking about?” the crippled man inquired. The tall man said they were. He was older than his companion, gray coming into his hair, but that was premature: both were still young, in their twenties. “Will we split the difference?” the crippled man suggested again. “Two coats and we’ll split it?” The younger of the men, who had a round, moon face and wire-rimmed glasses, offered another figure. He stared down at the gray, badly cracked flags of the kitchen floor, waiting for a response. The tall man, whose arms hung loosely and were lanky, like his body, sucked at his teeth, which was a way he had. If it was nineteen years since the house had been painted, he said, the price would have been less than would be worthwhile for them now. Nineteen years was what they had been told. “Are ye Polish?” the crippled man asked. They said they were. Sometimes they said that, sometimes they didn’t, depending on what they had previously ascertained about the presence of other Polish people in a locality. They were brothers, although they didn’t look like brothers. They were not Polish. A black cat crept about the kitchen, looking for insects or mice. Occasionally it would pounce on a piece of bark that had fallen off the firewood, or a shadow. Fourteen days the painting would take, the young man said, and they’d work on a Sunday; then the cost of the work surfaced again. A price was agreed. “Notes,” the tall man said, rubbing a thumb and forefinger together. “Cash.” And that was agreed also. Martina drove slowly, as she always did driving back from Carragh. More than once on this journey, the old Dodge had stopped and she had had to walk to Kirpatrick’s Garage to get assistance. Each time the same mechanic told her the car belonged to the antique brigade and should have been off the road for the last thirty years at the very least. But the ancient Dodge was part of Martina’s circumstances, to be tolerated because it was necessary. And, driven slowly, more often than not it got you there. Costigan had slipped in a couple of streaky instead of back rashers, making up the half pound, he’d said, although he’d charged for back. She hadn’t said anything; she never did with Costigan. “Come out to the shed till we’ll see,” he used to say, and she’d go with him to pick out a frozen pork steak or drumsticks she liked the look of in the shed where the deep freeze was, his hands all over her. He no longer invited her to accompany him to the deep freeze, but the days when he used to were always there between them and she never ate pork steak or chicken legs without being reminded of how afterward he used to push the money back to her when she paid and how in the farmhouse she hid it in the Gold Flake tin. She drove past the tinkers at the Cross, the children in their rags running about, feet bare, heads cropped. The woman whom the noise of the Dodge always brought out stared stonily, continuing to stand there when the car went on, a still image in the rearview mirror. “We’d do it for four and a half,” the man in Finnally’s had offered when she’d asked the price of the electric cooker that was still in the window. Not a chance, she’d thought. About to be fifty and putting on more weight than pleased her, Martina had once known what she wanted, but she wasn’t so sure about that anymore. Earlier in her life, a careless marriage had fallen apart, leaving her homeless. There had been no children, although she had wanted them, and often since had thought that in spite of having to support them she might have done better if children had been there to make a center for her life. She drove through the turf bogs, a Bord na Móna machine drawn up at the cuttings, an uncoupled trailer clamped so that it would stay where it was. Nothing was going on, nothing had changed at the cuttings for maybe as long as nine months. The lack of activity was lowering, she considered every time she saw, yet again, the place as it had been the last time. She turned at Laughil, the road darkened by the trees that overhung it. She couldn’t remember when it was that she’d last met another car on this journey. She didn’t try to. It didn’t matter. The two men drove away, pleased that they’d found work, talking about the man who’d called out and said come in when they’d knocked on the door. All the time they were there he had remained in his chair by the fire of the range, and when the price was agreed he’d said go to the scullery and get the whiskey bottle. He had gestured impatiently when they didn’t understand, lifting his fist to his mouth, tossing back his head, the fist going with it, until they knew he meant drinking. He was convivial then; and they were quick, he said, to see the glasses on the dresser and put three on the table. They were uncertain only for a moment, then unscrewed the cap on the bottle. “We know about Poland,” he’d said. “A Catholic people, like ourselves. We’ll drink to the work, will we?” They poured more whiskey for him when he held out the glass. They had more themselves before they left. “Who was here?” She put the groceries on the table as she spoke. The whiskey bottle was there, out of his reach, two empty glasses beside it, his own, empty now also, in his hand. He held it out, his way of asking her to pour him more. He wouldn’t stop now, she thought; he’d go on until that bottle was empty and then he’d ask if there was one unopened, and she’d say no, although there was. “A blue van,” she said, giving him more drink, since there was no point in not. “I wouldn’t know what color it was.” “A blue van was in the boreen.” “Did you get the listful?” “I did.” He’d had visitors, he said as if this subject were a new one. “Good boys, Martina.” “Who?” she asked again. He wanted the list back, and the receipt. With his stub of a pencil, kept specially for the purpose, he crossed off the items she took from the bags they were in. In the days when Costigan was more lively she had enjoyed these moments of deception, the exact change put down on the table, what she had saved still secreted in her clothes until she could get upstairs to the Gold Flake tin. “Polish lads,” he said. “They’ll paint the outside for us.” Two coats, he said, a fortnight it would take. “Are you mad?” “Good Catholic boys. We had a drink.” She asked where the money was coming from and he asked, in turn, what money was she talking about. That was a way he had, and a way of hers to question the money’s source, although she knew there was enough; the subject, once raised, had a tendency to linger. “What’d they take off you?” With feigned patience, he explained he’d paid for the materials only. If the work was satisfactory he would pay what was owing when the job was finished. Martina didn’t comment on that. Angrily, she pulled open one of the dresser’s two drawers, felt at the back of it, and brought out a bundle of euro notes, fives and tens in separate rubber bands, twenties, fifties, a single hundred. She knew at once how much he had paid. She knew he would have had to ask the painters to reach in for the money, since he couldn’t himself. She knew they would have seen the amount that was left there. “Why would they paint a house when all they have to do is walk in and help themselves?” He shook his head. He said again the painters were fine Catholic boys. With patience still emphatic in his tone, he repeated that the work would be completed within a fortnight. It was the talk of the country, he said, the skills young Polish boys brought to Ireland. An act of God, he said. She wouldn’t notice them about the place. They bought the paint in Carragh, asking what would be best for the walls of a house. “Masonry,” the man said, pointing at the word on a tin. “Outside work, go for the Masonry.” They understood. They explained that they’d been given money in advance for materials and they paid the sum that was written down for them. “Polish, are you?” the man asked. Their history was unusual. Born into a community of stateless survivors in the mountains of what had once been Carinthia, their natural language a dialect enlivened by words from a dozen others, they were regarded often now as Gypsies. They remembered a wandering childhood of nameless places, an existence in tents and silent nighttime crossing of borders, the unceasing search for somewhere better. They had separated from their family without regret when they were, they thought, thirteen and fourteen. Since then their lives were what they had become: knowing what to do, how best to do it, acquiring what had to be acquired, managing. Wherever they were, they circumvented what they did not call the system, for it was not a word they knew; but they knew what it meant and knew that straying into it, or their acceptance of it, however temporarily, would deprive them of their freedom. Survival as they were was their immediate purpose, their hope that there might somewhere be a life that was more than they yet knew. They bought brushes as well as the paint, and white spirit because the man said they’d need it, and a filler because they’d been told the mortar required attention: they had never painted a house before, they didn’t know what mortar was. Their van was battered, the blue patched up a bit with a darker shade, without tax or insurance although there was the usual evidence of both on the windscreen. They slept in it, among contents that they kept tidy, knowing that they must: tools of one kind or another they had come by, their mugs, their plates, a basin, saucepan, frying pan, food. In the dialect that was their language the older brother asked if they would spare the petrol to go to the ruins where they were engaged in making themselves a dwelling. The younger brother, driving, nodded and they went there. In her bedroom Martina closed the lid of the Gold Flake tin and secured it with its rubber band. She stood back from the wardrobe looking glass and critically surveyed herself, ashamed of how she’d let herself go, her bulk not quite obese but almost now, her pale-blue eyes—once her most telling feature—half lost in folds of flesh. She had been still in her thirties when she’d come to the farmhouse, still particular about how she looked and dressed. She wiped away the lipstick that had been smudged by Costigan’s rough embracing when for a few minutes they had been alone in the shop. She settled her underclothes where he had disturbed them. The smell of the shop—a medley of rashers and fly spray and the chickens Costigan roasted on a spit—had passed from his clothes to hers, as it always did. “Oh, just the shop,” she used to say when she was asked about it in the kitchen, but she wasn’t anymore. They were distantly related, had been together in the farmhouse since his mother died, twelve years ago, and his father the following winter. Another distant relative had suggested the union, since Martina was on her own and only occasionally employed. Her cousin—for they had agreed that they were cousins of a kind—would have otherwise had to be taken into a home; and she herself had little to lose by coming to the farm. The grazing was parcelled out, rent received annually and now and again another field sold. Her crippled cousin, who since birth had been confined as he was now, had for Martina the attraction of a legal stipulation: in time she would inherit what was left. Often people assumed that he had died, never saying a word, but you could tell. In Carragh they did, and people from round about who never came to the farmhouse did; talking to them, you could feel it. She didn’t mention him herself except when the subject was brought up: there was nothing to say because there was nothing that was different, nothing she could remark on. He was asleep after the whiskey when she went downstairs and he slept until he was roused by the clatter of dishes and the frying of their six-o’clock meal. She liked to keep to time, to do what it told her to do. She kept the alarm clock on the dresser wound, and accurate to the minute by the wireless morning and evening. She collected, first thing every morning, what eggs had been laid in the night. She got him to the kitchen from the back room as soon as she’d set the breakfast table. She made the two beds when he had his breakfast in him and she had washed up the dishes. On a day she went to Carragh she left the house at a quarter past two; she’d got into the way of that. Usually he was asleep by the range then, as most of the time he was unless he’d begun to argue. If he had, that could go on all day. “They’ll be a nuisance about the place.” She had to raise her voice because the liver on the pan was spitting. The slightest sound—of dishes or cooking, the lid of the kettle rattling—and he said he couldn’t hear her when she spoke. But she knew he could. He said he couldn’t now and she ignored him. He said he’d have another drink and she ignored that, too. “They’re never a nuisance,” he said. “Lads like that.” He said they were clean, you’d look at them and know. He said they’d be company for her. “One month to the next you hardly see another face, Martina. Sure, I’m aware of that, girl. Don’t I know it the whole time.” She cracked the first egg into the pool of fat she made by tilting the pan. She could crack open an egg and empty it with one hand. Two each they had. “It needs the paint,” he said. She didn’t comment on that. She didn’t say he couldn’t know; how could he, since she didn’t manage to get him out to the yard anymore? She hadn’t managed to for years. “It does me good,” he said. “The old drop of whiskey.” She turned the wireless on and there was old-time music playing. “That’s terrible stuff,” he said. Martina didn’t comment on that, either. When the slices of liver were black she scooped them off the pan and put them on their plates with the eggs. She got him to the table. He’d had whiskey enough, she said when he asked for more, and nothing further was said in the kitchen. When they had eaten she got him to his bed, but an hour later he was shouting and she went to him. She thought it was a dream, but he said it was his legs. She gave him aspirins, and whiskey, because when he had both the pains would go. “Come in and keep me warm,” he whispered, and she said no. She often wondered if the pains had maddened him, if his brain had been attacked, as so much else in his body was. “Why’d they call you Martina?” he asked, still whispering. A man’s name, he said; why would they? “I told you.” “You’d tell me many a thing.” “Go to sleep now.” “Are the grass rents in?” “Go back to sleep.” The painting commenced on a Tuesday because on the Monday there was ceaseless rain. The Tuesday was fine, full of sunshine, with a soft, drying breeze. The painters hired two ladders in Carragh and spent that day filling in the stucco surface where it had broken away. The woman of the house, whom they assumed to be the crippled man’s wife, brought out soda scones and tea in the middle of the morning, and when she asked them what time was best for this—morning and afternoon—they pointed at eleven o’clock and half past three on the older brother’s watch. She brought them biscuits with the tea at exactly half past three. She stayed talking to them, telling them where they could buy what they wanted in Carragh, asking them about themselves. Her smile was tired but she was patient with them when they didn’t understand. She watched them while they worked and when they asked her what she thought she said they were as good as anyone. By the evening the repairs to the stucco had been completed. Heavy rain was forecast for the Wednesday, and it came in the middle of the afternoon, blown in from the west by an intimidating storm. The work could not be continued, and the painters sat in their van, hoping for an improvement. Earlier, while they were working, there had been raised voices in the house, an altercation that occasionally gave way to silence before beginning again. The older painter, whose English was better than his brother’s, reported that it had to do with money and the condition of the land. “The pension is what I’m good for,” the crippled man repeatedly insisted. “Amn’t I here for the few bob I bring in?” The pension became the heart of what was so crossly talked about, how it was spent in ways it shouldn’t be, how the crippled man didn’t have it for himself. The painters lost interest, but the voices went on and could still be heard when one or other of them left the van to look at the sky. Late in the afternoon they gave up waiting and drove into Carragh. They asked in the paint shop how long the bad weather would last and were advised that the outlook for several days was not good. They returned the ladders, reluctant to pay for their hire while they were unable to make use of them. It was a setback, but they were used to setbacks and, inquiring again in the paint shop, they learned that a builder who’d been let down was taking on replacement labor at the conversion of a disused mill—an indoor site a few miles away. He agreed to employ them on a day-to-day basis. The rain affected him. When it rained he wouldn’t stop, since she was confined herself, and when they had worn out the subject of the pension he would begin again about the saint she was named after. “Tell me,” he would repeat his most regular request and if it was the evening and he was fuddled with drink she wouldn’t answer, but in the daytime he would wheedle and every minute would drag more sluggishly than minutes had before. He did so on the morning the painters took down their ladders and went away. She was shaking the clinker out of the range so that the fire would glow. She was kneeling down in front of him and she could feel him examining her the way he often did. You’d be the better for it, he said, when she’d tell about her saint, you’d feel the consolation of a holiness. “Tell me,” he said. She took the ash pan out to the yard, not saying anything before she went. The rain soaked her shoulders and dribbled over her face and neck, drenched the gray-black material of her dress, her arms, ran down between her breasts. When she returned to the kitchen she did as he wished, telling him what he knew: that holy milk, not blood, had flowed in the body of St. Martina of Rome, that Pope Urban had built a church in her honor and had composed the hymns used in her office in the Roman Breviary, that she perished by the sword. He complimented her when she finished speaking, while she still stood behind him, not wanting to look at him. The rain she had brought in with her dripped through her clothes onto the broken flags of the floor. The painters worked at the mill conversion for longer than they might have, even though the finer weather had come. The money was better and there was talk of more employment in the future: in all, nine days passed before they returned to the farmhouse. They arrived early, keeping their voices down and working quickly to make up for lost time, nervous in case there was a complaint about their not returning sooner. By eight o’clock the undercoat was on most of the front wall. The place was quiet and remained so, but wisps of smoke were coming from one of the chimneys, which the painters remembered from the day and a half they’d spent here before. The car was there, its length too much for the shed it was in, its rear protruding, and they remembered that, too. Still working at the front of the house, they listened for footsteps in the yard, expecting the tea that had come before in the morning, but no tea came. In the afternoon, when the older brother went to the van for a change of brushes, the tea tray was on the bonnet and he carried it to where the ladders were. In the days that followed this became a pattern. The stillness the place had acquired was not broken by the sound of a radio playing or voices. The tea came without additions and at varying times, as if the arrangement about eleven o’clock and half past three had been forgotten. When the ladders were moved into the yard the tray was left on the step of a door at the side of the house. Sometimes, not often, glancing into the house, the painters caught a glimpse of the woman whom they assumed to be the wife of the crippled man they had drunk whiskey with, who had shaken hands with both of them when the agreement about the painting was made. At first they wondered if the woman they saw was someone else, even though she was similarly dressed. They talked about that, bewildered by the strangeness they had returned to, wondering if in this country so abrupt a transformation was ordinary and usual and was often to be found. Once, through the grimy panes of an upstairs window, the younger brother, from his ladder, saw the woman crouched over a dressing table, her head on her arms as if she slept, or wept. She looked up while he still watched, his curiosity beyond restraint, and her eyes stared back at him, but she did not avert her gaze. That same day, just before the painters finished for the day, while they were scraping the last of the old paint from the kitchen window frames, they saw that the crippled man was not in his chair by the range and realized that since they had returned after the rain they had not heard his voice. She washed up their two cups and saucers, teaspoons with a residue of sugar on them because they’d been dipped into the bowl when they were wet with tea. She wiped the tray and dried it, and hung the damp tea towel on the line in the scullery. She didn’t want to think, even to know that they were there, that they had come. She didn’t want to see them, as all day yesterday she had managed not to. She hung the cups up and put the saucers with the others, the sugar bowl in the cupboard under the sink. The ladders clattered in the yard, pulled out of sight for the night in case they’d be a temptation for the tinkers. She couldn’t hear talking and doubted that there was any. A few evenings ago when they were leaving they had knocked on the back door and she hadn’t answered. She listened for footsteps coming to the door again but none came. She heard the van being driven off. She heard the geese flying over, coming from the water at Dole: this was their time. Once the van had returned when something had been left behind, and she’d been collecting the evening eggs and had gone into the fields until it was driven off again. In the kitchen she waited for another quarter of an hour, watching the hands of the dresser clock. Then she let the air into the house, the front door and the back door open, the kitchen windows. The dwelling they had made for themselves at the ruins was complete. They had used the fallen stones and the few timber beams that were in good condition, a doorframe that had survived. They’d bought sheets of old galvanized iron for the roof, and found girders on a tip. It wasn’t bad, they said to one another; in other places they’d known worse. In the dark of the evening they talked about the crippled man, concerned—and worried as their conversation advanced—since the understanding about payment for the painting had been made with him and it could easily be that when the work was finished the woman would say she knew nothing about what had been agreed, that the sum they claimed as due to them was excessive. They wondered if the crippled man had been taken from the house, if he was in a home. They wondered why the woman still wasn’t as she’d been at first. She backed the Dodge into the middle of the yard, opened the right-hand back door, and left the engine running while she carried out the egg trays from the house and settled them one on top of another on the floor, all this as it always was on a Thursday. Hurrying because she wanted to leave before the men came, she locked the house and banged the car door she’d left open. But the engine, idling nicely, stopped before she got into the driver’s seat. And then the blue van was there. They came toward her at once, the one with glasses making gestures she didn’t understand at first and then saw what he was on about. A rear tire had lost some air; he appeared to be saying he would pump it up for her. She knew, she said; it would be all right. She dreaded what would happen now: the Dodge would let her down. But when she turned off the ignition and turned it on again, and tried the starter with the choke out, the engine fired at once. “Good morning.” The older man had to bend at the car window, being so tall. “Good morning,” he said again when she wound the window down although she hadn’t wanted to. She could hear the ladders going up. “Excuse me,” the man who was delaying her said, and she let the car creep on, even though he was leaning on it. “He’s in another room,” she said. “A room that’s better for him.” She didn’t say she had eggs to deliver because they wouldn’t understand. She didn’t say when you got this old car going you didn’t take chances with it because they wouldn’t understand that, either. “He’s quiet there,” she said. She drove slowly out of the yard and stalled the engine again. The painters waited until they could no longer hear the car. Then they moved the ladders, from one upstairs window to the next, until they’d gone all the way round the house. They didn’t speak, only glancing at one another now and again, conversing in that way. When they had finished they lit cigarettes. Almost three-quarters of the work was done: they talked about that, and calculated how much paint was left unused and how much they would receive back on it. They did no work yet. The younger brother left the yard, passing through a gateway in which a gate was propped open by its own weight where a hinge had given way. The older man remained, looking about, opening shed doors and closing them again, listening in case the Dodge returned. He leaned against one of the ladders, finishing his cigarette. Cloudy to begin with, the sky had cleared. Bright sunlight caught the younger brother’s spectacles as he came round the side of the house, causing him to take them off and wipe them clean as he passed back through the gateway. His reconnoitre had led him, through a vegetable patch given up to weeds, into what had been a garden, its single remaining flower bed marked with seed packets that told what its several rows contained. Returning to the yard, he had kept as close to the walls of the house as he could, pressing himself against the stucco surface each time he came to a window, more cautious than he guessed he had to be. The downstairs rooms revealed no more than those above them had and when he listened he heard nothing. No dogs were kept. Cats watched him without interest. In the yard he shook his head, dismissing his fruitless efforts. There was a paddock with sun on it, he said, and they sat there munching their stale sandwiches and drinking a tin of Pepsi-Cola each. “The crippled man is dead.” The older brother spoke softly and in English, nodding an affirmation of each word, as if to make his meaning clear in case it was not. “The woman is frightened.” He nodded that into place also. These conjectures were neither contradicted nor commented upon. In silence the two remained in the sun and then they walked through the fields that neglect had impoverished, and in the garden. They looked down at the solitary flower bed, at the bright-colored seed packets marking the empty rows, each packet pierced with a stick. They did not say this was a grave, or remark on how the rank grass, in a wide straight path from the gate, had been crushed and had recovered. They did not draw a finger through the earth in search of seeds where seeds should be, where flowers were promised. “She wears no ring.” The older brother shrugged away that detail, depriving it of any interest it might have had, irrelevant now. Again they listened for the chug of the car’s unreliable engine but it did not come. Since the painting had made it necessary for the windows to be eased in their sashes, the house could now be entered. But when the woman returned she would see it had been in safe hands while she’d been away, its rooms as she had left them, the money untouched. The painting began again and, undisturbed, the men worked until the light went. “She will be here tomorrow,” the older brother said. “She will have found the courage, and know we are no threat.” In the van on the way back to their dwelling they talked again about the woman who was not as she had been, and the man who was not there. They guessed and wondered, supposed, surmised. They cooked their food and ate it in uncomfortable confinement, the shreds and crumbs of unreality giving the evening shape. At last impatient, anger had not allowed a woman who had waited too long to wait, again, until she was alone: they sensed enough of truth in that. They smoked slow cigarettes, instinct directing thought. The woman’s history was not theirs to know, even though they now were part of it themselves. Their circumstances made them that, as hers made her what she’d become. She would see to it that still the pension came. No one would miss the crippled man, no one went to a lonely place. Tomorrow she would pay for the painting of the house. Tomorrow they would travel on.
Waiting The old village of Tel Ilan was surrounded by orchards and groves. Vineyards grew on the slopes of its eastern hills, and its houses’ red-tiled roofs suffocated under the thick foliage of ancient almond trees. Many of the townspeople continued the tradition of farming with the aid of migrant workers, who lived in ramshackle huts. Some leased out their land, turning to cottage industry and running bed-and-breakfasts, art galleries, and trendy boutiques, while others found work elsewhere. In the town square were two gourmet restaurants as well as a local-wine merchant and a pet store specializing in tropical fish. One of the villagers had opened a workshop manufacturing pseudo-antique furniture. On weekends, Tel Ilan was flooded with tourists and bargain hunters. But on Fridays at noon everything shut down for the day, and the residents took siestas behind closed shutters. Benny Avni, the head of the District Council of Tel Ilan, was a lanky man with stooped shoulders and a fondness for rumpled clothes and oversized sweaters, which gave him an ursine look. He walked pitched forward with a stubborn gait, as if he were fighting a strong headwind. His face was pleasant, his brow high, his mouth gentle, and his brown eyes warmly inquisitive, as if to say, Yes, I like you, and yes, I want to know more about you. He possessed a gift for refusing without the refusee realizing that he had just been refused. At 1 P.M. on a Friday in February, Benny Avni sat alone in his office answering letters from concerned citizens. The municipal offices closed early on Fridays, but Benny Avni made a point of staying late at the end of the week, personally responding to every letter. After he finished, he intended to go home, have lunch, take a shower, and nap until dusk. On Friday evenings, Benny Avni and his wife, Nava, sang in an amateur choir group at Dalia and Avraham Levine’s house, at the end of Beth Hashoeva Lane. As he was answering the last few letters, he heard a hesitant knock at the door. His sparsely furnished office, a temporary facility he used while the municipal building underwent renovations, contained little more than a desk, two chairs, and a filing cabinet. Benny Avni said, “Come in,” and looked up from his papers. Into the room walked a young Arab named Adel, a former student who was now the resident gardener at Rachel Franco’s estate, at the edge of the village, near the graveyard’s stand of cypress trees. Benny Avni smiled. “Sit down.” But, rather than sit, Adel, a small, thin man with glasses, hovered sheepishly near Benny Avni’s desk, lowered his head respectfully, and apologized, saying, “Am I disturbing you? I know the office is closed.” “Never mind. Sit.” Adel hesitated, then perched on the edge of the chair, his erect posture insuring that he did not touch the back of the furniture. “It’s like this: your wife saw me walking in your direction and told me to drop this off. Actually, it’s a letter.” Benny Avni reached out and took the folded note from Adel. “Where exactly did you see her?” “Near the Memorial Park.” “Which way was she walking?” “She wasn’t. She was sitting on a bench.” Adel rose to his feet, paused, then asked if there was anything else he could do. Benny Avni smiled and shrugged his shoulders. “That will be all.” Adel said, “Thank you very much,” and left. Benny Avni unfolded the note, which was written on a page torn from Nava’s kitchen notebook. In her circular handwriting, he saw the following four words: “Don’t worry about me.” He was baffled by these words. He and Nava always ate lunch together: at noon, she would leave the primary school where she taught and would wait for him to arrive home for lunch. After seventeen years of marriage, Nava and Benny still loved each other, but their daily interactions were characterized by a measure of mutual politeness mixed with suppressed impatience. She didn’t like his bureaucratic dabblings; nor did she like the way his work followed him home or the evenhanded congeniality that he dispensed abundantly and indiscriminately. He, for his part, was growing tired of her enthusiastic devotion to sculpting artistic figurines, which she fired in a kiln in their back yard. He found the smell of burned clay that lingered in her clothes to be sickening. Benny Avni dialled his own number and let it ring eight or nine times before agreeing with himself that Nava was not there. He thought it strange that she had left before he got home, and even stranger that she had sent the note via Adel without bothering to say where she had gone or when she would be back. The note puzzled him, and he found the messenger dubious. But he did not worry: he and Nava always left each other notes under the vase in the living room. Benny Avni finished writing his last two letters—one to Ada Dvash, concerning the renovation of the post office, and the other to the council’s treasurer, concerning the pension plan of an employee. He placed the outgoing mail on a shelf, checked the windows and shutters, put on his suède jacket, locked both deadbolts, and left. He planned to walk through the Memorial Park, past the bench where Nava might still be sitting, so that they could go home together. However, after a few steps, he returned to his office, because he thought he might have forgotten to turn off his computer, or maybe he had left the light on in the bathroom? But the computer was off and the bathroom dark, so Benny Avni locked both deadbolts again and went to look for his wife. Nava wasn’t on the bench in the Memorial Park. She wasn’t anywhere. But Adel, the thin young student, was there, sitting alone, an open book face down on his lap. He was staring at the street while a sparrow sang in the trees above. Benny Avni placed his hand on Adel’s shoulder and asked gently, as if afraid of hurting him, “Wasn’t Nava here?” Adel replied that she was here before, but not anymore. “I can see that she is gone,” Benny Avni said, “but I thought that perhaps you knew where she went?” Adel said, “Forgive me. I’m really very sorry.” Benny Avni responded, “That’s O.K. It’s not your fault.” He headed home along Synagogue Street and the Tribes of Israel Street, walking at an angle, his body tilted slightly forward, as if struggling with an invisible force. Everyone he met along the way greeted him with a smile; Benny Avni was a popular head of council. He smiled warmly in return, asking, “How are you?” or “What’s new?,” occasionally reporting that the issue of the crack in the sidewalk was currently being resolved. Very soon, everyone would be at home eating lunch and then napping, and the streets of the village would be empty. His front door wasn’t locked, and in the kitchen the radio was playing softly. Someone was discussing the evolution of the commuter railway system and the obvious advantage of trains over cars. In vain, Benny Avni looked in the regular place—under the vase in the living room—for a note from Nava. On the kitchen table his lunch awaited him, a plate covered with an inverted plate to keep warm: chicken, mashed potatoes, cooked carrots, and green beans. A knife and fork sat on either side of the plate, and, under the fork, a folded cloth napkin. Benny Avni put his lunch in the microwave for two minutes, because, despite the makeshift lid, the food was nearly cold. While waiting, he opened the refrigerator and took out a bottle of beer, which he poured into a mug. As soon as his lunch was ready, he ate hungrily but without paying attention to what he was eating, listening to the radio, which was now broadcasting light music punctuated by endless advertisements. During one ad, he thought he heard Nava’s footsteps on the front path? He looked through the kitchen window, but the yard was empty and all he could see, among the thistles and scrap iron, was a dilapidated cart with two rusty wheels. After lunch, he put his dishes in the sink and turned off the radio. A deep silence prevailed. Only the ticking of the wall clock could be heard. His twin daughters, Yuval and Inbal, were on a field trip to Upper Galilee. He walked down the hallway to take a shower and saw that the door to the girls’ room was closed. He peeked inside the darkened room. A light smell of soap and ironing hovered in the air. He shut the door quietly and continued toward the bathroom. He took off his shirt and pants, but then, in his underwear, suddenly changed his mind and approached the phone. He wasn’t worried, but nonetheless he kept asking himself, Where could Nava have gone, and why hadn’t she been waiting for him at lunchtime as always? He called Gila Steiner and asked if Nava was there. Gila said, “No. Why? Did she say she was coming over?” Benny Avni said, “That’s the thing. She didn’t say where she was going.” Gila said, “The general store closes at two. Maybe she stopped by to get something.” Benny Avni said, “Thanks, Gila. It’s O.K. I’m sure she’ll be back soon. I’m not worried.” Nevertheless, he looked up the phone number for the general store. It rang for a long time. Finally, the nasal tenor of Old Man Lieberson responded in a cantorial singsong, “Yes, please? Here speaks Shlomo Lieberson of the store. How might we help?” Benny Avni asked about Nava. Old Man Lieberson replied sadly, “No, Comrade Avni, I’m sorry, your fetching wife has not enlisted here today. We have not yet had the pleasure. And I am thinking it is unlikely we will, for at exactly fourteen hundred hours we are closing operations and retiring to our domicile to prepare ourselves for receiving the Queen Sabbath.” Benny Avni walked into the bathroom, finished undressing, waited for the hot water to manifest, and took a long shower. He thought he heard the door squeaking and so, when drying himself, called out, “Nava? Is that you?” But there was no response. He put on clean underwear and a pair of khakis and left the bathroom, searched the kitchen, went to the living room and checked the easy chairs facing the TV, then walked into the bedroom and out onto the enclosed terrace that Nava used as her “creative studio.” She would shut herself in on the terrace for long hours, sculpting figurines in clay, fantasy creatures as well as tiny busts of boxers with square jaws and sometimes broken noses. The kiln was in a shed in their back yard. So Benny walked to the shed and turned on the light and stood there for a moment, blinking, but all he could see were the disfigured figurines and the cool kiln, surrounded by dark shadows, which also covered the dusty shelves. Benny Avni asked himself if he should just lie down and stop waiting for Nava. He returned to the kitchen to put his dishes in the dishwasher. He looked inside for any clue as to whether she’d eaten before she left, or perhaps she hadn’t had lunch at all? But the dishwasher was almost full, and there was no way to judge which plates might have been used earlier that day and which had been there before. A pot of cooked chicken sat on the stove. But there was no indication as to whether Nava had eaten and then left some extra chicken for him or whether she hadn’t eaten at all. Benny Avni sat by the phone and dialled Batya Rubin. The phone rang ten, then fifteen times. No one answered. Benny said to himself, Don’t be silly!, and went to the bedroom for his siesta. At the foot of the bed were Nava’s slippers: small, slightly worn at the heels, and colorful, like a pair of toy boats. He lay motionless, with his eyes fixed on the ceiling. Nava was easily offended, and over the years he had learned that any attempt to appease her verbally only made things worse. So he opted to practice restraint and let the passage of time assuage her anger. She would overcome but not forget. Once, her best friend, Dr. Gila Steiner, had approached him with the idea of exhibiting a show of Nava’s figurines in the council’s gallery. Benny Avni had emphatically promised to consider it. Ultimately, though, he had decided that it would be too risky: Nava’s sculptures were, after all, no more than the work of an amateur housewife, and her exhibit would be better suited to one of the primary school’s galleries, in order to avoid rumors of nepotism. Nava had said nothing, but for a few nights she had stood in the bedroom ironing until three or four in the morning. She had ironed everything—even the towels and the throw rugs. After twenty minutes, Benny Avni suddenly got up, went down to the basement, and turned on the light, igniting a whole swarm of insects. He surveyed boxes and suitcases, fingered the electric drill, tapped on the wine barrel, which echoed with a dim hollowness. Then he turned off the light, went upstairs to the kitchen, hesitated for a moment, put his suède jacket on over his bulky sweater, and left the house without locking the door. He strode forward at a pitched angle, as if fighting a harsh headwind, and went to look for his wife. On Friday afternoons the village streets were empty. Everyone was resting in preparation for the night’s festivities. The day was gray and moist, with low clouds weighing on the rooftops and a thin fog floating below. Slumber wrapped each shuttered house. The February midday wind carried a scrap of newspaper, which Benny tracked down and put in the trash. Near the Veterans’ Garden, a large mongrel dog began to follow him, growling and baring his teeth. Benny Avni scolded the dog, which became fiercer and looked nearly ready to pounce. Benny Avni grabbed a stone and hurled it into the air. The dog recoiled, tail between his legs; still, he followed Benny Avni from a safe distance. And so the two of them continued, about ten metres apart, turning left onto the Street of the Founders. Here, too, all the shutters were closed for the siesta. Most were painted a faded gray, some with their wooden cross braces crooked or missing. Over the years, the well-tended front gardens of Tel Ilan had been abandoned to oblivion. Benny Avni saw, here and there, decrepit dovecotes, livestock stables turned into shops, the skeleton of an old truck sunk to its hips in savage growth beside a deserted tin shed or an empty doghouse. Two ancient palms had once grown in his own front garden, but four years ago Nava had insisted that they be cut down, because the swish of their fronds against the bedroom window kept her awake at night and filled her with sorrow. Jasmine and asparagus grew in some of the yards, while in others there were weeds under the tall palms, gossiping in the wind. Benny Avni paddled along, his arms moving in unison, as he passed the Tribes of Israel Street. In the Memorial Park he stopped for a moment at the bench where, according to Adel, Nava had been sitting when she gave him the note that said “Don’t worry about me.” As Benny Avni paused at this bench, the mongrel dog also paused, ten metres away. He was neither growling nor baring his teeth but was now studying Benny with a wise, inquisitive look. Nava had become pregnant when they were unmarried students in Tel Aviv—she at the Teachers Seminary, and he at business school. Immediately, they had agreed to get an abortion, but two hours before the scheduled appointment, for 10 A.M. at the private clinic on Reines Street, Nava had changed her mind and asked to call it off. She had put her head on his chest and cried. He had implored her to be reasonable—after all, there really wasn’t any choice, given their circumstances, and the procedure itself was no more complicated than the extraction of wisdom teeth. He’d waited for her in the café across the street and read yesterday’s papers, including the sports sections. Less than two hours later, Nava had appeared, looking pale. They’d splurged on a taxi back to their dorm room, where six or seven noisy students were waiting for Benny, assembled for a previously scheduled committee meeting. Nava lay in bed in the corner of their room, hiding under the blankets. But the arguments, the shouting and jokes and cigarette smoke penetrated the blankets, and she was seized with weakness and nausea and she felt her way along the walls to the bathroom, and her head spun and the pain returned as the anesthesia wore off, and in the stall she saw that someone had vomited on the floor and the toilet seat and she couldn’t control herself: she vomited, too. She hid there for a long time, weeping, her head in her arms, arms against the wall, until all the noisy guests had gone and Benny found her trembling. Holding her by the shoulders, he guided her gently to bed. Two years later, they married, but Nava had trouble conceiving. They consulted different doctors touting different treatments. After five years, the twin girls were born, Yuval and Inbal. Nava and Benny had never again discussed that particular afternoon in the dorm; it was as if they had silently agreed that there was nothing to say. Nava taught school and sculpted figurines. Eventually, Benny Avni was elected head of the Tel Ilan District Council, where he was widely liked, owing to his attentive ear and modest disposition. Nonetheless, he knew how to overpower, and this he practiced without the overpowered ever noticing that they were being overpowered. At the corner of Synagogue Street, he stopped for a moment and checked to see if the mongrel was still following him. The dog stood by one of the garden gates, his tail between his legs, his mouth slightly open, looking at Benny with patience and curiosity. Benny said in a low voice, “Come here,” and the dog, panting, pricked up his ears and flashed his pink tongue. Clearly, he was interested in Benny but determined to keep his distance. There was no other living soul to be seen in the village—not even a cat or a bird. There was only Benny Avni and the dog and the clouds, which had descended so low they nearly touched the tops of the cypress trees. Near the elevated water tower was an underground public bomb shelter. Benny Avni tried the iron door. It was unlocked. He entered and groped for the light switch, but the electricity to the shelter had been cut off. Even so, he descended the twelve steps. A damp, filthy flare brushed against him as he made his way into the depths of the dark space, feeling his way among vague objects—a pile of mattresses, a deteriorating cabinet. He took a deep breath of the thick air, then turned around, finding his way back toward the steps. At the top of the stairs, he tried the dead light switch again, then closed the iron door behind him and walked out into the empty street. The breeze had subsided, and the fog had become thicker, erasing the contours of the houses, some of which were more than a hundred years old. The buildings’ yellow stucco had cracked and crumbled, leaving intermittent bald spots on the walls. Gray pine trees grew in the yards. Walls of cypresses separated each house from the next. Occasionally he spotted an eroding baler or a rusting washtub in a tangle of overgrowing poison ivy, crabgrass, and morning glory. Benny Avni whistled to the dog, but the mongrel kept his distance. In front of the synagogue—built when the village was founded, at the turn of the previous century—stood a kiosk displaying flyers for the local cinema and the winery, as well as posted notes from the council signed by Benny himself. Benny lingered over his notes, which for some reason seemed redundant or utterly false. Out of the corner of his eye, he thought he saw a stooped figure at the end of the street, but when he turned his head he saw only shrubs in the fog. The synagogue was topped with a metal menorah and its doors were decorated with carved lions and Stars of David. He climbed the five steps and tried the door. Inside the sanctuary, the air was cold, dusty, and almost dark. Above the curtain-covered ark, by the light of a dim electric candle, he read the inscription: “The Lord Is Always Before Me.” Benny Avni wandered between the seats in the dark, then climbed the stairs to the women’s gallery. Scattered on the benches were shabby black prayer books. The smell of old sweat mingled with the smell of ancient bindings. He felt one of the seats with his hand, because, for a moment, he thought a shawl or a scarf had been left behind. As he exited the synagogue, the mongrel was waiting for him at the foot of the stairs. This time he stomped his feet and said, “Go away! Scram!” The dog, on whose collar hung an identification tag, tilted his head and panted as if patiently awaiting an explanation. But no explanation came. Benny turned to go, his shoulders hunched and his bulky sweater peeking out from under his suède jacket, and he walked with broad strides, leaning forward like the figurehead of a ship breaking the waves. The dog followed, always keeping a safe distance. Where had she gone? Perhaps she had decided to visit one of her girlfriends and had been delayed? Perhaps she’d been held late at school by some urgent matter? Perhaps she was at the clinic? A few weeks ago, when they were fighting, Nava had said that his kindness was like a mask, and under the mask: Siberia. He hadn’t responded, but had smiled affectionately, as he always did when she was angry. This had caused Nava to lose her temper and shout, “You don’t give a damn! Not about us or our children!” He’d continued to smile and had put his hand on her shoulder, but she’d thrown it off, storming out, slamming the door behind her. An hour later, he had entered her enclosed studio to give her a cup of hot herbal tea with honey. He had thought that she might be getting a slight cold. Which she wasn’t. But Nava had accepted the tea and said, “Thanks. That really wasn’t necessary.” And maybe while he was wandering alone in the fog she had arrived home? He considered returning. But the thought of the empty house—in particular, the thought of the empty bedroom with her colorful slippers like toy boats at the foot of the bed—repelled him and made him continue. He walked, stoop-shouldered, along Hagefen Street and Tarpat Street, until he reached Nava’s primary school. Barely a month had passed since he’d won a debate against his District Council opponents and the Ministry of Education regarding the allocation of funds for four new classrooms and a large gymnasium. The school’s metal gates were already locked for the Sabbath. Both the building and the playground were surrounded by an iron fence topped with barbed wire. Benny Avni circled the fence twice until he found a spot where he thought he could penetrate. He waved to the dog on the opposite sidewalk, held the iron bars, hoisted himself up, pushed aside the wire, got cut, and jumped inside, twisting his ankle slightly. He limped across the playground, the back of his hand bleeding. He entered the building through a side door and found himself in a long hallway, off of which branched many classrooms. The odor of sweat, leftover food, and blackboard chalk filled the air. Orange peels and scraps of paper littered the hallway. Benny Avni walked through a half-open door into one of the classrooms. On the teacher’s desk sat a dusty blackboard eraser and a scribbled page from a notebook. He picked it up and examined the handwriting, which was indeed feminine but not Nava’s. Benny Avni returned the now bloodstained page to the desk and looked at the blackboard. In the same feminine handwriting were the words “The Solemn Village Life Versus the Booming City Life—please complete no later than Wednesday.” Under these instructions appeared the words “Read carefully at home the next three chapters and be prepared to answer all the questions at the back.” On the wall hung portraits of Theodor Herzl, the President of the State, and the Prime Minister, as well as some illustrated placards, one of which said “Nature-Lovers Preserve and Protect the Wildflowers.” The desks were shoved together, likely a result of the students’ rushing to the door when the bell sounded. In the window boxes, neglected geraniums thirsted. Opposite the teacher’s desk hung a large map of Israel, with a thick green circle around the village of Tel Ilan, in the foothills of the Menashe region. An orphaned jacket hung on a hook. Benny Avni left the classroom and continued, limping slightly, along the empty corridors, the dripping blood marking his path. As he reached the bathrooms at the end of the hallway, he felt compelled to enter the women’s facilities. There were five stalls. Benny Avni checked behind each door, even going so far as to investigate the janitorial-supply closet. He then turned down another hallway, and yet another, before he finally found the teachers’ lounge. Standing outside the door, he hesitated for a moment, fingering the inscription “Teachers Lounge—Students Not Allowed Without Permission,” as if it were written in Braille. It occurred to him that a meeting might be taking place, and he didn’t want to interrupt, yet at the same time he felt an urge to barge in. The lounge, however, was deserted and dark, its windows tightly closed and its curtains drawn. Two rows of bookshelves stood on either side of the room. Dead center was a long table, surrounded by approximately twenty chairs, and, on the table, empty and half-empty cups, a few books, class logs, and some pamphlets. By the farthest window he saw a large cabinet with a separate drawer for each teacher. He found Nava’s drawer, removed it, and placed it on the table. Inside, he found a pile of notebooks, a box of chalk, a few throat lozenges, and an empty sunglasses case. After some reflection, Benny replaced the drawer. At the end of the table, hanging on the back of a chair, was a scarf that looked familiar to him; it resembled one of Nava’s. But how could he be sure in this dim light? Nevertheless, he took it, used it to blot his bloody hand, then folded it and placed it in his jacket pocket. He left the teachers’ lounge, limping along the multi-doored hallway, peeking into every classroom as he passed. He tried the door of the school’s health center, glanced into the janitor’s office, and then finally left the building, exiting by a different door from the one through which he had entered. He limped across the playground, climbed the fence, held back the barbed wire, and jumped, this time at the expense of a sharp slice in the sleeve of his jacket. He stood for a while at the foot of the fence, waiting without realizing what he was waiting for, until he saw the dog sitting on the opposite side of the street about ten metres away, looking at him with deep earnestness. It occurred to him to pet the dog. But the dog rose, stretched, and paced slowly forward, keeping his distance. F or fifteen minutes, Benny Avni limped after the dog in the empty streets, bandaging his bleeding hand with the checkered scarf that might be Nava’s or maybe not. The low gray sky was tangling with the treetops as murky blotches of fog rested in the yards. Perhaps a few drops of rain touched his face, but he wasn’t sure and, frankly, didn’t care. He thought he saw a bird on a wall, but as he drew closer he realized that it was just an empty tin box. Soon he came to a narrow lane between two tall hedges of bougainvillea. He’d recently authorized it to be repaved, and a few mornings ago had inspected it in person. From the lane, he again reached Synagogue Street. The dog walked ahead as if showing him the way. The light was even grayer than before. He asked himself, Would it not be better to go straight home? After all, she might have returned and was perhaps resting, puzzled by his absence, maybe even worried about him. But the thought of the empty house terrified him, and he went on, limping, following the dog, who never looked back, his muzzle lowered as if sniffing the way. Soon—possibly before dusk—a heavy rain would wash clean all the dusty trees and rooftops and sidewalks. He thought about what could have been but would likely never be. Then his thoughts wandered away. Nava was in the habit of sitting with the girls on the back porch, overlooking the lemon trees, the three of them talking in low voices. What they discussed he had never known, nor really cared to know. Yet now he cared but was clueless. He felt that he must reach a decision, but even though he was accustomed to making multiple decisions every day at work, he was suddenly seized with doubt, and had no idea what in the world was expected of him. In the meantime, the dog stopped and sat on the sidewalk ten metres away, and Benny followed suit, sitting on the Memorial Park bench where Nava had apparently been two or three hours earlier. He scooted himself to the middle of the bench, his bleeding hand wrapped in the scarf, his jacket buttoned up against the slight rain that was beginning to fall, and there he sat, waiting for his wife.
In Other Rooms, Other Wonders Husna needed a job. She stole up the long drive to the Lahore house of the retired civil servant and landlord K. K. Harouni, bearing in her lacquered fingers a letter of introduction from, of all people, his estranged wife. The butler, knowing that Husna served the old Begum Harouni in an indefinite capacity, somewhere between maidservant and companion, did not seat her in the living room. Instead, he put her in the office of the secretary, Shah Sahib, who every afternoon took down in shorthand a few pages of Mr. Harouni’s memoirs, cautiously titled “Perhaps This Happened.” Ushered into the living room by the secretary after a quarter of an hour, Husna gazed around her, as petitioners do, more tense than curious, taking in the worn gold brocade on the sofa, a large Chinese painting of horsemen over the rosewood mantel. Her attention was drawn to ranks of black-and-white photographs in silver frames—hunters in shooting caps, posing with strings of birds or piles of game; women in saris, their hair piled high in the style of the fifties, one in riding breeches, with an oversized dedication in looping script. To one side stood a photo of a youthful Harouni in a receiving line shaking the hand of Jawaharlal Nehru. The door opened, and Mr. Harouni walked in, a mild look on his handsome golden face. Placing a file on the table in front of him, Shah Sahib flipped through the pages and showed the old man where to sign, murmuring, “Begum Sahib has sent this young miss with a letter, sir.” Although he had an excellent memory, and knew the lineage of all the old Lahore families, K.K. allowed Husna to explain in detail her relationship to him, which derived from his grandmother on his mother’s side. The senior branch of the family had consolidated its lands and amassed power under the British. Husna’s family, a cadet branch, had not so much fallen into poverty as failed to rise. At one time, her grandfather had owned thirty or forty shops in the Old City, but these had been sold off more than thirty years ago, before Lahore grew, in the nineteen-fifties and sixties, and prices increased. Encouraged by K.K., given tea and cakes, Husna forgot herself, falling into the common, rich Punjabi of the inner city. She told with great emphasis a story about her mother, who remembered falling and breaking her teeth on the steps leading into the courtyard of a lost family home, steps that were tall and broad to accommodate the enormous tread of a riding elephant. Finishing the tale, Husna was silent for a moment, then narrowed her eyes, collecting herself. “In this world, some families rise and some fall,” she said. “And now I’ve come to you for help. I’m poor and need a job. Even Begum Harouni agrees that I should have a profession. My father can give me nothing—he’s weak and has lost his connections. Everyone says I should marry, but I won’t.” Outside the living room, which overlooked a side patio, a gardener switched on the yard lights, illuminating a concrete swimming pool half filled with rainwater and leaves. A servant entered the room with an armload of wood, threw it with a crash into the fireplace, then took a bottle of kerosene and poured a liberal splash. He tossed in a match, and the fire roared up. For a moment, he rested on his haunches by the fire, grave before this immemorial mystery, then rose, breaking the spell, and left the room. A car drove up the circular driveway. A few minutes later, an elderly couple entered the room. Kissing Harouni on the cheek, the woman said in a smoky voice, “Hello, darling.” The man, gray beside his brightly dressed companion, his mustache trimmed, waited to one side. “Hello, Riffat,” Harouni said, kissing her on the top of her head and then going over to the wall and pressing a bell. “Will you have a drink, Husky?” The man glanced at his wife. “I’ll have a small whiskey.” The visitor wore a pinkish kurta, too young for her but certainly very expensive, finely printed with a silver design. She eyed Husna, as if pricing her. “This is Husna,” K.K. said to the woman, who had taken a seat on the sofa beside the girl. “Husna has recently graduated and is looking to find some useful work.” “How interesting,” the woman said. They had been speaking in English, and Husna exposed her poor accent, saying, “It is very good to meet you.” Two servants carried in a tea trolley and placed it before the newcomer. The butler, Rafik, brought two whiskeys on a small silver tray. “Cheers,” Husky said, taking a sip and very slightly smacking his lips. “How nice to have a fire.” Riffat Begum poured out tea, offering to refill Husna’s cup. The conversation wandered, and Riffat looked meaningfully at Husna once or twice. When she went out in society with Begum Harouni, Husna was not a guest, not even really a presence, but a recourse for the old lady, to fetch and carry, to stay beside her so that the begum would not be left alone. Unable now to meet the occasion, Husna followed the conversation from face to face, the skin around her mouth taut, as if frozen. Abruptly, she stood up, catching a foot on the tea trolley. “Thank you, Uncle, for your help and your kind advice,” she said, although K.K. had given her no advice whatsoever. She meant this as an opening to him, at least as a reproach. “Let me have the car drop you.” He followed Husna onto the veranda while the driver brought the car. “First of all, you need to develop some skills,” he said. “Why don’t you learn to type? Come tomorrow, and I’ll arrange for Shah Sahib to give you lessons.” As she got in the car, he gave her a fatherly kiss on the cheek. When he returned to the living room, Riffat raised an eyebrow and pursed her lips. “Naughty, naughty,” she said, exhaling a cloud of cigarette smoke. K.K. took a sip of whiskey. “At my age, my dear, she’s in no danger.” Husna came every few days for typing lessons. She would sit in the dark office off the living room, inconveniencing Shah Sahib, who could not continue his own work until she had abandoned her weak efforts. He tried to show her the correct technique, but she refused to learn, and insisted upon typing by hunt and peck, getting through her half page as quickly as possible. One of the servants would bring her a cup of tea, which she drank with Shah Sahib, who also at that time received two slices of grilled-cheese toast, a treat that made his stomach growl, and one that he insured by being of service to the cook, passing his bills without question. K. K. Harouni, who had been a polo and tennis player until he suffered a heart attack, seven years earlier, took a walk morning and evening, totalling exactly four miles each day. Usually, he went from one end of the serpentine back garden to the other, but a few days after Husna began her lessons a winter rain wet the grass. Vaguely diverted by the break in routine, that evening he walked on the brick-paved front driveway instead, looping around the circular lawn and through a carport in which a misplaced glass chandelier cast a friendly yellow light. At dusk, he heard a rickshaw enter the drive and park at the far end, next to the gatekeeper’s shelter, its two-stroke engine crackling. After a moment, a figure stepped from the door of the secretary’s office and tripped rapidly down toward the gate. Lengthening his stride, K.K. came up behind her. “Hello, Husna,” he said. She stopped and turned. As she had the first day, she wore too much makeup and clothes that were too bright. She carried her large white purse on a long chain over one shoulder, and had covered her hair with a dupatta. “Hello, Uncle,” she said, her face involuntarily stretching into a broad smile. “You’re very cheerful. And how are your lessons?” “Thank you, Uncle,” she said. “Why don’t you walk with me?” “My ride is waiting.” She spoke timidly, for she felt ashamed to be seen taking a rickshaw, which only the lower classes used. “Tell him to go, and later the driver can take you.” They began walking, Husna taking two strides to every one of his, clicking along in her heels. Her feet began to hurt, and whenever they came to a puddle he would step aside and allow her to go first, so that she had to hurry awkwardly in front of him. “Those shoes aren’t good for walking,” he said, looking at her from behind as she skirted a puddle. “Your feet are hurting, aren’t they?” “No, it’s fine, really it is.” She didn’t want to lose this chance of his company. “Why don’t you take them off? Don’t be shy, there’s no one here.” “You’re joking with me, Uncle.” Hesitating for a moment, she reached down and undid the straps, her hand resting tentatively on his shoulder. When they came to the next puddle, he stopped, amused. “And now that you’re barefoot let’s see you jump over the puddle.” Quickening, she glanced at him sideways, still a girl at twenty, still playing tag with her cousins in the courtyard of her parents’ home, and yet aware of men’s eyes flickering over her as she walked through the lanes of the Old City. He took her hand and swung it. “One, two, three—over you go!” She leaped, landing just at the edge and splashing. “Try again, the next one!” he urged, and she jumped, clearing the puddle, then turned to face him, laughing. “Well done! I’ve had ponies that couldn’t do as well.” “Now you are joking with me.” Rafik came out of the house and reported a telephone call from K.K.’s youngest daughter, Sarwat, who was married to a tremendously wealthy industrialist and lived in Karachi. K.K. went inside, walking unhurriedly, and Husna sat down in one of the chairs placed on the veranda for the petitioners who came each morning, asking the old man for letters to government officials or for work on his farms. Rafik stood next to her, relaxed, looking out into the night. He glanced at her bare feet but made no comment. “So, Husna Bibi,” he said, “how are the good people over at Bari Begum Sahib’s house? How is Chacha Latif?” Chacha Latif played the corresponding role of butler in the house of K.K.’s estranged wife, and Rafik maintained cordial relations with him. As a matter of comity, they kept each other informed of household gossip. Understanding this oblique reference to the fact that Chacha Latif treated her with little ceremony, as an equal, Husna sweetly replied, “He’s well, Uncle, thank you.” Riding home in K.K.’s large, if old, car, looking at the back of the chauffeur’s immense head, Husna let her complex thoughts drift along several lines. Given to fits of crushing gray lassitude and then to brimming moments that approached hysteria, in the latter moods she knew that she would escape the gloominess of her parents’ house. She would escape the bare concrete steps, layered with dust, that led up into rooms without windows, the walls painted lurid, glossy colors, as if to make up for the dreariness, the television covered with an embroidered cloth. She had spoiled herself with daydreams, until her parents were afraid of her moods. She despised them for living so much in the past, for retelling the stories of their grandparents’ land and money, and yet at the same time she felt entitled to rejoin that world and nursed a grievance at being excluded from it, except as a paid companion to an old woman. Taking service in an ambiguous position with Begum Harouni was the greatest concession she had ever made to her mediocre prospects, and making this concession had only increased her determination to rise, although she had no idea how to go about it. Husna knew that she could never hope to attract or marry a young man from one of the rich established families. Wearing clothes only slightly better than those of a maidservant, she saw from a distance the young men at the weddings to which she accompanied Begum Harouni. At that time, the old barons still dominated the government, the Prime Minister a huge feudal landowner. Their sons, at least the quick ones, the adapted ones, became ministers at thirty, immaculate, familiar with their elders, blowing through dull parties, on their way to somewhere else, to cool rooms where ice and alcohol glowed on the table, rooms where deals were made; she imagined them gliding through foreign airports, at ease in the European cities that she only read about. She would even have sought a place in the demimonde of singers and film actresses, bright and dangerous creatures from poor backgrounds, but she had neither talent nor beauty. Only determination and cunning distinguished her, invisible qualities. The chauffeur, knowing without being told that Husna would not wish to be seen going home late at night in the old man’s car, dropped her just inside the gate of the house in fashionable Gulberg. K.K. had given this house to his wife when, finally and uncharacteristically, he made a firm decision and told her she had to leave. She had been married by arrangement to K.K., her first cousin, at seventeen, and had soon been eclipsed as he moved into the larger world of the Indian Civil Service, a world defined by English mores and manners. Unable to keep Harouni’s attention, barely out of purdah, Begum Harouni had tried amulets, philtres, spells—he joked to his friends that she would end up poisoning him by accident. But one day she came onto the veranda, where he was having tea with a lady friend and innocently playing rummy. She stood, her back humped, spitting in Punjabi, “Leave my house, leave my husband alone, you witch!” And Harouni’s friend, a convent-schooled society woman who barely spoke Punjabi and had only a vague idea who this old lady might be, kept asking, “But what’s she saying, K.K.? Should I leave?” He had not, however, divorced his wife, having no intention of remarrying and no desire to humiliate her. Old Begum Harouni thereafter lived in a state of suspended equilibrium, hoping to be recalled to her husband’s side. Husna cautiously walked up the straight, long drive, bordered with bougainvillea and jasmine. She went to the back, where the servants lay under blankets in the courtyard, and slipped through an open door, through the filthy kitchen, which smelled of garlic and curry, and into the heavily carpeted dining room. Over the fireplace, which had not been lit in years, she saw her face in a mirror. The irregularity of her features, her straight, dry hair, her small mouth, all caused her to cringe inwardly and suddenly to feel vulnerable. She felt the immensity of her encounter with K. K. Harouni. The old lady didn’t wake, but just before dawn she called Husna, saying that she couldn’t sleep, and told the girl to massage her legs. Husna continued going for lessons, and thrice in the next weeks walked with K.K., who then sent her home in the car. She tried to limit these encounters, fearing that Begum Harouni would discover the growing relationship and send her away, back to her parents. On the days when she allowed herself to see him, Husna would stay in the office after the secretary left, gazing out of a window that overlooked the long garden where K.K. walked. She didn’t read, but sat at the desk surrounded by books in both English and Urdu, her chin resting on her hands. She did not even plan but floated through images, for she did not plan her movements. Whenever she saw a girl her age stepping from a large new car among the expensive shops in Liberty Market, or glittering in a pair of diamond drops at a wedding, Husna’s mind would hang like a swaying fruit on these symbols of wealth, not letting go for hours. She sensed that all this might come to her through Harouni, if she were to become his mistress. In the Old City, where she grew up, the neighborhood pointed with shaming fingers at women from less than respectable families who were kept by merchants. The eyes of these creatures glided over the crowd as they rode on tongas, emerging untouched from dark streets where sewage flowed in the uncovered gutters, as prominent as targets in brightest-red silk, lipstick, gold. Husna’s mother ground out remarks about the price to be paid: broken family relations, broken old age. The girl’s fear of Harouni had dissipated, and she began to let herself be seen as she was—critical, quick-witted, sensual, and slightly crude. Not despite but because of his sophistication, he found her manner piquant. She did not behave or speak in the way of the women he normally met, for she had always inhabited an indefinite space, neither rich nor poor, neither servant nor begum, in a city where the very concept of a middle class still found expression in only a few households, among managers of banks and of big industrial concerns—sugar and textiles and steel. As a boy, Harouni had slept with maidservants, lost his virginity to one of them at fourteen. Husna evoked those ripe first encounters. Six weeks after Husna’s initial walk with K.K., Begum Harouni announced a pilgrimage to the Holy Places, in order to perform the umrah. Husna decided to bring the begum’s impending departure into the conversation with Harouni that afternoon, before any guests arrived and interrupted them. When Rafik brought afternoon tea into the living room, K.K. could hear the typewriter clacking in the background. It stopped, and then Husna knocked. She opened the door, showing her head without entering. “Come in, my dear.” Husna’s cultivation of Rafik had progressed to the point where he included an extra cup on the tea trolley. She drew herself forward and made K.K.’s tea exactly as he liked it. A boy passed a plate of biscuits, while Rafik stood back on his heels by the door. “When I’m here,” Husna said, “everything is so nice and everyone is pleasant. These biscuits, the tea. Shah Sahib tries so hard to teach me the typing, though I can’t seem to learn.” She held out her hands and spread her fingers in front of him, like a cat stretching. “My hands are so tiny, I can’t reach the keys. But then all of me is small.” She wore a tight kurta, showing the cleft of her breasts, which jutted out from her muscular youthful torso. Their eyes met; they both saw the joke, and he allowed himself a tight-lipped smile, his composed expression becoming avid and boyish. “That’s what I’ve been telling you about,” Husna purred, putting her hand on his arm. “Your crocodile smile, the one I like.” After pausing for a moment, she lowered her eyes and said in a meek voice, “But soon I won’t be able to come here. The begum is going on umrah, so I’ll have to be in charge of her house.” “Not umrah again!” K.K. said. “It’s becoming a vice with her. But, darling, don’t be ridiculous. If she’s away, you can come even more regularly.” “When the begum is gone, they don’t cook any food at all, just the servants’ food. I sometimes go into the bazaar to eat. And Begum Sahib doesn’t like me to use the electricity.” “You poor thing,” K.K. said. “And you ask so little.” Husna’s eyes became moist. “Yesterday, Begum Sahib had gone out when I got back to the house, and she had locked all the doors and taken the keys with her. I stood under the trees in front for three hours. And if I eat anything from the refrigerator she becomes angry at me. And when she’s gone on umrah the servants will take liberties—they’ll make jokes and want me to sit with them. She won’t leave me any money.” She wiped her eyes with her dupatta, head cast down. “When Begum Sahib is harsh, what can I do?” “Come, little one,” K.K. said, patting the sofa next to him. “Come sit here. Don’t cry.” K. K. Harouni avoided unpleasantness at all costs, for he lived in a world as measured and as concentric as that of the Sun King at Versailles. He did not like to see her cry, because it upset him. She slipped under his arm, still tearful but muffling her face in his sweater. He stroked her hair. “Now, stop,” he said. “Why don’t you come stay here while the begum is on umrah? I’ll have them fix up the rooms in the annex.” Husna looked out from under her eyelashes and smiled weakly. “Oh, I would like that too much. Then I could keep you company when you’re alone and make your tea for you. And I would practice typing every day for a long time.” K.K. cared nothing for what his wife or the servants thought. He ordered the servants to prepare the annex, a suite of rooms built over some garages at the far side of the compound. The rooms had been refurbished several years earlier, when important guests from India had come for a long stay, and so Husna would live in better quarters than ever before in her life, with uninterrupted supplies of good food, servants who more or less did her bidding, and the occasional use of a car. To Husna it felt like a validation, almost like revenge, and yet with the bitterness of triumph after humiliation. She simply disappeared from the house in Gulberg. Begum Harouni learned of her departure from the servants. The old lady stormed over to see her husband but found him impervious to her outrage. “I’ll never take that little . . . thing back into my house,” Begum Harouni said. “Imagine! I picked her from the dirt, from nothing, and I fed and clothed her.” “It reflects well upon you, my dear,” K.K. responded placidly. Husna brought her shabby luggage to the house on Aikman Road, a brown suitcase, bulging and strapped. She had clothes and shoes, not much else, had arrived in a rickshaw—the facts soon transmitted through the house by the snickering community of washermen, drivers, sweepers, household servants. After Begum Harouni had gone on the pilgrimage, Husna asked K.K. for the use of the car and went back to the old lady’s house. At first, Chacha Latif would not let her in, but Husna raised her voice and became abusive, and the butler, knowing that she might later be in a position to injure him, let her do what she wanted. All the closets had been locked, but she found a few of her things—a pile of Indian movie magazines, a little dish with an image of the Eiffel Tower that her grandfather had brought home from a European tour in the nineteen-twenties. When she went out, she discovered K.K.’s driver speaking with Chacha Latif. “What does he say?” Husna said to the driver as they returned along Aikman Road, driving in and out of the shade cast by flame-of-the-forest trees planted a hundred years ago. “Nothing, Bibi,” the driver said. “Nothing? Not anything at all?” Husna replied, speaking in sharp Punjabi. And then, leaning back in the seat, she added, “You drivers are always the clever ones.” A week after she moved into the annex, Husna slept with K. K. Harouni. He had visitors for lunch, an old Civil Service friend, a retired State Bank governor, and his cousin the retired General Karim, along with their wives. They ate in the room known as the black veranda, its French doors shaded by a pipal tree and overlooking a side garden. Already, in early April, the ceiling fans barely kept the room cool. Husna remained in the annex, trying to read a dull and badly printed history of the Sikh Wars, in which K.K.’s ancestors had fought. Though she wanted to make herself interesting to the old man by reading serious books, she never finished what she began, lapsing instead into daydreams or turning to old fashion magazines that she bought from a secondhand-book stall. A servant boy brought her a tray of food, the same food that the cook was serving to K.K. and his guests. From her perch in the rooms above the garage, Husna watched the guests emerge into the portico and continue speaking to Harouni for what seemed an interminable period before driving away. Soon afterward, a servant came to ask Husna if she would join Harouni for tea in the garden. She walked past the formal dining room and along a corridor hung with darkened portraits of his ancestors. She felt intimidated by this house, by its heavy gloomy air, which contrasted with K.K.’s easy manner, and she looked almost uncomprehendingly upon the strange objects scattered about—the ivory scabbard of a Chinese sword, a carved walnut loveseat from Kashmir, numerous brass and copper figurines of Hindu gods. The house smelled of dusty carpets and disinfectant and wood polish. K.K. was sitting under a tree in a railway chair, with two cups of tea on a table. “Hello, girl,” he said, pleased to see her, fed and mellow. “How lovely it is.” Old trees were scattered around the receding lawn, creating areas of shade where the grass wouldn’t grow. A row of mulberry trees just ripening at the far end attracted sugar-sipping bees with their purple berries hanging from branches and littering the ground. In the bleached sky, kites and vultures wheeled at a great height on the afternoon thermals, as if the sky itself were slowly turning. Draining the tea, he said, “Well, my dear, it’s time for my rest.” “Let me massage you, Uncle,” she suggested, blushing. Though her ambition always tolled in the background, she had come to respect him, for his unstudied fairness, his gaiety, his integrity and openness, which was as plain and light and valuable as a metal unknown in her world. She wanted to keep her part of the bargain, and had only herself to give. It hurt her that it was so little; she imagined that her body, her virtue meant almost nothing to her. She followed him into his bedroom. Rafik had already closed the curtains and laid out K.K.’s pajamas. “You needn’t wake me,” he said to Rafik, who stood by the door and who knew very well the routine to be observed on such an afternoon. Of course she was a virgin, and that touched him. Letting him do exactly as he wanted, she wore a look in her eyes that he mistook for surprise and shyness, and later identified with moods that verged on madness—sequences of perplexity and focus, expressing a hooded rage. She had expected this to be as simple as the signing of a check, a payment. Instead, for a moment the romantic girl awoke, one who might have accepted another man, a man her own age, from her own station. Goodbye to the life she would never have, economies that she would never make as she cooked and kept house for a clerking husband in the Old City; goodbye to the boys who might have accepted her hand. She might have gone away with that young husband, might have moved out to the new suburbs of Lahore—the ones by the airport, their grids of streets laid out in wheat fields or untended orchards, no houses yet built. The moment meant a great deal to her, but not in the way that Harouni understood it. Without meaning to, she had given herself completely. She could pretend later to be a virgin—or someone might take her even knowing that she wasn’t. Marriages could always be arranged, it was always a bargain, a deal. But she knew then that she wouldn’t have another man, because any man after this would have to be a compromise, a salary man. W hen he had no guests, K.K. ate lunch with Husna. Rafik served with care, offering the dishes from the left, removing plates from the right, the napkins starched and arranged like fans by the plates. Now, in May, the air-conditioning had been turned on. In the dining room, the coolest room in the house, Husna felt the most intimidated. She sat at K.K.’s right, at the end of the long table that could seat eighteen, and spoke little. She had learned which utensils to use, but still did not use them gracefully. K.K. chewed his food exactly ten times before swallowing. One afternoon, as Rafik brought in a cheese soufflé, a car drove up to the house. K.K. had his back to the window and did not turn. They heard the creaking of the carved swinging doors, taken from K.K.’s ancestral home in the Old City, and then the visitor, a middle-aged woman, pushed into the dining room. “Hello, Daddy,” she said. “Isn’t this cozy!” She had a tinkling laugh, which, while it did not seem entirely genuine, had a musicality that caused the hearer to join her in a heightened response, like a painting that one knows to be good, although one is unmoved by it. K.K. rose, seeming suddenly frail and old, and kissed his youngest daughter, Sarwat, on the forehead. “Hello, darling. When did you get in?” “Just now, on the eleven-o’clock flight. I’m here because Pinky’s daughter got secretly engaged. Don’t ask!” They sat down, and so did Husna, who had also risen. “This is Husna,” K.K. said, “Mian Nasiruddin’s daughter.” “Yes, yes, I know,” Sarwat said maliciously, looking not at Husna’s face but at her body. “I met her at Mummy’s.” Rafik brought in a mat and laid a place for Sarwat. “Good Lord, Rafik,” she commented, rearranging the cutlery. “You’re getting even fatter.” Sarwat settled back into her chair. She wore an understated tan sari, a gold watch, and several unusual rings—a star sapphire and a Burmese pigeon-blood ruby. Her salt-and-pepper hair, arranged in a high chignon, lengthened her still beautiful face; and her slender groomed body suggested lotions and expensive soaps, a hairdresser and a masseuse, idleness and ease. Even at fifty, she had admirers, and it had become a convention among the circle in which she moved to speak of her lovely gray eyes. “I am very glad to see you again,” Husna said. Sarwat looked down at the girl with a wolfish grin, almost spoke, then turned to her father. “You look well, Daddy.” He had resumed eating and, with his mouth full, raised a fork, as if to say, You can see for yourself. “Tell me, what do you know about the Talpur boy, the son of Bilqis Talpur? Mumtaz went off and got engaged to him, and Pinky’s absolutely livid. That’s why she called me here. I can only stay for a minute—I told her I’d be at her house just after lunch.” K.K., who took these matters seriously, put down his fork. “I spent time with his grandfather when I was posted to Layyah. The old man had a bit of a temper, and of course you know about the father. You should speak to Wali—the boy was at Aitchison with him, a year before or a year after.” Husna broke in. “He is very handsome.” Sarwat looked at her in amazement, as if the furniture had spoken. “Tell me about the land,” she said to her father. “It’s good land, on the river. The family used to hold a big parcel near the city, and that would be enormously valuable.” He looked at her, raising a warning eyebrow. “But then they say that Jano spent the last thirty years drinking it away.” Finishing the meal, they rose to have green tea in the living room. As they stood, Sarwat said to Husna, “I’d like to be alone with my father, please.” K.K. followed Sarwat into the living room. She sat down on a sofa and tucked her feet under her, leaning against a large pillow. “Really, Daddy,” she began. “I can imagine keeping her around, but to sit and have lunch with her, that’s too much. You’re becoming eccentric, you really are.” “She comes from a good family,” K.K. said. “Her great-grandfather owned more land than yours. But for a few twists of fate, she might be in your place, and we might be living still in the Old City.” “But we’re not,” Sarwat said. “That’s the point, we’re not.” She tried another tack. “And what can you possibly find to say to her? Sheherezad told me she came for tea the other day, and this unfortunate little thing sat without saying a word, just listening, like a frog in the corner. It’s indecent.” “She, too, would have wished for your advantages, my dear, your schools and clothes and friends and property.” “Please, Daddy. I doubt if this is a humanitarian mission.” “And I’m lonely, Sarwat. You’re in Karachi, Kamila is in New York, and Rehana has barely spoken to me in all the ten years that your mother’s been living apart. My friends are dying off or don’t go out anymore. She keeps me company. She’s no genius, if you like, but she can play cards and so on. Why don’t you spend more time in Lahore? You have a lovely house here, and friends. I would much prefer to see you than her, but you’re not here.” “What about Riffat or one of your other old girlfriends? Why choose someone like this? She’s neither pretty nor presentable.” “At my age, what I need is companionship, and Husna can give that to me. Riffat can only come for tea or for a few hours, but Husna is here whenever I need her.” They sat in silence, neither satisfied with the other. After a few moments, Sarwat put down her cup. “Daddy, I must go. I’ll come this evening. Please, at least tell her not to come out when I’m here.” T hat afternoon, when Husna entered his room, summoned from the annex, K.K. felt abashed. Irresistibly drawn to the one subject that he wished to avoid, he said, “It’s wonderful to see Sarwat. I hope you and she will get to know each other.” He had been sitting on the edge of the bed, and now he rolled over, tucked himself under the sheet, and put a black mask over his eyes, to screen out the light. Snarling, her face contorted, Husna exploded. “She’s mean and rude and a nasty old stick besides. Why don’t you get her to come live in the annex and play cards with you and make your tea?” “I can’t have you speaking like this,” K.K. said, removing the mask, his face drawn and imposing. “You’re upsetting me.” He spoke in a measured voice. “You’ve upset me.” “I’m leaving this house,” she said, standing up on the bed, looking down at him. “I gave you everything I had, but you give me nothing in return. I have feelings, too. I’m human. She made me feel like dirt, and you didn’t say anything to stop her.” She began to cry hysterically, and when he sat up and tried to touch her leg she shrieked and stepped back. “Even the servants here treat me as if I’m nothing. When I ask for things, they tell me that they don’t have time. I have to crawl even in front of them. Yesterday, Hassan swore at me.” Husna had been waiting for some concrete provocation and had pounced when Hassan, in his habitual foul temper, called her a bitch under his breath. “I’ll speak with him,” K.K. said. “Now, stop. You know the doctor’s orders. Do you want me to have another heart attack?” She dared push him no further, and so gradually became quiet. She lay down on the bed, though she wouldn’t get under the covers. When K.K. woke, Husna said, “Talk to Hassan now. I won’t stand the servants’ treatment of me anymore.” Knowing she couldn’t yet win the larger battle against Sarwat, she wanted at least to consolidate her smaller gains. She insisted that K.K. speak to Hassan in front of her, though he would have preferred not to humiliate the old servant. The grizzled cook stood with his shoes off, having left them at the door, and with his lambskin hat clutched in his hand. He looked down at the floor, at his splayed bare feet planted on the polished rosewood parquet. Rafik waited by the door. “Bibi says that yesterday you swore at her.” “Yes, sir,” the old cook said. “I mean, no, sir.” “Well Hassan, did you or didn’t you?” “No, sir.” Husna became shrill. “I asked him not to put chilies in the omelette, and he swore at me. Ask the sweeperess, she heard.” Hassan looked at her squarely. “You and the sweeperess together.” “You can go,” Harouni said, not raising his voice. When Hassan had left, Harouni said to Rafik, who had been impassively watching this performance, “See that this doesn’t happen anymore.” While she knew that now the servants would be decided against her, Husna felt she could afford their ill will, for her position in the household was growing stronger daily. The attitude of the servants changed after Rafik gave them the word. Only a few, the old ones, covered their insolence with glacial politeness, while the younger ones became either servile or friendly to the point of taking liberties, thinking thereby to win her favor. Husna began to enjoy the advantages of her new position. The secretary, Shah Sahib, handled the household accounts, writing up all the expenses in a complicated double-entry bookkeeping system, so complicated, in fact, that K.K. couldn’t and wouldn’t take the trouble to understand it. For years, the books had been larded with excessive expenses. The drivers, Hassan, Rafik, all those who handled money, lavishly inflated the bills that they submitted. After Husna had a few times complained of not having money, of wearing torn clothes and broken-heeled shoes, K.K. instructed that she be given a tiny allowance. In old age he had become tightfisted, although the household hemorrhaged money, and he spent two or three hundred thousand rupees a month without knowing where it went. Shah Sahib soon enlisted Husna in his system, since he didn’t want her to begin making inquiries, and so her allowance grew larger and larger each month, inflated in various ingenious ways. She bought herself clothes, even small bits of gold jewelry. In her rooms she kept one and then two locked steel trunks, which she filled with everything from raw silk to electric sandwich-makers. She would come to K.K. with some special request, wanting to buy something, and he would ultimately agree. She wheedled, petted him, became frosty, became nice. Giving in, he would be unable to look her in the eye. She said to him, speaking plainly, “Scratch a man and find a boy.” A few of K.K.’s old gentleman friends, retired and retiring landowners with courtly Punjabi manners, came to the decision that they had no reason to isolate the girl. They called her “daughter” and looked forward to her lively, flirtatious company. Among this group, who in old age constituted K.K.’s closest friends, he had always been the fast one, the sportsman and the lover. They envied him the possession of Husna, while at the same time being mildly relieved on returning to their lugubrious homes after a few hours in her company. Her striving wore on them. She flattered them, asked about their harmless projects—a Union of Punjabi Landowners, a pipe-dream society for tort reform—and so wielded them into a circle, with herself at the center. She teased them; sitting by Harouni’s side during bridge games, she would try to peek at his opponents’ cards. Playing rummy for small stakes with whoever was the dummy in the bridge game, she cheated, and, when caught, laughed and denied it. The air-conditioner in the annex didn’t work properly, and on that pretext Husna moved into a study adjoining the master bedroom. She did not stay the entire night with K.K., but invariably withdrew to her own room, saying that his tossing disturbed her. Once in her own room, she would take sleeping pills, occasionally a double dose—a game that she played against herself, sinking almost too far into sleep. In the morning, sometimes she didn’t answer when the servant knocked at her door, and then K.K. would himself come and shake her, wearing his pajamas and an old silk robe. He would look down at her sleeping face, cleansed of all ambition and anxiety and spite, qualities that he forgave her because he felt that the conditions into which he had thrust her drew them out. Seeing her asleep, he sometimes thought that he loved her, loved her brightness in these last years of his life, when he had become so lonely. General Hadayatullah, the retired chief medical officer of the Army, had told K.K. that his heart might carry him away at any moment. K.K. feared death with the terror of a perfectly rational man who took no comfort in religion and knew death to be his final end. He wanted so much to live! Gradually, Husna would wake. “Suppose something happened to me in the night?” K.K. would ask as she sipped her tea, lying in bed, her face drained and pale. She looked prettiest then, emerging from her drugged sleep, erased. She would cry and ask him not to speak of such things, and at those moments he felt that she, too, genuinely loved him, something that he often doubted, despite her professions of love. He craved her presence and reproached himself with a phrase that he once even repeated to her: Too old to be roused by pleasure, I seek pain. In August, the monsoons broke. The rains came up from India, washing the Himalayas, filling the rivers of the Punjab, pouring down water on the Hindu Kush and on the plain that extends from the Khyber to Karachi. In the gardens outside K.K.’s room, crows sat bedraggled in the dripping branches of ancient trees, and the lawns filled with water. One night, the bell in the servants’ quarters rang, and Rafik rose, dressed, and hurried to K.K.’s room. The master sat up in bed, in the glare of the single light. “Something’s wrong,” he said. “My pulse is racing. Wake Husna.” Husna came into the room, wiping her face, adjusting her clothes. “What is it, Uncle?” “Telephone General Hadayatullah. It’s my chest.” K.K. sat in bed, scared, his face thin and worn, and distracted himself with meaningless banter, falling into Husna’s mode of speech, which had become for them a private language. “So, Bibi, for a while you won’t be plucking me clean at rummy. Or they’ll give me bed rest, and we’ll play even more, and soon you’ll have salted away a nice fat dowry.” In the past he would have found this kind of joking in poor taste. He had begun teasing her, saying that she was seeking a young husband— leaving him—and almost convincing himself that she was. In fact, as he mimicked her brassy manners and her slang, saying in jest what couldn’t be said outright, she steadily drew him onto her own ground, where she could engage and control him so much more effectively. Servants had crowded into the hallway outside the master bedroom, perhaps twenty of them, barefoot and speaking in whispers, having come into the house by ones or twos as they learned that something had happened to K.K. The General swept in, a tall Anglicized officer, his trimmed mustache and the severe cut of his clothes reflecting a sense of purpose. Rafik, who knew the General well, brought a stool. The General administered an EKG on a portable machine, took the tape to the light, and said, “Go immediately to Mayo Hospital. Carry him out in a chair.” He clicked shut the lid of the machine and put the tape away in his vest pocket. For a moment, Husna and K.K. looked at each other, his face lined and grave, hers puffy with sleep. For the first time, he thought of her as a grownup, as a woman; and for the first time she thought of him as a lover, sick and possibly dying. All the servants, the gardeners, the chauffeurs, the junior ones who normally saw K.K. only from a distance, wanted to help carry the chair through the corridors of the house, where just a few lights burned, piercing the shadows. K.K. sat impassively on the chair, raised above the crowd, then lowered at the doors, like an awkward king, a king onstage. As Husna prepared to get into the car, the General stopped her. “You need to be here,” he said. “People will be coming to ask about him. He’s probably going to be all right, but you should call Sarwat and the others. Kamila should come back from New York. Have them call Rehana also.” Husna began to cry, shaking, and the General stood back and looked at her shrewdly. “Don’t,” he said. “This isn’t about you. Prepare yourself now. Remember who you are.” By midmorning, people had begun to call at the house, for in Lahore word travelled quickly. Husna received them, sitting in the living room. She had dressed up too much, wearing an embroidered white kurta. Several of the guests asked about Sarwat. Sarwat had ordered that a car be waiting at the airport to meet each flight from Karachi, as she would get a seat as quickly as possible. Just before lunch, she entered the living room. An elderly couple who had been sitting with Husna stood up. “What’s happened?” Sarwat asked. “What are you doing here? Where’s Daddy?” The old couple quickly took their leave as Husna explained. “Please,” Sarwat said, “this is a time for family. I’ve asked my cousin Hafiza to come here and receive people. Go up to your room and stay there.” Husna didn’t dare tell Sarwat that she had moved next to the master bedroom. A servant turned on the air-conditioner in the annex, and Husna remained there all day, watching through the window as callers arrived and left. Hassan sent up some food, but she didn’t eat. She knew she would not be allowed to attend K.K. at the hospital. In the middle of the night, she fell asleep, still sitting in the chair by the window. Waking in the morning, she looked down at the driveway jammed with cars. Without even picking up a dupatta, she ran down the stairs and into the servants’ area. Rafik sat on a chair sobbing unnaturally, as if racked with coughing, his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees. She saw very distinctly the old man’s bare head, bowed down, the gray thin hairs, the scalp. She knew, of course, that K.K. had died. Two other servants, young ones new to the house, sat uncertainly on their haunches. They looked at her with curiosity, but said nothing. She turned, her eyes filling with tears, and walked back to the annex. She lay down on the bed, her feelings concentrated at the forefront of her mind like an immensely weighted black point, incomprehensible. When Husna emerged from her bedroom and looked again at the drive, she saw men putting up a tent, where the male guests would mourn during the janazah. The women would sit inside the house with the body. She unlocked one of her massive trunks and removed a suit of clothing that she had brought with her when she came into the household, a cheap shalwar and kurta, with a simple white dupatta. Wearing this costume, she entered the living room. The body of K. K. Harouni lay on the floor, wrapped in a white cloth, his jaw bound closed with a white bandage, the knot tied jauntily near one ear. His dentures had been lost, and his cheeks had caved in. His body had shrunk, lying among rose petals scattered by the servants. Sarwat rose from her place at the head of the corpse, touched Husna on the head with both hands, but said nothing. Husna went to the back of the room and sat down as far away as possible from K.K.’s old wife, who was telling the rosary, a stunned expression on her face. All sorts of women had come, women from all phases of K.K.’s life, and more kept arriving, clicking through the front vestibule in high heels, spilling out into other rooms. From various places, soft or loud sobbing would break out and then subside. Two society women sat uncomfortably on the floor next to Husna, whispering, gossiping, and she heard one say to the other in English, “Oh, isn’t that delicious.” Of course you don’t care, thought Husna, who wouldn’t cry in front of them. She felt that only she cared, that she had lost more than all the others. And yet she wanted to be like them—they were what she had lost. For the next two days, Husna stayed in the annex, without once going out. People came day and night to offer condolences to Sarwat and Kamila. Rehana had arrived from Paris, where she taught some esoteric form of women’s studies, but she stayed with her mother rather than at K.K.’s house. Husna felt that they had forgotten her, and she wanted to be forgotten, to stay here alone in these rooms, with their rush mats, their pieces of scavenged furniture, and an air-conditioner that almost kept the apartment cool, dribbling water onto the pavement below. On the third day, a servant came, early in the morning, before there were any callers, to say that the sisters wished to speak with her. They were waiting for Husna in the living room, all three wearing saris, relaxed, Kamila sitting with her feet curled under her on a sofa, Rehana and Sarwat in high-backed chairs. They got straight to the point, Kamila, as the eldest, speaking. “My father allowed you to live in this house. However, he would not have wanted you to stay here. Tomorrow afternoon, the car will be available to take you wherever you wish to be taken. I suppose you’ll go to your father’s house.” She settled back, finished with the problem. Husna, who had taken a seat half-way through this monologue, although she had not been invited to do so, looked down at the floor. Tears welled up in her eyes. “Did Uncle say anything about me before . . . before . . .?” Sarwat broke in. “No,” she replied with finality. “There was and is nothing for you.” “That isn’t what I meant,” Husna said. Kamila softened. “Look, whatever you had with my father is gone now. If you took care of him in these past months, you were rewarded. You’re young, you’ll find other things. You think that you’ll never heal, but you will, sooner than you think.” Now Husna stood. She had reached the bottom, and her pride arose, her sense of wanting to be dignified, to accept the inevitable. Just as she reached the door, Rehana called to her: “There’s one other thing. They tell me you have a number of trunks in your room. I will not ask what you have in them. You may take those with you. But nothing else.” Reaching the annex, Husna sat on the bed and buried her face in her hands. She had hoped that Rehana, the foreign one, the aggrieved one, would take her side—yet it was she who had pronounced the harshest words. In the end, their estrangements were less important than their contempt for her. They had closed up against her—family, blood. She tried to tell herself that she had gone to the sisters hoping for nothing, with nothing in her heart but sadness at the death of their father, who had loved her. She should have said something cold, should have refused their last insulting offer. “For him I should have said, ‘I came with nothing, I leave with nothing. I leave with the clothes on my back. I served your father, when you were far away. The shame be on your heads.’ ” But she could not afford even this gesture. The next day, two men loaded the trunks onto a horse-drawn cart and carried them away to the Old City.
Ghosts Pascal Dorien was living in Bel Air—the Baghdad of Haiti, some people called it, but that would be Cité Pendue, an even more destitute and brutal neighborhood, where hundreds of middle-school children entering a national art contest drew M-16s and beheaded corpses, and wrote such things as “It’s not polite to shoot at funeral processions” and “I’m happy to have turned in my weapons. What about you?” Bel Air was actually a mid-level slum. It had a few Protestant and Catholic churches, vodou temples, restaurants, bakeries, and dry cleaners, even Internet cafés. For a while, there were no gang wars; there was just one gang, whose headquarters were in a large empty warehouse, painted with murals of serpents, lions, and goats, and Haile Selassie and Bob Marley. The two dozen or so young male inhabitants of the warehouse called it Baz Benin, for reasons that only the person who came up with the tag knew for sure. That person, Piye, was killed when a special-forces team shot several bullets into the back of his head as he was lying in bed one night. The shooting was in retaliation for a series of fatal kidnappings, some of which the Baz Benin men had committed and some of which they had not. (The men of Baz Benin gave themselves the monikers of Nubian royalty, which also happened to suggest, in Creole, menacing acts—piye, for example, means “to pillage.”) Pascal’s parents were shop owners and restaurateurs in Bel Air. They had a slightly larger yard than most of their crammed-in neighbors, so they had closed it off with sheets of rusty corrugated metal, and there, at four long wooden tables beneath a string of light bulbs which dangled from a second-story clostra-block window, they served up to thirty customers per night, if the turnover was fast. They sold rice and beans, of course, and fried plantains and cornmeal, but their specialty, for a long time, was fried pigeon meat. Pascal’s parents had moved to Bel Air at a time when the neighborhood was inhabited mostly by peasants, living there temporarily so that their children could finish primary school. But as the trees in the provinces vanished into charcoal and the mountains gave way, washing the country’s topsoil into the sea, they, like the others, stayed and raised their two sons and at least a thousand pigeons, which, over the years, they sold both alive and dead. Pascal’s father had been a pigeon breeder since he was a boy in Léogâne. He’d stopped briefly in the early eighties, when some soldiers came and collected his birds because it was rumored that he was breeding carriers to send messages to armed invaders in the Dominican Republic. But when the dictatorship finally collapsed—without any help from his pigeons—he started again. Then most of his customers were nervous young men who wanted to perform a ritual before their first sexual encounter: they’d slit the pigeon’s throat and let it bleed into a mixture of Carnation condensed milk and a carbonated malt beverage called Malta. Sometimes their fathers would come with them, and, after the sons had held their noses and forced down the drink, the fathers would laugh and say, as the pigeon’s headless body was still gyrating on the ground, “I pity that girl.” It was a ritual that Pascal’s parents didn’t approve of. But for each bird that was killed this way they were paid enough to buy two more. They quietly mourned the days when people had bought pigeons as pets for their children. Then they began missing the days of the fathers and sons, because suddenly their customers were beefy young men who had gathered themselves into what were at first called “popular organizations,” then gangs. The gang members, who were also called chimès—chimeras, or ghosts—were, for the most part, former street children who couldn’t remember ever having lived in a house, boys whose parents had died or been murdered during the dictatorship, leaving them alone in a lawless and overpopulated city. Later, these young men were joined by deportees from the United States and Canada and by some older men from the neighborhood, aspiring-rap-musician types. The older local men were “connected”—that is, ambitious businessmen and politicians used them to swell the ranks of political demonstrations, giving them guns to shoot when a crisis was needed and having them withdraw when calm was required. Sometimes, before these demonstrations, so many men came for the milk-Malta-pigeon-blood mix that Pascal’s parents were tempted to close the business for good. How had they become the people in whose yard pigeons were tortured and massacred? Finally, they released their last two pigeons. For a while, the birds kept coming back to nest, then someone in the neighborhood must have got to them, and Pascal’s parents never saw that last pair again. Still, with the money they’d made from the pigeons, Pascal’s parents were able to expand their menu. They bought the house next door and added a few more tables. Pascal’s father bought a pickup truck, which he drove back and forth between Léogâne and Port-au-Prince daily, packed with people and livestock. He was always at the restaurant, however, for the busiest time, from 7 P.M. till midnight, when the gang members, many of whom had by this time abandoned politics for the drug trade, took over the entire establishment. Watching these boys drift from being sellers to users of what they liked to call “the white man’s powder,” watching them grow unrecognizable to anyone but one another, Pascal’s parents were disheartened and disgusted, but they kept the restaurant open, because, as they often acknowledged, the blight that had destroyed the neighborhood that had once been a kind of haven for the poor was allowing them to prosper, to send their children to school with the heirs of the country’s tiny middle class. Although they could not afford the luxurious extras—holidays at the resorts of Jacmel and Labadie, or summers abroad with émigré relatives—their children were making contacts that might one day help them get good jobs and marriages. In order for their children to leave one day without ever having to look back, the Doriens had to stay. Jules, Pascal’s older brother, had already fulfilled this promise. For a long time, he had dated a girl whose parents were in Montreal. The girl had vowed that as soon as her visa came through she would marry Jules, so that she’d be able to send for him once she got to Canada. In the meantime, the government had turned over again, and the United Nations had come to train yet another police force. Jules had joined up, even though he was scrawny—barely five feet tall—and had a disproportionately large head, a distinctive family trait that had gained him the nickname Tèt Veritab, Breadfruit Head. But Jules had found that he couldn’t be a policeman and live in the room he shared with Pascal above his parents’ restaurant in Bel Air. Every time a neighborhood gang member was arrested, Jules was blamed for it. So he had moved in with his girlfriend’s aunt and uncle for a few months, then married and left the country. Pascal had stayed, of course, and once Jules was gone no one bothered him or his parents. When he wasn’t helping out at the restaurant or going to computer-programming classes at a vocational school, Pascal worked as a news writer for Radio Zòrèy, one of the country’s most popular stations. Having grown up in Bel Air and witnessed the changes there firsthand, Pascal imagined himself becoming the kind of radio journalist who could talk about the geto from the inside. An idea came to him one night as he was walking from the small concrete-block kitchen his parents had built next to the street—to tempt passersby with appetizing smells—to the table where Tiye (“to kill”), a one-armed, bald-headed gang leader, was nursing a beer and a massive cigar. Tiye was wearing his plastic-and-steel artificial arm under a long-sleeved white shirt and was expertly raising and lowering his beer with the shiny metal hooks of the prosthesis. Surrounded by three eager “lieutenants,” Tiye was laughing so hard about the way he’d once slapped a man, back when he’d had both his arms—sandwiching the man’s head between his arms and pounding his ears—that he had to dab tears from his eyes. Pascal, eavesdropping, wished that he had a video camera, or at least a tape recorder. He wanted the rest of the country to know what made these men cry. They cannot remain chimès to us forever, he thought. His show at Radio Zòrèy, if he was ever given one, would be called “Ghosts.” It would be controversial at first, but soon people would tune in by the thousands. A kind of sick voyeurism would keep them listening, daily, weekly, monthly, however often he was on. People would rearrange their schedules around it. They wouldn’t be able to stop discussing it. “What are the people in the slums up to now?” they’d say. Then they’d be encouraged to figure out ways to alleviate the problems. Also featured on the program would be psychologists, sociologists, and urban planners. Pascal’s friend Max liked his pitch for the show. Max was a middle-class boy who lived in another type of neighborhood, one perched between affluence and despair. Max was not rich, like most of the children his mother taught at the Lycée Dumas, in the hills above Port-au-Prince, but he was also not historically poor, like Pascal; you could tell this from the small gold stud earring that he always wore in his right ear. Max had started at the station as an afternoon d.j. when Kreyòl rap—hip-hop from the slums—was just beginning to make it to the airwaves. Sometimes, Pascal would slip Max a CD from one of Baz Benin’s aspiring rappers, and Max would play it on his hour-long music program. “I’m feeling everything you’re saying, but the management won’t buy it,” Max said. He was keeping Pascal company while Pascal translated that day’s newswires into conversational Creole for the announcer to read. “Who’d sponsor a show like that?” “The government should sponsor it,” Pascal said. “I’d be offering a public service.” But, just as his friend had predicted, the station’s director turned him down. A few weeks later, while Pascal was typing that afternoon’s news script, he overheard the news manager, a stuttering man who had been an inept police spokesperson, discussing a program called “Homme à Homme,” or “Man to Man.” The program would consist of a series of in-studio conversations between gang members and business leaders. “They’ll hash out their differences,” he heard the news manager say, “with the help of a trained arbitrator.” The first program paired the owner of an ice factory that had been broken into at least once a week over the past six months with a gang leader from Cité Pendue who was believed to have organized the “raids.” “What do you expect?” the gang leader told the owner. “You’re chilling in all this ice while we’re in Hell.” The arbitrator, a Haitian-American F.B.I.-trained hostage negotiator, then suggested the obvious—that the businessman find some way to sell his ice at a lower price to the people who lived near his factory, and that the gang leader respect the property of others. Pascal was not at the station during the taping, but he heard part of the show on the radio at home. He could not hear the whole thing because he was helping at the restaurant that night and the taunting of both guests on “Homme à Homme” by Tiye and his crew was too loud. Many of the gang members had known about Pascal’s plan—he had coyly approached some of them as possible guests for his show—and, as he served them their beers, they teased him, saying, “Man, they stole your idea.” A few of them tried to grab him as he put the bottles on the table—as if to squeeze out the anger that they knew was building inside him. The more they laughed, the angrier he got. They could see it in the layer of sweat that was gathering on his face. Tiye was still laughing when he said, “Pascal, bro, I didn’t like the way that masisi said that the guys in Cité Pendue had to leave the ice alone. I should find him and kick his ass.” “That’s right,” one of the lieutenants chimed in. “Pascal,” someone else said. “You should kick the ass of the guy who stole your show.” Just then Pascal’s cell phone rang. It was Max. “Man,” Max said, “that guy stole your idea, and when I tried to call him on it do you know that he fired me?” “You shouldn’t have said anything,” Pascal answered. “Now that you’ve lost your job, I’ll probably lose mine, too.” Tiye and his guys were chanting, “We’ve got to kick his ass.” “The truth is,” Pascal told Max, while passing an empty tray to his exhausted father, who was piling the last of the night’s food onto a plate for himself, a cigarette dangling from his lips, “I’ve already put it out of my mind. ‘Homme à Homme’ is not the show I wanted to do. I wanted to do something closer to the skin, something more personal.” After he got off the phone, Pascal waited for Tiye and his crew to leave. His mother and the neighborhood girls she’d hired were working on the dirty dishes. He asked if he could help, but they refused. His mother’s stern face, darker than the bottom of the burned pot she was scrubbing, never really changed. It was as if the heat of the kitchen had melted and sealed it. Even if she never worked again for the rest of her life, whatever beauty she’d had when she first met his father would not come back. That night, he persuaded his mother to go to sleep a little earlier than usual, before going to bed himself. In his room, where two cots faced each other from opposite walls that he and his brother had painted bright red, he felt Jules’s absence in his gut. If he were younger, he might have started crying, the way kids cry for their mothers. Leaving had been easier for Jules than anyone had expected. Because gang members had threatened him when he was a policeman, he’d filed for political asylum in Canada as soon as his wife’s papers came through. Now Jules was living in Montreal while Pascal was sleeping by himself in this ridiculously red room, his clothes hanging from nails that he and his brother had hammered into the walls. Jules called only once a week, on Sunday afternoons, though he could easily have called more often. Pascal and his parents all had cell phones now, and kept them charged and filled with usable minutes, waiting for him. Sometimes, as his mother fanned away the vapors from the food she was cooking, she’d let out a big sigh before saying, “I wonder what Jules is doing now.” The truth was that Pascal was always wondering what Jules was doing. He was even thinking of asking Jules to find some way to send for him. If he were gone, he thought, his parents might finally give up the restaurant and move back to Léogâne, where they could breed pigeons again, freeing the birds in the morning and watching them return safely at dusk. Pascal went to bed with all these thoughts swirling in his head, stirred up, he knew, by his disappointment over his show. Now it would be much harder for him to pitch the idea to another radio station. The programmers could always say, “But ‘Homme à Homme’ is already airing. We don’t want to give these gangsters too much of a platform.” He fell asleep thinking that he’d have to redefine his idea, sharpen it up a bit. Maybe he’d add music to it. Max could help with that. They could play throbbing, urgent-sounding, reggae-influenced hip-hop, and, in between songs, he would let his neighbors speak. He was still asleep the next morning when a dozen policemen with balaclava-covered faces, members of the special forces, knocked down the front gate of his parents’ house, climbed up to his room, blindfolded him, and dragged him out of bed. He was not allowed to change out of his pajamas, even as his mother wailed uncontrollably and his father shouted that a great injustice was taking place. By the time he arrived at the nearest commissariat, a small crowd of print, TV, and radio journalists—including his boss—were waiting for him. The night before, the police spokesperson, a shrill-voiced woman, explained, there had been a shooting at Radio Zòrèy. Four men with M-16s and machine guns had been seen jumping out of the back of a tan pickup truck. They had shot at the gates and windows of the three-story building, killing the night guard. The police had arrested Tiye, the notorious head of Baz Benin, and he had named Pascal as the mastermind of the operation, the person who had sent him and his men to do the job. Pascal was not allowed to speak at the press conference. He was simply forced to stand there, like a menacing prop, surrounded by the still hooded special-forces team, with his chafed wrists handcuffed behind his back. The box of a room where he was taken to be questioned was hot, with the stench of fresh vomit in the air. In addition to the rusty metal chair on which he was placed, with his hands still cuffed, it had a fluorescent light whose flickering beams penetrated the black cloth that covered his eyes. During his questioning, he was repeatedly punched on the back of the neck. “Do you know Tiye?” one of his interrogators asked, sucking on a cigarette and blowing the smoke in his face. “Yes,” Pascal replied, coughing. His lungs seemed to be closing down. The constriction forced pieces of last night’s dinner onto the front of his pajama top and, when he was allowed to bend his neck, down to his lap. The questions continued. “How do you know Tiye?” “He lives in my neighborhood and often eats at my parents’ restaurant,” he stammered. “You’re a big man, huh? Your parents have a restaurant in the slums. I’m hungry now. Feed me. Feed me.” The officers were laughing even as he hiccupped and sobbed. To his ear, there was no difference between their laughter, their taunting, and that of Tiye and his crew. They could all have switched places, and no one would notice. “How much did you pay the crew from Baz Benin to shoot at the station?” someone else asked. “Nothing . . . I . . .” “So they did it for free?” They threw freezing water in his face. Panicked, he tried to rise from the chair, but several hands shoved him back down. Between the smoke, the vomit, and the water, he felt as though he were drowning. After the questioning, he was left alone in a dank cell. That afternoon, his mother and father came to see him. They were allowed to kneel next to him on the floor, where he was lying in a fetal position, and remove his blindfold. “Pascal, chéri.” His mother wept quietly, while his father supported her with one hand beneath her armpit and the other firmly pressed against her back. “Pascal, could you have done such a thing?” his father asked. He sounded stern, as though scolding his son. Pascal shook his head. His throat ached, and he could taste the vomit still lingering in his mouth. His father, he knew, needed a denial from him in order to proceed with his fight. “They’re not beating me too badly,” he said, to fill the silence. “Not yet, anyway. You see I have no blood on me.” The mother raised his filthy pajama top to look for cuts, wounds. “The lawyer we got for you,” his father said, “her cousin is a judge. She says she’s going to try to move things along very fast.” Years earlier, under the dictatorship, Pascal’s father had had a facial tic—a quick batting of his eyes and an involuntary twitching of his mouth. Now it had returned. Pascal had not seen it in such a long time that he had almost forgotten about it. “They’ll probably take you to the court, to Parquet, this afternoon,” his father continued, despite the spasms in his face. “Then you might possibly go to the Pénitencier, to jail, for a few days, until we get you out.” From Montreal, Jules had told his parents what to say and do. Jules had called the lawyer, who’d successfully represented many of his old police buddies in corruption cases, and was paying her himself. He had also phoned many of his police friends and his former bosses, including the secretary of state, on whose security detail he had briefly worked. Then he had called Tiye’s people, telling them that Tiye must have misunderstood. Pascal would never have asked them to shoot up the radio station. If they had meant to do him a favor, they’d failed. Everyone Jules was able to reach, including Tiye’s second-in-command, told him to stay calm. The case against Pascal was a lamayòt, a vapor. Nothing was going to stick. Give it a few more hours. Let it cool off. Pascal was on a fast track, it seemed. After his parents left, a black-robed magistrate came in and informed him of the charges against him. Later that afternoon, more charges were filed. Now he was said to be not only the mastermind of the radio-station shooting but someone the police had been seeking for a long time. In him they’d found a scapegoat for a whole tally of unsolved crimes. Because of the additional charges, the lawyer asked for more money. They should consider paying off a judge, she said. Twenty thousand dollars. American. “This is a kind of kidnapping,” Jules hollered on the phone from Montreal. Jules had not eaten all day. In despair, he was trying to deprive himself as well. He was expecting his brother to rot in an overcrowded cell at the Pénitencier or simply to disappear before he got there. Pascal’s parents were preparing to sell their business to buy Pascal’s release. That evening, having slept through the dinner hour in his cell, with his face pressed against a cool groove on the floor, Pascal saw a line of black shiny boots marching toward him. He was blindfolded again and thrown into the back seat of a police jeep. “Who does he know?” the officer who put him there asked. “What are they going to tell people?” “That they made a mistake,” another voice answered. He was dumped in front of his parents’ restaurant at ten that night. Tiye, it turned out, had made some kind of deal with the police for his and Pascal’s release. Rumor had it that after he became the head of Baz Benin, Tiye had collected highly incriminating drug-related dirt on everyone, from the lowest street cop to Supreme Court judges. Whether it was true or not, it was said that he possessed a slew of records, from videos and audiotapes to copies of contracts and bank statements, which were being held by relatives of his in Miami. The day he was killed—or convicted of a crime—they were supposed to send the records to a certain reporter at the Miami Herald, who would publish everything. Later that night, Jules cheered on the phone. “Manman and Papa will have to leave now,” he said. But Pascal wasn’t sure where they would go. “Back to the countryside?” he wondered aloud to his brother. “To the hills? To you?” These were all possibilities, Jules told him. “Urgent possibilities,” he added. “Home is not always a place you have trouble leaving.” Pascal, now showered and clean, was lying in bed as his parents hovered, handing him water, juice, creams for his skin. It was nearly midnight. His mother had not cooked that evening, but her customers had still come for cigarettes and drinks and to offer their sympathies over Pascal’s arrest and their congratulations on his release. When Pascal got off the phone, one of the girls from the kitchen came up to say that Monsieur Tiye was downstairs and wanted to see him. “We’ll go first,” his father said, the tic returning in a milder version. His parents filed out dutifully, their bodies tense with a new level of worry. What could Tiye want now? Did he want to be paid? In the yard, Tiye and his lieutenants were already settled at a table, with drinks provided for them by the girls. “No need to pay tonight,” the father said. Tiye had a few extra guys with him for protection. They listened with rapt attention as he described what he’d been through. “I was afraid they were going to shoot me,” he was saying. “You know how they take some of the guys out to the woods in Titanyen and put them down. I was afraid that was going to happen to me.” He said this casually, almost matter-of-factly, with a kind of amused air that indicated that, if this had happened, it would not have been a big deal. This was perhaps how Tiye and his guys faced the inevitable, Pascal thought. Crossing the yard on shaky legs, he realized that he shared this with them. This was perhaps what Tiye had tried to teach him by turning him in and then rescuing him. One day, they would all be shot. Like the night guard at Radio Zòrèy, like Tiye’s predecessor, Piye. Like almost every young man who lived in the slums. One day, it might occur to someone, someone angry and powerful, someone obsessive and maniacal—a police chief or a gang leader, a leader of the opposition or a leader of the nation—that they, and all those who lived like them or near them, would be better off dead. Pascal stopped at Tiye’s table and held out a hand to him. “No hard feelings?” Tiye said, pounding his fist on his chest, near his heart, in greeting. Pascal noticed, and not for the first time, that Tiye’s gums were bright red, as though he had a perpetual infection or had been eating raw meat. “Did they jack you up?” Tiye asked Pascal. “Wasn’t so bad,” he said. Tiye wasn’t wearing his prosthetic arm, and the sleeve of his bright-yellow shirt sagged. With his good hand, he motioned for the guy who was sitting next to him to get up so that Pascal could sit down. Pascal looked again at the space where Tiye’s missing arm would have been. He thought he saw something white, as though a polished piece of bone were protruding. He tilted his head to see it better, while trying not to seem obvious. He almost checked his own body to see if anything was gone. In his dreams, Pascal had imagined beginning his radio program with a segment on lost limbs. Not just Tiye’s but other people’s as well. He would open with a discussion of how many people in Bel Air had lost limbs. Then he would go from limbs to souls, to the number of people who had lost family—siblings, parents, children—and friends. These were the real ghosts, he would say, the phantom limbs, phantom minds, phantom loves that haunt us, because they were used, then abandoned, because they were desolate, because they were violent, because they were merciless, because they were out of choices, because they did not want to be driven away, because they were poor. It was his mother who brought the last beers to the table, and for the first time in his life he could see between her furrowed eyebrows a disdain for those she served. She avoided their eyes as she lifted the bottles from her metal tray and placed them between the coconut-shell ashtrays on the hibiscus-patterned plastic tablecloth. Pascal waited for her to return to the kitchen before raising his drink toward Tiye and clinking the top of his bottle with his. Tiye’s bottle struck his with force. Pascal saw a brief spark, and the top of his bottle broke apart, leaving a jagged gap in the glass. A shard landed on the table with a splash of beer; another fell to the hardened clay floor at his feet. Tiye flashed his bright-red gums and pointed his intact beer bottle in Pascal’s direction. “You wanted to know what it’s like for us,” he said. “I just thought I’d give you a taste.” Tiye filled his mouth with beer and swished it around loudly, as if he were gargling with mouthwash. “Don’t worry,” he added to Pascal, but also, it seemed, to himself. “As long as I’m here, nothing will happen to us tonight.”
Lostronaut Dearest Chase, I am trying to “feel” November, yours and mine. I’ll make an imaginary diorama, like something from grade school, an attempt to win a secret science fair of the heart: Janice and Chase’s November. A mind’s-eye miniature I can peer into. (I won’t mention this project to the Captain, or to the Russians, or to anyone else. We all know too much about one another’s little projects up here.) Is it cold yet? Is Manhattan beautiful? Have they put up the Christmas tree, or is it too soon? (I know you loathe Rockefeller Center.) Do you ever go to the Chinese garden at the Met, with the tiny gurgling waterfall, where we once went and laid our heads together on a stone and fell asleep? (I don’t know if I want to know whether you go there without me or not, so don’t answer that question.) Do I sound idiotic? Forgive me, I’m going a little bonkers up here. Since the antifreeze leak—explosion, really—things have not been right. I’m sure Mission Control will have tried to keep any panic to a minimum—that’s in their training, and, even more, it’s in their nature. (Hello, Ted! And how are you, Arun? Are you sipping Ceylon as you read this?) Even among us six, we’ve quit discussing the incident—there’s always the new day’s tasks to think of. But in truth we nearly lost both the Den and the Greenhouse. And, without the Greenhouse, no food. And no air. No us. Northern Lights just an elaborate mausoleum, or perhaps a floating lab for an experiment in zero-gravity mummification. Mstislav, our most dedicated gardener now that Sledge rarely emerges from the Attic, has been tinkering with the carbon-dioxide balance, a dangerous but crucial sport. At six or seven hundred parts per million, the air in here is dreadful but sustains life. Regular jiggering of organic functions is needed to keep the ratio from ballooning to something deadly. To make a long story short, after an alarmingly high reading Mstislav discovered a mound of rotting mangrove fronds under a seemingly healthy hillock of wheatgrass—a camouflaged nightmare of poison-leaching compost. Endgame for us could be that simple, that foolish. Everyone, even the Captain and Sledge, was required to take up pitchforks in an ad-hoc campaign to clear the fermenting stew into garbage stockings, which then had to be banished from our airspace, pronto. Now, for months Keldysh has been stuffing waste into one of the three emergency modules, a reasonably nifty solution, with the notion that we’ll eventually test our ability to launch the module and remote-control-dump its contents at the edge of the minefield that makes up our prison. Maybe our garbage, drifting slowly into Earth’s gravity, could even take out some of the low-orbit mines the Chinese launched to keep us trapped here. A fantasy, perhaps. We’d have to eliminate hundreds for Mission Control even to begin to discuss reaching us with a shuttle. But we dream—why not? Well, this surplus of mulch-bulging stockings forced our hand, before Keldysh had any chance to chart a launch plan. Zamyatin was enraged at Keldysh for attempting the early launch, but we’d all encouraged him. And, in truth, we were all exhausted from twelve hours of what Mstislav laughingly called “serf toil,” one of the rare jokes among the Russians that even Sledge and I could get. Also the last laugh we’d have for a while. Keldysh arced the module. It rebounded off solar panel V, snapped off an antenna, and clanged disastrously against the Den’s exterior tile. Glued to the video feed like teen-agers at a horror film, we saw the module tumble unbraked through, yes, the Chinese mines. Then flare and vanish. (Honestly, I do think Keldysh by then had his head in his hands, and could have reversed the module’s course if he hadn’t been so despondent at the earlier impacts.) Farewell to excess compost, to unrecyclable plastic waste, to irredeemably shameful diapers, and to the module itself. The flume of mute fire another reminder, if we needed it, to recalibrate orbital decay daily. Like flossing. (I joke to keep your attention during the dry technical passages, my darling distractible Chase.) I don’t think anyone thought to inspect the Den’s interior for damage until we smelled the antifreeze, a skunk’s reek speeding through Northern Lights’ tiny atmosphere. It was Mstislav who had the foresight to seal the Den remotely, then insist that we don oxygen masks and investigate. Forget for now any damage to the exterior, which we were, of course, predisposed to concern ourselves with. (The rocket ship’s hull, every spaceman’s concern!) By the time we reached the Den we’d lost Sledge somewhere, but the remaining five of us penetrated the area wearing masks, and discovered the wrecked antifreeze line spewing turquoise blobs, which floated and shattered to paint every surface of the Den’s interior. Mstislav and Zamyatin clamped the line. Then, fresh off the serf toil in the Greenhouse, we space janitors set to scrubbing and sponging and wringing the blue goo into containers, a task much like the pursuit of Dr. Seuss’s Oobleck. (I still want to have children with you, Chase.) By the finish our uniforms were coated. Mstislav, champion of this episode, reasonably pointed out that any droplet of the pollutant we exported from the Den was destined for circulation and, ultimately, our mucous membranes. Our bloodstreams. So we stripped and trashed the clothes. Picture us, five floating nudists in oxygen masks, ragged with fatigue and degrees of shock, squeezing the last beads of antifreeze from our hair. (Don’t be jealous. They’ve seen me naked before. Anyway, on our present diet I’m shrunken to a ten-year-old’s gaunt outline, not exactly turning heads. My periods have stopped, too. And yes, again, I still want to have children with you, Chase.) At last, and ignoring various bruises and scrapes that first-aid protocols would have had us tend immediately, we all slunk away to our various hidey-holes to strap ourselves to a wall for some desperately needed sleep. Starved as we were, I don’t think anyone emerged for ten hours or more. I can’t imagine that Mission Control will release too much of this report, except perhaps exclusively to you, Chase. Still, when our media-digest packet finally turns up (there’s so much demand for our scrawny bandwidth, so many technical transmissions in line ahead of anything personal, that the packet is usually delayed a week or two), I’m always startled at how many columns the papers devote to us. How fascinating can we truly be? They’ll forget us soon. We’ve practically forgotten ourselves. That’s why I rely on you, Chase, to believe in me. As I drift, you anchor me in reality. On Earth. In Manhattan, where you sit reading this, perhaps in that fake-French coffee shop (is it really called Savoir Faire?) with the amazing almond croissants you pretend to allow yourself only once or twice a month but in truth devour at least twice a week. That’s where I picture you, Chase. With powdered sugar on your fingers as you open Mission Control’s overnight envelope. The sugar on your lips and fingers and possibly on your nose, too—that sweet dust is me, your astronaut, your lostronaut, your Janice. November 14th Dearest Chase, I’ve got some good news and some bad news. Ha ha ha ha ha—imagine, please, my convulsive laughter. (I read this opening line aloud to Zamyatin, who happens to be running on a treadmill in the room as I type this letter to you, and he found it as hilarious as I did. Moments like these are all we have to savor these days; please don’t begrudge them.) The good news, of course, you will have read in the newspaper and perhaps even seen on some cable-news station (except I can’t for one instant imagine you bothering with cable television; last I recall you were searching for your remote and failing to find it, then accusing the housekeeper of hiding it): we survived the space walk to repair the tile damaged in Keldysh’s botched module launch. Better than survived. The space walk was a thrilling success and Northern Lights will carry on, to drift unmoored in orbit for another day, or month, or however long until we are rescued or choose to destroy ourselves in a deliberate collision with the Chinese mines, which I suspect could happen any minute now, especially if I am judging the Captain’s and Keldysh’s moods correctly—but, pardon me, I was telling you the good news! Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Suffice to say no straws were drawn, because no one wanted to see Sledge anywhere near the air lock; our dour Captain asserted the leadership he has lately so much neglected, tapping myself and Keldysh for the walk, and Mstislav and Zamyatin for on-board mission guidance, and inventing some kind of make-work for Sledge that did or did not get done—something back in the Greenhouse, something to do with Mstislav’s doomed reclamation project involving the leaf-cutter bees, those expert pollinators. (We’re all in utter denial about the bees.) I find myself unwilling to bother with the technical stuff, which by now I’m certain makes your eyes glaze over. Such labors as the forty-eight hours of preparation that the mission entailed are wearisome enough to get through, let alone describe for a bored boyfriend. Anyhow, “preparation” ’s a poor word. Nothing had or could have prepared me and Keldysh for the sensations that overcame us upon ejecting from the air lock. Essentially, of falling, like Wile E. Coyote, off a cliff, into a bottomless well of darkness and silent velocity. We’re soaring atoms, Chase, that’s what orbit consists of, the inhuman hastening of infinitesimal specklike bodies through an awesome indifferent void, yet in our cramped homely craft, its rooms named to evoke childhood comforts, with our blobs of toothpaste drifting between our brushes and the mirror, our farts and halitosis filling the chambers with odor, we’ve defaulted to an illusion of substance. Inside Northern Lights, we’ve managed to kid ourselves that we exist, that we’re curvaceous or lumpy or angular, bristling with hair and snot, taking up a certain amount of room, and that space and time have generously accorded a margin in which we’re invited to operate these sizable greedy bodies of ours, a margin in which to dwell, to hang out and live our pale stinky stories. The space walk destroyed all that. (No wonder Mission Control has tried to keep this from ever being necessary.) Oh, the lie of weightlessness! We feel we’re floating only because we’re forever falling, as in an elevator with no bottom floor to smash into. And so, inside the elevator, the human party continues oblivious, the riders flirt and complain and mix zero-G cocktails, or chase bewildered zero-G leaf-cutter bees. Outside the ship, our consoling elevator’s walls dissolved, Keldysh and I were two specks falling forever, specks streaming down the face of the night. Ourselves plummeting downward to the gassy blue orb, the gassy blue orb also plummeting at the same mad rate away from us. (Somewhere I hear the voices of Mission Control: Ted muttering to Arun, “Get this woman an editor.”) Well, after clinging to our telescopic guide-rods in a riot of metaphysical horror for upward of twenty minutes, our eyes locked on each other’s while Zamyatin and Mstislav gently prodded us to explain, please, why we weren’t moving a muscle to make the needed repairs to the tile, Keldysh and I completely mute, we finally managed to bluff ourselves into taking one step into the void, and then another, until like brain-locked automatons we began executing the commands we’d rehearsed. The repair required little beyond the clipping of a hangnail of tile and the application of a sealant (think Krazy Glue) to the gash that the misdirected module had carved into the Den’s upper sill. One crumpled signal dish was judged to be irretrievable; we detached it and let it spin off, down toward the minefield. I think it got through, the reward being immolation upon reaching the atmosphere—a Roman candle, a small blessing of fire sent down in your direction, my Chase-ling. My heroism, such as it was, consisted in persuading poor Keldysh, who, seeing the dish spiral away, reverted to panic and clung to the tile in a bear hug, to free himself from the ship’s exterior and let the guide-rod telescope him home to safety. I had to whisper into Keldysh’s private channel for five endless minutes, the others all stymied, waiting for us to budge, before I got him to go. Now, love, for the bad news. A few days after the space walk, Mstislav, in his dutiful way (he’s keeping the whole place running!), scheduled checkups for both me and Keldysh, a routine caution we’d neglected for too long. We came up clean for effects from the walk, but Mstislav seemed puzzled by my white-blood-cell profile. We ran a few successive days’ counts, just to be sure we had a meaningful sample, Mstislav trying not to say what he feared he was on the trail of, me gamely offering various bogus notions about female physiology reacting differently to the Greenhouse’s CO2 deprivation, joking that Mstislav had gone too long without a lady patient. Eventually, our efforts devolved to a sitdown for the ever-humbling medical questionnaire, Mstislav talking me through a series of self-exams, a drill we’d practiced on the ground but hoped never to see put to use. None of us much like dwelling on the slow erosion of our bodies in this environment—the bone-density decay, the pale, starved skeletons we’ve substituted for our old selves. I liked even less what Mstislav guided me toward: acknowledgment that I’d been managing an uncanny pain in my right foot’s arch for weeks, at least. Do you remember that I said I was having a problem with cramping? That cramp was a tumor, Chase. Funny, huh? Oh, you should have seen the looks on the faces of the Russians, and Sledge. Even Sledge. I think they realized too late that I was a sort of talisman here, their woman. The whole mother-earth thing, unavoidable. Now a good-luck charm with cancer. That’s not to say, you know, that we don’t all still hate one another. That was yesterday. I’ll know more soon, but I doubt we’ll be able to much delay a leak to the media, and I wanted to tell you before you learned by other means. (Oh, this is going to be a mess, this is going to be hell.) Behold the onset of my flinty tone. Along with so much else, a soft-tissue sarcoma can apparently drain the exultation from one’s prose. Remember (please remember) the Chinese garden at the Met, that unlikely bit of outdoors indoors? It shouldn’t feel so expansive, yet somehow it does. My favorite place in Manhattan, I think. Remember that we went there together, Chase? Did I already ask this? One of our first days in New York, we were so tired and drunk on sex and the sense of recognition of those early days of our love, and we meandered into the Met, not with any plan, and the suffocating heaviness of those galleries of European oil paintings made us drowsy and we escaped (I never remember the path exactly, always have to rediscover it) to the Chinese garden court, and were nearly alone there, and anyway the gurgling of the water and the rustling of the grasses, the bamboo, seemed to cover any human sound, and we lay down there on that stone which had been chiselled out and shipped from its ancient source and no guard troubled us and soon with our heads tipped together on that dark slate we fell coolly asleep, dozed for who knows how long? Do you remember, Chase? I remember, too, when we woke, and turned to look into the pool beside our heads, and you thought you saw a fish, a little black darting goldfish-type fish, but it was only the reflection of my glasses, a black shimmering reflected shape that had separated, for an instant, from the reflection of my head and from the rest of my glasses, and seemed a separate darting thing, a fish, or a tadpole? Please remember, Chase, remember please remember, I adore you, my terrestrial saint, my angel wandering avenues, I’m your cancerous angel adrift, Janice December 18th My darling Chase, Now comes the winter of my discombobulation. Of course, we have no winter here, it’s always cold out and filthy hot sweaty moist oxygenless inside but, hey, I notice the pages flying off the calendar. Santa’s loading his sleigh! Hope he gets through the minefield O.K.! We’ve reverted to believing in Santa, Chase. St. Nick is one of the cultural touchstones up here, something Sledge and I and the Russians can all get behind, whereas E. Bunny and T. Fairy are too American, apparently, and hence are terra incognita. As is, come to think of it, terra! But we believe in mythical things here, like Earth and Santa. After all, we have invisible enemies—CO2, cancer, gravity. So heck, why not invisible friends? Each bout of meds is worse than the last. My days (“days”) a dull cycle of recovery until I’m strong enough to suck the poison again. During my latest bouts of helplessness I’ve been installed in the Nursery, which has become a sickroom, with everyone aboard all too adept at tapping one of my veins and inserting an IV, not to mention swabbing my puke from where it’s drifted into my hair and so on. I suppose we’re enjoying a faint resurgent solidarity, at last obeying Mission Control psychiatric guidelines that we gather for meals and meetings every other day. The Captain is a captain again, his melancholic depression no contest for my cancer—yes, I feel like a winner, Chase. I may have bought a lottery ticket out of here, in fact, and once in a while Keldysh and the Captain can’t keep from peering at me with a sympathy that includes a trace of morbid fascination with the strange journey I’ve managed to undertake within our orbiting stasis, and perhaps even envy for my possible destination. (Mstislav is too devoted an attending physician ever to reveal such a sentiment, and Zamyatin, the angry cosmonaut, too much of a bastard—if Zamyatin were ever to commit suicide, he’d make sure we knew that he credited it to our cowardice, not his.) It’s almost as if I’d broken a pledge we made to one another and to our audience on Earth: that we’d live here forever, mascots of futility. Most remarkable of all, though, is the effect on poor Sledge. The dawning signs of this transformation we chalked up to circumstance: with Mstislav now devoting much of his time to my care, the Greenhouse was neglected, worse than usual, I mean, so Sledge began to grope his way out of the Attic back into a share of his old duties, tending the wheatgrass and cabbages and hives as if he’d never abandoned them, and really producing some miraculous results. Sledge is a more instinctive and sympathetic gardener than Mstislav, something we all, perhaps even Sledge, forgot. Without even appearing to try, he’s reversed a degree of the CO2 slide. He’s also a better cook. The two roles are intertwined. He offers me broths of freshly harvested sweet-potato greens and baby bok choy, and though the air we breathe in here is itself a kind of broth, I sip them gratefully. There’s more. You’ll say he’s got some kind of vampiric jones for suffering, but Sledge has become a tender companion in my worst hours, vigilant over my fevers, an entertainer when I can bear entertainment. Whether out of stoicism or hostility, we’d long since quit sharing personal stories up here, but during quiet hours, when all the others are sleeping and the toxins inflaming my veins won’t let me rest, Sledge has been disburdening to me tales of collegiate mayhem in the Pacific Northwest, at Evergreen College. How a pale secret fag (did I just let that slip?) made his way first amid those blustery, sunburned hippie biology majors, then here to patriotic doom with me and the Russians, God only knows. If half the amount of crystal meth and threesomes he claims in his youthful annals are factual, sleepy old Sledge truly belonged in the Warhol Factory. Never underestimate anybody, Chase (I think you often do). I know, my foolish darling, how you like to root for improbable heroes on unlikely quests, so I’ll make you party to a secret. Sledge has been sneaking leaf-cutter bees out of the Greenhouse, one at a time, in a mason jar. It’s his wild theory that their stings immunize against cancer, and so once or twice a day, on top of my official poisons, I roll up a pant leg and allow Sledge to bully a bee into injecting its venom into my shin. He then lines up the dead bees on the Nursery’s doorjamb, facing outward, their dry little feet affixed with rubber cement so they won’t drift. Fifteen or twenty now, keeping vigil while I nod. If any of the Russians have noticed, they’ve said nothing. I’m sparing you, sparing us both, my reminiscences, my pining evocations; refusing, this time, to rhapsodize on your appetite for pastry, the slightly ashy skin of your earlobes, any days spent failing to rouse ourselves beyond your bedroom’s threshold, or other days wandering through museums, gazing in indoor fountains, startled by the sight of our own innocent faces in rippling pools. None of this. If I beckon you to remember me, Chase, I fear you’ll slip to some image of another, for I suspect I’m beginning to dissolve; I can barely remember myself anymore. But I remember you, Chase, I really do. I see you before me, like that mute Greek chorus of bees. Your lost one, Janice January 8th C., Severed-foot disposal in a pocket biosphere is really a daft problem, one I hope you never need face, love. We considered air-lock ejection, a sailor’s funeral, but to send my pedal appendage spinning down to Earth, or, worse, to trigger a mine, seemed florid, flamboyant, a bit of a flambé, and not in the least flame-retardant, even if we wrapped it in a foil boot. (Of course, if we had a thousand feet among us, a millipede’s supply to lop off and defenestrate, maybe we’d kick our way out of this crate!) The whole prospect just felt a little brutal for a body part, even one against which I had such justified grievance. So we opted for a sombre burial in the Greenhouse, under the shade of the tallest of the mangroves, though in truth it meant a slightly watery grave after all, stuff seeping up through the muck to swallow the foot, bubbles of mud detaching and floating among us during our tiny, foot-size ritual observances. Sledge, having scooped up the dead bees from the doorjamb in the Nursery, embedded these in the gunk to form a ring of bee emissaries, the better to passport the foot into whatever afterlife it deserves. Keldysh recited a poem in Russian, Mstislav made a joke about Gogol, then we sealed up this weird stew with cheesecloth mesh, as we do the rest of the topsoil, to keep it from absconding in the zero-G. Afterward, back to work or to sulking in our hidey-holes. I’m no longer so much an occasion for renewed bonhomie. My ailment is just another ambient backdrop now, another machine falling apart with no parts to replace the scrapped ones, another grim dispatch from the quadrants of the deadly dull but not yet quite deadly enough condition our condition is in. My cancer is a mood. We all of us up here have our moods. Now a part of me will never touch Earth again, Chase. Happy New Year! Footloose, J. March 19th C., Forgive glitchos, I type in the dark. The screen’s backlighting’s shot, too. One of the leaf-cutter bees is crawling on my face, drinking sweat—hard not to interpret it as a mosquito and swat it away, but they’ll sting if incited, and I’ve had my requisite bee stings for the week already. We’ve all taken to negotiating this lightless humid labyrinth in bare feet (or, in my case, foot), mostly in underwear or pajamas—if we had little enough motivation to impress one another with personal grooming before, the last is gone—and when I wedged my foot below Keldysh’s console, to write you this letter, I stirred some growth both vine-tangled and mulchy, and up rose the vivid, unmistakable smell of fresh unfiltered apple cider, the kind with a simple label, from Vermont or Connecticut. It’s been a while, Chase, but I won’t apologize now for that. I’ve got more to tell than I’ll manage (or Mission Control could ever sanction releasing). Systems began domino-falling, one failure catalyzing another, in mid-February. At some point, Keldysh persuaded us to create a rotation of diagnostic maintenance shutdowns, isolating each in turn: cli-mate, navigation, communications, orbital tracking, plumbing, and so on. Hardly attractive, but no one came up with a credible Plan B. Everything went swimmingly (some words are treacherous—what I’d give for a swim!) until the last time we switched off the central-core light banks, ten days ago now, and they wouldn’t come back on. They still haven’t. (Picture a Russian flipping a switch repeatedly, frowning in the dark.) We’re rationing the backup generator’s delegated functions, and the obscenely draining emergency lights don’t make the cut, so we’re down to what illumination Sledge’s biospectrum grow lights can shed, as he places them here and there on his unfathomable schedule, a farmer rotating crops throughout the station. (For more on Sledge’s new green-thumb imperatives, stay tuned.) Keldysh warns that this may be our last communications packet; he scheduled us each a one-hour session on the sole functioning keyboard—no luxury of writer’s block today! While morale is low, we have a kind of camaraderie at last. I suppose a similar peace may be gained by prisoners sharing death row. This is no time for settling scores. However, I want it on record, right here and now, that I never, ever stole anything from the fridge—anyone else’s leftovers or the Captain’s birthday cake. Though black humor is the only functioning humor here, I didn’t quite have the nerve to ask if I could take Zamyatin’s keyboard hour. I suspect it’ll go unused, a symbolic silent communication, an aria of cosmic null-music to foreshadow the chorale the rest of us will soon chime in with. Zamyatin commandeered a landing module and kamikazied himself out of the air lock yester-day. No one was certain what (more) was wrong when Klaxons sounded, but Keldysh inventoried the missing lander, and on doing a head count and finding Z. absent we rushed to the Library’s south window, which gives a panorama of Earth through a coy lace veil of mines, a view we usually avoid. Just in time to see him flare and burn; as expected, he’d sparked one of the Chinese mines, making a tiny missing tooth in the dynamite smile that pins us on the far side of home. We cheered wildly. It isn’t as though Zamyatin’s bid could be whitewashed as anything other than suicide—the modules aren’t armored for reëntry, so he’d have been baked Alaska on meeting Earth’s atmosphere even if he had negotiated the mine layer. But that would have been a purely symbolic triumph, whereas this we could call taking one for the team. And then there were five. Our remaining lives are in Sledge’s hands. What little remains of them. I suppose our remains will be in his hands, too, in the sense that the whole of Northern Lights is being given over to the gardens, now expanded from the Greenhouse to wherever Sledge can get something green to cling or take root and get busy swapping our exhaled breath for something worth inhaling. So when this last brave stand collapses, and we asphyxiate in one collective heap, there’ll be no one left to give us interstellar funerals—instead, we’ll rot in the dark mossy grotto we’ve left behind. At least we no longer fear starvation, as Sledge is always ladling up some fruity or rooty stew—there’s plenty of spare biomass to consume. The ironies are rich. Trapped in the infinite cold of space, we bake like Russian mafiosi in a steam room. Technology expelled us from Earth’s garden and then, having shot its wad, gardening is left to take over. Similarly, runaway growth is eating me from within, yet Sledge encourages a runaway growth that may prolong my life, allowing me to die longer. The station has a kind of cancer—we smell it in the corridors everywhere, and trip over new growth every time we touch our blind appendages to the walls. As a girl, Chase, I always did get tubers and tumors confused. Ordinarily, I’m exempted from my turn helping Sledge shift his banks of grow lights from one position to the next, but one day recently I was feeling vital (and bored shitless) enough to give it a go. In zero-G, the task doesn’t involve any lifting, obviously, and even a one-footed lady can aid in nudging the fixtures around awkward corners. Sometimes, in all this dark, it’s pleasant to cling to those few yellowish lights, too. This day, Sledge confessed to me the basis of his mastery of indoor agriculture: he once single-handedly ran the most fecund and profitable indoor marijuana farm on the whole island of Manhattan. The operation was tucked inside a four-room apartment on the Upper East Side, unsuspected not only by the authorities (kept off the scent by elaborately rerouted utility accounts, the huge electrical bills thrown to other addresses like a ventriloquist’s voice into a dummy’s body) but even by the closest neighbors, who regarded Sledge as an innocent and forgettable fellow-tenant in the large and anonymous building. Sledge described the operation generously: the rooms teeming to the scrolled plaster ceilings with bud-heavy green stalks, the floor cabled with sprinklers, the walls lined with foil reflectors to maximize the ripening effects of the solar-spectrum lamps, the stereo chattering NPR—talk radio to cover the drone of the daytime light banks, and classical music to give the plants a cultural heritage through the cool damp night. In one large closet, he kept what he called “the mother plant,” a grotesquely thickened and practically pulsing rope of marijuana from which he cloned seedlings, a fine-tuned specimen of THC. The result he spliced from her was the highest high-end “one-toke dope,” or so he bragged. He’d made himself and several confederates wealthy from the operation before a paranoid inkling triggered a violent two-day fit in which he completely disassembled the farm and eradicated its traces. It was those skills which have turned our once-shiny space station into a steamy green bacteria-funky lung. I suppose I’ve become Sledge’s mother plant now, the improbable thing he keeps alive in an unnatural cramped space. I don’t know why I’m wasting so much of my keyboard time paraphrasing Sledge’s tale, except that it was as if I’d visited the place myself. We’re prone to transporting visualizations these days, in our darkened station, not to mention vivid olfactory hallucinations like the apple cider presently rising to my nostrils. The Russians talk about their childhoods incessantly, when they talk at all. Mstislav, drifting in the dark like a dreamer in a sensory-deprivation tank, has spontaneously offered several wistful accounts of cutting his bare foot on a sickle while pursuing a goat, and although we’ve many creatures roaming the station now that the Greenhouse doors have been thrown open, I’m fairly certain there’s no goat on our roster. For me, it isn’t juvenile pastorale to which I revert, but moments between us, Chase, daydream flashes I prefer not to believe I’ve cobbled out of wishful thinking and damp air. (Did you know we can’t even properly gaze at the stars now? Our breath fogs any window we turn to. We’re moisture, Chase, we’re returning to dew.) I know I’ve got a lot of gall questioning your existence when it’s my own that’s so transparently dubious, or dubiously transparent, or something. But you never write, you never call, ha ha ha. So each time I roam the corridors of the Met in my imaginings, seeking that Chinese garden where our cool thrilling birdlike kisses were exchanged, finding that oasis of stone and fern and skylight, bowing my head to see our twinned reflections in the rippling pool there (and what is it that has stirred the water?—some misdirected wishing-person dropping pennies? The silent putter of filtration?), the museum and the Chinese garden and the mirror of water grow clearer and clearer while you begin to pale, I see only myself and a shimmer beside me, you’re nothing now but an urgent elusive talisman, an object glimpsed but unseen, a fish’s lure in the deep, a reason to go on living. And I do that, Chase. At someone’s command, and I prefer to believe it is yours, my friend, I go on living. Love, J.
Leopard Good morning. You have not slept well. Don’t open your eyes. Stick out your tongue. Search for the little sore above your upper lip. Pray that it healed in the night. No luck. Still there, rough to the tongue, and though it’s very small, not even the diameter of a pencil eraser, it feels much larger. Your mother says it’s a harmless fungal infection, and she pities you less for it than she should. A tiny hamburger is what the fungus resembles, cracked and brown and perfectly centered in the little fluted area between your septum and upper lip. Yesterday, in the cafeteria, Josh Mohorn pointed out the similarity before a table of your friends. A painful thing, considering how much you would like to be Josh Mohorn. He turned to you and said, “Hey, Yancy, do me a favor.” “What’s up?” you said, excited by the rare pleasure of Josh’s attention. “Could you take that seat down there?” he said, gesturing toward the far end of the table. “I can’t eat my lunch with your fucking burger in my face.” Even you had to admire the succinct poetry of the line, which launched an instant craze of everyone jeering and calling you Burger King, or Patty, or All Beef, the name that stuck for the rest of the day and that will surely greet you this morning at school. You are eleven years old, the age that our essences begin revealing themselves, irremediably, to us and to the world. Just as Josh Mohorn is irremediably a soccer ace and a clothes ace, with feathered hair and white bucks, you are irremediably a fungus man. Don’t go to school today. Play sick. Your mother comes in to wake you. Around the house, she wears paint-spattered jeans and old T-shirts, through whose slack sleeves you often catch sight of her underarm hair. But this morning she is dressed for work in a blue sateen blouse and tight white slacks, clothes that speak of a secret life. “I don’t feel good,” you tell your mother. “Where? In your stomach?” “Yeah,” you say. “Oh, God,” she says. “I hope it’s not that thing that’s been going around.” “I don’t know what it is,” you say, panting shallowly. “It just really hurts.” She puts her hand on your forehead and holds it there. Her palm is dry and cool. You have always admired her hands—long, thin fingers and clean, ridged nails that never need polish. On her right index-finger knuckle is a perfect red dot, like a stamp of quality from the manufacturer. She slips her fingers down to your chest. Your skin is slick with sweat. You slept in your school clothes, jeans and a windbreaker, as you always do, amid the rustling mess of books and magazines piled in drifts on your bed. You will be twelve next year, but you usually still enjoy the solid, imperturbable sleep of a small child. You could get eight hours of good rest in a crate. Your mother’s fingers graze your sternum, and this makes you uncomfortable. A spray of large and painful pimples recently sprouted there. They throb with humiliated awareness when your mother touches them. This area of your body is a source of worry, in part because, years ago, a babysitter told you that all boys in their teen-age years develop a soft spot in their chests, like a baby’s fontanel, and that you could kill somebody by punching him in that place. The babysitter was quite a liar, you realize now, even worse than you. He told you that in Florida there lived a race of murderous clowns who carried kitchen knives and who would come after you if you committed a sin. He also said that doctors performed abortions by delivering the baby and then putting it in a bucket and letting it cry to death. Still, you are not sure whether the babysitter was lying about the soft spot. The idea of it intrigues you. You writhe away from your mother’s hand. “What, you want to stay home?” Swallow again. Close your eyes. “I don’t know. I guess.” “O.K.” She kisses you and stands, ducking her head so as not to bash it on the top bunk, which is heaped with old blankets and boxes of your mother’s stuff. She is right to be careful. Not long ago, you hit your head on it so forcefully that a hard white light went on behind your eyes. In your fury, you attacked the bed with your survival knife, inflicting minor, unsatisfying wounds. The little chips and gouges in the frame are a dispiriting reminder of the pointless assault. On the shelf behind your head sits the tape deck your father bought you for your tenth birthday. You have stacks of cassettes full of your favorite songs, recorded off the radio, so all of them start a few seconds in, but you don’t mind. You’d like to listen to your tapes, but you can hear your stepfather moving around in the kitchen. He is raising a din of clanking pots and clumsy feet, so loud you figure he must be doing it on purpose. You don’t touch the tape deck, because you don’t want him to know you’re awake. He and your mother live on twenty acres in thick woods. Your stepfather fancies himself a kind of socialist frontiersman, and he doesn’t have a normal job. He is too busy tending the three large gardens on the property, and splitting logs for the wood-burning furnace he persuaded your mother to buy. He values hard work above everything, and every time you turn around your stepfather is there, putting a broom in your hand, or giving you a load of wet laundry to hang up, or telling you to fetch firewood, or scrub the sink, or dig a hole. “I have a job for you” is your stepfather’s catchphrase, and you sometimes imitate it to make your mother laugh. You rub your thumb along the soft white flesh of your forearm, which is still discolored from a job you had to do last summer. Your stepfather made you clear about an acre of honeysuckle, scrub, and vine where he wanted to put a shed. Halfway through, when he and your mother were away, you doused the jungle with paint stripper and set it on fire. You were careful to keep the hose handy, and the blaze didn’t get out of control. You knocked out three days of work in one hour of fire. But the smoke covered you, and two days later you had poison ivy in a monstrous way. Blisters popped out on your hands, neck, and eyelids. Then they broke and crusted over into a multitude of little brown jewels. The doctor said it could have killed you if you had breathed the smoke. When you heard that, you were sorry you hadn’t taken a lungful or two—not enough to do you in, but you liked the idea of having to spend some time in an oxygen tent because of a job your stepfather made you do. If you say no to your stepfather, this is known as “lip.” “I’m sick of your lip,” he says, or “I’ve had it with your fucking lip.” He is a thin, delicate man with wire-frame glasses, but neither his slightness nor his way of talking like a corny Hollywood thug makes you any less afraid of him. He has slapped you a few times. Not long ago, your father stopped by to pick you up, and your stepfather argued with him. He pushed your father down, and then he picked up a stone the size of a football and made like he was going to throw it at your father’s head. But he just tossed it away and laughed. For years to come, whenever you think of your father, the image of him cowering on the lawn, his hands clutching his skull in forlorn defense against the crushing stone, will be part of the picture. You are counting the days until you turn sixteen, which you’ve arbitrarily chosen as the age at which you’ll be able to take your stepfather in a fight. At twelve-thirty, you hear the front door creak and slap, and then the hornetish whine of your stepfather’s leaf grinder starting up. He is making mulch again, a substance he seems to prize over food or money. Now it is safe to get out of bed. You go into the kitchen and pour yourself a large bowl of cornflakes. Take it into your mother and stepdad’s bedroom, which contains the only television in the house. You are delighted to find “I Dream of Jeannie” on one of the U channels. Jeannie is miffed because, as an engagement present, Major Nelson’s friends have crammed the house with the art work of a terrible genius, sculptures that gurgle with digestion sounds. Barbara Eden’s belly excites you enormously. You grope into your underwear. Almost immediately, you hear the leaf grinder power down. You turn off the TV, run into the kitchen, and arrange yourself at the table. Your stepfather comes in, trailing a rich vegetable aroma. Bits of leaf and bark cling to his glistening arms and chest. “Feeling better?” he asks. “Not really,” you say. He claps a rough hand to your forehead. His hand smells deliciously of gasoline. “You don’t feel hot to me.” “It’s my stomach that hurts.” “You puke?” “No,” you admit. “You must be feeling better or you wouldn’t be having that milk. If you’re ready for milk, you must be getting better.” You don’t see what milk has to do with anything, but you don’t want to argue with him. “I’ve got a headache,” you say. “I thought I should eat something is all.” He sneers suspiciously and snorts through his nose. As a young liar, you can generally get pretty far on the assumption that adults have more important things to worry about than catching out a kid for every little fraud he tries to pull. But your stepfather seems to have plenty of time to study and doubt everything that comes out of your mouth. He will spend days gathering evidence to prove that those are your teeth marks on a pen you said you hadn’t chewed. Your hatred of your stepfather is all-consuming and unceasing, but this is only because your world is still small, and your stepfather assumes an outsized significance in the story of your life. That your stepfather seems to dislike you with an energy and a relentlessness to match your own seems proof that your mother is married to a petty and dangerous child. “You should get some fresh air,” your stepfather says. “How about you go get the mail?” This is not fair. The driveway is a half mile of rutted gravel that takes fifteen minutes to walk, and, as far as your stepfather knows, you’re sick. “Why? Mom’ll get it when she comes back for lunch.” “You go get it,” your stepfather says. “The air’ll be good for you.” “Actually, I’m still a little dizzy.” “I’ll bet a hot-fudge sundae you survive.” You set off across the lawn in bare feet. The earth under your toes is plush with mole tunnels. It is a hot autumn day. The clarity of the sky makes the trees look like television props with a blue screen behind them. You’ve already lost your summer calluses, and the driveway gravel is sharp, causing you to walk with a jouncing, high-elbowed gait, like a bird trying to take flight. You blame your stepfather for the unpleasantness of the gravel, and every few feet you pick up a handful and fling it into the woods, hoping that those handfuls will cost a lot of money to replace. You pass the woodpiles and the chicken house. Past the stretch of woods where you once built a handsome lean-to encircling the bottom of an oak tree. It was a pretty good one, made of windfall limbs peeled smooth with a drawknife and thatched with pine straw. One day, a boy from the new neighborhood on the far side of the woods showed up, and you had words. The next day, you found the lean-to’s ribs scattered across the clearing and your cache of untempting snacks—raw cashews, banana chips—emptied in the dirt. You mentioned the vandalism to your stepfather, and on a Sunday morning, when the boy and his family were at church, the two of you hiked through the woods and destroyed the expensive tree house on the boy’s parents’ property. Your stepfather tore off the roof tin and smashed the ladder with a crowbar. You broke the glass windows with stones, and you ached with the power of it—the two of you together in the same wild, righteous tribe. You open the mailbox. It’s crammed solid with magazines, bills, catalogues, and advertising circulars displaying red galleries of grocery-store beef, the sight of which makes the sore on your lip pulse. There must be fifteen pounds of mail, a sliding load that no sick person should have to carry. On the top of the heap, something catches your eye. It is a handmade flyer with a Xeroxed photograph of what appears to be a leopard. “Lost Pet,” reads the flyer, with a phone number below. A breeze starts down your neck. You turn and look into the woods, though the leaves have not yet fallen and you can’t see twenty feet. You turn back to the flyer. The leopard looks scrawny and unfearsome, but your heart beats a little harder knowing that it might be out there, moving in the dull pine wastes near your home, its spotted paws treading silently over the tree roots, the pine needles, and the leaf-covered troves of ancient beer cans and patent-medicine bottles. With the leopard out there, the woods seem famous now. Far up the driveway, you can once again hear the whine of the leaf grinder starting up, a noise of startling crudeness and stupidity, an insult to the tickings and subtle movements of the living forest all around you. If this leopard is out here somewhere, it is surely offended by your stepfather’s desecration of the silence. It would be no trouble for a leopard to sneak up behind him and carry him off, leaving no trace. It is nearly one o’clock, the hour that your mother comes home for lunch. You do not want to be alone in the house with your stepfather. It still angers you that he has sent you down the driveway on your sick day, your special day of rest. You take a dozen steps, and then a plan suggests itself. Very carefully, you litter the mail in a haphazard fan on the driveway gravel so that it looks as though it were dumped there suddenly. You ease yourself down into a tire rut, splaying your arms and legs in the attitude of someone stricken by a fainting spell. When your mother’s car swings into the drive, she will find you there. She may have to stand on the brakes to keep from running you over, but you are far enough up the driveway that you don’t think she could hit you by mistake. She’ll come to you crying and concerned. You’ll let her coax it out of you, the story of how your stepfather made you get the mail. Don’t move. Don’t mind the gravel digging into your cheek. Don’t spoil the scene. She might not buy it anyway. Already, she halfway believes what your stepfather has been telling her about you: that you are a junior con man who can’t open his mouth without a lie coming out. An insect, probably a harmless black ant, troops up the back of your leg. Many minutes go by. As time passes, the giddy elation you felt at first, at the brilliance of your stratagem, begins eroding into shame. You decide you will wait until ten cars have rushed past on the blacktop road, and if your mother hasn’t arrived by then you will get up and walk back to the house. It is the sixth car that you hear brake suddenly, reverse, and then roll into the drive. It is not your mother’s car. It is a car with a large, smoothly whirring engine. Maybe it’s UPS or someone turning around. Be still. A door opens, and your tongue thickens hotly with alarm. You keep your eyes shut tight. Shoes with hard soles crunch toward you on the gravel. Someone leans over you. “Whoa, buddy—hey, hey.” It is a man’s voice, high and nervous. A hand nudges your shoulder. “Come on, now, pal.” The man draws halting breaths. It startles you when warm fingers find the side of your neck, searching for your pulse. Allow your eyes to open, taking care to flutter them as movie actors do when waking from a swoon. What first fills your vision is a shoe of gleaming black leather, possibly plastic, mounting to a gray trouser leg of synthetic fabric so clean and sharply creased it could have been cast in a mold. You glimpse the man’s belt, where a large black pistol sits in a holster, and then up to the chrome badge on his clean gray shirt. He is young, his eyes bulging from a large, doughy face bracketed by blond sideburns that haven’t filled in. “Take it easy, now,” he says. “Let’s just take it easy.” If anyone needs to take it easy, it is not you but the policeman. His thick neck shifts in his collar, assessing the condition of your body with the edgy scrutiny of a rooster tracking a beetle. “You O.K.?” he asks. “You in pain? You bleeding anywhere?” “I—I don’t think so.” “You live up there?” “Yeah, yeah, I’m fine,” you say. You sit up. The policeman puts his hand on your shoulder. “Easy.” He rubs his eye. “Jesus. You gave me a hell of a scare, buddy. I saw you and then that mail all scattered around. I thought, Oh, God damn. I thought maybe I had a drive-by shooting on my hands, or at least a hit-and-run. Look at this,” he says, presenting his hip to show that he’s undone the little holster snap that keeps his pistol in place. He seems too young and nervous to be trusted with a gun. He asks how you’re feeling and whether you’ve had fainting spells before. “No, I’m fine,” you tell him, getting up. “But thanks and everything.” Begin gathering the mail. With any luck, he’ll get back in his idling cruiser and leave. Your mother will be returning any minute. There isn’t much time to jog up to the bend in the driveway, out of sight of the road, and reassemble the spectacle. The policeman puts a thick hand on your arm. “Come on. Come on in the car and get cool.” With the policeman’s help, you gather up the envelopes and catalogues. He ushers you into the passenger’s side of the cruiser and slants each of the dashboard vents so that they are all blowing at you. He races the engine. The breeze pouring on you is sumptuously cold and laced with a faint smell of medicine, like the waiting room of a dentist’s office. Nothing your mother owns smells bright and clean like this. Jutting up from the dash is a shotgun in a metal brace. Scattered on the bench seat are other police tools—a big black flashlight, a notepad in a vaguely martial leather case. Somehow these things are more genuine and frightening than the shotgun, whose exact resemblance to what you’ve seen in movies makes it seem unreal. “You feeling O.K.?” he asks again. “Not dizzy or nothing?” “No,” you say. “I’m fine now. Totally.” “What’s this thing here?” he asks, pointing at his lip to indicate the hamburger. “I had that before. It’s just a fungus.” The policeman looks at you for a moment. His nostrils hoist in distaste. Then he unhitches his radio. “Two-oh-five, two-oh-five,” he says. “You can kill that call to Rogers Road. It’s just a kid who got a little dizzy and passed out. It’s copacetic now,” he says, winking at you, though you are not sure why. It occurs to you that you despise him a little for being so easily fooled. The policeman goes on talking to you. “Tell you one thing,” he says. “I won’t need my coffee break this afternoon. After seeing you lying there like that, I’ll be keyed up all day. I mean, damn, I was sure we had another dead kid on our hands.” Your ears prick up at that word: “another.” Last spring, Samantha Mealey, a nine-year-old girl from your elementary school, was found naked in a maple tree on the public golf course, a length of clothesline around her neck. In fact, you’d met her at the bus stop just a few weeks before she died. She’d been a brassy, fearless little girl with a raucous laugh. On that afternoon, much to the chagrin of her older brother, she’d been trying to pull some boy’s pants down and cussing out loud for fun. She was an exciting girl. You have not had your first kiss, but you are already worried about sex. Just two grades ahead of you, kids are having it already. When you learned that the man who killed Samantha Mealey had raped her before he tied the noose around her neck, what occurred to you was this: At least she didn’t die a virgin—a thought you cannot share with even your wickedest friends. You feel a manic impulse to start talking, to keep yourself from being alone with thoughts of Samantha Mealey’s murder. You show the leopard flyer to the policeman. “Have you heard about this?” you say. “There’s a leopard running around out there.” He accepts the sheet and looks it over. “Somebody had it for a pet,” you say. “See, I do not know who would have this thing at their residence, but I’ll tell you one thing for sure: they’re probably a dangerous element.” “Drug lords,” you say. “Could be bikers, maybe,” the policeman says. “I swear, this whole area’s changing. You just don’t know anymore. Used to be this was a nice little town. Now it’s turning into one of these places where anything can happen.” He passes the flyer back to you. You reach for the door. “So, thanks,” you tell the policeman. “I should probably get going. My dad’s probably wondering where I am.” You pull the door handle. It’s locked. “Oh, you ain’t walking anywhere, buddy,” he tells you with a stern fondness that makes you uneasy. “I’ll drive you. You keel over again and knock your head, I’m in real trouble.” He puts the cruiser into drive, and the car rolls forward. Untrimmed thorns and sapling limbs clutch at the car with intermittent shrieks that embarrass you. “Thanks,” you tell the policeman once the house comes into view. “Thanks for the lift and everything.” He turns in the direction of the leaf grinder, where your stepfather stands with his back turned. “That your dad?” he asks. “Probably ought to talk to him.” You don’t want him to, but there is nothing you can do. Together, you and the policeman walk across the lawn to your stepfather. The lawn is choked with a special weed that explodes seeds when you touch it. Little clouds detonate around the policeman’s shiny shoes and land in his trouser cuffs. Your stepfather keeps feeding leaves into his grinder until the policeman is about three feet away. Then he turns. He narrows his eyes at the policeman, and then at you. The sweat is pouring off him, curling the hair on his bare chest into dozens of dark whorls. He turns the grinder off, looking hostile and put out. “Who are you?” he asks. “Officer Behrends, sir. I was driving past and I found your son lying in the driveway. He gave me a real scare.” “Hmm.” Your stepfather turns to you. The muscles around his eyes are tense. “What were you doing lying in the driveway?” “I don’t know,” you say. “I just got dizzy and then I woke up. I guess I passed out.” “That mail was all scattered around, and he was lying on his face,” the policeman says. “I didn’t know what had happened to him. He gave me a scare. I was thinking maybe he’d been shot.” “Maybe you sat down and then you fell asleep,” your stepfather says after a moment. “That’s probably what happened.” “I didn’t sit down,” you say. It is just like him to question your story, even with an officer of the law beside you, corroborating it. “I fell.” Your stepfather walks toward you. He takes your chin in his thumb and forefinger, and turns your face back and forth, as though it were a piece of merchandise he was thinking about buying. “You must have fallen pretty easy,” he says. “When you faint, you go down hard. You don’t have any cuts.” “I don’t know how I fell,” you say. “I wasn’t there watching.” “All right. Go inside now,” your stepfather says. But you don’t move. You don’t want to. The sun slips behind a cloud. Something—you don’t know what—is about to happen. You feel it, and you stand there, holding the mail, scraping the sharp edge of a magazine against your chin, out of which a single precious hair has lately dared to curl. “Hell of a lucky thing that I saw him when I did,” the policeman says. He seems to be angling for a handshake or words of gratitude from your stepfather, and you pity him for that. “Who knows? Somebody could have pulled in quick and run him over. It’s a lucky thing.” “Yeah, pretty lucky,” your stepfather says. Then he turns to you. “Go on inside. Wait for your mother.” But you stay where you are. Then, off in the trees behind the clothesline, you hear a branch snap and the sound of something big tussling in the wooded shade. Your breathing goes quick and shallow. You close your eyes. Picture it, the leopard, its shoulders rising and falling as it lopes across the lawn. “Hey,” your stepfather says, lightly slapping your cheek. “What’s the matter with you? Blacking out again?” Don’t answer. Listen. Be still.
The Boy Who Had Never Seen the Sea He was called Daniel, but he would have liked to be called Sinbad, because he had read about Sinbad’s adventures in the big red leather-bound book he always carried with him, to class and to the dormitory. In fact, I think it was the only book he’d read. He didn’t talk about it, except occasionally, when someone asked him directly. Then his black eyes would shine even brighter, and his knife blade of a face would suddenly come to life. But he was a boy who didn’t speak much in general. He never joined the conversations of others, unless the discussion involved the sea or travels. Most men are men of the land; that’s just the way it is. They are born on the land, and it’s the land and the things of the land that interest them. Even sailors are often men of the land: they like houses and women; they talk about politics and cars. But this boy, Daniel—it was as if he belonged to another race. Terrestrial things bored him—stores, cars, music, movies, and, of course, his schoolwork. He didn’t talk about it; he didn’t even yawn to express his boredom. He’d just sit in one spot—on a bench or on the stairs overlooking the courtyard—and stare into space. He was a mediocre student, who did only the work he needed to get by. When a teacher called his name, he stood and recited the lesson, then he sat down again and that was that. It was as if he were sleeping with his eyes open. Even when we talked about the sea, the conversation didn’t interest him for long. He’d listen for a moment, ask a question or two, then realize that we were talking not about the sea but about swimming or deep-sea fishing, about beaches or sunbathing. And off he’d go, to his bench or the stairs, and stare into space again. That wasn’t the sea he wanted to hear about. He was interested in a different sea—we didn’t know which one, but a different one. This, of course, was before he disappeared, before he took off. No one ever imagined that he’d leave one day, and I mean really leave, and never come back. He was very poor. His father had a small farm a few kilometres from town, and Daniel wore the boarding students’ gray uniform overalls, because his family lived too far for him to go home every night. He had three or four older brothers we’d never met. He didn’t have friends. He didn’t know anyone and no one knew him. Perhaps he preferred it that way, so as not to be tied down. He had a strange face, pointed and sharp like the blade of a knife, and those beautiful, indifferent black eyes. He gave us no warning, but I’m sure that he had prepared everything by then. He had mapped it all out in his head, had memorized the streets and the routes, the names of the cities he had to pass through. Perhaps he had been dreaming of a lot of things, day after day, and night after night, lying in his dormitory bed, while the rest of us joked around or sneaked cigarettes. He had dreamed of rivers travelling gently toward their estuaries, of the cries of seagulls, of the wind, and of the storms that blow past the masts of sailboats and the beacons of the buoys. He left in the early days of winter, in the middle of September. When the other boarding students woke up in the big gray dormitory, he had disappeared. We noticed right away, as soon as we opened our eyes, because his bed was still made. The covers had been carefully tucked in, and everything was in order. We said only, “Hey! Daniel is gone!,” without being really surprised, because after all we must have suspected that this might happen. None of us said anything else, because no one wanted him to be found and brought back. Even the most gossipy of the students in our year said nothing. And, in any case, what could they have said? We didn’t know anything. For a long time, we whispered, in the courtyard or in French class, but only in short phrases that would make no sense to anyone but us: “Do you think he’s there now?” “Do you think? Not yet, it’s far, you know . . .” “Tomorrow?” “Yeah, maybe . . .” The most daring said, “Perhaps he’s in America already.” And the pessimists: “Bah, perhaps he’ll be back today.” But, if we were silent, among the adults, by contrast, the incident made noise. The teachers and the administrators were regularly summoned to the headmaster’s office, and even to the police station. From time to time, inspectors came and questioned the students, one by one, in an attempt to get us to spill the beans. Naturally, we told them everything except what we knew: the sea. We spoke of the mountains, of cities, of girls, of treasure, even of vagabond kidnappers and the Foreign Legion. We said these things to cover Daniel’s tracks, and the teachers and the administrators became more and more irritated, and that made them mean. The noise lasted for several weeks, several months. There were two or three missing-persons notices in the newspapers, with Daniel’s details and a photograph that didn’t really look like him. Then suddenly everything was calm again, because, truth be told, we were all getting a little tired of the affair. Perhaps we had finally understood that he wasn’t ever coming back. Daniel’s parents resigned themselves to this because they were poor and there was nothing else they could do. The police closed the case—they told us so themselves, adding something that the teachers and the administrators kept repeating, as though it were normal, and which seemed to us, the other students, quite extraordinary. They said that every year tens of thousands of people disappeared without a trace and were never found. The teachers and the administrators repeated this sentence, shrugging their shoulders, as if it were the most banal thing in the world, but we, when we heard it—it made us dream. It began, deep within us, a secret and entrancing dream that hasn’t ended yet. Surely it was night when Daniel arrived, on board a freight train that had been travelling day and night for a long time. Freight trains run mostly at night, because they are very long and they move slowly from one junction to the next. Daniel was lying on the hard floor of a freight car, wrapped in an old piece of sackcloth. He watched through the shutters of the door, as the train slowed and came to a creaking stop near the docks. He opened the door. He jumped to the tracks, and ran along the embankment until he found a way over it. He had no baggage, just a navy-blue beach bag that he always carried with him, and in which he had placed his old red book. Now he was free, and he was cold. His legs hurt after all those hours on the train. It was night, it was raining. He walked as fast as he could to get away from the city. He didn’t know where he was going. He walked straight ahead, between the walls of the warehouses, and along a road that glistened in the yellow light of the street lamps. There was no one around, no names written on the walls. But the sea wasn’t far. He guessed that it was to his right, hidden behind the tall concrete buildings, somewhere in the night. After a while, Daniel became tired of walking. He was in the country now, the lights of the city far behind him. The night was black, and the earth and the sea invisible. He looked for a place where he could take shelter from the rain and the wind, and he discovered a wooden shed beside the road, where he lay down until morning. He hadn’t slept for several days, had barely eaten, because he had had to keep watch the whole time, through the door of the train car. He knew that he had to avoid the police. So he hid out of sight in a far corner of the shed. He nibbled at some bread and fell asleep. When he woke up, the sun was already in the sky. He left the shed and took several steps, blinking in the light. A path led to the dunes, and he followed it. His heart began to beat harder, because he knew that the sea was just on the other side of the dunes, barely two hundred metres away. He ran along the path, climbed the sandy slope, the wind blowing harder now, carrying the unfamiliar noise and smell. Then he was at the top of the dune, and he could see it. It was everywhere, immense, rising before him like the side of a mountain, shining blue, deep, so close, its tall waves advancing toward him. The sea! The sea! Daniel thought, but he didn’t dare say it aloud. He stood there, unable to move, his fingers slightly spread, not quite understanding that he had slept right next to it. He heard the slow noise of the waves moving against the beach. There was no wind now, and the sun shone on the sea, lighting a fire on the crest of each wave. The sand was the color of ash, smooth, crisscrossed with streams and pools of water reflecting the sky. To himself, Daniel repeated the lovely word over and over. The sea, the sea, the sea . . . His head was full of noise and vertigo. He wanted to speak, to shout, even, but his throat would not allow his voice to pass. Then he had to move—shouting, tossing his blue bag far across the sand, jogging with his arms and legs as if he were crossing a highway. He leaped over the bands of dead seaweed; he stumbled in the dry sand at the top of the beach. He took off his shoes and socks and, barefoot, ran still faster, not even feeling the thorns of the thistles. The sea was far, at the other end of the field of sand. It shone in the light, its color and appearance changing: a blue expanse, then gray, green, almost black against the ochre sandbanks, the white hems of the waves. Daniel didn’t realize how far it was. He continued to run, his arms tight against his body, his heart pounding in his chest. Now he could feel the sand as hard as asphalt, wet and cold beneath his feet. As he drew closer, the sound of the waves grew louder, drowning out everything, like a steam whistle. First it was soft and slow, then violent and eerie, like a train on a railway bridge, then receding, like river water. But Daniel was not afraid. He continued to run as fast as he could in the cold air, without looking back. When he was only a few metres from the edge of the foam, he inhaled the smell of the depths and stopped. He had a cramp in his groin, and the strong scent of salt water prevented him from catching his breath. He sat down on the wet sand and looked at the sea rising above him almost to the center of the sky. He had thought of this moment so many times, had so often imagined the day when he would finally see it, not in a photograph or in a movie but in reality, the sea itself, enormous, exposed, swollen, with its great line of waves throwing themselves forward and breaking, its clouds of foam, its drizzle of spray like dust motes in the sunlight, and, in the distance, the horizon curving like a wall across the sky! He had longed for this moment with such intensity that he was suddenly weak, as if he were about to die, or at least fall asleep. It was really the sea, his sea, for him alone, and he knew that he could never leave it. He lay for a long time on the hard sand. He waited so long, stretched out on his side, that the sea began to climb the slope and reached his bare feet. It was the tide. Daniel jumped to his feet, all his muscles tensed for flight. In the distance, the waves were thundering against a dark reef. But the water was still weak, breaking apart into bubbles at the foot of the beach, moving forward at a crawl. The light froth flowed around Daniel’s legs, dug holes beneath his heels. The cold water bit at his toes and his ankles, and left them numb. Along with the tide came the wind. It blew from the horizon. There were clouds in the sky. But they were unfamiliar clouds, like the foam of the sea, and salt was flying on the wind like grains of sand. Daniel no longer thought of fleeing. He began to walk along the beach, at the edge of the water. With each wave, he felt the sand flow back and forth between his toes. The horizon, in the distance, rose and fell like a breath, launching its attacks toward the earth. Daniel was thirsty. In the hollow of his hand, he scooped up some water and foam and drank. The salt burned his mouth and his tongue, but he continued to drink, because he loved the taste of the sea. For so long he had dreamed of this water, free, unfettered, so much water that one could drink for a lifetime! The last tide had left on the shore some slabs of driftwood and roots that looked like giant bones. Now the water slowly picked them up again, moving them a little higher up the sand, along with some great black strands of seaweed. Daniel walked along the edge of the water, gazing greedily at everything, as if he wanted to know, in an instant, all that the sea could show him. He held in his hands the sticky seaweed and fragments of shells; he dug in the silt where worms had tunnelled. He examined everything, walking or on all fours on the wet sand. The sun was hard and strong in the sky, and the sea rumbled ceaselessly. From time to time, Daniel stopped to face the horizon and watch the tall waves searching for a way over the reef. He inhaled with all his strength, and it was as if the sea and the horizon were filling his lungs, his stomach, his head, and he had become a kind of giant. He looked at the dark water in the distance, where there was no land and no foam, only the open sky, and it was to that part of the sea that he spoke, in a low voice, as if it could hear. He said, “Come! Come this way! Come! “You are beautiful. You will come, you will cover the earth, the cities. You will climb as high as the mountains! “Come, with your waves. Climb! Climb! Over here! Over here!” Then he retreated, walking backward step by step, to the top of the beach. In this way, he learned the course of the water as it climbed, swelling, stretching its fingers into the little valleys of sand. Gray crabs ran in front of him, their pincers raised, as light as insects. White water filled mysterious holes, flooding secret tunnels. It climbed a little higher with each wave, spreading across the sand. Daniel danced before it, like the gray crabs. He ran through it, raising his arms as the water nipped at his heels. Then he returned, digging trenches in the sand so that the water would climb faster, and humming his song to make it rise: “Come on, climb, climb, waves! Climb higher, come higher! Come on!” He was up to his belt in the water now, but he didn’t feel cold or afraid. His sodden clothes stuck to his skin; his hair fell into his eyes like seaweed. The sea bubbled up around him, then retreated with such force that he had to grip the sand with his toes so as not to fall, then it threw itself upward again, pushing him toward the top of the beach. Strands of dead seaweed whipped at his legs, wrapped themselves around his ankles. Daniel pulled them off like snakes, threw them into the water, yelling, “Arrh! Arrh!” He didn’t look at the sun or the sky. He didn’t even see the distant strip of land, or the silhouettes of the trees. There was no one there, no one but the sea, and Daniel was free. Suddenly the sea began to climb faster. It was spilling over the reef now and the waves were coming from the open sea, with nothing to hold them back. They were tall and wide, coming at a slight angle to the beach, their crests steaming, their blue centers falling away beneath them, lined with foam. They came so fast that Daniel did not have time to get away. He turned his back to run, and a wave reached his shoulders, swept over his head. Instinctively, he dug his nails into the sand and held his breath. The water thundered down on him, whirling, filling his eyes, his ears, his mouth, his nostrils. Daniel crawled toward dry sand, struggling. He was so dizzy that he lay for a moment on his stomach, at the edge of the foam, unable to move. But more waves were grinding forward. They raised their crests and curled over, forming hollows like caves. Daniel ran for the top of the beach now, and he sat in the sand of the dunes, on the other side of the seaweed barrier. For the rest of the day, he didn’t go any closer to the sea. But his body was still trembling, and all over his skin, even inside him, was the burning taste of salt, in the depths of his eyes the dazzling mark of the waves. At the other end of the bay was a dark promontory riddled with caves. That was where Daniel lived, for the first days after he arrived at the sea. His cave was a nook amid the black boulders, lined with pebbles and gray sand. That was where he lived for those days, without ever, so to speak, taking his eyes off the sea. In the early morning, when the sunlight was pale and gray, and the horizon barely visible, like a wire between the blended colors of sea and sky, Daniel would get up and leave his cave. He climbed to the top of the black boulders to drink the rainwater that collected there in pools. Huge seabirds came there, too, flying around him with long grating cries, and Daniel greeted them with whistles. When the sea was low, its mysterious depths were uncovered: ponds of dark water, streams cascading between the stones, slippery paths, and hills of living seaweed. At these times, Daniel would leave the promontory and climb down through the rocks into the center of the field uncovered by the sea. It was as if he were arriving at the center of the sea itself, a strange country, which existed for only a few hours a day. He had to hurry. The black ribbon of the reef was close and he could hear the low rumbling of the waves, and the murmur of the deep currents. Here the sun didn’t shine for long. The sea would soon return and cover everything with shadow, and the light would reflect off the water without warming anything. The sea might reveal its secrets, but you had to learn them quickly, before they were hidden again. Daniel ran across the rocks of the seafloor, amid the forests of seaweed. A powerful smell rose from the ponds and the dark valleys, a smell unfamiliar and intoxicating to humans. In the great pools of water, right beside the sea, Daniel looked for fish, shrimp, shellfish. He thrust his arms between the tufts of seaweed and waited for the crustaceans to come and tickle his fingers, then he caught them. In the pools, the sea anemones, purple, gray, blood-red, opened and closed their petals. On the flat rocks lived blue and white limpets, orange sea snails, mitre snails, tellin clams, and ark clams. Sometimes, at the bottom of the pools, the light caught the wide back of a buoy or the opal mother-of-pearl of a mollusk. Or, suddenly, between the strands of seaweed, the empty shell of an old abalone, iridescent as a cloud, or the perfect form of a scallop. Daniel watched them there, for a long time, through the pane of water, and it was as if he were living in the pool as well, at the bottom of a crevice in the rock, dazzled by the sun and waiting for the night of the sea. For food, he hunted limpets. He had to creep up on them silently so that they wouldn’t weld themselves to the rocks. Then he could unstick them with a kick, striking with the tip of his big toe. But often the limpets heard his footsteps, or the hiss of his breath, and they glued themselves to the flat rocks with a series of clicks. When Daniel had collected enough shrimps and shellfish, he’d deposit his catch in a little pool in the hollow of a rock, so that he could cook it later, in a tin can over a seaweed fire. Then he went farther out, all the way to the end of the field at the bottom of the sea, to where the waves were breaking. Because that was where his octopus friend lived. Daniel had known the octopus since he arrived at the sea, had met it even before he knew the seabirds and the anemones. It had come right up to the edge of the breakers, when the sea and the horizon were still, and the great dark currents seemed to hold back before leaping forward. It was the most secret place in the world, there where the light shines for just minutes a day. Daniel walked very softly, clinging to the edge of the slippery rocks, as if he were descending to the center of the earth. He saw the pool of water, where long strands of seaweed swayed slowly, and he held himself still, his face almost touching the surface. Then he noticed the tentacles of the octopus floating by the edge of the pool. They were rising out of a hole near the bottom, like plumes of smoke, sliding gently among the plants. Daniel held his breath, watched the tentacles barely moving amid the strings of seaweed. Then the octopus came out. Its long cylindrical body moved cautiously, its tentacles undulating before it. In the brief broken light of the sun, the octopus’s yellow eyes shone like metal beneath their prominent lids. It let its long tentacles with their mauve disks float for a moment, as if it were looking for something. Then it saw Daniel’s shadow leaning over the pool and it jumped backward, clenching its tentacles and releasing a strange gray-blue cloud. Now, as he did every day, Daniel stood at the edge of the pool, very close to the waves. He leaned over the transparent water, and softly called to the octopus. He sat on the rock, letting his bare legs trail in the water beside the crevice where the octopus lived, and he waited without moving. After a moment, he felt the tentacles lightly touching his skin, wrapping themselves around his ankles. The octopus caressed him cautiously, sometimes between the toes or on the soles of his feet, and Daniel started to laugh. “Hello, Wyatt,” Daniel said. The octopus was called Wyatt, though of course it didn’t know its name. Daniel spoke to it in a low voice, so as not to scare it. He asked it questions about what happened at the bottom of the sea, what one could see from beneath the waves. Wyatt didn’t answer, but continued to caress Daniel’s feet and ankles, very gently, as if with strands of hair. Daniel loved it. He could never see the octopus for long, because the sea rose quickly. When his fishing had gone well, Daniel brought a crab, or some shrimp, and released them into the pool. The gray tentacles shot out like whips, seized the prey, and carried it back to the rock. Daniel never saw the octopus eat. It was almost always hidden in its dark crevice, immobile, with its long tentacles floating in front of it. Perhaps it was like Daniel—perhaps it had travelled a long time to find its home at the bottom of the pool, from which it could see the clear sky through transparent water. When the sea was at its lowest point, it was as if the whole world were lit up. Daniel walked over the rocks, on a carpet of seaweed, as the sun reflected off the water and the stones, lighting fires full of violence. There was no wind then, not even a breath. Above the field at the bottom of the sea, the blue sky was huge, and it shone with an exceptional light. Daniel felt the warmth on his head and shoulders. He closed his eyes so as not to be blinded by the terrible shimmering. There was nothing else, of course, nothing: the sky, the sun, the salt, which began to dance on the rocks. One day when the sea had receded so far that you could see only a thin blue line toward the horizon, Daniel set off over the rocks at the bottom of the sea. He felt, suddenly, the intoxication of those who are about to enter virgin territory and know that they may never make it home. There was nothing familiar that day: everything was unknown, new. Daniel turned around and saw solid land behind him, like a lake of mud. He felt the solitude, the silence of the bare rocks eroded by water, the uneasiness seeping out of all the fissures and secret holes, and he began to walk faster, then run. His heart beat harder in his chest, as it had the first day he arrived at the sea. He ran without stopping to catch his breath, leaped over the pools and the seaweed valleys, followed the rocky ridges, spreading his arms to maintain his balance. Here and there were large slimy slabs of rock, covered with microscopic algae, or sharp rocks, like blades, strange stones that looked like sharkskin. Everywhere, the pools of water sparkled, shivered. The encrusted shells on the rocks crackled in the sunlight, the rolls of seaweed made a strange steaming noise. Daniel ran through the field at the bottom of the sea, without knowing where he was going. He didn’t stop to check the position of the waves. The sea had disappeared now; it had retreated as far as the horizon, as if it had flowed into a hole that led to the center of the earth. Daniel was not afraid, but it was as if he were no longer entirely himself. He didn’t call the sea; he didn’t even speak to it anymore. The sunlight reflected off the water of the pools as if in a mirror; it broke against the pointed edges of the rocks; it leaped from place to place, multiplying its rays. The light was everywhere at once, so close that he could feel on his face the movement of its beams, or so far that it was like the cold sparkle of the planets. It was because of the light that Daniel was running, zigzagging across the field of rocks. The light had rendered him both free and mad, and he leaped like the light, without seeing. The light was not soft and peaceful, like the light of beaches and dunes. It was a crazy whirlpool that swirled endlessly, bouncing between the two mirrors of sky and rocks. And then there was the salt. For days, it had been accumulating everywhere, on the black stones, on the pebbles, in mollusk shells, and even on the pale little leaves of the plants at the foot of the cliff. Salt had penetrated Daniel’s skin, had formed deposits on his lips, in his eyebrows and his eyelashes, in his hair and his clothes, and now it formed a hard carapace that burned. Salt had even found its way inside his body, into his throat, his stomach, into his very bones, where it gnawed and crunched like glass dust. It lit painful sparks on his retinas. The sunlight had inflamed the salt, and now each prism glittered around Daniel and in his body. And then there was a kind of drunkenness, an electricity that vibrated, because the salt and the light did not want him to stand still; they wanted him to run, to dance, to jump from one rock to another—they wanted him to flee across the bottom of the sea. Daniel had never seen so much whiteness. Even the water in the pools, even the sky was white. They burned his retinas. Daniel closed his eyes entirely and he stopped, because his legs were shaking and could carry him no further. He sat on a flat rock, in front of a lake of seawater. He listened to the sound of the light bouncing off the rocks, the dry clicks and crackles, the hisses and, right next to his ears, a sharp murmur, like the bees’ song. He was thirsty, but it was as if no water could ever satisfy him. The light continued to burn his face, his hands, his shoulders. It bit at him with thousands of pricks and tingles. Salty tears began to flow from his closed eyes, slowly tracing the hot grooves of his cheeks. Struggling to half open his eyelids, he looked at the field of white rocks, the great desert where the pools of cruel water were shining. The sea animals and the shellfish had disappeared. They were hiding in the cracks, beneath the curtains of seaweed. Daniel leaned forward on the flat rock and pulled his shirt over his head, so as not to see the light and the salt. He stayed there for a long time, immobile, his head between his knees, while the burning dance continued back and forth across the bottom of the sea. Then came the wind, mild at first, barely moving through the thick air. Then growing, a cold wind that blew from the horizon. The pools of seawater rippled and changed color. Clouds appeared in the sky; the light became coherent again. Daniel heard the rumbling of the sea as it approached, the great waves beating their bellies against the rocks. Drops of water dampened his clothes, and he shook off his torpor. The sea was there, already. It was coming fast, rushing to surround the first rocks, turning them into islands. It drowned the crevices, gliding forward like a river in flood. Each time it swallowed up another piece of rock there was a muffled sound that shook the base of the earth, and a roar in the air. Daniel jumped up. He began to run toward the shore without stopping. Now he was no longer sleepy. He no longer feared the light and the salt. He felt a sort of anger growing deep inside his body, a strength that he didn’t understand, as if he could have crushed the rocks and kicked open the crevices with one blow from his heel. He ran ahead of the sea, following the path of the wind, and he heard behind him the roaring of the waves. From time to time, he called out himself, imitating them, “Rrrrr! Rrrrr!,” as if it were he who ruled the sea. He had to run fast! The sea wanted to take everything, the rocks, the seaweed, and also the boy who was running before it. Sometimes it reached out an arm, to the left or to the right of him, a long gray arm, speckled with foam, that cut off his path. He jumped to the side and looked for another path along the surface of the rocks, as the water retreated, sucking out the holes and crevices. Daniel swam across several lakes whose water was already cloudy. He was no longer tired. On the contrary, he felt a kind of joy, as if the sea, the wind, and the sun had dissolved the salt and freed him. The sea was beautiful! The white spray rose in the light, high and straight, then came down in clouds of vapor that slid through the wind. New water filled the hollows of the rocks, washed away the white crust, tore off the tufts of seaweed. Far away, beside the cliffs, the white expanse of the beach shone. Daniel thought of Sinbad’s shipwreck, when he was carried by the waves to the island of King Mihrage, and it was just like that now. He ran fast across the rocks, his bare feet choosing the best route without his even having time to think about it. It was as if he had lived here always, in this field at the bottom of the sea, amid shipwrecks and storms. He was moving at the same speed as the sea, without stopping, without catching his breath, listening to the noise of the waves. They came from the other end of the world, tall, leaning forward. Tipped with foam, they slipped across the smooth rocks and smashed into crevices. The sun shone with its steady light, close to the horizon. It was the sun that offered the waves its strength, its light pushing them into the earth. It was like a dance that would never end, the dance of salt when the sea was low, the dance of waves and wind when the flow returned to the shore. When the sea reached the edge of seaweed, Daniel entered his cave. He sat on the pebbles to watch the sea and the sky. But the waves were over the first band of seaweed now, and he had to retreat to the back of the cave. The sea beat on, sent its white expanse quivering across the pebbles like water about to boil. The waves continued to climb, one after the other, until they reached the last strip of seaweed and twigs—the driest seaweed, the branches of trees whitened by salt, all that had been piled up at the entrance of the cave for months. The water butted against the debris, separating pieces out and carrying them away in the undertow. Now Daniel had his back against the back wall of the cave. He could retreat no further. So he stared at the sea to stop it. With all his strength, he stared at it, unspeaking, and he sent the waves backward, making countercurrents that broke the sea’s momentum. Several times, the waves jumped over the ramparts of seaweed and debris, splashing the back of the cave and swirling around Daniel’s legs. Then suddenly the sea stopped climbing. The terrible noise calmed, the waves became softer, slower, as if weighed down by their own foam. Daniel understood that it was over. He lay down on the pebbles at the entrance to the cave, his head toward the sea. He trembled with cold and fatigue, but he had never known such happiness. He slept this way, in the calm, and the light of the sun went down slowly, like a dying flame. And after this what became of him? What did he do, all those days, all those months, in his cave by the sea? Perhaps he really did go to America, or to China, on a cargo ship that travelled slowly from port to port, from island to island. Dreams that begin like this never have to end. For us here, far from the sea, everything was both impossible and easy. All we knew was that something strange had happened. It was strange because there was an illogical aspect to it that contradicted what the serious people were telling us. The teachers, the administrators, the police—they had all been so desperate to find some trace of Daniel Sinbad, they had asked so many questions, and then one day, after a certain period of time had passed, they began to act as though Daniel had never existed. They never spoke of him again. They sent all his personal effects, even his old assignments, to his parents, and there was nothing left of him at the school but his memory. And even his memory they wanted little to do with. They began to talk about other things—about their wives and their houses, their cars and the local elections—as before, as if nothing had happened. Perhaps they weren’t pretending. Perhaps they really had forgotten Daniel, after having thought of him too much for months. Perhaps if he had come back and presented himself at the door of the school, people wouldn’t even have recognized him, would have asked, “Who are you? What do you want?” But we—we hadn’t forgotten him. In the classrooms, in the dormitory, in the courtyard, no one had forgotten him, not even those who had never known him. We talked about the usual school things—our math problems, our Latin translations—but always we were thinking of him, as if he really were a kind of Sinbad, still making his way around the world. From time to time, we’d fall silent and someone would ask a question, always the same one: “Do you think he’s there?” No one knew exactly what we meant by “there,” but it was as if we could see the place, the immense sea, the sky, the clouds, the wild reef, and the waves, the great white birds soaring in the wind. When the breeze shook the branches of the chestnut trees, we looked at the sky and said, in a worried tone, like sailors, “It’ll be stormy there.” And when the winter sun shone in the blue sky we noted, “He’s lucky today.” But we never said much more than that. It was as if we had unwittingly made a pact with Daniel, a silent, secret agreement—or perhaps it was just the dream that began, quite simply, one morning, when we opened our eyes and saw in the dim light of the dormitory Daniel’s bed, which he had made for the rest of his life, as if he would never sleep again.
Sleep It was the thing he’d always loved about her. The way she could sleep. When they’d just started going with each other, before they really knew each other, he’d lie awake, hoping she’d wake up, praying for it, dying. But even then he’d loved to look at her while she slept. There was something about it that made him feel lucky, or privileged. Or trusted. She could do that beside him, turn everything off, all the defenses, and let him watch her. It wasn’t just the drink that knocked Tara out. They drank a lot in the early days. They’d get drunk and braver two nights a week, Fridays and Saturdays. There’d be a taxi or the last bus home, to his flat or hers. Hers was nicer. Tom’s flat was a kip, and the bed sagged badly in the middle. They’d paw at each other in the taxi. There was once, a mad night, she took the belt off his trousers, and put it around her neck and pulled. The driver swerved off the road, up onto the path, and stopped. —Out. —Ah, come on, she said. She gave him her accent and smile. We were joking. —Out, the driver said to the mirror. Now, or I’ll drive yis to the cop shop. It’s only around the corner. Her flat was around the corner, too, so they paid the driver and walked the rest of the way. Holding each other, trying to walk side by side. The belt wasn’t around her neck and it wasn’t around his waist. —We left it in the fucking taxi. She pronounced her “g”s. All of them. She was the only person he knew who did that. It still made him weak. Even when she was telling him he was fucking useless. There was one night—it might have been the same night; there were a lot of new, weird nights then—she fell asleep on Friday and woke up on Sunday morning. He was awake on Saturday, as usual. Alert, alive, gasping for water and sex, but content enough with the water. He got out of the bed and went to the kitchen. She had a kitchen, and a jacks. He didn’t, not then. His flat was just the one room, and it wasn’t big. He had a bed, a table, two chairs, a Baby Belling cooker, and a fridge so small it could only take a salad-cream bottle if he sat it on its side. He shared the toilet and bath with three other bed-sits, which was fine sometimes and fuckin’ desperate other times. He went to the kitchen and let the cold tap run. He could remember water bouncing off the bottom of the sink onto his stomach and chest. He couldn’t find a glass, so he’d used a mug with blue and white stripes and tea stains inside it. He’d filled it twice and knocked it back. Then he’d filled the mug again and brought it back to the bedroom. He’d got under the duvet, hoping his movements would wake her. He’d yawned, extravagantly—he remembered this. Stretched, extravagantly. His knuckles scraped the wall behind him. The water sloshed around inside him—he felt it, he heard it—then settled. She wasn’t going to wake up. He’d accepted that, and he’d read for a while. “A Tale of Two Cities.” He’d dozed off. He’d read some more—he’d finished the book that day. He’d gone out to the shop and bought rashers and bread, and the Irish Times and a packet of Ritchie’s Silvermints. He’d made himself a rasher sandwich. He’d left the kitchen door open and the window shut, and hoped the smell would wake her—she loved her grub. But it didn’t. He took the rashers back to the bed and ate them while he read the paper. Every bit of it. Even the deaths and births and “Presbyterian Notes.” And dozed, and woke and stretched—extravagantly. He got up and went to the jacks and came back, and watched her sleep. It got dark outside, and he put on his clothes and went for a pint in the pub at the top of her road. It was a middle-class place, full of people who looked as if they disapproved of pubs. He was the only man in the place drinking Guinness. This was back in the early eighties, so it was weird. But he’d loved her for that, too—the feeling that she was bringing him into a new world. He went back to the flat and stopped for chips on the way. The chipper was posh, too: scampi on the menu on the wall behind the counter. He didn’t really know what scampi was. He bought himself chips and a spice burger. He had her keys with him. He let himself in and slammed the door, slightly. He brought the portable telly to the bedroom, got undressed and back under the duvet, and ate the chips and watched “Match of the Day” and a film he couldn’t remember now. He turned off the telly and stretched and yawned, and started another book. “Crime and Punishment.” Off her bookshelf. She woke the next morning and knew it was Sunday. Twenty-six years later, it still amazed him. He often boasted about it. He didn’t sleep much himself, but he’d married a woman who did. He loved that. It had always been good. He still looked at her while she slept. She was still beautiful. He’d been a different kind of eejit back then. He never went to restaurants, because they were bourgeois. He remembered actually saying that. There was Bewley’s, on Westmoreland Street, where you could get a fry or shepherd’s pie—the people’s food. Where you queued up and carried your own tray. Where they didn’t throw out the junkies. That was the only place he’d go to. Not that he’d wanted to eat with the junkies. He kept well away from them. But he liked the fact that they could go into Bewley’s, sit down and stay as long as they wanted. There was room for them. And the old women with their cakes and pots of tea, and journalists from the Irish Times across the street, and people who’d missed their bus and came in to get out of the rain. The famous Bewley’s coffee was dreadful, but he only found that out later, when real coffee came to Dublin. And even if he’d known, it wouldn’t have mattered. Good coffee would have been bourgeois. Along with suits and new cars and flats with more than two rooms and classical music and all the other things he couldn’t cope with. Then she phoned him one night. The strange man from the flat beside the pay phone in the hall shouted up the stairs. Tom went down and picked up the phone. —Hi. It was her. —Hi. It was Tuesday. Nine o’clock. He’d been watching the news. —I’m still in town, she said. Working late. Will we go for something to eat? And he’d said yes. He was twenty minutes from her and he ran part of the way. He met her outside the Lebanese restaurant he’d walked past every day for years. They went in, and down the wooden steps to the basement. They ate in the damp, and he loved it. Not the food. Food never grabbed him. Not then or since. He liked food, but it was good or great—that was it. It was never delicious or sublime. He was a writer, but he’d never written about food. There wasn’t a banana or a biscuit in anything he’d done. It was her eating the food and talking about it—that was what he’d loved. Stuffing her mouth, laughing. A fat belly dancer came out of the ladies’ with a tape recorder and an anorak. She plugged it in, hit the button, climbed out of the anorak, and danced in the couple of inches that were left between the tables. She knocked over the salt on theirs. They were the only customers. He couldn’t wait to clap. They went back to his place, because he needed his bag for work in the morning. They lay on his bed, pushed against each other because of the dead springs beneath them, and listened to the drunk in the next room trying to open a tin of stew or dog food. —You don’t have to live here, she said, quietly. —It’s fine. —It isn’t, she said. It’s fucking awful. Move in with me. She slept and he looked at her. He slept for a while. She was still asleep when he had to leave for work. He sat on the chair beside the bed. He missed his bus. He was a teacher then. He’d loved college, U.C.D., from the first day, and decided he’d stay. He saw himself lecturing on the contemporary novel to a room full of twenty-year-old women. He’d ended up teaching seven-year-old boys how to button their coats and say their prayers in Irish. But he liked it. For five years. Great kids—wild kids. With wild parents. Some of the mothers had frightened him. Tough, sexy birds in shiny tracksuits. A bit desperate and mad; the sexy days were numbered, and they knew it. He’d gone for a drink after work once, with a few of the other staff. He was at the bar, waiting for his pint—and one of the mothers was right beside him. —Happy Christmas, sir, she said. And she kissed him—on October the 23rd. She grabbed his jacket and her tongue went into his mouth. He tasted Coke and cheese ’n’ onion. She took her mouth away, but she held on to his jacket. —There, she said. She smiled. Her husband had come with her to the last parent-teacher meeting. He’d given Tom permission to use corporal punishment on their son. —You can batter the little cunt, he’d said. Anytime. An angry unemployed man who’d have been just as angry if he’d had a job. But Tom, in the pub, didn’t panic. He didn’t look around for the husband. He didn’t pull his jacket from her grip. If she’d asked him did he want to go outside and ride her against the back wall, behind the crates of empties, he’d have gone with her. It was politics, saying yes to a working-class woman with an unemployed husband. But she didn’t ask. She let go of his jacket and went back to her friends, more blond mothers in tracksuits, who cheered as she got nearer to them. It was then that he’d decided to get out of teaching. But he’d liked it. And he’d believed in it. Teaching the little sons of men and women who’d never known work. Giving them that bit of power. But he’d very few fond memories. Teaching was how he’d met Tara. He didn’t remember much about the job, but writing about it had given him his route out. He wrote a weekly column for a magazine called Holy Dublin. He’d started as a kind of Marxist man-about-town, but he’d run out of things to write about, because Dublin was such a dreary kip and he hardly ever went out. So he began to write about teaching. Most of it was lies—he didn’t use his own name. “Notes from the Chalkface,” by Paddy Orwell. He even made himself a secondary teacher, teaching much older kids in a coed school. He met Tara one day when he brought in his copy. He heard her before he saw her. —Where’s the fucking stapler? That “g.” He opened the reception door. She was searching the desk drawer with a cheerful violence that he thought was lovely. She looked at him. Big eyes, mouth, small ears, the hair. —Hello, she said. —Hi, he said. I have my . . . my column here. —Oh, great. Which one are you? —“Notes from the Chalkface.” —I love that fucking thing, she said. It’s a fucking hoot. He took the pages from his schoolbag. —Paddy Orwell, she said. —It’s not my real name. —I love that, she said. That’s so fucking cool. —Thanks. —I’m new, she said. He gave up teaching a month later. He told her about the mother kissing him in the pub—she loved it. It was a weird thing to be doing in Ireland in the eighties, giving up a job. But the guilt was alleviated by the fact that he no longer had a job to give up. He was half unemployed, one of the people. And he could stay in bed with Tara. It was probably the last exciting, unpredictable thing he ever did. Now, more than twenty-five years later, he was sitting in bed, watching her sleep. His back hurt, he was frightened, but she was exactly the same. She was a grandmother, but the same. She’d slept through the recession, the boom, and she was sleeping through the new recession. She’d slept through the anxieties, terrors, poisonings, the joys and shite of marriage and children. He had cancer of the colon—he’d found out that afternoon and he hadn’t told her yet—but for now he didn’t care. He had the cancer, she didn’t—and that felt like success. It wasn’t sentimentality. It was a physical thing, like a soft hand on the back of his neck. He wouldn’t die—he wasn’t going to die. There was a good chance he wouldn’t die, the specialist had said. There was once—their eldest child stopped breathing. He came downstairs, out of bed, and sat between them on the couch. They argued over Aaron’s head about who was going to bring him back upstairs. They were both a bit pissed—they were on three or four bottles of wine a night back then. —I did it last time. —You didn’t. You weren’t even here the last time. Nothing too angry or meant. But they didn’t notice that the child was dying until she gave up on the row and went to pick him up. Then they were suddenly sober and brilliant. He ran to the kitchen and rang for an ambulance. She managed to get some breath into Aaron, by massaging his chest or something, and she was putting on his coat—he was even helping her, lifting his arms. There was no sign of the ambulance, so Tom rang for a taxi. He told them it was an emergency, and there was one outside the front gate in thirty seconds—it seemed that quick. He ran out with Aaron in his arms, bouncing on his shoulder. The house wasn’t far from the children’s hospital on Temple Street, so he was there in five minutes, getting out of the taxi, trying to make sure Aaron’s head didn’t whack the door. The taxi-driver wouldn’t take money. The hospital would, though. They wanted a tenner before they’d let him into the A. & E. He remembered switching Aaron to his other shoulder so he could get at his wallet. He even remembered giving the woman behind the hatch two fivers and watching her write the receipt. Aaron was sitting in the crook of his arm, wheezing but O.K. —Good lad, good lad. It was asthma. A nurse saw that before a doctor had looked at him. She put him up on a bed and got him to sit back against the pillow, and started to put some sort of plastic mask over his nose and mouth. —Look at this yoke, Aaron, she said. Will you put it on yourself or will I do it? —What is it? Tom asked. —A nebulizer, she said. It’ll open the poor lungs for him. It’s just a spray, really, with the medicine in it. The easiest way to get it into them. And they love the drama. She smiled, and he smiled. He saw how it worked now, the clear plastic pipe running from a box in the wall to the mask. Aaron didn’t object as she put it over his face. —Good lad, Tom said. You’re great. He found a spare chair and sat beside Aaron. The place was packed. There wasn’t an empty bed, and some of the children were lying across two or three chairs, depending on the length of the child. Most of them had nebulizers. All the hissing and wheezing, the white-blue skin, the strange calm—it was terrifying, and lovely. The courage of his own lad, and the other children. A broken leg or a burn victim would have ruined it. He was there for three hours, more. Later, he sat on the steps outside the hospital with Aaron, waiting for a taxi. Four in the morning. Aaron was wide awake, deep inside his coat. It was freezing, and absolutely windless. Tom could feel the dirt in the fog. There were men, four of them, standing at the corner of Hardwicke Street. They had a fire going in a barrel—a brazier. They stood around it, in jackets that looked much too thin. —Why have they a fire? Aaron asked. His breathing was grand, not a bother on him. —They’re cold, Tom said. —Why don’t they go to their houses? —They want to stop other men from selling drugs, Tom said. It’s why they’re out so late. Concerned Parents, they’re called. It’s sad. They said nothing else. They sat close and watched the men and the fire in the barrel and waited for the taxi. She was awake when they got home. Lying in bed, well under the duvet. She lifted it so Aaron could get in beside her. —Asthma, Tom said. She smiled, and kissed Aaron’s forehead. Tom got into the bed. He leaned across Aaron, touched the top of her head. She smiled. She closed her eyes. She opened them and closed them again. He lay there. She was asleep again. He listened to her, and to Aaron. He’d get a book tomorrow. He’d read it—they’d read it—and know what they needed to know about asthma. About bronchospasm and allergens. About the inhalers and dust mites and mattress and pillow covers. They’d get rid of the carpets and the curtains, get blinds instead, and polish the floorboards. They’d sign petitions and phone the local politicians to make Dublin a smokeless zone. Aaron would be fine. He’d get into fights, he’d play his football. He’d go drinking in St. Anne’s Park, in the pissing rain, with his inhaler in his pocket. He’d join a band, he’d smoke, he’d stroll up Kilimanjaro. He’d come home one morning and tell them they were going to be grandparents, and make them both shockingly happy. Tom sat up a bit straighter now, in the bed. He looked at her, sleeping.
Gold Boy, Emerald Girl He was raised by his mother alone, as she was by her father. She wondered if his mother, who had set up their date, had told him about that. Siyu was thirty-eight, and the man, Hanfeng, was forty-four. Siyu’s father, after supporting her through college, had remarried, choosing a woman thirty years his junior. The woman had a young son from her previous marriage, whom Siyu’s father had taken on as his responsibility. The boy was now in his last year of high school, and Siyu, having told her father many times that he deserved peace and simplicity, maintained a respectful distance from his new family. Each year she spent New Year’s Eve, and sometimes other holidays, with Hanfeng’s mother, who had been her zoology professor in college. There was no way to predict when the older woman would be in the mood to invite Siyu, so she tried to keep herself uncommitted, which meant that most of the holidays she spent alone. “Professor Dai must miss her students these days,” Siyu said after she and Hanfeng had exchanged greetings, although she knew that it was not the students that his mother missed but the white skulls of mammals and birds on her office shelves, the drawers filled with scalpels and clamps and tweezers that she had cleaned and maintained with care, and the fact that she could mask her indifference to the human species with her devotion to animals. The first time Siyu had seen Professor Dai, on a campus tour during the opening week of college, the older woman had been following a strutting owl down a dimly lit hallway; she paid little attention to the group of new students, and stooped slightly the whole time, as if she were the mother of a toddler and had to watch out for minor accidents. When a boy stepped over to take a closer look at the owl, she scooped up the bird in her arms and glared at him before striding away. “Retirement is a strange thing for her,” Hanfeng said. His mother had always despised women who grabbed every opportunity to matchmake, but within days of his return to China she had mentioned a former student she thought he should meet. His mother did not say much else, but he could sense that it was marriage that she was thinking about. Twenty years of living away from her had not changed that in him: he always knew what was on her mind before she said it, and he wondered if she was ever aware of that. The teahouse where Hanfeng and Siyu were meeting, at a hillside pavilion in the Summer Palace, had been chosen by his mother, and she had suggested that they also take a long stroll along the lakefront. It was early March. The day turned out overcast and windy, and secretly Hanfeng hoped that the wind would not die down, so they could forgo the romantic walk. He wondered if Siyu was wishing for a different scenario. He could not yet read much from her face. She smiled courteously as she gave him a few facts about the tea she had ordered for them both, White Peony, but the smile and the words seemed to come with effort, as if her interest in interacting with him could easily fade. Her body was slender, and her hair, black with noticeable strands of gray, was kept straight and at shoulder length. He wondered why the woman, who was beautiful in an unassuming way, had never married. “Do you find Beijing a different city now?” Siyu said. It must be a question that he was asked all the time, but it would not do anyone any harm, she thought. It was not the first time that Siyu had been set up with a stranger—since she had turned twenty, neighbors and acquaintances, pitying her for not having a mother to fuss over her future, had taken it as their responsibility to find a husband for her—but with those men she had known from the beginning that she would not bother trying to impress them. Over the years, she had developed a reputation as unmatchable, and nowadays only the most persistent of the matchmakers would mention a widower or a divorcé, in his fifties or sometimes sixties, as a possible solution. The first time such a prospect was presented in an enthusiastic speech, Siyu had the odd feeling that she was now expected to marry her father; only later did she realize that she was no longer a young woman. Siyu worked as a librarian in a zoology institute, and her life had not changed much from that of a college student. In her mind, she might still be the eighteen-year-old who had set her alarm clock early so that by six o’clock she would be sitting on the bench under an ancient gingko tree in front of the biology building. At half past six, Professor Dai would arrive on her bicycle—a tall, rusty, heavy-built one that would have better suited a peasant or a street peddler—and she would nod at Siyu almost imperceptibly as she locked it up. It had taken two years for Professor Dai to cross the courtyard and ask Siyu about the thick volume that she had been reading every day. Charles Dickens, Siyu had replied, and then added that she was trying to memorize “Great Expectations.” Professor Dai nodded, expressing neither surprise nor curiosity at the task that had already made Siyu an eccentric in the eyes of her classmates. Siyu did not explain to them that her grandfather—her mother’s father, whom she had never met—had once memorized volumes of Dickens on the small balcony of a Shanghai flat, a feat that had eventually led him, before the liberation, to a high position in a bank run by Englishmen. It was Dickens who had in the end killed Siyu’s mother: as a daughter of the British capitalists’ loyal lapdog, she had hanged herself when her own daughter was four months of age, barely old enough to be weaned. Hanfeng looked at Siyu’s face, detecting a familiar absent-mindedness. His mother, too, asked him questions to which she seemed scarcely interested in knowing the answers. He wondered if this happened to women who lived by themselves. “Too many cars,” he replied, nonetheless—the standard response he gave when asked about his impression of Beijing these days. “I miss the bicycles.” Hanfeng had returned from the States a month before. He had told his former colleagues in San Francisco about his intention to settle down in China, and they had joked about moving with him and becoming the forty-niners of the new gold rush. He had gone along with the joke, making up ambitious business plans that he knew he would not carry out. His mother was getting old, he’d explained to his friends; the thought that he, too, was no longer a young man in need of adventures he had kept to himself. Semi-retired was how he liked to think of his situation, but within days he had realized that what he had made in the States at the tail end of the dot-com bubble would not be sufficient to support a life of idleness, as he had hoped. Still, he was not eager to go out and seek employment. He deposited half his money into his mother’s account and told her that he would take a break; she did not ask about his plans for the future, in the same way that she had not questioned his decision to leave or to come home. At seventy-one, his mother was as independent as ever, and she loathed most activities that a woman her age enjoyed: taking morning walks with a companion, gossiping and bargaining at the marketplace, watching soap operas in the afternoon. Hanfeng had never wondered how his mother spent her days in retirement until his return, when, all of a sudden, the three-bedroom flat that must have seemed empty to her became crowded. He had been the one to cook for the two of them when he was a boy, dividing the meals in half and eating his portion alone; his mother, her preoccupation with her research a ready excuse, had eaten at odd hours then. Since his return, he had taken over the cooking again, and, now that neither of them was eager to go out into the world to fulfill any duty, they ate together. The idea of renting a flat had occurred to Hanfeng, but as soon as the thought was formed he dismissed it as a waste: he had left for America right after college, a move intended to claim a place for himself—a whole continent, in the end, as in twenty years he had drifted from New York to Montreal, then Vancouver, and later San Francisco—and a life that had to be lived away from a mother; but with the return to China he no longer felt the urgency to have his own place. Freedom is like restaurant food, he had told an old friend in the States, and one can lose one’s appetite for even the best restaurants. Pure nonsense, replied his friend, who, unlike Hanfeng, had long ago settled down with a partner, a house, and two dogs, and talked of adopting a baby. Take a break, he had said, urging Hanfeng to return to California after he had refreshed himself with his homemade dumplings and noodles. Hanfeng, however, could envision himself living a bachelor’s life in his mother’s flat, reading the same newspapers and comparing notes on the stories that interested them both, wandering freely through the flat when she went out for her piano lessons twice a week. The piano was the only thing that kept his mother actively engaged with the world. Soon after Hanfeng’s return, she had asked him to go to a recital she was playing in, at a local music school. It was attended by men and women Hanfeng’s age, who seemed nervous when their well-trained and nicely dressed children took the stage. His mother was the only one who went up without a puppet-like show. She gazed at the sheets of music for a long moment, then started to pound on the keys with a seriousness that took Hanfeng by surprise. He had thought the piano was merely a retirement pastime for his mother, and had protested mildly when she mentioned that her goal was to be good enough one day to play four-hand with him. Hanfeng had not told her that he was no longer playing, even though a rented piano had always been the first piece of furniture to fill an empty apartment in each city he had moved to. Small children giggled in the audience, and a few older ones smirked, pitying the old woman for her stiff arthritic fingers that would never be as good and agile as theirs. Some parents shook their heads at their children disapprovingly, and it occurred to Hanfeng that he was becoming a parent for his mother, that he would be the one to protect her from the hostility of the world. The thought left him baffled. His mother had always been a headstrong woman, and, with her grayish-white mane and unsmiling face, she appeared as regal and intimidating as she had ever been. Still, seeing her through other people’s eyes, Hanfeng realized that all that made her who she was—the decades of solitude in her widowhood, her coldness to the prying eyes of people who tried to mask their nosiness with friendliness, and her faith in the notion of living one’s own life without having to go out of one’s way for other people—could be deemed pointless and laughable. Perhaps the same could be said of any living creature: a caterpillar chewing on a leaf, unaware of the beak of an approaching bird; an egret mesmerized by its reflection in a pond, as if it were the master of the universe; or Hanfeng’s own folly of repeating the same pattern of hope and heartbreak, hoping despite heartbreak. Siyu asked a few more questions, and Hanfeng replied. When there was nothing much left to say, he curled his fingers around the teacup and studied its shape, and Siyu pictured him as a young boy, spreading his slender fingers on the cold keys of a piano. His mother must have told him, when he complained about the open windows in the winter, that playing would keep the blood circulating in his hands. Siyu did not know why she imagined that; it was as unfounded as all the other things she had made up about him. In Professor Dai’s flat, there were framed snapshots of Hanfeng, playing in piano contests at five, eight, ten, fifteen. There were snapshots of him when he had first arrived in America, with his bright-colored T-shirt, long and flying hair, and broad smile, as picturesque and unreal as the Statue of Liberty in the background. Siyu had been eighteen when she first saw those photographs, when she was sent as a representative from her class to deliver a New Year’s present to Professor Dai. No one had wanted that job; Professor Dai’s coldness was known to be hurtful, and it had made sense that Siyu, with her mild eccentricity, would be the one chosen. But that day, to Siyu’s surprise, Professor Dai had not simply dismissed her from the doorway, even though she had immediately placed the present, a framed painting of a golden carp, next to the wastebasket. Professor Dai had invited Siyu into the flat, moved the papers that covered the dining table onto the piano bench, and let Siyu sit while she went to the kitchen to make tea. Her son was the one who played the piano, Professor Dai answered when Siyu asked, and pointed out the pictures of Hanfeng. Very vaguely, Siyu had thought that he was the kind of boy she would like to have as a boyfriend, a prize badge that she could wear to make other girls jealous. Years later, she knew it was not the thought of the boy that had made her wait on the bench outside the biology building in the mornings during college; nor was he the reason she continued to befriend Professor Dai in a manner allowed by the older woman. Occasionally, Siyu would carefully study the pictures of Hanfeng in Professor Dai’s flat, and when they ran out of things to say about animals she would ask about his life in America. When Professor Dai called and asked her to meet Hanfeng, Siyu wondered if the matchmaking had come as a result of a beguiling impression she had left of her interest in a good-looking bachelor. The waitress came to offer a fresh pot of tea. Hanfeng turned to Siyu and asked her if she was ready to leave. They had spent almost an hour talking, and he had fulfilled his mother’s wish without humiliating the woman with his lack of interest. Siyu looked out the window at the willow trees, their branches waving like unruly hair in the wind. Not a great day for a walk, Hanfeng said. Siyu agreed, then asked him if he needed a ride. “I’ll take a cab home,” he said. “I’m driving past your mother’s place, in any case,” Siyu said. Her own flat, a small studio that she rented from a retired couple, was only minutes from Professor Dai’s flat, but Siyu thought she would appear too eager if she mentioned that. Hanfeng wished that he had made up an excuse—a lunch with a friend in another district; an exhibition or a film to see—but it was too late to correct himself now. A week later, Hanfeng’s mother asked him if he planned to see Siyu again. They had finished their breakfast, and were reading that morning’s newspapers, plates and bowls scattered on the table between them. Hanfeng’s mother did not raise her eyes from the page as she asked, but he knew the question was not as haphazard as it seemed. Should he? he replied. “Do you dislike her?” It took more than an hour over tea for him to say that he disliked a woman, Hanfeng thought, but he just shook his head slightly. He was not surprised by his mother’s question. Do you dislike piano? she had asked, when he wanted to give up the instrument at twelve for games that he could play with boys his age; Do you dislike engineering?, when he thought of pursuing a literature degree in college rather than the one she had chosen for him. Before he left China, she told him that she might not have been a good mother in the worldly sense, but she considered herself successful in giving him two things: practical skills with which to earn a living, and music as the only trustworthy companion and consolation for his soul. Twenty-three, and in love with a childhood friend who was dating a chirpy girl, Hanfeng did not believe that either of his mother’s gifts would in any way contribute to his happiness. America, at first glance, seemed a happy enough place, and when his friend called with the news of his engagement Hanfeng sought out companions. All he wanted was to have some fun, he replied when more was asked of him; “Have fun”—wasn’t that the phrase that replaced words of farewell in many Americans’ lexicon? But eventually the reply came back to taunt him: I thought we would have some fun and that’s all, his last lover had said, a Chinese boy, a new immigrant, as Hanfeng had once been, whom Hanfeng had helped support through college. He should ask Siyu out to a movie, his mother suggested, or a concert. When he showed a lukewarm reaction, she said, “Or ask her to have dinner with us here.” “Wouldn’t that be too quick?” Hanfeng said. Even though Siyu had been introduced to him by his mother, a dinner invitation, after meeting only once, seemed to imply an approval of sorts from both his mother and himself. “She is not a stranger,” his mother replied, and proceeded to check the calendar on the kitchen wall. Saturday was a good day, she said, and when Hanfeng questioned Siyu’s availability at such short notice his concerns were dismissed. “She’ll rearrange her schedule if she has to,” his mother said, and wrote down the date and Siyu’s number on a piece of scrap paper. Hanfeng wondered if Siyu had felt similar pressure from his mother. What would she have said to Siyu—I would like you to date my son? Knowing his mother, he wondered if she had simply mentioned that her son needed a wife and that she thought Siyu would be the right person for the role. “Why has she never married?” he asked. “I imagine for the obvious reason of not having felt the need to get married.” “Does she want to get married now?” Hanfeng said. He had expected his mother to reply that Siyu had not met the right person—and then he could have questioned why his mother thought him a good choice for her. “She didn’t say no to the date last time, no?” When Hanfeng called Siyu to invite her to dinner, the line was quiet for a moment. He waited for her to find an excuse to turn down the invitation, or, better still, to tell him that she had obliged his mother with their last meeting and the sensible thing to do now was to make their mutual disinterest known to his mother. Instead, Siyu asked him if they could possibly meet once more before the dinner. Anytime after she got off from work would do, she said. He wondered why she needed to see him when all could be settled on the phone, but he agreed to a late-afternoon meeting that day. There was a power outage at the coffee shop where Siyu had suggested they meet. Apart from the light of a few candles on the counter, the inside of the shop, a long, narrow rectangle, was almost pitch-black. Siyu, who had arrived a few minutes earlier and taken a seat by the only window, explained to Hanfeng that the place was always quiet, and more so today, as the coffeemakers were not hissing. A sulky young girl placed a pot of tea and two cups heavily on the table. Siyu apologized for the shop’s unfriendliness after the girl had returned to the counter. “I’m about their only regular customer, but for three years no one has acknowledged me,” she said. “Why do you still come here?” “It’s quiet. I can assure you it’s not easy to find a quiet place like this in Beijing,” Siyu said. “My theory is that the proprietress is a rich man’s mistress. She does not want the shop to make money for him, and he cannot close it, because it was his present to her.” Hanfeng looked around, but there was no one there besides the girl at the counter. “They seem to hire unhappy people,” he said. “The proprietress is a beautiful woman,” Siyu said. Hanfeng nodded. He had no further questions, and she could see that he was one of those people who would not return to the place. She wished she could tell him that, apart from the beauty of the woman who once in a while showed up at the coffee shop with an air of authority, there was little evidence to support her guess. Yet there had to be an explanation for the sad, lifeless appearance of the shop. She thought of telling him this, but he was part of the world that did not seek her explanations. The world had made up its mind about her oddity in her spinsterhood. They sat in silence for a moment. In another place, a more romantic setting, lovers’ murmurs would have been well masked by soft jazz coming from hidden speakers, their faces illuminated by candlelight, but here there was no music and the candles were lit out of necessity. The idea of getting to know Hanfeng better before having dinner with him and his mother seemed, like all the other ideas that had occurred to Siyu, a regrettable mistake. When he did not help find a harmless topic of discussion, she asked him if he was aware of his mother’s wish to see him get married. “I suppose all mothers worry about their children’s marriage status,” Hanfeng said vaguely. He had thought that his mother had long ago accepted who he was; when he had visited from America in the past, she had never pressed for any details of his American life, sparing him the pain of explaining himself. “Doesn’t your mother?” She had no right to feel let down, Siyu thought. Nevertheless, it disappointed her that Professor Dai had not told him much about her. That she had been raised by her father had been, from a young age, the first thing people said of her. “I never met my mother,” she said. “My father brought me up by himself.” Hanfeng looked up at her. Before he could form an apology, she said there was no need for one. She had grown up not knowing her loss, so there had not been any real loss. She wondered if that was how Hanfeng thought of his father. Professor Dai had never mentioned her late husband, but Siyu had once had a summer job in the department office, and had heard other professors and the secretaries talk about how he had died in a snowstorm when his bicycle skidded in front of a bus. An accident that no one could be blamed for, but Siyu had sensed the others’ disapproval of Professor Dai, as if she were partially responsible for the unfair fate befalling a man; the dead husband, by contrast, was always praised as the gentlest person. “What was it like to grow up with only a father?” Hanfeng asked. He had little recollection of his father, but there were photographs, taken when Hanfeng had turned a hundred days, six months, one year, and then two years old. In all four pictures, he was flanked by his parents, who looked serious and attentive. They would have been called gold boy and emerald girl at their wedding, enviable for their matching good looks. It must have been his father’s idea to have a family picture taken at every milestone of his life, since after his father’s death Hanfeng had never been in the same photograph as his mother. She imagined it was not very different from growing up with a mother, Siyu replied. There was no other parent to whom they could compare the one they had, and love did not have to be balanced and divided between two people; the claiming of loyalty was unnecessary. Siyu did not say these things, but there was a gentleness in Hanfeng’s eyes where before there had been only aloofness, and she knew that he understood. Hanfeng turned away from Siyu’s gaze and looked out the window. A woman in a heavy mud-colored coat was riding a bicycle and threading through the long line of cars in the street, and a young child, bundled up in a gray shawl, so that its gender could not be determined, sat on a bamboo chair affixed to the back rack of the bicycle, as unfazed as the mother was by the impatient honking of drivers around them. Hanfeng pointed out the child to Siyu, knowing that both of them had travelled the streets of Beijing in that way, he behind his mother, she her father. After the woman and her child had disappeared from sight, Siyu said that, when she started to ride her bicycle to school at twelve, her father would get up every morning and run after her until she reached the school gate. She used to be ashamed of being the only one escorted to school by a running father, but she could never say no to him. “He must be the most loving father in the world,” Hanfeng said. Siyu nodded. A door behind the counter opened and then closed, and for a moment it seemed that the flickering candles would be extinguished. She had had to squeeze the hand brake often on the downhill ride to the school so that her father’s panting would not be so loud that other people took notice, and only when she was much older did she realize that her father had insisted on running beside her so that she would not become one of the wild youngsters who sped and broke an arm or a skull in an accident. She had always been aware of his love for her and for her mother, even though he had not said much, but in the end she had been the one to make up grand reasons for her absence. You’re still my only daughter, he had said to her when she decided not to attend his wedding; you’re part of the family, he had said when she told him that she would not be coming home for the lunar New Year. He did not need her to complicate his life, she had replied, knowing that he would stoically accept her proposal of a monthly lunch as their only way of remaining father and daughter. Ungrateful and coldhearted she must seem in the eyes of old neighbors and family friends, but how could she stay in his sight when she was going through her life with a reckless speed known only to herself, all because of a love she could not explain and did not have the right to claim in the first place? I wonder if I made a mistake by bringing you up alone, her father had said to her at their most recent lunch, taking it as his failure that she had not found a husband. I was afraid of what a stepmother would do to a girl, but perhaps a woman would have made a difference, he said, less guarded and more talkative now in his old age. Siyu had shaken her head and denied that he had anything to regret. That she had grown up without a mother could be a ready explanation for anything—her oddness in her teen-age years, her choice of an unremarkable job despite her excellence in schoolwork, her singleness. Were people to know her secret, they might easily conclude that she had spent her life looking for a mother in her love of an older woman, but Siyu did not believe that things would have turned out any differently had she had a mother. A beautiful and sad woman, Hanfeng thought as he looked at Siyu’s face. As beautiful and sad a woman, perhaps, as his mother had once been. Could this account for his mother’s wish for a marriage between Siyu and him? Hanfeng had been surprised, at first, that a former student would remain close to his mother. She had not been the kind to pick favorites among her students; nor had she ever encouraged any personal interaction with them, as far as he knew, though he could see why Siyu, motherless and with a gentle and loving father, might seek out a professor despite, or perhaps because of, her sternness. But Siyu seemed to know his mother only in a peripheral way, as a pupil, and Hanfeng wondered if this was why his mother had allowed the younger woman to remain a friend. When Hanfeng was ten, a woman had come from a southern province to see his mother. An unannounced visit, he could tell, when his mother returned home in the evening and found him shelling peas alongside the guest, their knees almost touching, on two low stools. The woman, who had told Hanfeng that she was a very old friend of his mother’s and was planning to stay with them for a week, had left the next morning before he awoke. He had been puzzled but had intuitively known not to ask his mother about it. Still, the image of the woman’s face, pale at the sight of his mother, and her hands, which let the peas fall into the pile of shells, had stayed with Hanfeng. He could not pinpoint when he understood that there had been betrayals between the two friends, but by the time he left home for college he had known that he would never learn the true story, his mother having long ago decided to live alone with the secret until her death. At the dinner, both Siyu and Han feng felt a shyness around each other, but Professor Dai did not let the awkwardness deter her. “When you are young, you marry for passion,” she said, looking first at her son and then at her future daughter-in-law. “When you’re older, you marry for companionship.” Hanfeng glanced down at his plate. One day she would die, his mother had said to him the night before, after he had listened to her stumble through a Chopin piece on the piano. There was nothing to grieve about in her death, but she would like to see that he did not repeat her fate. Repeat? Hanfeng had asked, pretending that he did not understand and knowing that she could see through him. She would like him to marry Siyu, his mother had said. There were many ways to maintain a marriage, and she expected theirs to be far from the worst. The same message had been conveyed to Siyu, when Hanfeng was sent to buy a bottle of wine for dinner. She was helping Professor Dai lay the table, and, when she looked over, the older woman paired the chopsticks without meeting her eyes. Siyu had never mentioned the strangers she had been matched up with over the years, but, one New Year’s Eve, Professor Dai had told Siyu that she shouldn’t get married if it was not what she wanted. They had just finished dinner, and, sitting across the table from Professor Dai, Siyu could see the prints of bamboo leaves on the curtain lit up by the fireworks outside. Professor Dai had opened a bottle of wine that year, an unusual addition to the holiday meal, as neither of them was the type to celebrate. You could feel trapped by the wrong man, Professor Dai said. Her voice, softened by the wine, was less steely and almost inaudible beneath the booming of the fireworks; you would have to wish for his death every day of your marriage, but, once the wish was granted by a miracle, you would never be free of your own cruelty. Siyu listened, knowing that the older woman was talking about herself, knowing also that both of them would pretend to have forgotten the conversation after that night. Other conversations, on other New Year’s Eves, were never mentioned again. One year, Siyu had told Professor Dai about her mother’s suicide; another year, Professor Dai had mentioned that her son had no interest in marriage. Professor Dai’s acknowledgment of Siyu’s decision to purchase a secondhand car so that the older woman could avoid taking a crowded bus or enduring a chatty cabdriver was hinted at but not directly stated, and so was her gratitude for Siyu’s alertness, when she had failed to answer Siyu’s weekly phone call and Siyu had discovered the older woman on the floor by the piano, having suffered a stroke. She had remained unmarried for Professor Dai, Siyu thought now, and she would, with her blessing, become a married woman. She would not wish for her husband’s death, as his mother had, because the marriage, arranged as it was, would still be a love marriage. Siyu had wished to be a companion for Professor Dai in her old age, and her wish would now be granted, an unexpected gift from a stingy life. “So this is an engagement dinner, then?” Hanfeng said, feeling that it was his duty to say something to avoid silence among the three of them. He doubted that he would feel any deficiency in his life without a wife, he had said the night before, and his mother had replied that Siyu was not the kind of woman who would take much away from him. “We don’t need any formality among us,” Professor Dai said now, and told Siyu that she should move in at her earliest convenience instead of wasting money on rent. Siyu looked down the hallway, knowing that the room that served as a piano studio for Professor Dai would be converted into the third bedroom, the piano relocated to the living room. She could see herself standing by the window and listening to Hanfeng and Professor Dai play four-hand, and she could see the day when she would replace Professor Dai on the piano bench, her husband patient with her inexperienced fingers. They were half orphans, and beyond that there was the love for his mother that they could share with no one else, he as a son who had once left but had now returned, she who had not left and would never leave. They were lonely and sad people, all three of them, and they would not make one another less sad, but they could, with great care, make a world that would accommodate their loneliness.
The Idiot President When I was first out of the Conservatory, I did a two-month stint with a theatre group called Diciembre. It was an established company that had formed during the anxious years of the war, when it was known for its brazen trips into the conflict zone, bringing theatre to the people, and, in the city, for staging all-night marathon shows—pop reworkings of García Lorca, stentorian readings of Brazilian soap-opera scripts, always with a political edge, sometimes subtle, often not at all, anything to keep people awake and laughing through what would otherwise have been the dark, lonely hours of curfew. These shows were legendary among the theatre students of my generation, and many of my classmates claimed to have been present, as children, at one or another of these performances. They said that their parents had taken them, that they had witnessed an unholy union of recital and insurrection, of sex and barbarism, and that they remained, however many years later, unsettled and even inspired by the memory. They were all liars. We were, in fact, studying to be liars. It’s been nine years since I graduated, and I imagine that these days students at the Conservatory talk about other things. They are too young to remember how ordinary fear was during the war. Perhaps they find it difficult to imagine a time when theatre was improvised in response to terrifying headlines, a time when delivering a line of dialogue with a chilling sense of dread did not even require acting. But, then, such are the narcotic effects of peace, and certainly no one wants to go backward. More than a decade after the war, Diciembre still functioned as a loose grouping of actors and actresses who occasionally put on a show, often in a private home, to which the audience came by invitation only. Paradoxically, now that travel outside the city was relatively safe, they hardly ever went to the interior, so when a new tour was announced I auditioned eagerly. It was a rare opportunity, and, to my surprise, I got the part. Only three of us went—me, a curly-haired actor named Henry, and a short, dark-skinned man who introduced himself as Patalarga and never bothered to give me his real name. They were related, sort of—Henry had, at some point in the distant past, married and then divorced Patalarga’s second cousin, a woman named Tania, to whom they alluded with the sort of hushed respect that tenant farmers might use when speaking of the weather. The two men had been friends for a long time, as long as I’d been alive, and I was pleased to be accepted into their company. I figured it would be a chance to learn from veterans. Henry wrote most of the plays, and for that tour we were doing a subtle piece of invective he called “The Idiot President.” Though its politics were easy to trace, it was very funny, involving a delicate interaction between an arrogant, self-involved head of state and his servant. Each day, the President’s servant was replaced, the idea being that eventually every citizen of the country would have the honor of attending to the needs of the leader. These included helping him dress, combing his hair, reading his mail, etc. The President was fastidious and required that everything follow a rather idiosyncratic protocol, so the better part of each day was spent teaching the new servant how things should be done. Hilarity ensued. I played the idiot President’s idiot son, Alejo, a role perfectly suited to my youthful skills, and over the course of our rehearsals I came to love this buffoonish adolescent in a way that I hadn’t expected. He was a boastful lout and a petty thief, who was a great source of pride to his father, despite his many shortcomings. The climactic scene involved a heart-to-heart between the servant of the day and my character, after the President has gone to sleep, in which Alejo lets his guard down and admits that he has often thought of killing his father but is too frightened to go through with it. The servant is intrigued—after all, he lives in a ruined country, subject to the President’s disastrous whims, and furthermore has spent the entire day being humiliated by him. The servant probes Alejo’s doubts, and he opens up, voicing his concerns about freedom, about the rule of law, about the suffering of the people, until the servant finally allows that, yes, perhaps killing the President wouldn’t be such a bad idea. For the sake of the country, you understand. Alejo pretends to mull it over, and then kills the startled servant himself, as punishment for treason. He picks the corpse clean, pocketing the man’s wallet, his watch, and his rings, and the play ends with him shouting toward the room where the President is sleeping, “Another one, Father! We’ll need another one tomorrow!” Patalarga, Henry, and I left the capital in early March, the day after I turned twenty-one. It was summer on the coast, hot and humid, and we rode a bus up into the rainy mountains to the region where Patalarga was born, a part of the country I’d never seen before. Even at the time, I felt certain that I would never see it again. Everything about my life then—every decision I made or failed to make—was predicated on the idea that I’d be leaving the country soon. I expected to join my brother in California before the year was up: my visa was being processed, and it was only a matter of time. This was a very pleasant way to live, actually. It gave me a kind of private strength that allowed me to withstand certain indignities, confident that everything was temporary. We performed in small towns and villages, up and down a wide and gloomy valley, subject to heavy, freezing downpours that were like nothing I’d ever experienced. The skies swirled with blue-black clouds, and when it wasn’t raining the winds blew straight through you. We were greeted warmly in each town, with a certain ceremony and solicitousness that I found charming, and every night the audience gave us a standing ovation that made all our efforts seem worthwhile. Sometimes the villages were just a handful of houses dotting endless yellowish gray fields. Our audience might be a dozen people altogether, a few farmers with ruddy faces, their long-suffering wives and undernourished children, who’d approach Henry after the play, never looking directly at him, and say respectfully, “Thank you, Mr. President.” The cold nearly destroyed me. In two weeks I lost three kilos, and one night, after a particularly energetic performance, I nearly fainted. When I recovered, we were invited to a party at a one-room adobe house on the outskirts of town. Henry and Patalarga were both on edge, drinking more than usual, because this was the town where Tania lived; apparently she’d been at the show, and might reappear at any moment. I was too ill to worry about that: taking a breath was like swallowing sharp knives, and my head felt as if it might separate from my neck and just float away into the threatening Andean sky. But everyone was exceedingly kind, paying special attention to feeding me and getting me drunk. The liquor helped, and it felt nice to be doted upon. When I started turning blue, the owner of the home, a squat gray-haired man named Cayetano, asked if I wanted a jacket. I nodded enthusiastically, and he rose and walked to the refrigerator, standing before its open door, as if contemplating a snack. I thought, He’s making fun of me, and I heard Henry and Patalarga snickering. But then Cayetano opened the vegetable drawer and took out a pair of wool socks. He tossed them to me, and when he opened the door a little farther I saw that the refrigerator was, in fact, being used as a wardrobe. There were mittens in the butter tray, sweaters and jackets hanging from a wooden bar nailed to the inside walls. Only then did I notice the few perishables sitting on the counter. In this cold, of course, they were in no danger of spoiling. The gathered men and women told sad stories about the war and laughed at their own suffering in ways that I found incomprehensible. Sometimes they would speak in Quechua, and then the laughter became much more intense, and also much sadder—or, at least, that’s how it seemed to me. When Tania arrived, everyone stood. She had long black hair, which she wore in a single braid, and an orange-and-yellow shawl draped over her shoulders. Older than me but a little younger than my colleagues, Tania was petite, and yet somehow she gave the impression of great strength. She circled the room, shaking hands with everyone—except Henry, who instead received a floating kiss in the air just beside his right ear. “Are you still acting,” she asked when she got to me, “or are you actually that sick?” I didn’t know what to say, so when someone shouted, “He’s drunk!,” I was relieved. The room roared, and then everyone sat. The drinking began in earnest now, and soon a guitar appeared from a corner of the room. It was passed from person to person, making a few laps around the circle before finally Tania kept it. Everyone cheered. She strummed a few chords, then cleared her throat, welcoming the visitors, thanking us all for listening. She sang in Quechua, picking out a complex accompaniment, her agile fingers unrestrained by the cold. I turned to Henry and asked him in a low voice what the song was about. “About love,” he whispered, without taking his eyes off her. As the night wore on, I found myself appreciating Tania’s beauty with greater and greater clarity. Henry and Patalarga watched me watching her, alternately glaring and smiling, in a sequence that was impossible to interpret. Much later, when I was finally succumbing to the cold and the liquor, Tania offered to lead me back to the hostel where I was staying. This was noted with feigned alarm, but she ignored it all. The town was small, there was no possibility of getting lost, and we trudged drunkenly through its streets, both of us wrapped in Cayetano’s blanket. “You sing beautifully,” I said. “What was it about?” “Just old songs.” “Henry said you were singing about love.” She had a lovely laugh: clear and unpretentious, like moonlight. “He doesn’t speak Quechua,” Tania said. “Must have been a lucky guess.” We paused at the door of the hostel. I moved to kiss her, but she just patted me on the head as if I were a little boy. “Drink lots of water,” she said, “and get as much rest as you can.” And then she walked back to the party. Inside the hostel, the owner gave me a large rubber bladder, swollen with boiling water, and as I prepared for bed I held it in my hands the way one might hold a beating human heart—my own heart, perhaps. I tried to go over my day—what had happened, or what, to my chagrin, had not. But the cold made coherent thought impossible, so I lay down with the bladder pressed against my belly, curling myself around it like a snail. I wondered whether I should have stayed in the city and what my friends were doing at that exact moment. They’d been jealous of me and my tour with Diciembre, and I struggled to remember that. Patalarga and Henry had done this circuit before, were constantly running into old friends. They seemed unfazed by the conditions that were slowly wearing me down. They had lived in the city for decades but did not consider it home. And it was like this for weeks. In the mornings, weather permitting, we rode to the next town on a rickety bus, or on the bed of a truck piled with potatoes. I’d learned to chew coca leaves by then, had come to enjoy the numbness as it spread over my face, down my neck, and into my chest. The roads were barely wide enough for a horse cart, and often I looked over the face of a crumbling mountain, forcing myself to think of something other than death. Patalarga and Henry recovered from the previous evening with their eyes closed, suspended in deep and peaceful dreams. They were enjoying themselves; me, I was trying to stay alive. Toward the end of the tour, we arrived at a town called San Germán, which was the remote outpost of an American mining company. The town consisted of a couple of hundred houses that seemed to have been airlifted to the wind-battered top of a desolate mountain, which was surrounded on three sides by even higher, more foreboding peaks. I think it was a silver mine, but it could have been copper or bauxite or something else, and, in a sense, it doesn’t matter: all mining towns are the same. They are pitiless and isolated, often situated in places that might be beautiful were they not so extreme, and defined by a kind of human deprivation particular to the industry. In San Germán, thick clouds hung just above us, and I could smell metal in the air. I had never felt so far away from the world. We were more than four thousand metres above sea level, and the altitude rendered me useless. I spent the first day in the hostel, gripping the sides of the bed as if I were riding a roller coaster. San Germán was a small place, and there was very little to see, but Patalarga and Henry sat by my bedside, regaling me with the invented wonders of the town. “You must get up,” Patalarga said. “You have to see this place.” “There’s a replica of the pyramids,” Henry told me, “and it shines golden in the sunlight.” I opened my eyes and saw his breath gathering in a cloud. “A miniature Arc de Triomphe,” Patalarga said. “Cafés, tree-lined boulevards, and the night life—you won’t believe it! Discos like in Batista’s Havana, like Beirut before the war.” I paid them no attention. The room—indeed, my brain—filled with the concussive sound of their voices. I begged to be left alone, and then they disappeared. I closed my eyes again, and for a few hours I didn’t move. I just listened desperately to the sound of my own breathing. When my colleagues returned, they were sullen and angry. I could smell the mud that clung to their boots. “You tell him.” “No, you tell him.” From my sickbed, I could hear them pacing. “Someone fucking tell me,” I said. I had intended to shout, but I was weak, and it came out as the raspy plea of a heart patient. I kept my eyes closed. Someone sat on my bed. It was Henry. Bad news. Our first performance was scheduled for the next night, but there was a glitch. There was no electricity, no light. This was not a temporary condition, as we had been told when we checked into the hostel. The only power still running in town went to the homes of the American engineers, on the other side of the mine. “You should see how they live,” Henry said, and described how, behind a high fence, they had created a facsimile of American life. Comfortable suburban homes, neatly paved streets, a baseball diamond. I sat shivering beneath a half-dozen blankets. It sounded nice. “Don’t you have a brother in the U.S.?” Patalarga asked. “Sure.” “Does he play baseball?” “How should I know?” I could barely get the words out. I knew nothing about baseball. In fact, I knew virtually nothing about my brother. He’d left home when he turned eighteen, several years before, and I thought of him only in terms of the visa he was supposed to get for me. It was too cold to waste energy scavenging through childhood memories. Henry was upset. He spoke quickly, and I could hear the bitterness in his voice. We’d been promised a place to perform for the workers. The workers, the workers—these gallant, dignified men who were our entire reason for existing. We were supposed to do two shows, one for each shift. Our afternoon performance would be unaffected, but the miners on the day shift wouldn’t be able to come. If we did a show at night, it would be in the dark—or only for the engineers. The fucking engineers. Henry was getting upset now, as he described men who spent their days nursing Daiquiris, pausing only to take turns whipping the noble miners. It sounded positively feudal. “Are they really that bad?” I asked. “Never mind him,” Patalarga said. “His father was an engineer.” “Fuck you,” Henry said, scowling. “Henry here was a star on the company baseball team.” “Really?” “Till he started stealing dynamite to give to the rebels.” “You’re lying.” Neither would answer me. A moment later, Henry was complaining again; this time, he tapped his finger on my forehead as he spoke. It felt like a mallet striking the skin of a bass drum, a strange way of showing affection, and I kept my eyes closed through the operation. “We’ve come to this town for nothing. They’ve made fools of us, and Nelson here is going to die for no reason at all.” They were talking to each other now. “We’ve sacrificed a young life—the best this country has to offer!—and we’ll have nothing to show for it. Oh, the tragedy of it all! How he has suffered for his art! But what will we tell his mother?” “You’re both very funny,” I said. “Seriously.” That night, they dragged me out into the dark streets of San Germán, all but carrying me. My head and body ached, and the earth beneath me seemed unsteady. I walked with one arm slung over Patalarga’s shoulder, as Henry pointed out the dim yellow lights on the far slope of the hill: those were the engineers’ homes. Behind them, a treacherous mountain peak disappeared into the clouds. I looked at that miserable little settlement and found it hard to feel much antipathy toward the Americans. Nature could have crushed them, and all of us, in an instant. “Do you see them?” Henry asked. “Can you believe it?” “No,” I said. “I can’t believe it.” I would rather have been poor anywhere else in the world than rich here. We pushed on through the muddy streets. For the play, Henry wore long white gloves, but because of the bitter cold he had taken to wearing them even between performances. They were thin, sateen, probably not very warm, but they looked delicious. Now I noticed Patalarga eying them jealously. “Give me those,” he said finally, pointing at the gloves. Henry held his hands up, wiggling his white, glowing fingers. “These?” “Those.” “I’m the President,” Henry said. “I wear the gloves.” Patalarga considered this for a moment. He turned to me. “I found him in an alley behind the cathedral, huffing glue and talking about how mean his daddy was.” I didn’t say anything, nor did I let go of Patalarga. Without him, I would’ve fallen. Henry didn’t appear to be listening. “All that change we wanted,” Patalarga said. “And still the dark-skinned one plays the servant. And still the dark-skinned one dies in the end. Isn’t that something?” Henry shrugged. “It’s because you’re so good at it,” he said. We made it to San Germán’s only restaurant, and by the light of a kerosene lamp ate food warmed by a kerosene stove, so that everything smelled and tasted of fuel. We were in a sour, helpless mood. Henry and Patalarga weren’t talking, and it took all my strength just to keep from slipping off my chair and onto the cold cement floor. Still, after a meal and some tea, I had recovered a bit. We were nearly finished when some old miners walked in, carrying their helmets. Even in the dark, Patalarga recognized them from his days as an organizer. They joined our table and spoke in hushed tones about the conditions underground, which had improved somewhat since Henry and Patalarga’s last visit. Better ventilation, better safety. Ten-hour shifts, down from fourteen. “But no electricity.” The miners shrugged. They had hard, weathered faces. “It’s coming, and, anyway, the mine is well lit,” one of them said. His name was Ventosilla. It was written on his helmet, which he placed on the table. He flicked a switch and the headlamp came on, casting a vivid patch of light on the wall of the restaurant. Ventosilla turned it off and on a few times, and we all stopped to admire it. He tapped the headlamp with his fingernail. “Halogen.” “And you all have those?” Patalarga asked. The miner nodded. My colleagues grinned. The next night, we performed “The Idiot President” in a large tent made of blankets, by the combined lamplight of fifty miners. There were children and wives in attendance as well, and even a few American engineers who deigned to join the fun. I was feeling better, though not yet myself, whatever that means. I hadn’t felt like myself since we’d left the city, since the bus had begun climbing into the clouds, but the sight of this makeshift theatre, abuzz with expectation, the halogen lights flitting every which way, made me hopeful. Backstage was actually just outside the tent, where the three of us stood, freezing and jittery, unusually excited, peeking in occasionally to see the crowd as it gathered. When the tent was full, we slipped inside, to the relative warmth of the stage. The view was breathtaking: the crowd sitting on a rickety set of bleachers, a bright field of stars gleaming in the heavens. I turned to Henry and Patalarga, and saw that they were lost in it, too. This was the sky we had barely seen, the sky that had been hidden behind thick black rain clouds for the previous six weeks. We were introduced by the local union rep, and this night, like every night, the crowd cheered when they heard the name Diciembre, the lights bobbing up and down, as the miners nodded with satisfaction. I ceded the stage to my colleagues, and sat just off to the side. They began. With hunched shoulders and a face wracked with worry, Henry imbued his idiot President with a certain deranged gravitas, like Nixon in his last days, or Allende contemplating the tanks surrounding La Moneda. He paced the stage barking nonsensical instructions at his flummoxed servant—and no one has ever owned “flummoxed” as expertly as Patalarga did that night. I knew the whole play by heart, so mostly I concentrated on the miners’ headlamps, which together formed a limpid pool of white onstage, shifting ever so slightly as the dialogue Ping-Ponged from one speaker to the other. When I stood, just before my cue to come on, the lights shifted stage right, so much so that Patalarga, standing opposite me, disappeared briefly in the sudden darkness. Even in the dim light, I could see him smiling. Toward the end of the play, we hit a rough patch. We could tell instantly. Henry delivered a line that usually got a laugh, but now it fell flat. We were losing the audience—the lights moved up and down, or side to side, wandering, and in an instant we were performing at dusk, when just a moment prior it had been morning. Never before or since has it been so easy for me to read a crowd, to get feedback so transparent and immediate. The failing light energized us, and we rallied. Minutes later, the tent was again quaking with laughter, the stage as bright as a landing strip, and I can note, with not a small amount of pride, that my last lines, the ones I shouted to my sleeping father, the President, were delivered on a fully lit stage, with the complete attention and collaboration of the miners of San Germán and their halogen headlamps. There was no curtain to close, no stage lights to dim, and I stood there for a moment after the play had ended, bathing in the glow, enjoying myself. Why not? A few weeks later, I was home again, and for years afterward, when one or another of the productions I was a part of failed, I thought of that night. I was invited on another tour with Diciembre, but it was more out of politeness than anything else. My middle-class life had rendered me unable to handle the rigors of the road. I declined. I’ll be leaving soon anyway, I thought, but I never did. Occasionally, I performed with Henry and Patalarga locally, and we remained friendly. Whenever I ran into one of them, at a show, at a bar, on the street, we always embraced, shared a laugh, and spoke fondly of that night in San Germán. I knew that they remembered the performance as well as I did, though they had forgotten other details—my name, for instance. They called me Alejo, without shame or apology. I didn’t mind. I liked them both. I had learned from them, and could learn from them still. Of course, invoking San Germán was an invitation to philosophize, but that was precisely the point. I would listen, just as I had on that trip, and watch Patalarga’s or Henry’s chest swell with pride. You make do. You manage. You take what the audience gives you and return it to them, only better, burnished by love and commitment. They give you light, and you give them truth. Etc. I liked hearing Henry and Patalarga talk, because no one my age ever spoke that way. Not about theatre, not about politics. Not even about love. It made us uncomfortable. A few years passed, and one day I found myself hopelessly out of work. I’d made too many enemies, taken everything too lightly. My visa had never come, and I could no longer pretend I’d be young forever. My brother called every now and then, but only at my parents’ house, and sometimes months would go by without our exchanging a word. I began auditioning for the soap operas I’d sworn I’d never do again: jilted lovers, home-wrecking womanizers. But I didn’t get any of these parts. I was going broke. I thought about giving up my rented room and moving home, but the idea was too humiliating. My father, for his part, was relentlessly optimistic. “Your brother will send the visa. You’ll go to America. You’ll go to California. You’ll be in the movies. Write to your brother, remind him,” he said, but I couldn’t bring myself to do it. I don’t think even my father believed it anymore. Still, he kept me apprised of the weather where my brother was, as if I needed to know what clothes to pack. “There are forest fires all over California,” he said to me one day. “Hundreds of them.” I just stared at him. That night, I imagined this place I’d never been, its skies blurred with red-brown smoke, and its sun—which was not our sun—setting against the ashy backdrop of a regional catastrophe. I considered the possibility that what my father wanted was simply to have me out of his way. While I was worried about failing him, perhaps he was simply hoping that I would become someone else’s problem. The following week, I found myself reading the script for a small, recurring role on a local soap opera. It was a six-episode run—not bad—after which my character was to be killed, off-camera. He was a police informer, appropriately troubled by the complicated ethics of betraying his friends, a man who lived in the full expectation that these transgressions would cost him his life. The character’s name was, to my great satisfaction, Alejo, and suddenly I felt more confident than I had in months. Though this character and the Alejo I had played with Diciembre were two entirely different people, reading the script felt like running into an old friend. How this country has changed, I thought: the son of the President is now an ordinary snitch, a man doomed to look over his shoulder for six one-hour episodes, and then die invisibly, his passing just a footnote to a larger drama that has little to do with him. I was so excited that I told my parents about the audition. I told my friends. Alejo, I thought, we meet again. I even thought of tracking down Henry and Patalarga, though I hadn’t seen them in a year or more, just so we could all have a laugh about it. By then, Diciembre was on semi-permanent hiatus, and the country had become frankly unrecognizable. It was possible to walk the now bustling streets of my city and forget why I’d ever wanted to leave. Global metal prices were at record highs, and the newspapers were announcing seven-per-cent growth. All this prosperity was dispiriting; it was the one thing I’d never expected. I’d never been back to those towns I had visited with Diciembre, though some of my peers had—on vacation, during the dry season, with their spouses and overweight kids, to see a bit of the country as it once was. At the first sign of discontent, the government ran television ads showing images of provincial roadblocks, angry campesinos tossing stones at police, the screen stained an ominous and familiar shade of red. The stern voice-over warned the rural poor to be patriotic, and not ruin it for the rest of us. Henry and I met on a winter afternoon at a café in Asylum Downs. It was the day before my audition. He had no phone, no e-mail, and I’d got a message to him through a mutual friend who lived in his neighborhood. He seemed genuinely pleased to see me, and gave me a big hug, clapping my back heartily. We sat at an inside table, protected from the damp. It was great to see him—he hadn’t changed at all—but where was Patalarga? Henry rubbed his eyes, and pushed his heavy curls down with his palms. “Our friend,” he said in a helpless voice, “is no longer with us.” I was stunned. I sank into my chair. “When?” I managed to ask. He looked down into his coffee cup. “Nine months ago, ten.” “Jesus.” “I know,” Henry said, but then he was laughing. “The jerk moved to Barcelona. Imagine!” “You asshole,” I muttered. “It’s just you and me, Alejito,” Henry said. “Father and son.” He held out his hand. “Laugh!” he ordered. “You were always such a serious boy.” This was a line from “The Idiot President.” I took his hand and gave him a weak smile. The shock was draining away—Patalarga was alive, after all, and I should be happy. We sipped our coffee. In any case, there was other news. Henry had a daughter now, and she had changed his life. He saw her two or three times a week, and dedicated everything he wrote to his little girl. “So you’re writing a lot?” I asked. Henry shrugged. “Some.” I told him about Alejo the snitch. I even took out the script and talked him through the first episode, where Alejo is caught stealing wiring from a construction site and avoids jail time by offering information on a local street gang. The dialogue was good, nice hardboiled stuff, and I could scarcely contain my enthusiasm. Henry listened carefully, nodding all the while. “It’s glorious,” he said. “Written just for you.” “I know,” I said. “I really feel like it is.” After a while, Henry said that he had a question, but he didn’t want to offend me. He made me promise not to take it the wrong way. “Sure,” I said. He tapped his fingers on the wooden table. “Weren’t you supposed to go somewhere?” he said. “What do you mean?” “Well, it was all you ever talked about out there.” He paused. “Every day, constantly. We figured it was the altitude. We could hardly stand it, Patalarga and I.” “Really?” Henry nodded. In my recollection of our two months in the mountains, I had barely ever spoken of leaving. I’d carried the notion with me, of course, but had held this private reassurance very close, like a charm or a lucky coin. Knowing that it would all pass was what had got me through. “We learned to tune it out,” Henry said, “because we liked you. We really did. Still do.” He reached across the table and pinched my cheek affectionately. “Son,” he added. “So why didn’t you leave?” Outside, a phalanx of pigeons had landed in the avenue’s concrete median, swirling like a dust storm around an overturned trash can. I stared at them for a while, admiring their hunger. “Everything got so good around here,” I said. Henry nodded. “Of course,” he said. “That’s just what I was thinking.” We said goodbye outside the café, on the busy avenue. Henry wished me good luck, and I promised to let him know how it turned out. I nailed the audition, and waited optimistically for a callback. I measured the passing of time by the progress of the fires in the distant north. My old man gave me daily updates, and I pretended to listen. Five hundred, a thousand, two thousand fires. After a month, they had burned out, and I was still waiting.
Three This is an account of three people who died. Quite recently, one after the other, in the space of six months. A reclusive old noblewoman, a painter of murals, and a philandering handyman. Ombretta, Francescon, and Remo. They weren’t important, as the wide world defines “importance,” though the muralist did have something of a reputation among the fabulous and the rich. No, they were people whose orbit was small, residents of a provincial place, the town in the north of Italy where I live. Though all three had met, they weren’t friends; they were too different in age, social position, and degree of sinfulness. At the same time, as I can see only now, they were alike in their possession of a purity of spirit that shone—through ordinary or foolish or desperate actions—with a steady sidereal gleam. I was connected to all three through the family I married into: an insular, blue-blooded Ligurian clan ensconced hierarchically in a set of old terraced villas, stacked one above the other, like the layers of a cake, on a hillside overlooking the Malaspina castle. In my private drama—my ongoing adventure with my husband and his family—Ombretta, Francescon, and Remo were bit players to whom I gave little thought until they vanished from the scene. But lately I’ve been waking up every night, as I lie beside my husband in the iron canopy bed that Remo forged for us as a wedding present. What wakes me is the feeling of being in company—gently included in a quartet as watchful and discreet as the bedpost evangelists in the nursery prayer. And inevitably the same three names are present to me. As if they had come to remind me that there is something I need to do: perhaps simply to tell what I know of their discarded lives. I The oldest, and the first to leave, was my mother-in-law, Ombretta. A dozen years ago, I met her at a Sunday lunch presided over by the eldest of her sons, an occasion on which my husband-to-be, the youngest, presented me to his tribe. I was a dazzled foreigner, the American fiancée, and this was one of those gilded October scenes with which Italy tempts the sojourner: a garden filled with handsome inbred men and women drinking wine with a tang of oak; children in lace collars and muddy boots playing in the shade of a grand Juvarran façade, smudged with age. As mulberry leaves drifted down like flakes of rust onto the laden table, I gazed out over the panorama of the Magdalene hills, the castle, the distant smokestacks and tenements of the city below, the river plain spreading toward the Alps. Nonna Ombretta, as they called her, was at the head of the table, a white-haired figure in pearls and a sweater whose color matched her large aquamarine eyes. Her face, with its shaggy black brows, crooked beak of a nose, and tributaries of wrinkles, suggested a battered bust of Tiberius. Yet this overpowering visage, clearly made for tyranny, displayed instead a gentle reticence, a beatific air of restraint that was clearly a choice, even a private indulgence. Her three charming and arrogant sons interpreted it as devotion to them, the familiar domestic martyrdom of a Catholic matriarch, but I felt from the start that it was something stranger, less easy to define. When we were introduced and I first heard her ragged, sweet thread of a voice, with its lilting Venetian accent, I felt a curious jolt of awareness, as one might feel on hearing a bell chime once in the distance. Ombretta means “little shadow,” and I soon saw how well the name suited. Unlike the time-honored image of a mother-in-law, she was never intrusive; she was simply present, a quotidian mystery flickering along the edges of our lives. At first, like all second wives, I wanted to possess my husband entirely, to erase his past, and I kept expecting his mother to be a problem. I studied her, trying to understand how she could be dangerous for me, and was baffled. Problems there were, of course, with my husband, a jaunty egoist with the robust self-absorption of his long-dead father, a dissolute provincial magnate famous for having gambled away the family match factory at the casino in St. Vincent. And many power games confronted me: resentful stepchildren, territorial sisters-in-law, and all the pressures and depredations of a large Italian clan. But Nonna Ombretta kept apart from all this, and I took a big step toward belonging to the family when I first realized that, although its members venerated this mild matriarch, they’d have admired her far more had she been a despot. Ombretta hardly ever left her house. With my husband, I visited her on weekends, walking up the stony road from our house, the bottommost of the villas, to the cottage where she lived, on her second son’s property: three dark, beam-ceilinged rooms, set between the chapel and a crumbling brick alcove, where someone had propped a wooden sculling shell from the sixties. Half rotted and filled with dead vines, the boat lent an oddly nautical air to Ombretta’s end of the garden, where she grew tightly whorled antique roses and huge bushes of lavender. Inside, the fragrance of the flowers mingled with the odor of wood smoke and mildew. We sat in the gloom of giant chests and bookshelves from her girlhood house in Venice, while she served us coffee and dates stuffed with marzipan. My husband, bored, would work the conversation around to how brilliant he had been as a schoolboy, sometimes even trying to provoke her and me by referring to his early sexual escapades, references that we both blandly ignored. I’d take refuge in trips to the bathroom, passing by Ombretta’s conventual single bed and the prie-dieu beside it. I’d sit contemplating her yellowed plastic shower cap, and bottles of home-distilled lavender water, and wondering why, despite the tedium, I always felt refreshed after these visits. On her coffee table stood an odd piece of antique silver, a lily with seven petals that detached to become miniature silver dishes, a puzzle that children and grandchildren could pull apart to amuse themselves, but only Ombretta could put back together. It sat there in the dim room, like a small, shining secret. Time passed, and our son and daughter were born and were received by Ombretta with the same absent-minded warmth with which she treated all her grandchildren. I never found myself intimate with her, but a curious admiration had begun to flow between us. She started to ask about the books I wrote, about my trips to literary events in America, and she vouchsafed me glimpses of her youth in Venice. She told me how, daringly for a well-bred girl, she had sailed her own small boat, a shallop, up and down the canals, and how tourists had embarrassed her by snapping photographs, so that her nameless face graced photo albums around the world. How she and her family had sat in evening dress in the Piazza San Marco, uneasy amid rows of Fascist dignitaries, as a legendary pianist gave an outdoor concert. How during the war, when she was married but living with her parents, she had ridden down the Grand Canal under a full moon, in the family gondola, to give birth to her eldest son at the hospital in the Rialto. These fragments were all I knew of her, and sometimes I would glance at her wedding picture, where she stood, heavy-jawed and clear-eyed in a cascade of lace, beside a husband whose rakish conceit was already outlined below his brilliantined hair. I got the sense that there was some brutality there, some sexual affliction that she had endured with the fathomless patience of her generation. For her ninetieth birthday, the entire family gathered in the highest villa to feast on agnolotti with truffles and a Monte Bianco pudding the size of a washtub, glittering with gems of crystallized fruit. Her sons announced that they had planned a luxurious trip to Venice for her, but later I found out that she’d refused it. Soon after that, she was gone. A bad influenza; a tumor; failing kidneys. We came back from a short vacation and found her dehydrated and confused, and then began a long sunny spring of dying. The usual story: clinics, specialists, nurses, brief rallies, false hopes. Her three sons, businessmen used to bullying their environment into submission, railed at her and at fate, urged, prayed, commanded, cajoled her to stay alive. With their own hands, they cooked for her, puréed fish flown in fresh from the Adriatic, and poked spoonfuls between her reluctant lips, poured her glasses of red wine “to build blood.” It would have been interesting to chart the strangled, desperate affection in the rapport of these three sons with their dying mother, but I was busy with my own feelings. You see, I had fallen in love with Ombretta. Did she know? I didn’t, myself, until the last three weeks of her life, when I was drawn to her side again and again, bringing flowers, little treats, as if in a shy courtship. It was like a childhood crush, where one finds excuses to bicycle past the house of the loved one, to use his name in conversation. For a brief while, I loved her against my own inclination—hopelessly, the way you do when someone is remote or already taken. In the afternoons, I’d walk up the hill to find her propped in a sunny corner of the garden, awake, but ignoring her cultured lady companion, who, on orders from the three sons, would be reading aloud her favorite poems from Quasimodo or glum Leopardi: “Così tra questa immensità s’annega il pensier mio; e il naufragar m’è dolce in questo mare.” Skeletal, almost transparent, Ombretta would bare her wolfish teeth in a polite salute and murmur my name, her blue eyes now muddy and vague, hidden behind huge, rather vulgar sunglasses, her once tough skin as papery as onion peel, her hair no longer a strict white helmet but blowing in milkweed wisps over a maculate bare skull. In the light April wind, I’d drink tea and watch her force down a few sugary sips. I’d question her companion in the usual worried undertone, and chat with Ombretta in a manner that I could not cleanse of false brightness. On those afternoons, I was affectionate in a way that, before, I had never dared to be: holding her gnarled, discolored hand, careful not to disturb her arms, which were purple with I.V. bruises; sneaking a caress at arrival and departure, as a crafty suitor does with a distracted maiden. I could see that her heart was elsewhere. Even to me, it was shocking how, step by deliberate step, she was moving away from daylight, complicit in her own seduction by death. It was clear that she was lingering with us out of sheer politeness. In her last week, she became clairvoyant, predicting with serene indifference the arrival of unexpected visitors, and even what color they would be wearing. Once, she remarked to me that, as a girl, she’d loved to waltz but that her husband had disliked dancing. She said this with a faint, scornful smile, as if soon she’d be waltzing as much as she liked. On the last full day of her life, I carried her a rose from my own garden, and she awoke from her stupor long enough to hold it to her face and murmur, “I know this scent—cuisse de nymphe.” The nurse told me that it was the only thing she’d said all day. Later, when I was leaving, she spoke again, her eyes still closed: “Please excuse my rudeness in not rising to say goodbye.” She died before dawn the next day, and that evening we came to her house for the recitation of the Rosary. There I observed a discreet storm brewing over the silver lily, which one daughter-in-law had already appropriated, and another, in a furious whisper, maintained was hers. I forgot the dark comedy of all this when I saw the old woman laid out on her bed, and found that someone had tucked between her hands my cuisse de nymphe rose, wilted but still fragrant. These trifles weren’t mentioned, of course, in the grand Napoleonic church, scene of the family’s weddings and funerals—a church where kings had prayed, and which was one of the many rumored hiding places of the Holy Grail. For Ombretta, who was without friends, it was filled with her sons’ friends and clients, and distant relations. The bishop—a famous anti-drug crusader, clearly bored with this mild soul—stood between marble pillars and spoke of a virtuous Catholic woman who had lived out her years, a figure who could have been one of an identical series in a shooting gallery. Her sons, anguished, mourned their mother as a lost part of themselves and as a centerpiece of that great architectural structure their family, but no one seemed to think the world a duller place for her absence. Nor did anyone allude to the curious distance that Ombretta had kept between herself and the rest of the world, a seclusion that was never selfish or hostile but seemed to confer an odd sort of grace on her surroundings. And certainly no one invoked the image, the little shadow, of a young girl flying down the canals of Venice under the sail of her own small boat. An irreverent granddaughter—a teen-age troublemaker, inappropriately dressed in trousers that revealed the top of her plump backside—had tucked a bunch of lavender into her shoulder bag, and through the congregation the fresh scent flowed out like water. II The last flowers Ombretta saw were likely the ones that Francescon, long ago, had painted on the beams of her ceiling. I recall a dim arabesque trail of wisteria in an Art Nouveau style, in keeping with the cottage, which was a nineteenth-century addition to the big villa. A beautiful and unrepeatable design, since Francescon’s restless obsession was the creation of a new Arcadia, paradise inside a room. Whenever I heard his loud, nasal voice on the phone, my heart sank. And yet I could look up at my own ceiling and adore him. There in a rococo wilderness of interlaced garlands and hovering putti I’d see his lighthearted practical genius, and I’d forgive him everything: his interminable phone calls, scheduled on an astral calendar to arrive at the worst moments; his lunatic right-wing rants, in which he cursed socialists and vaunted his own pure Piedmontese Celtic blood; the quivering glee that animated his six-foot-tall, white-haired figure at the sight of any pretty woman, and inspired his long-fingered, powerful hands to squeeze waists and wander over bottoms. Francescon decorated walls and ceilings in our family’s houses, and in churches, villas, and castles all over the province. His designs, sketched on sheaves of crumbling onionskin, came from his father, and generations of grandfathers reaching back to the eighteenth century. His was a clan of itinerant painters, famous in northern Italy and southeastern France for their trompe-l’oeil, their chinoiserie, their Baroque whirligigs, their seraphim with sensual faces. Footloose, they had set up temporary workshops in the households of the hermetic Piedmontese nobility, the frivolous members of the Savoy court, and the ambitious early industrialists. In these settings, they’d picked up the social ease of all artists and master craftsmen in fine establishments, and, being tall, handsome blond men, left behind a few bastards. When I met Francescon, he was already in his seventies, with bright, guileless gray eyes and a drinker’s nose, unmarried because of his impossible character. I don’t recall being introduced to him; one day, he simply appeared at the top of a ladder in the middle of my sheeted dining room, chattering and smoking as he daubed from a square cardboard palette, sprinkling cigarette ash and infinitesimal drops of paint through the air. It was as if he had always been there, and I immediately felt an encumbering sense of fondness for him. We made up designs together, bickering, like kids planning a party. I’d ask for faces, for pomegranates, for cockleshells. And he’d rustle through greasy, tattered folders of drawings, shouting suggestions that were really ultimatums, refusing to combine elements from different centuries. Then for weeks he’d invade our house with his huge, disruptive passion for his work, crowding everything else into corners. My husband complained about how much he charged, how he gobbled agnolotti at the lunch we were obliged to provide for him and drank whole bottles of Barbera. I couldn’t write when he was in the house. He talked constantly, or sang Bruno Lauzi songs in a deafening tenor, and if he had a new idea he’d invade my study to tell me about it. Once, hollering about sprays of olive leaves, he even burst into the bathroom where I was reading the newspaper on the toilet. When he finished a room, I’d vow never to hire him again. But six months later he’d be back. He spent a lot of time under my roof, yet I knew little about him. I knew that he drove a battered red Fiat Uno, and lived—like a great chef who eats nothing but boiled eggs—in a nondescript modern apartment in a village in Montferrat. I knew that his exuberant lechery had devolved into a penchant for roadside prostitutes; that he had a disapproving sister, and nephews with no interest in his craft; that although he’d had various apprentices, there was no heir interested in devoting a life to such irregular work, to the endless minutiae of mixing colors, the long hours of painting that had frozen his hands into yellowish claws, which later required a series of painful operations. I knew that he hadn’t a trace of personal vanity but was shamelessly proud of his work, of which he spoke in a doting tone as if discussing an adored young daughter: “È un amore. That wall, I have to say, it’s a love.” And often he called me from houses, castles, churches, where he was finishing projects, shouting, “You have to come and see this ceiling, this façade—it’s sweetness itself!” One afternoon, he drove me and a friend into the hinterlands of Vercelli to visit two villas. One was dark and nineteenth century, with a vulgar pine kitchen and an evil atmosphere; he had lined the upper walls with a black-and-white Liberty frieze that seemed to comment on the sombreness of the house, to expand it into a sinister nobility. The other place, a huge country pile built by a long-dead Savoy courtier near a decayed resort town, was one of the loveliest I have ever seen—each room with coffered ceilings decorated by Francescon with dense eighteenth-century millefleur designs, dusted faintly with gilt. The effect was that of an Arabian Nights palace, transported to the back hills of Piedmont. There was, in our town, a little group of women who, like me, felt an exasperated affection for Francescon. My beautiful red-haired friend was one of them. She had an old villa, a former monastery, for which he had invented a roseate shade of stucco that looked as if it had always been there. That was the thing about Francescon: nothing superfluous or vulgar ever came from his brush, and every house he touched seemed to exhale its true spirit. When an art house published a book on Francescon’s work, his admirers were pleased, but I’m afraid we mostly thought of it as a vanity project. My red-haired friend and I went to the presentation in the brick town hall of his village, and as Francescon stood beside the mayor, giving one of his rambling, faintly profane monologues, we nudged each other like proud mothers at a kindergarten fête. That summer, he left Italy for the first time to visit America, and my friend escorted him around the East Coast. She described how he let out a whoop and clapped his hands like a child when he first saw the Chrysler Building; how he gave a talk to a roomful of old gentlemen at a club in Boston, waving his hands around and speaking an Italian that was half Piedmontese dialect while the baffled patricians nodded politely. How at her summer house she discovered him, awake with jet lag at 3 A.M., cheerfully painting her kitchen walls with a delicate Victorian border. Time passed, and I got busier, and Francescon’s phone calls became less welcome than ever. I was forever telling him that I was on my way out, promising to visit the houses he was painting, to schedule the great project we had discussed: a library ceiling in the naïve Piedmontese chinoiserie style. A new note in his voice hinted to me that he wasn’t well, but I told myself that it was just the usual problem with his hands. Finally, the summer after Ombretta died, I heard that Francescon had been very sick: something to do with his pancreas—no one used the word “cancer.” I was alarmed into inviting him to my house as a guest, something I’d never done before. I also invited a few people who knew him, including my red-haired friend, and served polenta and stew, a menu, I reasoned, that would allow Francescon to be at his ease. He shocked us all with his emaciated appearance, suddenly seeming much taller, his sweater tucked into his belt, his gray eyes blazing in a gaunt face that had acquired an extraordinary nobility. He looked, I thought, like an old prince masquerading as a homeless man. I was dismayed by how he—a former Rabelaisian drinker and polisher of lunch plates—could manage only two glasses of wine and a few spoonfuls of polenta. Yet he seemed deliriously happy with his party. He roared with laughter, lapsing into dialect as he raced off into one after another of his crazy anecdotes, which culminated in an encounter with a flying saucer in the wilds of Montferrat. It surprised me how good a time we had: everyone stayed late, and it was hard to get Francescon to leave at the end. Standing in my dark garden, enduring his bearish, wine-scented hug, I felt something on my cheek and realized that he was crying. “Sai che ti voglio bene, che voglio bene a tutti voi! ” he said. He loved me, he loved us all—a declaration I’d often indulgently accepted, while dodging his wandering hands. After I saw him off, I was seized by a sudden apprehension. He’d insisted that his doctor had issued him a clean bill of health, but his departure that night left me with an irrevocable chill that I had come to recognize as that of finality. As I watched his tail-lights vanish down the hill, I thought of him driving home along the ugly provincial highway, past the draggled rural prostitutes he knew so well, stepping over the threshold of his tiny apartment, where no one waited for him, while I would sleep wreathed in the roses he’d lavished on my bedroom. And I felt shamed by the paucity of the celebration I had offered him, that night and always, by the meanness of not having, just once, spoken to him from the heart. The next—and last—time I saw Francescon was a few weeks later. He was as yellow as beeswax, intubated, weighted with morphine, and breathing with deep mechanical yelps, as he lay on a bed in a country hospital near Lanzo, full of hideous turquoise tile. Through the windows, against a clear autumn sky, I could see the Aosta mountains, arid and brown. No one was with him when my red-haired friend and I entered the hospital room. Around the next bed, a large family was gathered, chattering loudly as they took turns spooning broth into the mouth of an old man with amputated legs. They stared unsmiling at us as we bent over Francescon and spoke his name. “I think he knows we’re here,” my friend whispered, and, for an instant, his gray eyes flashed open: startling, almost silver windows in his jaundiced face. A slight smile crossed his lips. Then the eyes closed. His legs moved the sheet, revealing a catheter and an embarrassing smooth stretch of lower belly, and after we covered him he didn’t respond again. Under the scrutiny of the clan at the next bed, we each gave him a kiss on the cheek, feeling awkward. In effect, what were we to Francescon? Not family; not sweethearts. And as we walked away down the ugly tile hallways I wondered whether he’d really recognized us, or whether the haze of morphine had transformed our faces into the idealized feminine features of the dryads, the seraphim, the stoop-shouldered chinoiserie beauties he had painted again and again. His funeral was held in his village, in a seventeenth-century church built for a poor rural congregation: a brick edifice enriched with no marble or gilt. It was clear that neither Francescon nor his ancestors had been at work here. My friend and I were the only people present from the dead man’s circle of well-heeled clients. Around us was a modest crowd of thirty or forty, with the dark winter clothes and the weather-beaten faces of hill and mountain people. No tears were shed during the impersonal service, in which a plump, waxen-faced priest prayed for the soul of our dear friend and neighbor and did not once mention his art. It occurred to me that the crowd and the church were like the crumbling shells of chestnuts you find in the woods. If you scrape the dirt away, you find, like a jewel, the fiery brown nut glistening within. The cheap varnished coffin that held Francescon’s long body was the color of fresh chestnuts, and, when his sour-faced brother-in-law and five other men picked up the coffin and carried it down the street to the cemetery at the edge of town, I felt as if they were burying something precious in the mud. A year later, I was in Rome visiting the atelier of a legendary fashion designer and aesthete. On his desk I saw a copy of Francescon’s book. When I told the designer that I had known the painter and had his work throughout my house, he raised a seignorial eyebrow and said that I was a lucky person, because the book was a treasure and Francescon a great maestro. And in my heart I felt a familiar tug of shame. Nowadays, there is a resonant absence in the afternoons, with no one to annoy me with phone calls. In the painted rooms around me, I can count the designs: the pomegranates; the scallop shells and putti; my bedroom garden, real enough to fool the occasional errant bee; the four winds puffing overhead in our entranceway, the curling Baroque borders on all our slanted country doors. One of the doors is unfinished, with the design still traced out in pencil, marking the moment when my husband got sick of Francescon’s endless presence and suspended the work. Occasionally, driving down a country road, I look at the old villas behind their garden walls and think of all the works in progress that Francescon begged me to come and see. In one house, he told me, he had created a net of roses carried by birds hurling themselves up toward a Watteau sky, billowing with foliage and clouds. Now, like the gates of paradise, those doors are closed to me. III The day Nonna Ombretta died, I saw Remo, weeping furiously, walk out of her garden and onto the dusty road, rutted by the tractors and pickup trucks he drove daily to the woodshed and outbuildings. His shoulders were shaking in the cheap suit jacket he had put on to join the family kneeling at prayer in her sitting room. When I ran up to him and put a comforting hand on his arm, I smelled his alcoholic breath and felt the abandoned force of his grief, mingled with the electrical charge of the physical attraction he exerted on every woman he met. In his long years of working for my Italian family, Remo was described variously as a domestico, an uomo tuttofare, and a factotum. He was a superior hired hand of protean talents, whose energy and ingenuity were the soul of the three villas. I first encountered Remo shortly after my wedding. At a summer dinner party, in the high-ceilinged rooms of my brother-in-law’s house, open to the stuffy Malaspina night, women in provincial evening finery began shrieking and covering their hair as a tiny, blundering baby bat wobbled desperately through the lamplight, finally coming to rest at the top of a voluminous curtain. “Kill it! Hit it with a broom!” the bloodthirsty female guests shrilled, directing their cries to Remo, who until then had been parking cars, tending a gargantuan buffet of grilled meats, and getting drunk with the waiters hired for the evening. I saw a small, slight man with shaggy dark hair dart into the room, carrying a push broom and a ladder under one arm with no discernible strain. As he opened the ladder near the curtain where the bat clung, I grabbed his rolled-up sleeve and said to him in a low voice, “Please don’t kill it!” He looked at me—he was no taller than I was—and I realized what a curious face he had, with a pointed chin and slanted high cheekbones like a cat, and something of a cat’s complacency in the set of his jaw. It was impossible to guess how old he was, since although his face was pockmarked and seamed by the weather, his narrow black eyes were filled with an impudent glee that gave him the look of a feral boy: an Italian Mowgli, perhaps. As our eyes met, he lowered his gaze respectfully, like an old-fashioned servant. At the same time, I felt him considering me in my low-cut evening dress, and experienced the sudden shock of the magnetism that women, old and young, giggled over whenever Remo’s name came up. I noticed that his wrists and the chest visible above his modestly buttoned collar were covered with a mat of fine black hair. “Don’t worry, Signora!” he said, and his voice was not deep or compelling, as I might have imagined, but light and raspy, like that of an adolescent. In the midst of the hubbub, he laid aside the broom and in a flash was up the ladder and down again, motioning to me to follow him outside to the terrace, where he opened his clasped hands. Cupped there was a walnut-size wrinkled sphere the color of licorice, from which a small, tender, demonic black face looked blankly at us. I drew a breath, as Remo tossed the bat lightly into the air like a ball of tissue paper that suddenly sprouted wings and faded into the hot darkness. “Ecco!” he said softly, and ever after I felt as if we shared a secret. Remo resided in a two-room annex to Ombretta’s cottage. He had a mysterious bond with the old lady, and served her in every way—driving, running errands, tending her roses and lavender—with slavish devotion. For her part, she treated him with chiding tenderness, like a fourth child, another rascal of a son. Beyond this, his tuttofare days at the three villas encompassed every kind of task: plastering, carpentry, pruning orchards, sweeping chimneys, repairing machinery, cleaning out deadwood in the acres of forest attached to the family land. A skilled blacksmith, he forged tall wrought-iron canopy beds for each of the three brothers and their wives. And in the old brick outdoor bread oven he cooked the best pizzas that anyone had ever tasted, a mainstay of family communions and birthdays. Children adored him, and he had an almost telepathic connection with animals. He fed and nursed a ragged collection of stray cats and dogs, fallen nestlings, and even a spindly fox cub. His animals wandered and fought among the dismantled motors in his tiny courtyard and earned curses from his wife. Yes, Remo had a wife: beaten-down, prematurely toothless, with the bitter, suspicious look in her eyes peculiar to the wives of philanderers, a silent black-haired woman who could have been his sister, and was probably a cousin from the tiny village in the back hills of Cuneo, where he was born. Though his family had been rooted in the Italian-French borderland for generations, Remo bore no resemblance to the classic blond or red-haired Celt who claims—like Francescon, and his right-wing regionalist friends—to be the authentic face of the terroir. Remo looked more like a dweller of the inland fastnesses of Basilicata: one of the dark original people who grow out of the very stones of the Italian peninsula, and have a curious cognizance of the natural world. “Remo is sort of the great god Pan, isn’t he?” my bookworm daughter remarked once, after he had driven his battered Datsun truck to our house, and nonchalantly risen into the frail top branches of a huge persimmon tree to rescue our cat, trapped there for three days of an autumn gale. The cat, soaked and weak, had fled from a fireman on a ladder but lay serenely purring on Remo’s shoulder, as he climbed down with one hand. Some people, especially priests and cuckolded husbands and jealous women, thought of Remo as the devil, or at least a minor demon. At the same time, he was like a manservant out of opera buffa, with his fixed idea of the social hierarchy, his fierce loyalty to our family, his strange unholy innocence, his endless ingenuity, his well-publicized foibles: drunk every night, seducer of every pretty cleaning girl and barmaid he came across, and even, as the gossip had it, of some Lady Chatterleys with big houses on the hill. I could well believe this, since I myself felt embarrassingly attracted by his slight, wiry body; by his polite compliments that were never disrespectful but let me know that, at any time of my choosing, things between us could take a fresh turn. When his wife finally divorced him, she cited infidelities with ten or twelve other women, including the senator’s wife down the road. Remo’s life outside his work was a patchwork of scandals, fights with rivals, drunken sprees, and constant complaints from my husband and his brothers, yet no one considered firing him; it would have been like cutting off your right hand. Years passed, and one Christmas I noticed that Remo’s hair was dusted with ashen gray, that the skin on his cheeks was like fissured clay, that he smelled of alcohol even in the mornings, that a shattering cough seized him each time he lit a cigarette, and that his legs in his worn jeans were bent and fleshless like those of an old rodeo rider. But he still hauled logs with tractors, climbed into treetops to trim the highest branches, and drank all night with the Gypsy mechanics at the Bianchi garage. He now lived with a Romanian woman who worked as a barmaid in town, a hard-drinking, fleshy beauty with a witch’s green eyes and a razor tongue that grew sharper as he continued his philandering. And he had a protégé, a towheaded Albanian kid, to whom he taught everything from smithing to making pizzas, and of whom he said, with a grin, “He’ll carry on when I’m gone.” Remo was only fifty then, and it didn’t appear as though he had his mind set on being gone, yet after Ombretta’s funeral—at which he’d helped out with stoic practicality—something in him seemed broken. He began to lose control, to vanish into alcoholic binges, to damage cars and motorbikes, and fall off ladders. Summer came, and my husband, children, and I departed for America, leaving our house in Remo’s hands. He had instructions to paint the dozens of peeling shutters. When we came home in September, we found the shutters half painted, the wine cellar depleted, and a novel situation: Remo in love. The object of his adoration was a very young Ecuadoran woman who worked as a housekeeper nearby, and whom I’d hired to do some extra cleaning. Plump and brown-skinned, with surprised-looking pencilled eyebrows and a nose stud, the girl wandered through our house with a dazed expression that I recognized as the residue of passionate lovemaking. This seemed different from Remo’s other affairs: he declared to anyone who would listen that she was the woman of his dreams, and even came to thank me, with odd formality, for having introduced the two of them. The great problem now was his former paramour, the violent-tempered Romanian, who’d moved out but was threatening to cut her rival’s throat. As if following a telenovela, we inhabitants of the three villas traded daily reports on the fierce tug-of-war for Remo’s affections. I myself received hysterical phone calls from both women, and I helplessly suggested what no one could do: be patient; be reasonable; reflect. Things did seem calmer for a time. Then, early one October morning—when Francescon was in the hospital and Ombretta was five months dead—the phone rang and my brother-in-law announced, in a shaking voice, that Remo had hanged himself in the woodshed. The carabinieri, and everyone else, had explanations. Some said that it was the madness of love or an alcoholic raptus; some that any autopsy would show what Remo had been hiding—that he was a dying man, his lungs as invaded by cancer as his heart had been by his last romantic folly. No autopsy was performed, though: the forces of law and order cared little about the fate of a drunken uomo tuttofare. What we knew about his last night was that he had started out drinking with his Albanian protégé in the seedy birreria he frequented on Corso Mantova, and that as usual they had finished up in the woodshed, sharing a bottle of grappa, sitting on crates near the mountains of firewood they’d cut and stacked for the villas. They talked about Remo’s love problem, and the Albanian kid said later that Remo was in dire spirits: convinced that his sweetheart, in the face of death threats and harassment, was beginning to cool toward him. Later, he trudged up the hill to his house and wrote a letter to his girl, a letter that never reached her, since the carabinieri promptly impounded it as evidence, and launched it into their labyrinthine bureaucracy. Just before dawn, Remo must have made his way down the hill to the woodshed again. Poor, hasty, paltry funeral, held in the San Giuseppe parish church, a concrete sixties building the color of a grimy biscuit. The priest, who had always detested Remo, accepted a large donation to the youth football fund as incentive to ignore his suicide and to say a few perfunctory words over the coffin that our family paid for and decorated with autumn flowers from the three villas. In the front pew, toothless and avid, sat Remo’s ex-wife, who had already descended on his house with a pack of relatives from Cuneo and cleared out anything of value. The vindictive Romanian was conspicuously absent. The rest of the mourners were a sparse mixture of our family and Remo’s drinking friends: housepainters, a local plumber and electrician, the Gypsy mechanics, the Albanian kid, his pimply face raw with grief. And there was the Ecuadoran girl. She’d come with me, wearing a cheap black veil, and sat sobbing like a child, muttering in Spanish, as people stared. I patted her chubby arm, and imagined their enchanted affair, which must have made her feel like the most beautiful woman in the world. Remo had told her things she had never heard from any man. He’d given her champagne—ours—and bought her a ring that looked like gold. As the priest droned on, I thought how little his words had to do with the pagan Remo, who had lived and made love and died as he pleased. His small body should have been buried in the forest, left to the brisk work of the scavengers he knew so well. I recalled the last conversation we’d had, which was not about roof repair or pruning fruit trees, or even about his romantic drama. It was about a young wild boar that Remo had accidentally hit on a backwoods road with his truck. He told me that it was crying with pain in a way that sounded like a human child. So he picked it up, as only he would have done, and quieted it in his arms until it died. And then? “Then I took it home and gutted it. Young like that, they make good eating.” This eerie tenderness and brutal practicality were, I thought, at the heart of Remo’s character. It was not hard to imagine his last moments, to picture the final gulp of grappa, the expert, if intoxicated, knotting of the noose, the nimble step atop the crate where he had sat earlier, drinking with his friend. Then the pause, the pre-dawn chill of the wooded hillside, the damp, clay-scented air, the awareness of the nearby forest and the glistening eyes of hundreds of beasts going dispassionately about their nocturnal rounds; then the step forward, perhaps muttering the name of the girl; the swift grip of the rope; the sudden wing of true blackness sweeping over the dark. These are the three who are not present anymore. All of them sent out of the world with words unworthy of them, eulogies that revealed only a deep ignorance of who they really were. Of their status as celebrities in—what galaxy? Mine, certainly. I’m sure, at least, that I am the only one who noticed their peculiar constellation, though I have yet to discern the pattern they form. The gods of antiquity tossed saints and sinners, lovers and chimeras up into the heavens, making sure that there was a thumping good yarn behind each stellar formation. Just so, I’m certain that a kind of logic connects these three characters, and I begin to suspect that I am more implicated in it than I thought. Perhaps I was not just a witness but one of them, a fourth outsider at our villas: I, the foreign writer; Ombretta, the Venetian recluse; Francescon, the master painter; Remo, the wild spirit. Perhaps we were a story, and didn’t know it. I’m still searching for the thread, aided by a few clues in my own house. An iron bed, and the melancholy voice of an Ecuadoran girl who calls me occasionally, asking for news of a letter; the fat-cheeked face of a putto, peering out of a garland of dog roses; and a few ribbon-bound sachets of lavender, crumbling into aromatic dust.
The Noble Truths of Suffering The uniformed jaran did not acknowledge that I was speaking Bosnian to him. Silently, he checked my invitation, then compared the picture in my American passport with my sullen local face and seemed to think it matched reasonably well. His head somehow resembled an armchair—with its deep-set forehead, armrest-like ears, and jutting jaw-seat—and I could not stop staring at it. He handed back my passport with the invitation tucked inside it and said, “Good evening to you.” The American Ambassador’s house was a huge, ugly, new thing, built high up in the hills by a Bosnian tycoon who’d abruptly decided that he needed even more space and, without having spent a day in it, rented it to His American Excellency. There was still some work to be done: the narrow concrete path zigzagged meaninglessly through a veritable mud field; the bottom left corner of the façade was unpainted, and it looked like a recently scabbed-over wound. Farther up the hill, one could see yellow lace threading the fringes of the woods, marking a wilderness thick with mines. Inside, however, all was asparkle. The walls were a dazzling white; the stairs squeaked with untroddenness. On the first landing, there was a stand with a large bronze eagle, its wings frozen mid-flap over a hapless, writhing snake. At the top of the stairs, in a spiffy suit a size too big, stood Jonah, the cultural attaché. I had once misaddressed him as Johnny and had been pretending it was a joke ever since. “Johnnyboy,” I said. “How goes it?” He shook my hand wholeheartedly and claimed to be extremely happy to see me. Maybe he was—who am I to say? I snatched a glass of beer and a flute of champagne from a tray-carrying mope whose Bosnianness was unquestionably indicated by a crest of hair looming over his forehead. I swallowed the beer and washed it down with champagne before entering the already crowded mingle room. I tracked down another tray holder, who, despite his mustached leathery face, looked vaguely familiar, as though he were someone who had bullied me in high school. Then, assuming a corner position, cougarlike, I monitored the gathering. There were various Bosnian TV personalities, recognizable by their Italian spectacles and their telegenic abundance of frowns and smirks. The writers at the party could be identified by the incoherence bubbling up on their stained-tie surfaces. I spotted the Minister of Culture, who resembled a mangy panda bear. Each of his fingers was individually bandaged, and he held his flute like a votive candle. A throng of Armani-clad businessmen surrounded some pretty, young interpreters, while the large head of a famous retired basketball player hovered above them, like a full moon. I spotted the Ambassador—a stout, prim Republican, with a puckered-asshole mouth—talking to a man I assumed was Macalister. The possible Macalister was wearing a purple velvet jacket over a Hawaiian shirt. His jeans were worn and bulging mid-leg, as though he spent his days kneeling. He wore Birkenstocks with white socks. Everything on him looked hand-me-down. He was in his fifties but had a head of Bakelite-black hair that seemed as if it had been mounted on his head decades ago and had not changed shape since. Without expressing any identifiable emotion, he was listening to the Ambassador, who was rocking back and forth on his heels, pursing his lips, and slowly expelling a thought. Macalister was drinking water; his glass tilted slightly in his hand, so that the water repeatedly lapped against the brim of the glass, to the exact rhythm of the Ambassador’s rocking. I had finished my second beer and champagne and was considering refuelling, when the Ambassador bellowed “May I have your attention please!” and the din died down and the crowd around the Ambassador and Macalister moved aside. “It is my great pleasure and privilege,” the Ambassador vociferated, “to welcome Dick Macalister, our great writer and—based on the little time I have spent talking to him—an even greater guy.” We all applauded obediently. Macalister was looking down at his empty glass. He moved it from hand to hand, then slipped it into his pocket. Some weeks before, I had received an invitation from the United States Ambassador to Bosnia-Herzegovina, His Excellency Eliot Auslander, to join him in honoring Richard Macalister, a Pulitzer Prize winner and acclaimed author. The invitation had been sent to my Sarajevo address only a week or so after I had arrived. I could not figure out how the Embassy had known I was there, though I had a few elaborately paranoid ideas. It troubled me greatly that I could be located so easily, for I had come to Sarajevo for shelter. My plan was to stay at my parents’ apartment for a few months and forget about the large number of things (the war on terror, my divorce, my breakdown, everything) that had been tormenting me in Chicago. My parents were already in Sarajevo for their annual spring stay, and my sister would be joining us soon. The escape to Sarajevo was beginning to feel like a depleted déjà vu of our life before we had all emigrated. We were exactly where we had been before the war, but everything was fantastically different: we were different; the neighbors were fewer and different; the hallway smell was different; and the kindergarten we used to see from our window was now a ruin that nobody had bothered to raze. I wasn’t going to go to the reception; I had had enough of America and Americans to last me another lousy lifetime. But my parents were so proud that the American Ambassador was willing to welcome me at his residence. The invitation, with its elaborate coat of arms and elegant cursive, recalled for them the golden years of my father’s diplomatic service, officially elevating me into the realm of respectable adults. Father offered to let me wear his suit to the reception; it still looked good, he insisted, despite its twenty years and the triangular iron burn on its lapel. I resisted their implorations until I went to an Internet café to read up on Richard Macalister. I had heard of him, of course, but had never read any of his books. With an emaciated teen-ager to my left liquidating scores of disposable video-game civilians and a cologne-reeking gentleman to my right listlessly browsing bestiality sites, I surfed through the life and works of Dick Macalister. To cut a long story short, he was born; he lived; he wrote books; he inflicted suffering and occasionally suffered himself. In “Fall,” his most recent memoir—“a heartbreaking, clenched-jaw confession”—he owned up to wife-abusing, extended drinking binges, and spectacular breakdowns. In his novel “Depth Sickness,” I read, a loan shark shoots off his own foot on a hunting trip, then redeems his vacuous, vile life in recollection, while waiting for help or death, both of which arrive at approximately the same time. I skimmed the reviews of the short-story collections (one of which was called “Suchness”) and spent some time reading about “Nothing We Say,” “Macalister’s masterpiece” and the winner of a Pulitzer Prize for fiction. The novel was about “a Vietnam vet who did everything he could to get out of the war, but cannot get the war out of himself.” Everybody was crazy about it. “It is hard not to be humbled by the honest brutality of Macalister’s tortured heroes,” one reviewer wrote. “These men speak little not because they have nothing to say but because the last remnants of decency in their dying hearts compel them to protect others from what they could say.” It all sounded O.K. to me, but nothing to write home about. I found a Macalister fan site, where there was a selection of quotes from his works, accompanied by page upon page of trivial exegesis. Some of the quotes were rather nice, though, and I copied them down: Before Nam, Cupper was burdened with the pointless enthusiasm of youth. “The best remedy for the stormy sky is a curtain,” he said. On the other side of the vast, milky windowpane sauntered a crew of basketball players, their shadows like a caravan passing along the horizon. Cupper had originally set out to save the world, but now he knew it was not worth it. One of these days the thick chitin of the world will break open and shit and sorrow will pour out and drown us all. Nothing we say can prevent that. I liked that one. The thick chitin of the world—that was pretty good. We all drank to Macalister’s health and success, whereupon he was beset by a swarm of suckups. I stepped out to the balcony, where the smokers were forced to congregate. I pretended that I was looking for someone, stretching my neck, squinting, but whoever I was looking for did not seem to be there. When I went back in, Macalister was talking to a woman with long auburn hair, her fingers lasciviously curled around a champagne flute. The woman was Bosnian—you could tell by her meaty carmine lips and the cluster of tarnished silver necklaces struggling to sink into her bosom; for all I knew I might have had a hopeless crush on her in high school. She somehow managed to smile and laugh at the same time, her brilliant teeth an annotation to her laughter, her hair merrily flitting around. Macalister was burning to fuck her—I could tell from the way he leaned into her, his snout nearly touching her hair. It was jealousy, to be perfectly honest, that made me overcome my stagefright the moment the laughing woman was distracted by an Embassy flunky. As she turned away from Macalister, I wedged myself between the two of them. “So what brings you to Sarajevo?” I asked. He was shorter than me; I could smell his hairiness, a furry, feral smell. His water glass was in his hand again, still empty. “I go places,” he said, “because there are places to go.” He had the sharp-edged nose of an ascetic. Every now and then, the muscles at the base of his jaw tightened. He kept glancing at the woman behind me, who was laughing yet again. “I’m on a State Department tour,” he added, thereby ruining the purity of his witticism. “And on assignment for a magazine.” “So how do you like Sarajevo?” “Haven’t seen much of it yet, but it reminds me of Beirut.” What about the Gazihusrevbegova fountain, whose water tastes like no other in the world? What about the minarets all lighting up simultaneously at sunset during Ramadan? Or the snow falling slowly, each flake descending patiently, individually, as if abseiling down some obscure silky thread? What about the morning clatter of wooden shutters in Bascarsija, when all the old stores open at the same time and the streets smell of thick-foamed coffee? The chitin of the world is still hardening here, buddy. I get emotional when inebriated. I said none of the above, however. Instead, I said, “I’ve never been to Beirut.” Macalister glanced at the woman behind me, flashing a helpless smile. The woman laughed liltingly; glasses clinked; the good life was elsewhere. “I could show you some things in Sarajevo, things no tourist would see.” “Sure,” Macalister said without conviction. I introduced myself and proceeded to deliver the usual well-rehearsed story of my displacement and my writing career, nudging him toward declaring whether or not he had read my work. He nodded and smiled. “Will you excuse me?” he said and left me for the redhead. Her hair was dyed, anyway. I kept relieving tray carriers of their loads. I talked to the basketball player, looking up at him until my neck hurt, inquiring unremittingly about the shot he had missed a couple of decades ago, the shot that had deprived his team of the national title and, I let him know, commenced the general decline of Sarajevo. I cornered the Minister of Culture in order to find out what had happened to his fingers. His wife’s dress had caught fire in the kitchen and he’d had to strip it off her. I giggled. She had ended up with second-degree burns, he said. At some point, I tracked down my friend Johnny to impart to him that you can’t work for the U.S. government unless you are a certified asshole, at which he grinned and said, “I could get you a job tomorrow,” which I thought was not unfunny. Before I exited, I bid goodbye to Eliot Auslander by slapping him on the back and startling him, and then turned that fucking eagle to face the wall, the unfortunate consequence of which was that the snake was now hopelessly cornered. Best of luck, little reptile. The air outside was adrizzle. The Ambassador’s house was way the fuck up the hill, and you had to go downhill to get anywhere. The flunkies were summoning cabs, but I wanted to air my head out, so down I went. The street was narrow, with no sidewalks, the upper floors of ancient houses leaning out over the pavement. Through a street-level window, I saw a whole family sitting on a sofa, watching the weather forecast on TV, the sun wedged, like a coin, into a cloud floating over the map of Bosnia. I passed a peaceful police station and a freshly dead pigeon. A torn, faded poster on a condemned house announced a new CD by a bulbous half-naked singer, who, rumor had it, was fucking both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. I turned a corner and saw, far ahead, Macalister and the redhead strolling toward the vanishing point, his hand pressing gently against the small of her back to guide her around potholes and puddles. I was giddy, scurrying to catch up, trying to think of funny things to say to them, never quite managing it. And I was drunk, slipping on the wet pavement and in need of company. Once I reached them, I just assumed their pace and walked along as straight as I could, saying nothing, which was somehow supposed to be funny, too. Macalister uttered an unenthusiastic “Hey, you’re O.K.?” and the woman said, “Dobro vece,” with a hesitation in her voice that suggested that I was interrupting something delectable and delicate. I just kept walking, skidding and stumbling, but in control, I was in control, I was. “Anyway,” Macalister said. “There is blowing of the air, but there is no wind that does the blowing.” “What wind?” I said. “There’s no wind.” “There is a path to walk on, there is walking being done, but there is no walker.” “That is very beautiful,” the woman said, smiling. She exuded a nebula of mirth. All her consonants were as soft as the underside of a kitten paw. “There are deeds being done, but there is no doer,” Macalister went on. “What the hell are you talking about?” I asked. The toes of his white socks were caked with filth now. “Malo je on puk’o,” I said to the woman. “Nije, bas lijepo zbori,” she said. “It is poetry.” “It’s from a Buddhist text,” he said. “It is beautiful,” the woman said. “There is drizzle and there is shit to be rained on, but there is no sky,” I said. “That could work, too,” Macalister said. The drizzle made the city look begrimed. Glistening umbrellas cascaded downhill toward the scarce traffic flow of Titova Street. “You’re O.K., Macalister,” I said. “You’re a good guy. You’re not an asshole.” “Why, thank you,” Macalister said. “I’m glad I’ve been vetted.” We reached the bottom of Dalmatinska and stopped. Had I not been there, Macalister might have suggested to the woman that they spend some more time together, perhaps in his hotel room, perhaps attached at the groin. But I was there, and I wasn’t leaving, and there was an awkward silence as they waited for me to at least step away so that they could exchange some poignant parting words. I broke the silence and suggested that we all go out for a drink. Macalister looked straight into her eyes and said, “Yeah, let’s go out for a drink,” his gaze doubtless conveying that they could ditch me quickly and continue their contemplation of Buddhism and groin attachment. But the woman said no, she was tired, she had to go to work early, sorry. She shook my hand limply and gave him a hug, pressing her sizable chest against his. I did not even know her name. Macalister watched her wistfully as she hurried to catch an approaching streetcar. “Let’s have a drink,” I said. “You’ve got nothing else to do, anyway, now that she’s gone.” Honestly, I would have punched me in the face, or at least hurled some hurtful insults my way, but Macalister not only did not do this—he did not express any hostility whatsoever and agreed to come along for a drink. It must have been his Buddhist thing. We headed toward Bascarsija. I pointed out to him the Eternal Flame, which was supposed to be burning for the anti-Fascist liberators of Sarajevo, but happened to be out at the moment; then, farther down Ferhadija, we stopped at the site of the 1992 breadline massacre, where there was a heap of wilted flowers; then we passed the Writers’ Park, where busts of important Bosnian writers were hidden behind stalls offering pirated DVDs. We passed the cathedral, then Egipat, where they made the best ice cream in the world, then the Gazihusrevbegova mosque and the fountain. I told him about the song that said that once you drank the water from Bascarsija you would never forget Sarajevo. We drank the water; he lapped some out of the palm of his hand, the water splattering his white socks. “I love your white socks, Macalister,” I said. “When you take them off, don’t throw them away. Give them to me. I’ll keep them as a relic, smell them for good luck whenever I write.” “I never take them off,” he said. “This is my only pair.” For a moment, I considered the possibility that he was serious, for his delivery was deadpan. He seemed to be looking out at me and the city from an interior space that no human had access to. I didn’t know exactly where we were going, but he didn’t complain or ask questions. I confess: I wanted him to be in awe of Sarajevo, of me, of what we meant in the world; I wanted to break through his chitin. But I was hungry and I needed a drink or two, so instead of wandering all night we ended up in a smoky basement restaurant, whose owner, Faruk, was a war hero—there was a shoulder missile launcher hanging high up on the brick wall, and pictures of uniformed men below it. I knew Faruk pretty well, because he had once dated my sister. He greeted us, held open the rope curtain leading into the dining room, and took us to our table, beside a glass case displaying a shiny black gun and a holster. “Ko ti je to?” Faruk asked as we were sitting down. “Pisac. Amerikanac. Dobio Pulitzera,” I said. “Pulitzer je dosta jak,” Faruk said and offered his hand to Macalister, saying, “Congratulations.” Macalister thanked him, but when Faruk walked away he noted the preponderance of weapons. “Weapons schmeapons,” I said. “The war is over. Don’t worry about it.” I ordered a trainload of food—all variations on overcooked meat and fried dough—and a bottle of wine, without asking Macalister what he would like. He was a vegetarian and didn’t drink, he said impassively, merely stating a fact. “So you’re a Buddhist or something?” I said. “You don’t step on ants and roaches? You don’t swallow midges and such?” He smiled. I had known Macalister for only a few hours, but I already knew that he did not get angry. How can you write a book—how can you write a single God-damned sentence—without getting angry? I wondered. How do you even wake up in the morning without getting angry? I get angry in my dreams, wake up furious. He merely shrugged at my questions. I drank more wine and then more and whatever coherence I may have regained on our walk was quickly gone. I showered him with questions. Had he served in Vietnam? How much of his fiction was autobiographical? Was Cupper his alter ego? Was it over there that he had become a Buddhist? What was it like to get a Pulitzer? Did he ever have a feeling that this was all shit, this—America, humankind, writing, everything? And what did he think of Sarajevo? Did he like it? Could he see how beautiful it had been before it became this cesspool of insignificant suffering? Macalister talked to me, angerlessly. Occasionally, I had a hard time following him, not least because Faruk had sent over another bottle, allegedly his best wine. Macalister had been in Vietnam; he had experienced nothing ennobling there. He was not Buddhist; he was Buddhistish. And the Pulitzer had made him vainglorious—“vainglorious” was the word he used—and now he was a bit ashamed of it all; any serious writer ought to be humiliated and humbled by fame. When he was young, like me, he said, he had thought that all the great writers knew something he didn’t. He’d thought that if he read their books he would learn something, get better. He’d thought that he would acquire what those writers had: the wisdom, the truth, the wholeness, the real shit. He had been burning to write, hungry for that knowledge. But now he knew that that hunger was vainglorious; now he knew that writers knew nothing, really—most of them were just faking it. He knew nothing. There was nothing to know, nothing on the other side. There was no walker, no path, just walking. This was it, whoever you were, wherever you were, whatever it was, and you had to make peace with that fact. “This?” I asked. “What is this?” “This. Everything.” “Fuck me.” He talked more and more as I sank into oblivion, slurring the few words of concession and agreement and fascination I could produce. As drunk as I was, it was clear to me that his sudden, sincere verbosity was due to his sense that our encounter was a fleeting one. He even helped me totter up the stairs as we were leaving the restaurant and flagged down a cab for me. But I would not get into it, no, sir, not before I had convinced him that I was going to read all his books, all of them, everything he had written, hack magazine jobs, blurbs, everything, and when he finally believed me I made him swear that he would come over to my place and have lunch at my home with me and my parents, because he was family now, he was an honorary Sarajevan, and I made him write down our phone number and promise that he would call, tomorrow, first thing in the morning. I would have made him promise some other things, but the street washers were approaching with their blasting hoses and the cabdriver honked impatiently and I had to go and off I went, drunk and high on having bonded with one of the greatest writers of our embarrassing, shit-ass time. By the time I got home I was sure I would never see him again. But he called, ladies and gentlemen of the prestigious literary-prize committees, to his eternal credit he kept his promise and called the very next morning, as I was staring at the ceiling, my eyeballs bobbing on the scum of a hangover pond. It was not even ten o’clock, for Buddha’s sake, yet Mother walked into my room, bent over the mattress to enter my painful field of vision, and handed me the phone without a word. When he said, “It’s Dick,” I frankly did not know what he was talking about. “Dick Macalister,” he said. It took me a moment to remember who he was. “So what time should I come over?” he asked. “Come over where?” “Come over for lunch.” Let me skip all the ums and ahs and all the words I fumbled as I struggled to reassemble my thinking apparatus, until I finally and arbitrarily selected the three-o’clock hour as our lunch time. There was no negotiation. Richard Macalister was coming to eat my mother’s food. I spelled out our address for him so that he could give it to a cabbie, warned him against paying more than ten convertible marks, and told him that the building was right behind the kindergarten ruin. I hung up the phone; Dick Macalister was coming. In my pajamas, I stood exposed to the glare of my parents’ morning judgment (they did not like it when I drank) and, aided by a handful of aspirin, informed them that Richard Macalister, an august American author, the winner of a Pulitzer Prize, an abstemious vegetarian and serious candidate for full-time Buddhist, was coming over for lunch at three o’clock. After a moment of silent discombobulation, my mother reminded me that our regular lunch time was one-thirty. But when I shrugged to indicate helplessness, she sighed and went to inspect the supplies in the fridge and the icebox. Presently she started issuing deployment orders: my father was to go to the produce market with a list, right now; I was going to brush my teeth and, before coffee or breakfast, hurry to the supermarket to buy bread and kefir, or whatever it was that vegetarians drank, and, also, vacuum-cleaner bags; she was going to start preparing pie dough. By the time she was clearing off the table where she would roll out the dough, my headache and apprehension were gone. Let the American come. We were going to be ready for him. Macalister arrived wearing the same clothes as the previous night—the velvet jacket, the Hawaiian shirt—in combination with a pair of snakeskin boots. My parents made him take them off. He did not complain or try to get out of it, even as I unsuccessfully tried to arrange a dispensation for him. “It is normal custom,” Father said. “Bosnian custom.” Sitting on a low shaky stool, Macalister grappled with his boots, bending his ankles to the point of fracture. Finally, he exposed a new pair of blazingly white tube socks and lined up his boots against the wall, like a good soldier. Our apartment was small, Socialist size, but Father told him which way to go as though the dining room were at the far horizon and he would have to hurry to get there before night set in. Macalister followed his directions with a benevolent smile, possibly amused by my father’s histrionics. Our dining room was also a living room and a TV room, and Father seated Macalister in the chair at the dining table that faced the television set. This was the seat that had always been contentious in my family, for the person sitting there could watch television while eating, but I don’t think Macalister recognized the honor bestowed upon him. CNN was on, but the sound was off. Our guest sat down and tucked his feet under the chair, curling up his toes. “Drink?” Father said. “Viski? Loza?” “No whiskey,” Macalister said. “What is loza?” “Loza is special drink,” Father said. “Domestic.” “It’s grappa,” I explained. “No, thanks. Water is just fine.” “Water. What water? Water is for animals,” Father said. “I’m an alcoholic,” Macalister said. “I don’t drink alcohol.” “One drink. For appetite,” Father said, opening the bottle of loza and pouring it into a shot glass. He put the glass in front of Macalister. “It is medicine, good for you.” “I’ll take that,” I said and snatched it away before Macalister’s benevolence evaporated. I needed it, anyway. My mother brought in a vast platter of smoked meat and sheep cheese perfectly arrayed, toothpicks sticking out like little flagpoles. Then she returned to the kitchen to fetch another couple of plates lined with pieces of spinach and potato pie, the crust so crisp as to look positively chitinous. “No meat,” Mother said. “Vegetation.” “Vegetarian,” I corrected her. “No meat,” she said. “Thank you,” Macalister said. “You have little meat,” Father said, swallowing a slice. “Not going to kill you.” Then came a basket of fragrant bread and a deep bowl brimming with mixed-vegetable salad. “Wow,” Macalister said. “That’s nowhere near the whole thing,” I said. “You’ll have to eat until you explode.” On the soundless TV, there were images from Baghdad. Two men were carrying a corpse with a steak-tartare-like mess instead of a face. American soldiers in bulletproof gear had their rifles pointed at a ramshackle door. A clean-shaven, suntanned general stated something that was inaudible to us. From his seat, Father glanced sideways at the screen, still chomping on the smoked meat. He turned toward Macalister, pointed a bladelike hand at his chest, and asked, “Do you like Bush?” Macalister looked at me—the same fucking bemused smile stuck on his face—to determine whether this was a joke. I shook my head: alas, it was not. I had not expected Macalister’s visit to turn into such a complete disaster so quickly. “Tata, nemoj,” I said. “Pusti covjeka.” “I think Bush is a gaping asshole,” Macalister said, unfazed. “But I like America and I like democracy. People are entitled to their mistakes.” “Stupid American people,” Father said and put another slice of meat in his mouth. Macalister laughed, for the first time since I’d met him. He slanted his head to the side and let out a deep, chesty growl of a laugh. In shame, I looked around the room, as though I had never seen it. The souvenirs from our years in Africa: the fake-ebony figurines, the screechingly colorful wicker bowls, a malachite ashtray containing entangled paper clips and Mother’s amber pendants. A lace handiwork whose delicate patterns were violated by prewar coffee stains. The carpet with an angular horse pattern. All these familiar things had survived the war and displacement. I had grown up in this apartment, and now it seemed old, coarse, and anguished. Father continued his interrogation relentlessly: “You win Pulitzer Prize?” “Yes, sir,” Macalister said. I admired him for putting up with it. “You wrote good book,” Father said. “You hard worked.” Macalister smiled and looked down at his hand. He was embarrassed, perfectly devoid of vainglory. He straightened out his toes and then curled them even deeper inward. “Tata, nemoj,” I pleaded. “Pulitzer Prize big prize,” Father said. “You are rich?” Abruptly, it dawned on me what he was doing—he used to interrogate my girlfriends this way, to ascertain whether they were good for me. He wanted to make sure that I was making the right decisions, that I was going in the right direction. “No, I’m not rich. Not at all,” Macalister said. “But I manage.” “Why?” “Tata!” “Why what?” “Why you are not rich?” Macalister gave another generous laugh, but before he could answer, Mother walked in carrying the main dish: a roasted leg of lamb and a crowd of potato halves drowning in fat. “Mama!” I cried. “Pa rek’o sam ti da je vegetarijanac.” “Nemoj da vices. On moze krompira.” “That’s O.K.,” Macalister said, as though he understood. “I’ll just have some potatoes.” Mother grabbed his empty plate and put four large potatoes on it, followed by a few pieces of pie and some salad and bread, until the plate was heaping with food, all of it soaked in the lamb fat that came with the potatoes. I was on the verge of tears; it seemed that insult upon insult had been launched at our guest. But Macalister did not object or try to stop her—he succumbed to us, to who we were. “Thank you, Ma’am,” he said. I poured another shot of loza for myself, then went to the kitchen to get some beer. “Dosta si pio,” Mother said, but I ignored her. My father cut the meat, then sloshed the thick, juicy slices in the fat before depositing them on our respective plates. Macalister politely waited for everyone to start eating, then began chipping away at the pile before him. The food on Father’s plate was neatly organized into taste units: the meat and potatoes on one side, the mixed salad on the other, the pie at the top. He proceeded to exterminate it, morsel by morsel, not uttering a word, not putting down his fork and knife for a moment, only glancing up at the TV screen now and then. We ate in silence, as though the meal were a job we had to get done, thoroughly and quickly. Macalister held his fork in his right hand, chewing slowly. I was mortified imagining what this—this meal, this apartment, this family—looked like to him, what he made of our small, crowded existence, of our unsophisticated fare designed for famished people, of the loss that flickered in everything we did or didn’t do. This home was the museum of our lives, and it was no Louvre, let me tell you. I was awaiting his judgment, expecting condescension at best, contempt at worst. I was ready to hate him. But he munched his allotment slowly, uninterestedly, restoring his benevolent half smile after every bite. He liked the coffee; he loved the banana cake. He washed down each forkful with a sip from his demitasse; he actually grunted with pleasure. “I am so full I will never eat again,” he said. “You’re an excellent cook, Ma’am. Thank you very much.” “It is good food, natural, no American food, no cheeseburger,” Mother said. “I will ask you question,” Father said. “You must tell truth.” “Don’t answer,” I said. “You don’t have to answer.” Macalister must have thought I was joking, for he said, “Shoot.” “My son is writer, you are writer. You are good, you win Pulitzer.” I knew exactly what was coming. “Nemoj, Tata,” I begged, but he was unrelenting. “Tell me, is he good? Be objective,” Father said, pronouncing “objective” as “obyective.” Mother was looking at Macalister expectantly. I poured myself another drink. “It takes a while to become a good writer,” Macalister said. “I think he’s well on his way.” “He always like to read,” Mother said. “Everything else, lazy,” Father said. “But always read books.” “When he was young man, he always wrote poesy. Sometimes I find his poems, and I cry,” Mother said. “I’m sure he was talented,” Macalister said. Perhaps he had, in fact, read something I wrote. I must have been drunk, for I was holding back tears. “Do you have children?” Mother asked him. “No,” Macalister said. “Actually, yes. A son. He lives with his mother in Hawaii. I am not a good father.” “It is not easy,” my father said. “Always worry.” “No,” Macalister said. “I would never say it’s easy.” Mother reached across the table for my hand, tugged it to her lips, and kissed it warmly. At which point I stood up and left the room. He had drunk water from Bascarsija, but he had no trouble forgetting Sarajevo. Not even a postcard did he send us; once he was gone from our lives, he was gone for good. For a while, every time I talked to my father on the phone he asked me if I had spoken with my friend Macalister. Invariably, I had to explain that we never had been and never would be friends. “Americans are cold,” Mother diagnosed the predicament. I did go to see him when he came to Chicago to read at the library. I sat in the back row, far from the stage, well beyond the reach of his gaze. He wore the same Birkenstocks and white socks, but the shirt was flannel now, and there were blotches of gray in his Bakelite hair. Time does nothing but hand you down shabbier things. He read from “Nothing We Say,” a passage in which Cupper flips out in a mall, tears a public phone off the wall, then beats the security guard unconscious with the receiver, until he finds himself surrounded by police aiming guns at him: The feral eyes beyond the cocked guns glared at Cupper. His hand was suspended midair over the security guard, the blood-washed receiver poised to break the man’s face completely open. The security guard whimpered and gurgled up a couple of pink bubbles. The cops were screaming at him, but Cupper could hear nothing—they opened and closed their mouths like dying fish. He recognized that they were burning to shoot him, and it was their zeal that made him want to live. He wanted to keep bothering them with his existence. He straightened up, dropped the receiver, pressed his hands against the nape of his neck. The first kick rolled him onto his side. The second broke his ribs. The third made him groan with pleasure. Macalister lowered his voice to make it sound hoarse and smoky; he kept lowering it as the level of violence increased. Somebody gasped; the woman next to me leaned forward and put her bejewelled hand to her mouth in a delicate gesture of horror. I didn’t, of course, wait in line so that he could sign my book; I didn’t have “Nothing We Say” with me. But I watched him as he looked up at his enthralled readers, pressing his book to their chests like a found child, as they leaned over the table to get closer to him. He smiled at them steadfastly, unflinchingly. I was convinced that I had receded into worldly irrelevance for him; I had no access to the Buddhistish realms in which he operated with cold metaphysical disinterest. But I followed his work avidly; you could say I became dedicated. I read and reread “Nothing We Say” and all his old books; on his Web site I signed up for updates on his readings and publications; I collected magazines that published his interviews. I felt I had some intimate knowledge of him, and I was hoping to detect traces of us in his writing, something that would confirm our evanescent presence in the world, much like those subatomic phenomena whose existence is proved by the short-lived presence of hypothetical particles. Finally, his new novel, “The Noble Truths of Suffering,” came out. From the first page, I liked Tiny Walker, the typically Macalisterian main character: an ex-marine who would have been a hero in the battle of Falluja had he not been dishonorably discharged for failing to corroborate the official story of the rape of a twelve-year-old Iraqi girl and the murder of her and her entire family, an unfortunate instance of miscommunication with local civilians. Tiny returns home from Iraq to Chicago and spends time visiting his old haunts on the North Side, trying vainly to drink himself into a stupor, out of turpitude. He has nothing to say to the people he used to know; he breaks shot glasses against their foreheads. The city barked at him and he snarled back. High out of his mind, he has a vision of a snake invasion and torches his studio with everything he owns in it, which is not much. A flashback that turns into a nightmare suggests that he was the one who slit the girl’s throat. Lamia Hassan was her name. She speaks to him in unintelligibly accented English. He wakes up on a bus to Janesville, Wisconsin. Only upon arrival does he realize that he is there to visit the family of Sergeant Briggs, the psychopathic bastard whose idea it was to rape Lamia. He finds the house, knocks on the door, but there is nobody there, just a TV playing a children’s show. Tiny stumbles into a nearby bar and drinks with the locals, who buy him booze as an expression of support for our men and women in uniform. He tells them that Sergeant Briggs, a genuine American hero, was one of his best buddies in Iraq. He also tells them about his friend Declan, who got shot by a sniper. Briggs dragged him home under fire and got his knee blown off. Tiny tells them not to trust the newspapers, or the cocksuckers who say that we are losing the war. We are tearing new holes in the ass of the world, he says. We are breaking it open. Outside, snow is piling up. He steals a pickup truck that is parked in front of the joint and goes back to Sergeant Briggs’s house. This time, he does not knock on the door. He goes around to the back, where he exposes himself—hard and red, his dick throbbing—to a little girl who is playing in the snow. The girl smiles and looks at him calmly, untroubled by his presence, as though she were floating in her own aquarium. He zips himself up and walks back to the truck, stepping gingerly into his own footprints. Now he drives farther north, to the Upper Peninsula. Declan came from Iron Mountain. Declan is dead, it turns out, but Tiny talks to him as he drives through the snowstorm. It seems that Declan lost his mind after the unfortunate incident. Briggs forced him to get on top of the girl, taunted him when he could not penetrate her. Tiny watched over him afterward, because Declan was ripe for suicide. And then he deliberately walked into an ambush. Briggs dragged home a corpse. In the midst of a blinding blizzard, a wall ten feet tall emerges before Tiny. He brakes before he hits it. He steps out of the pickup truck and walks through the wall, like a ghost. He arrives in Iron Mountain in the middle of the night. He wakes up freezing in a parking lot. Everywhere he looked, there was nothing but immaculate whiteness. His clothes are soaked in blood, but he has no cuts or wounds on his body. He finds Declan’s parents’ house. Before he rings the bell, he notices that in the bed of his pickup there is a gigantic deer with intricate antlers, its side torn open. Tiny can see its insides, pale and thoroughly dead. Declan’s parents know who Tiny is—Declan spoke about him. They are ancient and tired, tanned with grief. They want him to stay for dinner. Declan’s mother gives him Declan’s old shirt, which is far too big for Tiny. Tiny changes in an upstairs room that smells sickeningly of honeysuckle Airwick. On the walls, there are faded photos of African landscapes: a herd of elephants strolling toward sunset; a small pirogue with a silhouette of a rower on a vast river. It was only when they sat down to eat that I recognized Declan’s mother and father as my parents. The old man asks incessant questions about Iraq and war, keeps pouring bourbon into Tiny’s glass over the mother’s objections. The mother keeps bringing in the same food—meat and potatoes and, instead of spinach and potato, apple and rhubarb pies. The father segregates the food on his plate. There was absolutely no doubt: everything bespoke my parents—the way they talked, the way they ate, the way Declan’s mother grabbed Tiny’s hand and kissed it, pressing her lips into the ghost of Declan’s hand. Tiny is suddenly ravenous, and he eats and eats. He begins to tell them about the unfortunate instance of miscommunication with local civilians, but leaves Declan out of it. He tells them the gory details of the rape—Lamia’s moans, the flapping of her skinny arms, the blood pouring out of her—and the old man listens to him unflinchingly, while the mother goes to the kitchen to fetch coffee. They seem untroubled, as if they’re not even hearing him. For an instant, he thinks that he is not speaking at all, that this is all happening in his head, but then he realizes that there is nothing inside them, nothing but grief. Other people’s children are of no concern to them, for there was no horror in the world beyond Declan’s eternal absence from it. Tiny is sobbing. “Let me ask you a question,” the old man said. “You must tell me the truth.” Tiny nodded. “My son was a soldier. You’re a soldier.” Tiny knew exactly what was coming. Let it come—he was ready now. “Tell me, was he a good man, a good soldier?” The old man lurched forward and touched Tiny’s shoulder. His hand was cold. Outside, snow was slowly falling. Each flake came down patiently, abseiling down an obscure silky rope. “It takes a while to become a good soldier,” Tiny said. “Declan was good. He was a good man.”
A Spoiled Man There he stood at the stone gateway of the Harounis’ weekend home above Islamabad, a small bowlegged man with a lopsided, battered face. When the American wife’s car drove up, turning off the Murree road, Rezak saluted, eyes straight ahead, not looking at her. She sat in the back and smiled at him from the milky darkness of the car’s interior. What a funny little man! Once, he had happened to be walking past as she was driven through the gate, and she had waved. In the few weeks since, he had waited hours to receive this recognition from her, Friday when the family came, Sunday when they left. He had plenty of time. The car continued up the winding flagstone drive and disappeared among the rows of jacaranda trees, blooming purple now in late April. Below lay the roadside town of Kalapani, the bazaar pierced by the horns of buses collecting passengers; above stood these walls, which enclosed ten acres of steep land, planted with apples, pine, jasmine, roses, and lilies that the wife had brought from America. The wind blew with a rushing sound through the pine branches and combed the fresh green grass sprouting all over the hillside after the winter rains. He made himself useful. In May, pickup trucks full of summer flowers were brought from the nurseries that surrounded the city on the plains below. When the first truck arrived, he stood at the gate, watching the gardeners unload the pots, handing them down to each other and then carrying them up to the house—the loaded vehicle couldn’t climb the steep drive. Without asking, he passed through the gate, which he had never done before, took one of the clay pots in his arms, and walked up to the house with it, rolling slightly on his down-at-heel shoes. “Hey, old man, you better leave that before you hurt yourself,” called a gardener standing in the bed of the pickup. “I’m from the mountains, brother,” Rezak said. “I can carry you up on my back, and one of these in each hand.” The pickup driver, who stood to one side smoking a cigarette, grinned. The old majordomo, Ghulam Rasool, had strolled down to watch the show, a potbellied figure with a tall lambskin hat resting at a slight angle on a fringe of white hair. He sent one of the gardeners up to get his hookah and, comfortably settling himself in the watchman’s chair by the gate, looked out over the valley below. At midday, he said to Rezak, “Come on then, and break bread with us.” Rezak looked down at his feet. “I’d need to put stones in my gizzard like a chicken to digest the rich food that you good people eat.” The majordomo tried to convince him, and the gardeners also pressed, but Rezak remained stubborn. “You didn’t ask for help—you don’t owe me anything.” “Suit yourself then,” Ghulam Rasool said finally. The gardeners walked up the drive, talking, and Rezak stood watching them, wishing he had accepted. He was alone now. In the distance, he could see a swimming pool with curving sides, overhung by chinar trees and willows. Melancholy invaded him, and also peace, borne by the whirring of cicadas nestled among the rocks that punctuated the grounds of the estate. He took a bag from his pocket, undid the elastic band, and tucked a quid of tobacco in his cheek, chopped green naswar. In the Kalapani bazaar, he ate at his usual teahouse, day-old bread soaked in milk, prescribed by a quack homeopath against a fistula that had tormented him for many years. The waiter brought the sopping bread and, when the crowd subsided, came over to have a few words about the flow of tourists up to Murree, more each year, this season begun so early. Lonely as he was, Rezak relied upon his welcome in the teahouse, his connection with it. When the older chickens at the poultry sheds where he worked were culled, Rezak would bring down one of the healthier birds, asking the teahouse to cook it, as a holiday from his bread diet. He shared with whoever was there, insistent, forcing his friend the waiter to eat. “There, look, I’ve taken some,” the waiter would say, pulling off a wing. Even he, hardened by a diet of stale leftovers from the kitchen, was dubious about eating this time-expired bird. “No, you have to really eat.” Once, Rezak even became angry about it, leaving abruptly, the chicken still on the table. After finishing his lunch, Rezak walked through a government pine forest to the poultry sheds. The owner had bribed the wardens to allow construction extending into the forest, and each summer his men set fires at the base of pines planted by the British a hundred years earlier, in order to kill the trees and open up more space. Rezak came to his home—not the workers’ quarters attached to the sheds but a hut that he had built for himself, a little wooden cubicle, faced with tin and mounted on thick legs. Several decades before, in his early twenties, he had fallen out with his step-brothers over shared property up in the mountains, a few acres of land on which they grew wheat and potatoes, bordered by apricot trees. Outmaneuvered, dispossessed, he had come down to the plains, vowing never to see his family again. This box had become his home and consolation. Each place he worked, he set it up, and then, when he quarrelled with the other workers or the boss, as he invariably did, he would take it apart and cart it away—always he kept a store of money, untouched no matter what, enough to pay for trucking this little house, this nest, to whatever place his heart had set on next. This was his guarantee of independence. Opening the heavy padlock, he lifted the door hatch and climbed in, tucking his shoes into a wooden box nailed below the cramped hatch. Tiny red lights, run off an electrical connection drawn from the poultry sheds, were strung all over the ceiling and warmed the chamber. He could sit but not stand inside, and had covered the floor with a cotton mattress, which gave off a ripe animal odor, deeply comforting to him. A funnel and pipe served as a handy spittoon, a mirror and shelf allowed him to shave without getting out of bed, an electric fan cooled him. Photographs of actresses plastered the walls and ceiling, giving him company. Fickle and choosy, he shuffled and moved them, discarding one, stripping the photographs from the wall with a cold expression. For several months, he had been favoring a Pathan actress known as the Atomic Bum, who had wagged her way through a string of hit movies in the past year. A few days later, loitering around the gates of the Harouni estate again, Rezak decided to go in, stepping through a narrow entry set into the wall. The owners would be in Islamabad for the week, and earlier he had seen the watchman down in the bazaar. By climbing the slope of the mountain opposite, he had observed the household routine, marked the servants’ quarters, watched the owners sitting on a terrace, brightly clothed. Close up, the house seemed to him ugly, made of large rough-hewn stones, with a vast wall of glass across the front, looking out over the valley and down to Islamabad, forty kilometres below. Nothing to it—no metalwork, no paint, no decorative lights, only size to recommend it. The house blended into the landscape, as if it were one of the boulders littering the mountain slope. He found Ghulam Rasool sitting in a chair under a tree, reading a newspaper. “Ah, the volunteer,” he said amiably. “Come on then, have a pull on the hookah.” Rezak sat down on the edge of a charpoy, dangling his short legs. “I’m killing myself with this poison instead.” He spat and then dipped coarse green tobacco under his gum. “You work up in Ayub’s sheds, don’t you?” “When Ayub needs me, I work. He pays me in dying chickens and loose change.” He tried to make a joke of it. “That’s what I hear—Ayub shaves both sides and then trims out the middle piece.” Rezak laughed mirthlessly. “The way I’m going, soon I’ll be eating grass.” He paused. “I’ve been thinking. I can do woodwork. I know about trees. I’ll carry things, work in the garden. Feed me and I’ll work here and do whatever you want. You don’t even have to give me a room. I’ve got a portable cubicle that I live in—you can stick me in some corner.” The owner of the estate, Sohail Harouni, the son of a man who made a fortune in cement and other industries, had, while he was at university in the United States, married an American woman named Sonya. “No, I really love it here,” she would say defensively when asked at a party. “It’s strange, it’s like a drug. I think I miss the States so much—and I do—and then after a month there I’m completely bored. Pakistan makes everything else seem washed out. This is my place now. I don’t do enough, but I feel as if here I can at least do something for the good.” She did fit in more than most foreign women. She studied Urdu, to the point where she could communicate quite effectively, made an effort to meet Pakistanis outside the circuit in Islamabad. Even her husband’s catty aunts admitted that she was one of the few foreigners who wore Pakistani clothes without looking like either an Amazon or a Christmas tree. And yet, though she insisted that she loved Pakistan, sometimes it all became too much. “I hate it, everyone’s a crook, nothing works here!” she would sob, fighting with her husband. Then she would storm out to her car and retreat to the Kalapani house, forty minutes away, arriving unannounced, withdrawing darkly into the master bedroom, while the servants scrambled to prepare her meal. In the evening she would wander the large stone house, slowly becoming calm, speaking with her friends on the telephone. Her husband would drive up to spend the night with her, bringing their little son as a pledge of their love, and they would make peace. It happened that, soon after Rezak made his plea to Ghulam Rasool, Sonya had a huge row with her husband and ran away to Kalapani. The next morning, she sat drinking coffee on the sunny terrace, which had a view out over the government forest, now heavily logged by poachers, and then down to Islamabad and Rawalpindi. The strain of the fight had shaded into a desire for simplicity and order, an almost pleasant teariness. Ghulam Rasool came up from the garden, coughing so that she would not be startled. Of all the servants, he was the one she most trusted with her son. She herself felt comfortable with him, with his gentle, stoic manner, with his prayers and his superstitions. Her blond hair held back by a black velvet band, she wore a simple white blouse, white slacks, and lay on a divan, immaculate, reading a slender volume of poetry. She had been an English major, and turned to a handful of familiar books as a restorative—Yeats or Rilke, Keats, to be taken as needed. “Excuse me, Begum Sahib. I wanted to ask, it’s time to think about the roses.” She knew that he wanted to soften her attitude toward her husband. In any case, she liked him to come and talk with her, and they used as a pretext his supervision of the garden, although he had always been a valet and knew almost nothing about flowers or trees. She put down her book, and they considered the roses and the placement of the annuals. “Begging your pardon, the local people drive their goats into the Ali Khan orchard, and they’re destroying the saplings that you brought from America. There’s an old man. He can’t do hard labor, but he’s a reliable person. His family abandoned him. He even has his own portable hut—he’ll take it there and live as a guard. You don’t have to give him a salary. Just food and a few rupees for pocket money.” But she wanted to give the old man the same as all the others. It made her happy to think of spoiling him in his old age. Newly hired, Rezak moved to the Ali Khan lands, a walled parcel of four or five acres just up the road from the main house. Like the other servants and gardeners, he received a salary of nine thousand rupees a month, more than he had ever made in his life. The gardeners from the big house transported his cubicle in pieces, then helped him reassemble it next to a hut that was already standing there, a single stone-walled room, with an open hearth, which Rezak could use as a storeroom and kitchen. The land had no electrical connection, so he bought oil lamps, which glowed soothingly as he went about his evening chores, his routine of dinner and bedtime. The season turned hot just as Rezak moved to his new home, coloring the green fruit on the apple and peach and pear trees imported from America. He devoted all his grateful heart to the small orchard, watering the trees with a bucket from the stream that ran through the property, working manure into the soil with a spade. Taking a bus to Islamabad, with his own money he bought three grapevines, carried them back wrapped in straw, and trained them up the legs of his tin-clad cubicle. He planted radishes, corn, cauliflower, onions, peas, more than he alone could eat, so that as they ripened he could take baskets of produce to the big house. With his second paycheck he bought a goat for milk—before, in his previous jobs, it would have cost many months’ savings. One day, the master and his wife took some guests to the Ali Khan land for a picnic lunch. In the morning, servants brought carpets and divans, tubs full of ice for the wine, grills for the meat, firewood in case the party lasted into the night. Rezak spent the morning hours ferrying boxes and chairs and rugs down from the main road to the picnic spot, taking the biggest loads, pushing himself forward, claiming precedence on his plot of land. The guests arrived, Pakistanis and foreigners, a dozen or so of them, and were soon sprawled on the carpets, drinking wine, resolved into several groups. Walking briskly down the steep path, sure-footed, holding a floppy yellow sun hat with a trailing ribbon in her hand, Sonya had said to Rezak as she passed, “Salaam, baba.” His heart, his soul melted, as if a queen had spoken to a foot soldier. She had given him charge of the garden, of the trees that she had brought from her homeland, and now she was seeing the results of his husbandry for the first time. All the other servants knew what to do—Ghulam Rasool poured the wine and passed the hors d’oeuvres, a cook readied the fire and skewered kebabs on metal rods, the gardeners spread out as a kind of picket, to prevent anyone from looking over the walls. Rezak’s shyness and diffidence contested with a desire to take part, to show off all the work he had done in the orchard. He squatted under an apple tree, trying not to look at the sahibs, pulling up sprigs of grass, tying them into figures and knots, hoping to be summoned. Restless, he knelt down by the cook and took over the job of tending the fire, pushing aside the weedy boy who acted as the cook’s helper. Sohail Harouni was a handsome, cheerful man with not a care in his life, who enjoyed giving parties more than anything else. After a few glasses of wine, he called a young valet and told him to bring the stereo from the main house and hook it up. A driver raced to Murree, ten kilometres up the mountain, and bought a roll of heavy wire. Glasses in hand, the guests and even the host enthusiastically helped string the wire from a roadside shop down through the trees. When the party had come far along, when Harouni and the guests were standing in a circle, drinks in hand, gesturing expansively, speaking loudly, Sonya walked away from the group. Looking along the length of the valley, she caught sight of Rezak’s cabin, several terraces below the picnic spot. Finding the path, she picked her way toward it, and Rezak, who had been watching her, quickly followed, leaping down a steep bank so that he could receive her at his little hut, saluting. “It’s wonderful!” Sonya exclaimed, circling around the cubicle, Rezak at her heels. “Hey, everyone,” she called to her guests, going over to where she could be heard. “Come see.” Short, bowlegged Rezak bustled around, showing off the appliances and the refinements—the pipe that drained the inside spittoon, the cupboards and drawers set into the outside walls for his tools and clothes and kit, windows that could be propped open or removed entirely, a skylight of red glass, thick rush matting on the roof to keep the inside cold or hot, with a rubber bladder fixed to the walls that shot water up through a pipe when he squeezed it, wetting the rushes—evaporative cooling. Sonya poked her head inside the stuffy, lurid chamber, considered the photographs of movie starlets plastered on the walls. The guests peered about, inspecting this nest, its door and windows ajar, like a car on a dealer’s lot with hood and trunk propped open. “If there’s electricity, then it’s really something,” Rezak said, eager, grinning with all his teeth, surrounded by the sahibs and the memsahibs. “I used to have colored lights inside. There’s work to be done, that’s true. It’s all broken from carrying it up and down and all over.” In his exuberance, he pulled at a cupboard door that wouldn’t open till it tore off in his hand. Even this didn’t dampen him. “See, that’s one way to take it apart!” “That’s the man’s whole life in a nutshell, isn’t it?” the Australian Ambassador, a tall man with a correspondingly tall forehead and ginger hair, remarked. As they were returning to the picnic, Sonya said to her husband, “The poor man should have electricity for a radio and for lighting. He lives all alone here—imagine how bored he is.” “Are you kidding?” Harouni said. “These guys don’t get bored.” But, after the party, the wire that had been laid temporarily so that there would be music remained in place—for the next party. Rezak strung lights on the outside of the cubicle, like wedding decorations, and hung a light bulb in the stone hut where he cooked. He bought a radio and, finally, a cheap television, something he had never even thought of wanting. He would lie in his little cocoon, soft red lights glowing, the television volume turned up, and drink cup after cup of tea kept hot in a vacuum thermos, a refinement that made him smack his lips with appreciation. Sitting in the Kalapani teahouse one morning, Rezak met a young man who lived near his childhood village, high in the mountains. “The government pushed the road up to Koti,” the man told him. “The bus runs from Kowar now. That changed things, you can bet.” Hearing of the places he had known all his life made Rezak restless. He had left home determined never to go back. Now he wondered what his stepbrothers had told the neighbors about his disappearance. He wanted his family to know of his success. “You and I grew up drinking from the same streams, breathing the same air. You have to accept my hospitality now that we’ve met. I beg you. Come for a cup of tea, and then I’ll walk you back down here.” He took the man by the arm and almost dragged him out of the tea stall. He hurriedly carried a charpoy onto the terrace in front of the stone cooking hut, put a pillow on it, ran inside and lit a fire in the hearth, then brought out a table, wiping it with a rag. Luckily, he had a packet of biscuits and he arranged these on a plate and carried them out with the tea. The man knew of Rezak’s family, but had little news of them. Forgetting his bitterness and the wrong they had done him, Rezak began speaking of his stepbrothers and nephews, of their fertile land, of the well near their fields. “God has been good to me, more than I deserve. I have only one wish, that he had given me sons of my own, as my brothers have.” He ran his hands over his face. Rezak had not been able to resist boasting of his salary. The man considered for a moment, his eyes alighting on a locked trunk inside the cooking hut that must be full of clothes and who knew what else. He looked at the neat vegetable patch and at the two goats—Rezak had bought another when fodder ran low in the forest and they were cheap. The man had been shown the weird little cubicle, furnished with a radio, a television even. “Look, my cousin has a daughter. Something went wrong when she was born, and she’s a bit simple. But she can cook and sew and take your goats out to graze. She’s quite pretty even. She’s young enough to bear you a son. Her father can barely take care of his other children. Why don’t you let me arrange a marriage?” “You’re making fun of an old man,” Rezak replied. But hope and desire pierced his heart when he thought of it. A woman in his house, even one who was not right in the head! And she could bear him a son, and that would be worth anything at all. Now that Rezak had money, the boy would go to school, he would learn to read and write, become—Rezak could not even imagine what. The son of an old servant at the main house had become a doctor and now continually begged his father to retire and come live with him. Rezak would die happy after that. They spoke back and forth all afternoon. In the end, they agreed not only that the girl would be without a dowry but even that Rezak would pay a quite substantial amount of money for her, which the family would take in installments. A few days later, the father delivered the feebleminded girl. The girl’s family had not come, and the two men did not celebrate the marriage, but brought the maulvi quietly to perform the nikah. When the father left, the girl followed him and cried, until they were forced to lock her in the hut. After seeing the father onto the bus, Rezak wandered down through the bazaar, stopping to talk for a minute with the man who sold samosas, saying nothing of his marriage, but saving it for himself. He felt more equal now among these people, the shopkeepers, passersby, families. Someone waited for him also, the house he returned to would not be empty. The poor girl must be frightened, he thought, and turned homeward, stopping to buy a three-kilo box of sweets, fat yellow ludhoos, ghulab jaman, barfi, shahi tukrah. He rattled the chain as he opened the lock, so that she wouldn’t be startled. She wore makeup, lipstick that had smudged, rouge that made her cheeks almost pink, new clothes made of shiny white cloth—at least that much had been done to celebrate their wedding day. It pleased him that she reached and covered her head with her dupatta—shy before him, her husband. He sat across from her. She kept her eyes cast down. He opened the box of sweets, carefully unknotting the string, took a ludhoo, and held it out to her on his palm, whispering, “Take this, it’s O.K., don’t be afraid.” He held it there. “Go on.” And after a moment, without looking up, she reached out and took it. Gradually, she became accustomed to living with him. Once he saw that she would not run away, he let her roam as she wanted. The girl, a tiny thing of nineteen or twenty, had an impediment and spoke not in sentences but rather in strings of sound, cooing or repeating words—her condition was really worse than Rezak had expected—but when she settled in he found that she could more or less cook. He let her sleep in the stone hut, until one night, as he was watching television in his cubicle, she cautiously lifted the door flap, stood absorbing the lit red chamber for a moment, and then nimbly leaped in, eyes fixed on the television. After that, she always slept with him. As an adolescent boy, Rezak had been married, so long ago that he couldn’t remember what his bride looked like. She had died in childbirth, less than a year after the marriage, and the child had died, too. Now, after so many years, Rezak again had a companion in his home. Life and hope, the flames of individuality that had burned out to nothing, to smoke, again flickered within him. Returning at night from the bazaar with a treat of late-season mangos or a bit of meat, or stopping work in the orchard at noon to have his midday meal, which the girl warmed and served to him with hot chapatis, he looked forward to her chattering. She had a pretty, almost animal way of watching him while he ate, perched beside him, and after he finished she brought him a glass of water from the clay pot. In the evening, before he came in, she made tea, and when he groaned because of the aching in his legs she massaged him. Gradually, he found himself able to communicate with her, and, more important, she communicated with him, showed happiness when he returned at night, cared for him when he felt ill or sad. She did not, however, bear him a child. Now that his wife cooked for him and pastured the goats, Rezak had less to do, especially after the trees lost their leaves and work in the orchard ceased. His wife sat in the dark smoky hut, cooing to herself. He would often go down to the teahouse in Kalapani bazaar and sit for several hours, watching buses fill and lumber off up the mountain to Murree or to Kashmir, or race, brakes squealing at the curves, down to the cities, honking their horns to call the passengers. He strolled idly through the bazaar, wearing a new woollen vest and carrying a walking stick; or he went to the big house and sat smoking a hookah with Ghulam Rasool. Returning to his hut at dusk after one of these excursions, he found that the fire had burned out in the hearth and his wife was gone. The goats, too, were missing, although she should have brought them in by this time. Sitting in the cold room, he stared at the calendar nailed up on the wall, which showed an elaborate Chinese pagoda. He rubbed his hands together, trying to control his anger. Twice before, she had disappeared at nightfall, and he’d found her far down in the valley, cowering behind some rocks. When he approached her, she grew frightened and covered her face with her hands. At dark, she still had not returned. Rezak took the lantern, lit the tiny flame, and went out, the two goats scrambling in, bleating, when he opened the wooden gate that led down into the valley. One of the neighbors called, “Hey, Rezak, can’t it wait till morning?” “What can I tell you. My poor old lady’s disappeared again.” The neighbor sent a little boy to help with the search. Rezak walked all over and called and called. He went home, hoping that she would be there waiting for him, but he saw no glimmer of light in the cooking hut. As he sat in the cold, the sound of twigs breaking as he laid the fire seemed particularly loud. The fire caught, crackling, slowly warming the room. Mechanically he threw a handful of tea in the kettle, boiled the water, mechanically poured it into the cup. He didn’t have it in him to be angry now. Without eating dinner, without turning on the television, as he did every night, he lay alone in the dark cabin, wondering what could have become of her. What if she was lying hurt somewhere in the forest? In the morning he woke before first light, hurriedly dressed, and went out. He didn’t know where to look, which direction to turn. Living alone for years, he had learned not to ask for help. Neighbors would do whatever they could once or twice or five times, but, ultimately, they would grow cold and resentful. He walked along the paths that she might have taken, then deep into the woods to the places where she cut grass. Once, he saw a cloth that he thought might be her shawl, but coming close he saw that it had been rained on and must have been lying there for days. Finally, he went to ask the Harouni retainers for help. Going into the servants’ common room, he found Ghulam Rasool lying peacefully on a charpoy, his unlit hookah beside him. The fireplace chimney had backed up, as it always did, filling the low-ceilinged room with layers of acrid pine smoke. As Rezak walked into this familiar room, he broke down for the first time. His arms hung loosely as he shuffled up to the bed and stood with his face contorted. “My wife disappeared,” he blurted out, before he had even said salaam. “I can’t find her anywhere. She’s gone.” Flat tears slipped out of his gummy eyes and disappeared into the wrinkles of his face. Remembering himself, he reached down and shook Ghulam Rasool’s hand respectfully. “What do you mean, disappeared?” Ghulam Rasool asked, startled. Squeezing Rezak’s arm to make him sit on the charpoy, he called out through the door, “Hey, one of you boys, come here.” Four gardeners answered the summons and, after asking a few questions, ignored Rezak. They huddled together and laid out their plan, eager as a pack of hounds, then headed out, their wooden staffs tapping quickly as they walked off on separate paths. Late at night, they straggled back, one by one, having found no trace of the woman. In the morning, early, they went out again, determined to find her. They searched the mountains, the farthest terraced fields, went to the nearby villages. The next day, again they searched from dawn to dusk, and then the next, but with less and less determination. One of them asked at every bus stop from Murree down to Rawalpindi. Another went all the way to the girl’s family home up in the mountains, almost in Kashmir, but they had seen nothing of her—in any case, she couldn’t possibly have made the long journey alone. Finally, only Rezak kept searching. He forgot where he had already been, returning to the same places, as if this time he might find her there. One morning, getting ready to go out and continue the search, he sat down again, took off his coat, and lay down on the bed. Imbecile, chattering—but she was gone, dead or stolen, taken to the brothels of Pindi or Karachi. He prepared himself to bear the loneliness again. Every year at Christmas, the Harounis gave a big party at Kalapani, with roast goose, a twenty-foot tree in the entrance hall of the house, and a ho-hoing Santa Claus for the children. Trucks brought logs for a bonfire from the Harounis’ farm down on the plains, so that late at night the servants could grill spicy, greasy kebabs on the coals for the heavy drinkers and mull cauldrons of spiced punch for the rest. The guests came up from Islamabad singly or in long chains of cars, blowing in through the door with wrapped presents and bottles of wine and champagne, which Ghulam Rasool piled on a long table in the hall. Before dinner, the mistress came into the kitchen. The cook stood rubbing his hands on his apron, sidelined in his own domain, as she took a big bowl under her arm and poked with a spatula at the mashed potatoes, which the cook had already beaten to a creamy smoothness. Ghulam Rasool had been following her impassively as she performed her inspection. “Excuse me, Begum Sahib, may I trouble you with a small request?” “Of course,” she said, touching him lightly on the shoulder. He had become accustomed to this, although at first it had disturbed him. Briefly, he explained about the disappearance of Rezak’s wife. “But Ghulam Rasool, you should have told me right away. What can I do?” Ghulam Rasool had an encyclopedic knowledge of his master’s friends, their power, their wealth, and he took great pride in these connections. When he saw Omar Bukhari, the son of the Inspector General of Police, arrive at the party, he had sent a gardener to fetch Rezak and told him to wait in the kitchen. “If Bukhari Sahib would speak to the police in Murree . . .” She went into the living room and found Bukhari looming over a French girl, who had come with someone else, insisting that she must let him arrange a trip into the tribal areas of the Frontier, which were off-limits to foreigners. “Really, Delphine, you should go—it’s amazing, and you’ll never have the chance otherwise,” the hostess said. “Omar, can I pull you away for a moment?” Bukhari followed her to the candle-lit dining room. “So, Ghulam Rasool Sahib, what’s going on?” he asked. The Harounis’ friends all knew Ghulam Rasool and joked that he had more power than many federal ministers. Ghulam Rasool explained, emphasizing the girl’s attractiveness to make it seem like an abduction by one of the gangs who kidnap or buy women for prostitution—a scenario in which the police could help, since these things generally happened under their protection and they received a cut of the take. “We’ll break the bastards’ legs when we catch them,” Bukhari, who had been drinking quite heavily, said. “Go fetch the husband.” Rezak came in, trembling, and couldn’t explain himself, but stood with a grief-stricken face, expectant, as if his wife might there and then materialize through the power of this important sahib. Bukhari had dealt with many cases of missing women, and knew that the family was almost always involved. He fixed Rezak with a hard gaze. “Who took her? The father? Did the family take her back?” “Only God above in his mercy knows, sir—I came home one night and she had gone, I couldn’t find her, sir. I’m an old man, I’m nothing . . .” Recalling the presence of his hostess, Bukhari relented. Flipping open his tiny cell phone, he punched a number. “Get me the D.S.P. Murree.” After a moment, a voice came on the line. “Hello, Qazmi, how are you? This is Omar Bukhari. Yes, everything’s fine. I’m in Kalapani, at the house of Mr. Sohail Harouni. The wife of one of his servants has been abducted. I want her back by tomorrow night . . . Yes . . . No, come to the house in the morning and take down the details. I want you personally to handle this.” Without saying goodbye, he snapped shut the phone. He smiled at Sonya. “Done.” Rezak, who understood none of the conversation, which had been conducted in English, crouched and touched Bukhari’s knee with both hands, began to speak and then fell silent, bowing his head. Ghulam Rasool raised him up by the arm and led him away. In the morning, the Deputy Superintendent of Police himself showed up at the house, in his official Jeep, flying a police flag, and accompanied by a pickup full of policemen carrying beat-up rifles. Unfortunately, the Harounis and all the guests had already left for Islamabad. The D.S.P. sat on a chair placed in the middle of the hall, with the quivering staff lined up in front of him. “Where’s the husband?” Ghulam Rasool, the only one not perturbed by this policeman with stars on his shoulders, explained that Rezak lived at another property, down the road. “Get him.” Rezak came in, breathless, led by a policeman. “So, old man,” the D.S.P. stated, “they tell me your wife has run away.” He began asking questions, in a low voice. Though at first he spoke gently, his tone soon became irritated. “What you’re saying is, her parents sold her to you. Where did you get that much money?” Ghulam Rasool stepped forward. “Sir, she’s not well in the head—this man took her out of kindness as much as anything. And then our sahib is very good to us, he gives us everything we need and more.” “Women don’t just fly away on their own. Either this man knows something about it or she’s in Karachi by now. The best thing is for him to be quiet.” The D.S.P. looked intently at Rezak for a moment, clasping his hands on his stomach, then stood up. “Please give my regards to Harouni Sahib,” he said to Ghulam Rasool, speaking politely and almost formally. “I am always at his service.” He begged off taking a cup of tea, claiming that he had an appointment. Watching the policeman and his escort drive off, Ghulam Rasool said to Rezak, “Better stay away from the bazaar for a couple of days. He seemed like a pretty rude character.” Just after dusk, four policemen in an unmarked car picked up Rezak from his hut and took him to the police post at Tret, twenty kilometres down the road. “Did you find her?” he had asked, when they came to his cubicle. The youngest policeman, the only one in uniform, said, “Yes, yes, don’t worry.” But he grabbed Rezak by the shoulder, took his arms, and handcuffed him. Rezak said nothing more, and allowed them to do as they liked. Only when they put him in the back of the car did Rezak ask, “But what have I done? Where are you taking me?” “Shut up, baba,” said the young policeman, who up till then had been quite gentle. They walked him into a windowless room in the police station and hung him up on a hook by the manacles around his wrists, so that his feet touched the ground only when he stood on his toes. He hung on the wall all evening, long past the time when it seemed possible that the excruciating pain in his shoulders and back could be borne. In the next room, policemen came and went, but he was no longer aware of them. At one point, a policeman who had just come in from outside asked, “Who’s he?” “No idea. The D.S.P.’s guys sent him in. Strip, polish, and paint, I suppose.” “Ah,” the newcomer said. He went out, singing, “The night is made for lovers . . .” After midnight, a large man wearing civilian clothes came into the room. Two uniformed policemen came behind him and shut the door. “All right, let’s see,” the big man said. “So, what’s your name, old man?” “Mohammed Rezak, sir.” He began weeping and blubbering. “I beg you, I’ve done nothing, I’m innocent, and now you’ve hung me up here. I beg you, remember, there’s a God above who judges everything . . .” The large man became suddenly angry. “I see,” he said menacingly, gritting his teeth. “I’m the one who’s being judged? It’s my fault, is it, I’m the one who’s guilty?” He slapped Rezak with all his strength. “Where’s your wife, you bastard? I know all about it. Nobody took her—you sold her down the road, you pimp, and now you’ll tell me to whom and when and for how much.” He walked to the opposite wall and back, then came up and looked closely into Rezak’s face. “Or perhaps you killed her? She didn’t have children? You bought a lemon? Ready for a new one, moneybags?” He slapped Rezak again, cutting his lip. “You listen to me, I can make you fuck your own daughter if I want to, you’ll hump her all night, like a dog fucking a bitch.” “For God’s sake, for God’s mercy, I don’t have a daughter, sir . . .” “You’re really trying to piss me off, aren’t you?” And then, to one of the men, “Take him down.” The two uniformed policemen lifted Rezak off the hook and threw him to the ground. Rubbing his hands together, the big man looked down at Rezak appraisingly, as if considering his next move. “Stretch him out and bring me the strap.” They pulled down his shalwar, carried him to a bench, and stretched him on it, one pulling his arms and one pulling his feet. They had removed his kurta when they hung him up on the wall. The big man brandished what looked like the sole of an enormous shoe, with writing on one side in thick black script. “See what this says? It says, ‘Sweetheart, where did you sleep last night?’ Understand?” Without warning, he swung. Rezak shrieked, a startled high-pitched sound. He never had felt pain like this, which spread flickering all through his body. Another policeman came into the room when Rezak screamed and stood by the door, watching, with a grin on his face. “Come here,” the big man said. “You do it, since you’re so interested. You need the practice, anyway.” Of course, he could tell them nothing. “I don’t know,” he sobbed. “She’s gone, I don’t know anything.” After a few strokes, he fell into a rhythm, shrieking when they hit him, then, when they stopped, groaning, “O my God, O my God, O my God . . .” After beating Rezak for five or six minutes, they threw him into a storeroom. The D.S.P. stopped at the Tret post on his way down to Islamabad from Murree. The big man stood up and casually saluted when the officer walked in. They shook hands. “What’s going on? Anything new?” “Call from Awaz Khan Sahib. He keeps asking why we haven’t picked up those two clowns from Mariani.” They discussed this, something to do with a road contractor, villagers blocking the line of a new road—they needed to be shown the stick. As he started to leave, the D.S.P. asked, “What about that missing girl?” “Someone driving by must have seen her and snatched her. The Chandias say they didn’t do it.” Only the most powerful of the gangster clans in the area would have presumed to abduct a woman without cutting in the police. “And we pulled in the husband and worked on him—he’s clean.” The D.S.P. made a face. “You didn’t! This is some American woman’s pet servant. Tell me you didn’t do anything severe.” “He’s fine, he’s fine. Do you want to see him?” “No. You’re positive, right?” “I’m definitely positive.” “No marks?” “Well, sir, no visible marks. I have to work somewhere.” The D.S.P. laughed. “I suppose you do.” After thinking for a moment, he said, “I’ll have to go see Bukhari Sahib and explain that she’s disappeared off the face of the earth. It’s a good idea to put in an appearance there anyway.” “What about the old man?” “Dump him at home and tell him he better keep his mouth shut.” Shortly before dawn, almost tenderly now, they bundled Rezak into the same unmarked car and sneaked him back into his hut. “You’ve tasted it once. Don’t make us dose you again. Not a word to anyone—do you understand?” Rezak stared at his feet. Finally, he nodded his head. He lay all that day without sleeping, into the dusk, then the dark. His buttocks had swollen up, puffy and white like bread dough, so that he had to lie on his stomach. His mind whirled, without touching on any one thing for more than a moment—the wife he married when almost still a boy, who died so many years ago, then his second wife, the little mentally disturbed girl. His stepbrothers, who took his land, the fruit trees in the garden there in Kashmir and the fruit trees here, brought from America. His things, his television, the day he went to the store and bought the bright-red plastic television. “Why should I complain? The policemen did as they always do. The fault is mine, who married in old age, with one foot in the grave. God gave me so much more than I deserved, when I expected nothing at all.” He made sure to be perfectly silent about what had happened. After he recovered, he was left with one last wish. In Rezak’s mind, good fortune and grace were wound together, so that the Harouni family’s connections and wealth established not simply the power of the household but also its virtue. Ghulam Rasool had served the Harounis for more than fifty years, some of the other retainers had served almost as long. He could never equal that service. But nevertheless the family took him in when otherwise he might have begged in the streets. They gave him the money to live beyond his station, they made him hope—for too much. And when he lost the girl their instruments punished him for having dared to reach so high, for owning something that would excite envy, that placed him in the way of beatings and the police. Now he belonged to the Harounis. This was how he understood justice. He said to Ghulam Rasool, “I beg you, ask our master to bury me here on this land, in one corner, whichever one he likes.” This became his dream and his consolation. He lived on for another year, then six months more, collecting his salary, never spending a rupee more than was sufficient to keep his body warm. He sold the television, sold the goats. At the end of eighteen months, he went up to Murree, to the stonecutter, and said that he wanted the very best gravestone in the shop, and carved marble to sheathe the rest of the grave. After his night in the police station, Rezak walked gingerly and made grunting noises under his breath—everyone remarked on how he had changed after his wife disappeared. The stonecutter, seeing his bent, trembling figure, thought, This old bird doesn’t know what good marble costs. But Rezak took out a roll of bills, tied in a greasy handkerchief that he pulled from under his shirt. Blue notes, thousands. “Well that’s different,” the stonecutter said, taking Rezak’s hand and leading him into the back room. “Look at this piece, now. Look at the color, the grain. Look at the size of that. I swear to God, I’ve been saving it for my own mother.” No one had seen the old man for several days, and the gardener sent to inquire rattled and knocked and then found him dead in the little cubicle. Ghulam Rasool had the gardeners dig a grave along the wall of the property, and that evening they buried him, just a few people attending the janaza—the servants from the big house, a few men from the bazaar and from houses on the hillside next to the Ali Khan lands. A poor woman from nearby had been paid to wash the body, the maulvi from the mosque in the bazaar said the prayer. The next Friday, Sonya came up from Islamabad at nightfall, bringing just her young son and his ayah. Ghulam Rasool, dropping a pill of sweetener into a cup of tea, which she took in her room in front of a fire, said, “I beg your pardon, Begum Sahib. The old man Rezak, whom you so kindly put in charge at the Ali Khan lands, has passed away.” The electricity had failed, as it often did up on the mountain. At dusk, by candlelight, the tall rooms of the stone-built house were solemn and chilled, like an empty church or a school when the children are gone. “Poor poor thing. All alone, and his wife disappeared.” At moments, as now, she felt closer to Ghulam Rasool than to anyone else in Pakistan, his large dark compassionate face, heavy body, his shrewd and yet ponderous manner, his orthodox unshakable beliefs. He was silent for a moment, then continued, “Please forgive me, but I took the liberty of having him buried in the Ali Khan orchard. He had asked me to speak with you.” Still not touching her tea, looking up at him, as he stood with his hands crossed on his belly, she said gently, “I’m so glad you did, Ghulam Rasool. Of course, Mian Sahib and I would want that.” The old servant had come far by knowing the ways of his masters. Saying no more or less than this, he withdrew quietly, leaving Sonya musing by the fire on having done the right thing for a lonely old man, having done a little bit for the good. The next morning, slipping out of the house, Sonya took Ghulam Rasool and a single gardener and walked up to the Ali Khan lands. The smallness of the grave surprised her, the mound decorated with tinsel in advance of her visit, the marble stones he had bought stacked beside it. Ghulam Rasool and the gardener said the fatiyah, holding their upturned palms in front of them and silently reciting a prayer, and Sonya stood also with her hands upturned and eyes closed, thinking first of the old man, a life drawn to a close with so little fanfare, and then of her own dead, her father and mother lying under the snow in a Wisconsin graveyard. When they had finished, she walked around the garden, looking at the fruit trees, the leaves colored and falling as the autumn advanced. “What would you have us do with this?” Ghulam Rasool asked, leading her to the cabin, which sprouted a television antenna and bouquets of crude plastic flowers, their petals thick as tongues, bought by Rezak soon after his marriage, nailed up along the roof one day, to please his wife’s innocent heart. “The old man didn’t want his family to have anything from him.” It seemed to her vividly alive, a motionless hirsute presence, the antenna, the flowers, the four massive legs, the pipe that drained the inside spittoon trailing into the grass as if drawing nourishment. She told them to bring it to the big estate and park it in a shaded corner somewhere not too visible, as a memorial. Her husband, a raconteur, could show it to his guests and tell them about Rezak, the old man who entered service bringing his own house. At first, the cabin sat inviolate below the swimming pool, locked, Rezak’s things still in the cupboards and drawers. Sonya went once to look at it, then did not return, her attention fading. Gradually, like falling leaves, the locks were broken off, one person taking the thermos, another the wood tools—files and a hammer, a plane, a level. The clothes disappeared, the last cupboard emptied, even the filthy mattress pulled out and put to use, taken by the sweeper who cleaned the toilets in the big house. The door of the little cabin hung open, the wind and blown rain scoured it clean.
Face I am convinced that my father looked at me, really saw me, only once. After that, he knew what was there. In those days, they didn’t let fathers into the glare of the theatre where babies were born, or into the room where the women about to give birth were stifling their cries or suffering aloud. Fathers laid eyes on the mothers only once they were cleaned up and conscious and tucked under pastel blankets in the ward or in semi-private or private rooms. My mother had a private room, as became her status in town, and it was just as well, actually, seeing the way things turned out. I don’t know whether my father saw my mother before or after he stood outside the window of the nursery for his first glimpse of me. I rather think that it was after, and that when she heard his steps outside her door she felt the anger in them but did not yet know what had caused it. After all, she had borne him a son, which was, presumably, what all men wanted. I know what he said. Or what she told me he said. “What a chunk of chopped liver.” Then, “You don’t need to think you’re going to bring that into the house.” One side of my face was—is—normal. And my entire body was normal from toes to shoulders. Twenty-one inches was my length, eight pounds five ounces my weight. A strapping male infant, fair-skinned, though probably still red from my unremarkable recent journey. My birthmark not red but purple. Dark in my infancy and early childhood, fading somewhat as I got older, but never fading to a state of inconsequence, never ceasing to be the first thing people noticed about me, head on, never ceasing to shock those who had come at me from the left side. I look as if someone had dumped grape juice on me, a big, serious splash that turns into droplets only when it reaches my neck. Though it does skirt my nose pretty well, after dousing one eyelid. “It makes the white of that eye look so lovely and clear” was one of the idiotic but pardonable things my mother would say, in the hope of helping me to admire myself. And an odd thing happened. Sheltered as I was, I almost believed her. Of course, my father could not do anything to prevent my coming home. And, of course, my presence, my existence, caused a monstrous rift between my parents. Though it’s hard for me to believe that there had not always been some kind of rift—some incomprehension, at least, or chilly disappointment. My father was the son of an uneducated man who owned a tannery and then a glove factory. Prosperity was ebbing as the twentieth century progressed, but the big house that my grandfather had built was still there, as were the cook and the gardener. My father had gone to college, joined a fraternity, had what was referred to as a high old time, then entered the insurance business when the glove factory went under. He was as popular around our town as he had been at college. A good golfer, an excellent sailor. (I have not mentioned that we lived on the cliffs above Lake Huron, in a Victorian house facing the sunset.) At home, my father’s most vivid quality was a capacity for hating and despising. Those two verbs often went together. He hated and despised certain foods, makes of automobiles, music, manners of speech and modes of dress, radio comedians, and, later on, television personalities, along with the usual assortment of races and classes it was customary to hate and despise in his day (though perhaps not as thoroughly as he did). In fact, most of his opinions would have found little opposition in our town, among his sailing companions or his old fraternity brothers. It was his vehemence, I think, that brought out an uneasiness that could also amount to admiration. Calls a spade a spade. That was what was said of him. Of course, a production like myself was an insult that he had to face every time he opened his own door. He took breakfast alone and did not come home for lunch. My mother ate those meals with me and part of her dinner also, the rest with him. Eventually, I think, there was some sort of row about this, and then she sat through my meal with me but ate with him. It is clear that I did not contribute to a comfortable marriage. But how had they ever come together? She had not gone to college; she’d had to borrow money to attend the school where teachers were trained in her day. She was frightened of sailing, clumsy at golf, and if she was beautiful, as some people have told me (it is hard to make that judgment of your own mother), her looks were not really of the kind that my father admired. He spoke of certain women as “stunners,” or, later in his life, as “dolls.” My mother did not wear lipstick, her brassieres were unassertive, her hair was done up in a tight crown of braids that emphasized her wide white forehead. Her clothes lagged behind the fashion, being somewhat shapeless and regal; she was the sort of woman you could imagine wearing a rope of fine pearls, though I don’t think she ever did. What I seem to be saying, I guess, is that I may have been a pretext, a blessing even, in that I furnished them with a ready-made quarrel, an insoluble problem that threw them back into their natural differences, where they may, in fact, have been more at ease. In all my years in our town, I encountered no one who was divorced, so it may be taken for granted that there were other couples living separate lives in one house, other men and women who had accepted the fact that there were words or acts that could never be forgiven, barriers between them never to be washed away. It follows, unsurprisingly in such a story, that my father smoked and drank too much—though most of his friends did, too, whatever their situations. He had a stroke while still in his fifties, and died after several months in bed. And it was no surprise, either, that my mother nursed him through that time, kept him at home, where, instead of becoming tender and appreciative, he called her foul names, the syllables thickened by his misfortune but always decipherable to her, and to him, it seemed, quite gratifying. At the funeral, a white-haired woman said to me, “Your mother is a saint.” I disliked her instantly. I was at that time in my second year of college. I had not joined, or been invited to join, my father’s fraternity. My friends were planning to be writers and actors, and were at present wits, dedicated time-wasters, savage social critics, and newborn atheists. I had no respect for people who behaved like saints. And, to be truthful, that was not what my mother aimed for, either. She was far enough from pious notions that she had never asked me, on any of my trips home, to go into my father’s room and try for a word of reconciliation with him. My mother was no fool. She had been devoted to me—not a word that either of us would have used, but I think the right one—till I was nine years old. She had taught me herself. Then she had sent me away to school. This sounds like a recipe for disaster. The mother-coddled purple-faced lad, thrown suddenly amid the taunts, the ruthless assaults, of young savages. But I didn’t have a bad time, and to this day I’m not sure why. I was tall and strong for my age, and that may have helped. I think, though, that the atmosphere in our house, that climate of ill temper and ferocity and disgust coming from my often unseen father, must have made any other place seem reasonable, almost accepting. It was not a question of anybody’s making an effort, being nice to me. There was a name for me—it was Grape-Nuts. But almost everybody had a derogatory nickname; a boy with particularly smelly feet that did not seem to benefit from daily showers cheerfully put up with the name Stink. I got along. I wrote my mother comical letters, and she replied somewhat in kind, taking a mildly mocking tone about events in town and at church—I remember her describing a row over the right way to cut sandwiches for a ladies’ tea—and even managing to be humorous but not bitter about my father, whom she referred to as His Grace. I have made my father the beast in my account so far, and my mother the rescuer and protector, and I believe this representation to be true. But, even before I left for school, they were not the only people in my story and the atmosphere in the house was not the only one I knew. What I have come to think of as the Great Drama of my life actually involved someone else. Great Drama. It embarrasses me to have written that. I wonder if it sounds cheaply satirical or tiresomely self-aggrandizing. But then I think, Isn’t it normal for me to see my life that way, to talk about it that way, when you consider how I chose to make my living? I became an actor. Surprising? Of course, in college I hung around with people who were active in the theatre, and in my final year I directed a play. There was a standing joke, which I had originated, about how I could manage a role by always keeping my unmarked profile to the audience and walking backward across the stage when necessary. But no such drastic maneuvers were needed. In those days, there were regular plays on national radio, and a particularly ambitious program on Sunday evenings. Adaptations of novels. Shakespeare. Ibsen. My voice was naturally flexible, and with a bit of training it improved. I got small parts at first. But, by the time television put the whole business to rest, I was on almost every week and my name was known to a certain faithful, if never large, audience. Once acting was over for me, my voice stood me in good stead, and I was able to get a job as an announcer, first in Winnipeg, then back in Toronto. For the last twenty years of my working life, I was the host of an eclectic musical show presented on weekday afternoons. I did not choose the selections, as people often assumed. I have a limited appreciation of music. But I crafted an agreeable, slightly quirky radio personality. The program received many letters. We heard from old people’s homes and homes for the blind, from people who regularly drove long or monotonous distances on business, from housewives alone in the middle of the day with the baking and the ironing, and from farmers in tractor cabs plowing or harrowing some sweeping acreage. All over the country. There was a flattering outpouring when I at last retired. People said they felt as if they had lost a close friend or member of the family. What they meant was that a certain amount of time had been filled for them, reliably, five days a week. They had not been left adrift, and for this they were truly, embarrassingly grateful. And, surprisingly, I shared in their emotion. I had to be careful not to choke up as I read some of the letters on the air. And yet memory of the program, and of myself, faded rapidly. New allegiances were formed. I made a complete break, refusing to chair charity auctions or give nostalgic speeches. My mother had died a few years earlier, after living to a great age, but I had not sold the family house, only rented it out. Now I prepared to sell it, and gave the tenants notice. I decided to live there myself for the time it took to get the place—particularly the garden—into shape. I was not lonely as an adult. In addition to my audience, I had friends. I had women, too. Some women, of course, specialize in the kind of men they imagine are in need of bucking up—they are eager to sport those men around as a sign of their own munificence. I was on the watch for them. The woman I was closest to in those years was a receptionist at the station, a nice, sensible person, who had been left on her own with four children. There was some indication that we would move in together, once the youngest was off her hands. But the youngest was a daughter, who managed to have a child of her own without ever leaving home, and somehow our expectation, our affair, dwindled. We talked on the phone after I retired and moved back to my old home. I invited her to visit. Then there was a sudden announcement that she was getting married and going to live in Ireland. I was too knocked off my perch to ask whether the daughter and the baby were going, too. The garden is a great mess. Old perennials still straggle up among the weeds; ragged leaves larger than umbrellas mark the place of a sixty- or seventy-year-old rhubarb bed, and a half-dozen apple trees remain, bearing wormy little apples of some variety whose name I don’t remember. The patches I clear look minute, yet the piles of weeds and brush I’ve collected are mountainous. They must, furthermore, be hauled away at my expense. The town no longer allows bonfires. All this used to be looked after by a gardener named Pete. I have forgotten his last name. He dragged one leg after him and carried his head bent to one side. I don’t know if he had had an accident, or suffered a stroke. He worked slowly but diligently and was more or less always in a bad temper. My mother spoke to him with soft-voiced respect, but he did not think much of her proposals for the flower beds. And he disliked me because I was constantly riding my tricycle where I shouldn’t, and because he probably knew that I called him Sneaky Pete under my breath. I don’t know where I got that. Was it from a comic strip? Another possible reason for his growling dislike has just occurred to me, and it’s odd that I didn’t think of it before. We were both flawed, the obvious victims of physical misfortune. You would think that such people would make common cause, but it just as often happens that they don’t. Each may be reminded by the other of something he’d sooner forget. But I’m not sure that that was the case for me. My mother had arranged things so that most of the time I was seemingly quite unaware of my condition. She claimed that she was teaching me at home because of a bronchial ailment and the need to protect me from the onslaught of germs at school. Whether anybody other than me believed her I don’t know. And, as for my father’s hostility, that had so pervaded our house that I really don’t think I felt singled out by it. And here, at the risk of repeating myself, I must say that I think my mother did the right thing. The emphasis on my one notable flaw, the goading and ganging up, would have caught me too young and with nowhere to hide. Things are different now, and the danger to a child afflicted as I was would be of receiving too much fuss and showy kindness, not taunts and isolation. But the life of those times took much of its liveliness, its wit and its folklore, as my mother likely knew, from pure viciousness. Until a couple of decades ago—maybe more—there was another building on our property, a small cottage where Pete stored his tools and where various things that had once been of use to us were put out of the way until some decision was made about what to do with them. It was torn down shortly after Pete was replaced by an energetic young couple, Ginny and Franz, who brought their own up-to-date equipment in their truck. Later, they went into market gardening, but by that time they were able to supply their teen-age children to cut the grass, and my mother had lost interest in doing anything more. But, to get back to the building—how I circle and dither around this subject—there was a time, before it became just a storage space, when people lived in it. First, there was a couple named the Bells, who were the cook-housekeeper and the gardener-chauffeur for my grandparents. My grandfather owned a Packard, which he never learned to drive. Both the Bells and the Packard were gone by my time, but the place was still referred to as Bells’ Cottage. For a few years in my childhood, Bells’ Cottage was inhabited by a woman named Sharon Suttles, who lived there with her daughter, Nancy. She had come to town with her husband, a doctor who was setting up his first practice, and within a year or so he had died, of blood poisoning. She’d remained in town with her baby, having no money and, as was said, “no people.” This must have meant no people who could help her or who had offered to take her in. At some point, she got a job in my father’s insurance office, and came to live in Bells’ Cottage. I am not certain about when this happened. How old was Nancy when I first knew her? Could she have been only three? Four, most likely. She was half a year younger than me. But I have no memory of them moving in, or of the cottage when it was empty. It was painted, at that time, a dusty pink, and I always thought of that as Mrs. Suttles’s choice, as if she could not have lived in a house of any other color. I called her Mrs. Suttles, of course. But I was aware of her first name, as I seldom was of any grownup woman’s. Sharon was an unusual name in those days. And it had a connection with a hymn I knew from Sunday school, which my mother allowed me to attend because there was close monitoring and no recess. We sang hymns whose words were projected onto a screen, and I think that most of us, even before we learned to read, got some idea of the verses from their shape in front of us. By cool Siloam’s shady rill How sweet the lily grows! How sweet the breath, beneath the hill, Of Sharon’s dewy rose! I can’t believe that there was actually a rose in a corner of the screen, and yet I saw one—I see one—of a faded pink, whose aura was transferred to the name Sharon. I don’t mean to say that I fell in love with Sharon Suttles. I had been in love, when barely out of my infancy, with a tomboyish young maid named Bessie, who took me out on jaunts in my stroller and pushed me so high on the park swings that I nearly went over the top. And, sometime later, with a friend of my mother’s, who had a velvet collar on her coat and a voice that seemed somehow related to it. Sharon Suttles was not the type one would fall in love with in that way. She was not velvet-voiced, and she had no interest in showing me a good time. She was tall and very thin for a mother—there were no slopes on her. Her hair was the color of toffee, brown with golden edges, and in the time of the Second World War she was still wearing it bobbed. Her lipstick was bright red and thick-looking, like that of the movie stars I had seen on posters, and around her house she usually wore a kimono, on which I believe there were some pale birds—storks?—whose legs reminded me of hers. She spent a lot of her time lying on the couch, smoking, and sometimes, to amuse us or herself, she would kick those legs straight up in the air, one after the other, and send a feathery slipper flying. When she was not mad at us, her voice was throaty and exasperated, not unfriendly but in no way tender or wise or reproving, with the full tones, the suggestion of sadness, that I expected in a mother. “You dumb twerps,” she called us. “Get out of here and let me have some peace, you dumb twerps.” She would already be lying on the couch with an ashtray on her stomach, while we scooted Nancy’s toy cars across the floor. How much peace did she want? She and Nancy ate peculiar foods at irregular hours, and when she went into the kitchen to fix herself a snack she never came back with cocoa or graham crackers for us. On the other hand, Nancy was not forbidden to spoon vegetable soup out of the can, thick as pudding, or to grab handfuls of Rice Krispies straight from the box. Was Sharon Suttles my father’s mistress? With her job provided for her, and the pink cottage rent-free? My mother spoke of her kindly, not infrequently mentioning the tragedy that had befallen her, with the death of her young husband. Whatever maid we had at the time was sent over with presents of raspberries or new potatoes or shelled peas, fresh from our garden. I remember the peas particularly. I can still see Sharon Suttles—lying on the couch—flipping them into the air with her forefinger, saying, “What am I supposed to do with these?” “You cook them on the stove with water,” I said helpfully. “No kidding?” As for my father, I never saw him with her. He left for work rather late and knocked off early, to keep up with his various sporting activities. There were certainly days when Nancy’s mother was not at home—not in her kimono on the couch—and it could be presumed that on those days she was not smoking or relaxing but doing regular work in my father’s office, that legendary place that I had never seen and where I would certainly not be welcome. At such times, a grouchy person named Mrs. Codd sat in the cottage kitchen, listening to radio soap operas and eating anything on hand. It never occurred to me that, since Nancy and I usually spent all our time together, my mother could have offered to keep an eye on her as well as me, or ask our maid to do so, to save the hiring of Mrs. Codd. It does seem to me now that we played together all our waking hours. This would be from the time I was about five years old until I was around eight and a half. We played mostly outdoors—the days we spent in Nancy’s cottage annoying her mother must have been rainy ones. We had to stay away from the vegetable garden and try not to knock down the flowers, but we were constantly in and out of the berry patches and under the apple trees and in the absolutely wild area beyond the cottage, which was where we constructed our air-raid shelters and hideouts from the Germans. There was actually a training base to the north of our town, and real planes were constantly flying over us. And, because of all these reminders of the war, we chose to make of Pete not just a local enemy but a Nazi, and of his lawnmower a tank. Sometimes we lobbed apples at him from the crab-apple tree that sheltered our bivouac. One time, he complained to my mother, and it cost us a trip to the beach. She often took Nancy with us to the beach. Not to the one with the waterslide, just down the cliff from our house, but to a smaller one that you had to drive to, where there were no rowdy swimmers or water-skiers. In fact, she taught us both to swim. Nancy was more fearless and reckless than I was, which annoyed me, so once I pulled her under an incoming wave and sat on her head. She kicked and held her breath and fought her way free. “Nancy is a little girl,” my mother scolded. “She is a little girl, and you should treat her like a little sister.” Which was exactly what I was doing. I did not think of her as weaker than me. Smaller, yes, but sometimes that was an advantage. When we climbed trees, she could hang like a monkey from branches that would not support me. And, in one fight, she bit me on my restraining arm and drew blood. That time, we were separated, supposedly for a week, but our glowering from windows soon turned into longing and pleading, and the ban was lifted. In winter, we were allowed to roam the whole property, building snow forts stocked with sticks of firewood and arsenals of snowballs to fling at anyone who came along. Which few did, ours being a dead-end street. We had to make a snowman, just so that we could pummel him. What about sex games, you may wonder. And, yes, we had those, too. I recall our hiding, one extremely hot day, in a tent that had been pitched—I have no idea why—behind the cottage. We had crawled in there on purpose to explore each other. The canvas had a certain erotic but infantile smell, like the underclothes that we removed. Various ticklings excited us, then made us cross, and we were soon drenched in sweat, itchy, and ashamed. When we got ourselves out of there, we felt more separate than usual and oddly wary of each other. I don’t remember if the same thing happened again, with the same result, but I would not be surprised if it did. I cannot bring Nancy’s face to mind as clearly as I can her mother’s. I think her coloring was, or would in time be, much the same. Fair hair, bleached by so much time in the sun, that would eventually go brown. Very rosy, even reddish, skin. Yes. I see her cheeks red, almost as if colored in crayon. That, too, owing to the time we spent outdoors, and to her decisive energy. In my house, it goes without saying, all rooms except those specified to us were forbidden. We would not have dreamed of going upstairs or into the front parlor or the dining room. But in the cottage everywhere was allowed, and the cellar was a good place to go when even we tired of the afternoon heat. There was no railing alongside the cellar steps, and we could take more and more daring jumps to land on the hard dirt floor. And when we got bored with that we could climb into the old buggy and bounce up and down without springs, whipping an imaginary horse. Once, we tried to smoke a cigarette filched from Nancy’s mother’s pack. (We would not have dared take more than one.) Nancy managed better with it than I did, having had more practice. There was also, in the cellar, an old wooden dresser, on which sat several tins of mostly dried-up paint and varnish, an assortment of stiffened paintbrushes, stirring sticks, and boards on which colors had been tried or brushes wiped. A few tins had their lids still on tight, and these we pried open, with some difficulty, and discovered paint that could be stirred to an active thickness. Then we spent time trying to loosen up the brushes by pushing them down into the paint and hitting them against the boards of the dresser, making a mess but not getting much of a result. One of the tins, however, proved to contain turpentine, which worked much better. Now we began to paint with those bristles that had become usable. I was eight by then, and could read and write to some extent, thanks to my mother. Nancy could, too, because she had finished the second grade. “Don’t look till I’m finished,” I said to her, and pushed her slightly out of the way. I had thought of something to paint. She was busy anyway, smashing her own brush around in a can of red paint. I wrote, “NAZI WAS IN THIS SELLEAR.” “Now look,” I said. She had her back to me and was wielding the paintbrush on herself. She said, “I’m busy.” When she turned around, her face was generously smeared with red paint. “Now do I look like you?” she cried, drawing the brush down her cheek. “Now do I look like you?” She was overjoyed, as if she had managed something magical, a radiant transformation. You’d have thought that this was something she’d been hoping for all her life. Now I must try to explain what happened in the next several minutes. In the first place, I thought she looked horrible. I did not believe that any part of my face was red. And, in fact, it wasn’t. The half of it that was colored was the usual mulberry birthmark color. But this was not how I saw it in my mind. I believed my birthmark to be a soft brown color. My mother had not done anything so foolish, so dramatic, as to ban mirrors from our house. But mirrors can be hung too high for a young child to see himself in them. That was certainly so in the bathroom. The only one in which I could readily see my reflection hung in the front hall, which was dim in the daytime and weakly lit at night. That must have been where I got the idea that half my face was a dull, mild sort of color, almost mousy, a furry shadow. This was what I was used to, and what made Nancy’s paint such an insult, a leering joke. I pushed her against the dresser as hard as I could and ran away from her, up the stairs. I think I was running to find a mirror, or even a person who could tell me that she was wrong. And, once that was confirmed, I could sink my teeth into pure hatred of her. I would punish her. I had no time, just then, to think how. I ran through the cottage—Nancy’s mother was nowhere to be seen, though it was Saturday—and out to the gravel, then the flagstone path between stalwart rows of gladioli. I saw my mother rise from the wicker chair where she sat reading on our back veranda. “Not red,” I howled with gulps of angry tears. “I’m not red.” She came down the steps with a shocked face but, so far, no understanding. Then Nancy ran out of the cottage behind me, all garish and amazed. My mother understood. “You nasty little beast,” she cried at Nancy, in a voice that I had never heard. A loud, wild, shaking voice. “Don’t you come near us. Don’t you dare. You are a bad, bad girl. You have no decent human kindness in you, do you? You never have been taught—” Nancy’s mother came out of the cottage then, with streaming wet hair in her eyes. She was holding a towel. “Jeez, can’t I even wash my hair around here—” My mother screamed at her, too. “Don’t you dare use that language in front of my son and me—” “Oh, blah-blah,” Nancy’s mother said immediately. “Just listen to you yelling your head off—” My mother took a deep breath. “I am—not—yelling—my—head off. I just want to tell your cruel child she will never be welcome in our house again. She is a cruel, spiteful, cruel child to mock my little boy for an accident of nature that he cannot help. You have never taught her anything, any manners. She did not even know enough to thank me when I took her with us to the beach—doesn’t even know how to say please and thank you. No wonder, with a mother flaunting around in her wrapper—” All this poured out of my mother as if there were a torrent of rage, of pain, of absurdity in her that would never stop. Even though by now I was pulling at her dress and saying, “Don’t. Don’t.” Then things got even worse, as tears rose and swallowed her words and she choked and shook. Nancy’s mother had pushed the wet hair out of her eyes and stood there observing. “I’ll tell you one thing,” she said. “You carry on like this and they’re going to take you to the loony bin. Can I help it if your husband hates you and you got a kid with a messed-up face?” My mother held her head in both hands. She cried, “Oh—oh,” as if pains were devouring her. The woman who worked for us at that time—Velma—had come out on the veranda and was saying, “Missus. Come on, Missus.” Then she raised her voice and called to Nancy’s mother. “You go on. You go in your house. You scat.” “Oh, I will. Don’t worry, I will. Who do you think you are, telling me what to do? And how do you like working for an ol’ witch with bats in the belfry?” Then she turned on Nancy. “How the livin’ Jesus am I ever going to get you cleaned up?” After that, she raised her voice again to make sure I could hear her. “He’s a suck. Look at him hangin’ on to his ol’ lady. You’re not ever going to play with him again. Ol’ lady’s suck.” All this time, Nancy was stricken. Not a sound out of her. Velma on one side and me on the other, we tried to ease my mother back into the house. She had stopped making the terrible noise. She straightened herself and spoke in an unnaturally cheerful voice that would carry as far as the cottage. “Fetch me my garden shears, would you, Velma? While I’m out here, I might as well trim the glads. Some of them are downright wilted.” By the time she was finished, they were all over the path, not one standing, wilted or blooming. All this must have happened on a Saturday, as I said, because Nancy’s mother was there and so was Velma, who did not come on Sundays. By Monday, or maybe sooner, the cottage was empty. Perhaps Velma got hold of my father in the clubhouse or on the greens or wherever he was, and he came home, impatient and rude but soon compliant. Compliant, that is, about Nancy and her mother getting out. I don’t think Nancy’s mother would have made any fuss about leaving. The fact that I would never see Nancy again dawned on me slowly. At first, I was angry with her and didn’t care. Then, when I inquired about her, my mother must have put me off with some vague reply, not wanting to recall the anguished scene to me or herself. It was at that time that she became serious about sending me away to school and began looking around for a suitable place. She probably suspected that once I got used to being at a boys’ school my memory of having had a female playmate would grow dim and seem unworthy, even ridiculous. On the day after my father’s funeral, my mother surprised me by asking if I would take her out to dinner (though, of course, she would really be the one taking me) at a restaurant some miles along the lakeshore. “I just feel I’ve been penned up in this house forever,” she said. “I need some air.” In the restaurant, she looked around discreetly and announced that there was nobody she knew. “Will you join me in a glass of wine?” she said. Had we driven all this way so that she could drink wine in public? When the wine had come, and we had ordered, she said, “There’s something I think you ought to know.” These may be among the most unpleasant words that a person ever has to hear. There is a pretty good chance that whatever you ought to know will be burdensome, and that in the telling of it there will be the suggestion that other people have had to bear that burden, while you have been let off lightly, all this while. “My father isn’t my real father?” I said. “Goody.” “Don’t be silly. You remember your little friend Nancy?” I actually did not remember, for a moment. Then I said, “Vaguely.” At this time, all my conversations with my mother seemed to call for strategy. I had to keep myself lighthearted, jokey, unmoved. In her voice and face was a lurking sorrow. She never complained about her own plight, but there were so many innocent and ill-used people in the stories she told me, so many outrages, that I was surely meant, at the very least, to go back to my friends and my lucky life with a heavier heart. I would not coöperate. All she wanted, possibly, was some sign of sympathy, or maybe of physical tenderness. I would not grant that. She was a fastidious woman not yet contaminated by age, but I backed off from her as if she were harboring a contagious mold. I particularly backed off from any reference to my affliction, which, it seemed to me, she especially cherished—the shackle I could not loosen that had bound me to her from the womb. “You would probably have known about it if you were at home,” she said. “But it happened shortly after we sent you off to school.” Nancy and her mother had gone to live in an apartment that belonged to my father, on the Square. There, one bright fall morning, Nancy’s mother had come upon her daughter in the bathroom, using a razor blade to slice into her cheek. There was blood on the floor and in the sink and here and there on Nancy. But she had not given up on her purpose or made a sound of pain. How did my mother know all this? I can only suppose it was a town drama, too gory, in the literal sense of the word, not to be related in detail. Nancy’s mother wrapped a towel around her and somehow got her to the hospital. There was no ambulance in our town at that time. She probably flagged down a car on the Square. Why didn’t she phone my father? No matter—she didn’t. The cuts were not deep and the blood loss was not so great, despite the splatter—there was no injury to any major blood vessel. Nancy’s mother kept berating the child and asking if she was right in the head. “You’re just my luck,” she said. “A crazy kid like you.” “If there had been social workers around at that time,” my mother said, “the poor little thing would have been made a ward of the Children’s Aid.” “It was the same cheek,” she said. “Like yours.” I had tried to keep silent, pretending not to know what she was talking about. But I had to speak. “The paint was over her whole face,” I said. “Yes. But she was more careful this time. She cut just that one cheek. Trying the best she could to make herself look like you.” This time, I did manage to keep quiet. “If she had been a boy, it would have been different,” my mother said. “But what an awful thing for a girl.” “Plastic surgeons can do remarkable things nowadays.” “Oh, maybe they can.” After a moment, she added, “Such deep feelings children have.” “They get over that.” She said that she did not know what had become of them, the child or her mother. She was glad that I had never asked, because she would have hated to have to tell me anything so distressing, when I was still young. I don’t know what bearing it has on anything, but I have to say that my mother changed completely in her old age, becoming ribald and fanciful. She claimed that my father had been a magnificent lover and that she herself had been “a pretty bad girl.” She announced that I should have married “that girl who sliced up her face,” because neither of us would have been able to crow over the other about having done a good deed. Each of us, she cackled, would be just as much a mess as the other. I agreed. I liked her then quite a bit. A few days ago, I was stung by a wasp while clearing out some rotten apples under one of the old trees. The sting was on my eyelid, which rapidly swelled closed. I drove myself to the hospital, using the other eye (the afflicted one was on the “good” side of my face) and was surprised to be told that I had to stay overnight. The reason was that, once I was given an injection, both eyes would be bandaged, in order to avoid strain on the one that could see. I had what they call a restless night, waking often. Of course, it is never really quiet in a hospital, and in that short time without my sight it seemed as if my hearing had grown more acute. When certain footsteps came into my room, I knew that they were those of a woman, and I had the feeling that she was not a nurse. “Are you by any chance awake?” she said. “I’m your reader.” I stretched out an arm, believing that she had come to read what are known as the vital signs. “No, no,” she said, in a small persistent voice. “I’ve come to read to you, if you’d like. Sometimes people get bored lying there with their eyes closed.” “Do they choose the reading matter, or do you?” “They do. I carry a whole batch of things around with me.” “I like poetry,” I said. “You don’t sound very enthusiastic.” I realized that this was true, and I knew why. I have some experience of reading poetry aloud, over the radio, and of listening to other trained voices, and there are some styles of reading I find pleasing, and some I abhor. “Then we could have a game,” she said, as if I had just explained this. “I could read you a line or two, then stop and see if you can do the next line. O.K.?” It struck me that she might be quite a young person, anxious to get some takers, to be a success at this job. I said O.K. But nothing in Old English, I told her. “The king sits in Dunfermline town,” she began, in a questioning voice. “Drinking the blood-red wine,” I chimed in, and we proceeded in good humor. She read well enough, though at a rather childlike speed. I began to enjoy the sound of my own voice, now and then falling into a bit of an actorly flourish. “That’s nice,” she said. “I will show you how the lilies grow, / On the banks of Italie.” “Is it grow or blow?” she said. “I don’t actually have a book with that in. I should remember, though. Never mind, it’s lovely. I always liked your voice on the radio.” “Really? Did you listen?” “Of course. Lots of people did.” She stopped feeding me lines and just let me go ahead. You can imagine. “Dover Beach” and “Kubla Khan” and “West Wind” and “Wild Swans” and “Doomed Youth.” Well, maybe not all of them, and not all the way to the end. “You’re getting short of breath,” she said. Suddenly, her quick little hand was laid on my mouth. And then her face, or the side of her face, on mine. “I have to go. Here’s just one more before I go. I’ll make it harder by not starting at the beginning: ‘None will long mourn for you, / Pray for you, miss you, / Your place left vacant—’ ” “I’ve never heard that,” I said. “Sure?” “Sure. You win.” By now, I suspected something. She seemed distracted, slightly cross. I heard the geese calling as they flew over the hospital. They take practice runs at this time of year, then the runs get longer, and one day they’re gone. And then I was waking up, in that state of surprise, indignation, that follows a convincing dream. I wanted to go back and have her lay her face once more on mine. Her cheek on mine. But dreams are not so obliging. When I could see again, and was at home, I looked for the lines she had left me with in my dream. I went through a couple of anthologies but did not find them there. I began to suspect that the lines did not belong to a real poem at all, but had just been devised in the dream, to confound me. Devised by whom? But later in the fall, when I was getting some old books ready to donate to a charity bazaar, a piece of brownish paper fell out of one of them, with lines on it written in pencil. It was not my mother’s handwriting, and I hardly think it would be my father’s. Whose, then? I don’t know. Whoever it was had written the author’s name at the end: Walter de la Mare. No title. And not a poet I have any particular knowledge of. But I must have seen the poem at some time, maybe not in this copy, maybe in a textbook. I must have buried the words in some deep cubbyhole of my mind. And why? Just so that I could be teased by them, or by a determined girl-child phantom, in a dream? There is no sorrow Time heals never; No loss, betrayal, Beyond repair. Balm for the soul, then, Though grave shall sever Lover from loved And all they share; See, the sweet sun shines, The shower is over, Flowers preen their beauty, The day how fair! Brood not too closely On love, on duty; Friends long forgotten May wait you where Life with death Brings all to an issue; None will long mourn for you, Pray for you, miss you, Your place left vacant, You not there. The poem didn’t depress me. In some peculiar way, it seemed to back up the decision I had made by that time: not to sell the property but to stay. Something had happened here. In your life there are a few places, or maybe only one place, where something has happened. And then there are the other places, which are just other places. Of course, I know that if I had spotted Nancy years later—on the subway, for instance, in Toronto, both of us bearing our recognizable marks—we would in all probability have managed only one of those embarrassed and meaningless conversations, hurriedly listing useless autobiographical facts. I would have noted the mended, nearly normal cheek or the still obvious scar, but it would not have come into the conversation. Children might have been mentioned. Not unlikely, whether her face had been fixed or not. Grandchildren. Jobs. I might not have had to tell her about mine. We would have been shocked, hearty, dying to get away. You think that would have changed things? The answer is of course, and for a while, and never.
Gorse Is Not People Do you remember your twenty-first birthday? The party, the cake, and cutting a slice of it to put under your pillow that night, to make you dream of your future beloved; the giant key; the singing: I’m twenty-one today! Twenty-one today! I’ve got the key of the door! Never been twenty-one before! Trivial, obvious words. Yet when the party was over and you lay in bed remembering the glinting key and the shamrock taste of the small glass of wine, and perhaps the taste of a sneaked last kiss in the dark, then the song seemed not trivial or obvious but a poetic statement of a temporal wonder. You had, as they say, attained your majority. You could vote in the elections; you could leave home against your parents’ wishes; you could marry in defiance of all opposition. You had crossed a legal border into a free country, and you now walked equipped with a giant tinsel key, a cardboard key covered with threepenny spangles. Or perhaps your twenty-first birthday did not happen that way. Perhaps there was no party, no cake, no wine, and no kiss? I would like to tell you about Naida’s twenty-first birthday. Naida was a dwarf, which is not really a rare thing. I suppose in our lifetime we see many dwarves—first, perhaps, at the circus, where they are advertised as the tiniest people in the world and we pay to watch them moving about in their almost walnut-shell or matchbox beds. Sometimes we pass them in the street and stare hard for a moment, then pretend we haven’t seen them, until they have passed us and we look back, saying, “It must be strange, how strange it must be, such tiny folk, and us out of reach, like tall trees!” Now, dwarves are people in their own right, who move among us, and below us, and are usually bright people, and kind—living in a place where staircases are mountains, and streets are caverns; they are brave to walk menaced by cliffs of brick and peaks of polished snow. But Naida didn’t live in what was called “the world.” Since her tenth birthday, she had lived in a mental hospital, in the ward where they put people who were strange in shape and ways—where old frail women were tucked under thin frayed bedspreads, waiting for the time when their jaws would drop suddenly in the night; where curious bland children with slit eyes and lips bubbling with saliva played with rag toys or a red wooden engine in a yard that was hidden from the outside world. Sickly yellow grass curled up through the cracks in the concrete, but no geraniums blossomed there. Should not children have geraniums, the dry, sturdy, dusty flowers with the red stony-velvet smell? Naida grew up in that yard, until on her fifteenth birthday—because she was beginning to take too much notice of the male patients and was writing notes to the baker and the pig boy and the farmhands—she was put in yet another ward, where, it was said, people stayed forever. She was the youngest patient there, and the smallest; everyone felt sorry for her, and was kind to her. On Sundays, the minister sometimes let her choose the hymn: “Onward, Christian Soldiers,” “The Lord Is My Shepherd,” or “Shall We Gather at the River.” On Mondays, the sister of the ward took her to fetch supplies, or through to the matron’s office for the mail; and every morning at eleven o’clock Naida went with the nurse to collect the bread. She was also taken up by the group of women who came each month with string bags full of yellowed magazines—the Ladies’ Committee—and who had frightened looks on their faces, for they did not know how to talk to the patients but leaned forward and whispered to them, as if trying to share guilty secrets, and addressed them as “dear,” talking as they might have talked to children, which was a sad approach, sad also for the committee women, who were attacked by the self-proclaimed goddess who resented being asked, the week before Christmas, “And what would you like Santa Claus to bring you, dear?” Now, although Naida did not really remember much of any other world, she always talked of the day when she would be twenty-one, and free. She knew what happened when you were twenty-one: you were given a key and allowed to do as you pleased. She saw no reason to imagine that this would not happen to her; she believed that she would be in hospital only until she was twenty-one, at which point she could fend for herself, making her own way in the world, perhaps as a film star, a tap dancer, or a ballerina. How she looked forward to her twenty-first birthday! It was coming closer and closer. She ticked off the days on the calendar, and she sent a request to Uncle Henry of 4KN Radio, asking for “I’m Twenty-one Today” to be played over the air on the Friday that was her birthday—and also the song that she liked Nat King Cole to sing: “Too young to really be in love . . .” For Naida was in love. She was in love with the pig boy. He passed by each day on the carts collecting the pig food, and each day he pushed a note through the window of the dayroom. He and Naida were going to run away together into the hills; they were going to dance every dance together forever; they would be married and have many children, and Naida at her wedding would have a long white dress and carry orange blossoms, and they would go to Hollywood or to Mexico City—it wasn’t decided which—for their honeymoon. The pig boy had arranged everything. The night before Naida’s twenty-first birthday, the ward sister called her into the office. Naida’s eyes were glistening with happiness, and her pale face was puckered in a smile that yet contained something of the expression you might see on children who had known death too young, or were making daisy chains when the bomb fell. She held under one arm her wax doll, Margella Lucia, which one of the nurses had bought for her and dressed as a bride; in her other hand she carried a lit cigarette, which she puffed on now and again, then withdrew, smeared with lipstick, from the vermillion cupid’s bow of her lips. “I’m twenty-one tomorrow,” she said to the sister. The sister sighed and finished signing her report book. She looked up, frowning. “How often have I told you about cigarette ash? You’ll burn the place down.” The sister still remembered the fire years before, when she was just a junior nurse in pink, a new nurse carrying coal, emptying ashes, polishing corridors. The whole ward had burned down then; the women were burned, too. You could still see the rotting wood and the rusty iron, the patches of nourished grass, brighter and more rich in color than the small jaundiced blades that struggled up in other places, through the concrete and the trodden park. “I’m twenty-one tomorrow,” Naida said again, impatiently. The sister smiled. “I heard you,” she said. “Tomorrow you’re going to town, to talk to some men. You’ll like that, won’t you?” Men! Naida’s eyes glittered. Then she pouted. “What kind of men?” “Doctors, Naida. They want to talk to you.” “Why?” “Well, they know you’re twenty-one, I suppose.” “Is it because I’m going out in the world?” The sister did not answer. Naida suddenly jerked her doll upright and the long-lashed blue eyes of the wax bride opened with a snapping sound, and stared, meltingly, coquettishly, at the sister. “I know,” Naida said. “It’s because I’m twenty-one and going out in the world to be free. I’ve got my life to live, you know that. I can’t stay here forever.” The last two sentences were ones she had heard the heroine of her favorite radio serial, Margella Lucia, speak. “Now, we won’t talk anymore about that,” the sister said, “but you’ll have a bath tonight, and I’ll have clean clothes for you tomorrow. And you’ll have a nice ride in the hospital car with Nurse Edgwood. Good night, Naida.” By the next morning, the whole ward knew that Naida was going to town for her birthday, to see the doctors about being free and making her way in the world because she was twenty-one; it was pretty definite that in a few days’ time she would be saying goodbye to the hospital. Naida spread the news breathlessly, even stopping the doctor who was hurrying to the treatment room. The doctor smiled. “I see. That’s good news, Naida,” he said. He was only two years out of medical school and still believed that patients should be spoken to and smiled at. Dressed in a skirt from the sewing room and a twinset that the matron had bought, and with a red ribbon threaded through her already graying hair, Naida waited for the car. She was not taking her doll with her. “Dolls!” she said contemptuously, and laid Margella Lucia on the sofa in the dayroom, asking Mary, the nun who was praying in a corner nearby, to look after it for her. Then she picked it up and kissed it goodbye, leaving traces of bright lipstick on its face: Allure Velvet. She tucked it down on the sofa again, and its beautifully ordered eyes shut in sleep. Then the black government car, spitting and snarling gravel from its wheels, stopped outside, and the driver, a heavy man with a dark-blue suit and cuffless trousers, opened the door, like a chauffeur. The sister led Naida out of the ward. “Hello, Naida,” Nurse Edgwood called from the car. “Happy birthday. This is for you.” She held up a small silver brooch in the shape of a key, inset with a milky imitation pearl, the kind Woolworth’s made, glowing secretly to itself. “I was going to buy a bird brooch, Naida, but you said you wanted a key. I’ll change it if you want me to.” Naida panicked. “Oh, no. You’ve got to have a key for your twenty-first.” The nurse said nothing. The sister said nothing, either. The staff were forbidden to give presents to patients, but in Naida’s case—because Naida had no visitors and no letters and no other home—an exception could be made. The sister gave Nurse Edgwood a folder of papers and shut the car door. Naida was engrossed with the key. “I’d much rather have a key than a bird,” she was insisting. “Silly old bird. Silly old bird.” The car moved forward. Everybody waved and smiled, and Naida waved and smiled back, not only at the sister but at the patients who were pressing their faces up against the windows, taking it all in, for not everybody had a chance to go to town—it was only when you needed an X-ray or a head operation. Naida had considered this in a waking moment of fear, in the night, for she had dreamed that it was her wedding day, and she had changed out of her wedding dress and into her going-away suit, and was waiting, up close to the pig boy, for the plane to take them on their honeymoon, not to Mexico City or even to Hollywood but home—to where Naida used to live, in the small square house with its wooden latticed eyebrows and the straggled lupines in the garden and the rusty old pump with dirty water pouring out. And, in the dream, the doctor, saying goodbye to them, had given Naida a small box with a half-naked filmy lady on the outside and what seemed to be chocolates inside—small silver squares. She unwrapped one of them, and it was her hair tied in silver paper; it was all bits of hair tied in silver paper. She put her hand to her head, to feel the perm she had been given for the wedding, but there was no perm there, for her hair was gone. Then the plane came out of the sky, and it was an ambulance to take her to town for a head operation, and the pig boy did nothing about it; he did not even speak. She pushed him, and he fell over stiffly like a rubber man, bouncing slightly on the ground. He wasn’t real, nothing was real: the going-away suit was a nightie with a number, in red chain stitch, on the pocket. And then it was afterward, and the nurse was shining a torch in her eyes, to see how big the pupils were, and writing it down on a chart. Naida started to cry, waking up, and saw the night nurse with her torch, walking through the dormitory. So it was all a dream, really; and, besides, she would be twenty-one, and no one could deny that being twenty-one made a difference. The journey to town was to see the doctors about being free, and not because they wanted to come at her quick with a head operation. As soon as the car was clear of the hospital, Naida turned to Nurse Edgwood, who was one of her favorite nurses, and held out her left hand. On the third finger was a ring that sparkled and shone and showed the world sapphire in its mirrors. “It’s my engagement ring,” Naida said. “From the pig boy. Lofty. I’m seeing the doctors and getting out this weekend. Lofty is getting a special license, for it isn’t right for engaged couples to wait. He saved up his canteen money to buy this for me—he hasn’t had tobacco or cigarettes for weeks. It’s sapphire, with one diamond. The diamond makes the most sparkle. Lofty is my true love.” The nurse looked at Naida’s shrunken body, and the curled little hand with the top-heavy blue-stone ring burning on the third finger, and the silver key brooch that was now pinned to Naida’s child-woman breast. “You’ll enjoy yourself today,” Nurse said. “What would you like to eat in town?” “Sponge cake with four layers, and a dry Martini.” Outside in the world, it was not springtime, but the hills and paddocks were lit with bursts of gorse flowers, and the heavy drunken perfume came blowing through the open window of the car. “What is it?” Naida asked. “Gorse. The farmers’ curse.” “Is it always there, yellow like that?” “As far as I know. It has no definite season—no birthday, so to speak.” Naida was delighted. “No birthday,” she repeated, fingering the brooch on her breast. “It’s out in the paddocks there without a birthday.” She leaned out the window and stared at the happy chickenlike ruffles of color; the day was warm and sunny, yet with a thin cotton twist of cloud sewing together the blue gaps of sky, and a quick wind gulping down its own breath and the sweetness of the gorse. Naida looked around her suddenly at the cruel, caging, black body of the car. “I want out,” she said, pointing to the hills. “There. I want out there without a birthday. Silly old car.” The nurse caught her wrist. “Don’t, Naida,” she said. “You’ll spoil everything. And remember—it’s your birthday. You can’t go out there, in all that gorse.” Naida grew calm. “Yes,” she said. “It’s my birthday and I’m twenty-one.” She unsnipped the key brooch and clasped it in both hands. “I’ve got the key of the door.” Yes, they had sponge cake, only it was three layers, not four, the top chocolate, the second plain cream, the third raspberry. They drank not dry Martinis but milkshakes whipped white and red out of tall silver cannisters; Naida twiggled her breath through the straw at the bottom to get the last drops. Then a machine in the corner played “Walkin’ My Baby Back Home,” at Naida’s request. It was the song the baker used to sing to her when she collected the bread; if the nurse wasn’t looking, he would take Naida into the small room off the room where the ovens were, and, putting his cigarette down, probably on the buns, only that didn’t matter, he would kiss her and squeeze her and croon in her ear, “Walkin’ my baby back home.” Naida felt lonely, hearing the song coming loud and wild out of the machine. The baker had promised her a ring with seven diamonds, and a necklace with thirty, if she married him. But Lofty, the pig boy, was taller, like the man in the serial, Margella Lucia’s beloved. And you had to decide sometime. “No. I don’t like that song,” Naida said, when “Walkin’ My Baby Back Home” had finished. She puckered her face. “That song brings memories,” she said. The nurse was sympathetic; she had never heard Naida speak of her home, or of her mother and father and sisters and brothers, none of whom ever came to visit. “What memories, Naida? Does it remind you of your mother and father, of being at home?” Naida looked at her seriously. “No,” she said. “Silly. It’s memories of love.” So they walked up and down the streets, eating ice creams, and looking in shopwindows at the frozen ladies with dolly-pillow breasts and long pink legs, being dressed by smart men with flat black hair and striped suits. They watched a toy engine moving clickety-clack around and around, being waved on by a man with a green flag instead of a hand; a tall man riding nowhere on a bicycle; and, best of all, in the window of the hardware store, four puppet men who were laying bricks to build something, a house or a church or a bathing shed or a place where airplanes are left to sleep. The first man jerked forward with a brick, and the second took it from him, leaving the first man in an anguished pose, with his hands praying in the air; and it was the same with the third man, until the brick reached the fourth, where you would have thought something peaceful would happen, but oh, no. Just as the fourth puppet prepared to lay the foundation, some electric device came into play whereby the brick was sneaked back to the first man, who jerked himself to life once more, and the building began again. Naida was fascinated. “Except,” she said, “it doesn’t build.” Nurse looked at her watch: it was time for the interview. “We have to go, Naida.” “Once more, to watch it being built.” “But the same thing happens. It won’t end, unless the electricity breaks down or the battery runs out. They’ll be there forever, doing the same thing in the same place.” The nurse waited outside. Naida sat in the room and faced the three men. Naida liked the tall, dark one immediately, because he smiled at her first, and offered her a cigarette. She took it, her fingers trembling, for the time had come that she had awaited and talked of for years, and marked on the calendar. It seemed incredible that perhaps next week she would be sitting in a luxury hotel in Hollywood or Mexico City (she and the pig boy would have to decide quite soon, so they could book tickets on the plane), eating sponge cake with four layers and drinking dry Martinis. Naida sighed with bliss and impatience. The short, sandy-haired man leaned forward. “Well,” he said. “What’s the sigh for, my dear?” Naida looked at him derisively. Not much of a man there, she thought. He’s going bald and he’s got no eyebrows. I’ll stick to the tall, dark one. “I was thinking,” she said. “Only thinking.” “And what exactly were you thinking about, eh?” the other man, who was quite fat, with a looped mustache, inquired. Not much of a man there, either, Naida thought, surveying him. I’m right in sticking to the tall, dark one. “Eh?” the man with the mustache persisted. “Mind your own business. M.Y.O.B.,” Naida said abruptly. “I should think so,” the dark man said, smiling kindly. “We haven’t even introduced ourselves, have we? Now, we’re three men who want to have a little chat with you and see how happy you are and what we can do for you.” That’s fair, Naida thought. “This is Mr. Berk, and Dr. Pillet, and I am Dr. Craig. And your name is—” He hesitated. Naida was sure he knew her name, but, seeing as he was the nicest and the handsomest, she smiled her special smile at him and, tucking her ring out of sight under her sleeve, she said, “I’m Naida.” “And how old are you, Naida?” Naida was sure he knew this, too, but she liked to oblige. “I’m twenty-one today,” she said. “And do you know what being twenty-one means?” the sandy-haired man, Mr. Berk, asked. “Who doesn’t? I can get married. I’m free.” “And if you were free, Naida, what else would you do, besides get married?” Naida was carried away with excitement. It was no use; in spite of being attracted to the tall, dark Dr. Craig and feeling that perhaps she and he could be friends quite soon, she could not keep her hand covered any longer. She showed the ring. “My engagement ring. Sapphires and one diamond. I’m getting married next week, and going by plane to Mexico City. Or to Hollywood. It isn’t decided yet.” The dark man frowned. Naida noticed this and thought, He’s jealous—I can tell. Feeling sorry for him, she smiled her special smile again. He looked up from his papers. “So it’s all arranged,” he said slowly, and Naida detected the sadness and regret in his voice, but she knew it couldn’t be helped; you couldn’t shilly-shally all your life—you had to decide sometime. Even if the ring she was wearing did have fewer diamonds than the baker had promised, and, perhaps, fewer than the tall, dark man with his fat salary would have provided. Yes, you had to make up your mind. “Wouldn’t you like to go home, Naida?” the man with the mustache asked. Naida did not speak. Her lips trembled. She looked for comfort to the dark man, who smiled quickly, giving her all of the smile, from the beginning to the end, and then what was left over in his eyes. The sandy-haired man, trying to put his spoke in and win favor, split his face into a smile as well. “Happy birthday!” he said triumphantly. The others joined in a murmur of “Happy birthday.” “You’re not very big for your age, are you, Naida?” It was the sandy-haired man again. “How will you manage in the world?” Naida looked defiant. “I’m a bastard,” she said. “My mother thought me into being small—that’s why I didn’t grow and have got yellow skin, instead of pink. But I’ll manage all right. You’ll see.” Her lips quivered. The tall man offered her another cigarette, and leaned forward with a match for her, so that their faces were quite close together, and she smelled his shaving-cream-and-tobacco smell. “Now we’re going to ask you a few more questions, Naida,” he almost whispered, looking into her eyes. Her heart tumbled over and over. “Your name is Naida, isn’t it?” he said. “I told you it was,” Naida said, patiently. “Well, now. I seem to have forgotten the date. Perhaps you could tell me.” Naida told him, reminding him also that it was her birthday. “Of course. Of course. And this place here where we’re having our little chat, what’s the name of this place?” “It’s to do with hospitals—I can tell by the smell,” Naida said. He smiled once more. Then the man with the mustache pounced. “What are seven threes?” he said. Naida looked at him in amazement, then she faltered, looking down at her sapphire ring. “I don’t know about those things. I’m not specially educated.” “You read the newspapers?” “I can’t read so well. I like the pictures.” “And what did you say you would do if you were free?” “I am free. I’m twenty-one, and getting married, and going next week to Mexico City or Hollywood, by plane.” She was saying it now like a charm, for she felt suddenly afraid, and uncertain, as if it wouldn’t happen, as if she’d just go back to the hospital and nothing would be any different. But that couldn’t be it: she was twenty-one; next week she would be free. She felt for the key on her breast and touched its hard glitter. “It’s wrong to steal, isn’t it?” the sandy-haired man said, sidling up to her. “I never stole it. It’s for my birthday—it’s the key.” “Of course you didn’t steal it, Naida. We’re just talking to you. Why do you think it’s wrong to steal?” Naida screwed up her face. “Because,” she said. “Quite right,” the dark man said. “Quite right. And what are you going to do when you’re married?” Again she could feel the regret in his voice, but she knew he had to face things, so she told him. “Have babies, and give cocktail parties on the terrace.” The men exchanged glances, and Dr. Craig wrote something down, carefully, on a sheet of paper. He held out his hand. “Goodbye,” he said. Their hands touched and clasped; Naida trembled. The other two men also shook hands with her and said goodbye, and the nurse came in, summoned by a little brass bell on the desk, to take Naida and the sheet of paper away. When they were standing in the waiting room, Naida burst into tears, her thin huddled shoulders moving with the pattern of her sobbing; her tears fell on the blue-stone ring, blurring it, so that she could not see her face or the world in it anymore, and it was secret, like the pearl. She did not know why she was crying. It was just that she had been asked the questions in a pouncing way, and that nothing seemed neat and planned anymore, as it had been; it was all muddled and unclear, with nothing sparkling and shining. The nurse waited. “We’re going back now,” she said. “Here, put on some lipstick. You’re twenty-one, remember. You’re not acting twenty-one, crying like that.” Naida smiled, taking hold of the one thing that mattered. “Yes, I’m twenty-one, and after we’ve gone back past the hills and the gorse, and I pack my things, and get my trousseau ready, I’ll be free.” Naida rushed into the dayroom to retrieve Margella Lucia from the care of the nun, Mary, all in black, who was sitting in the corner praying and telling her beads. “Has she been good?” Naida asked, waking the doll with a kiss, so that its blue eyes popped open, flirting with the nothingness in front of them. Then, with the doll kissed and clutched in her arms, Naida sat down, preparing to tell the awed and envious patients about her wonderful journey to town, and how she would be set free next week because she was twenty-one. In the ward office, the nurse handed to the sister the paper that the three men had signed. The wording on the paper began, “Registered under the Mental Defectives Act, 1928. This is to certify that Naida Wilma Tait, aged twenty-one . . .” And so on. The same thing, over and over; brick puppetry; and gorse is not people.
Awake “Odysseus turned his back on the harbour and followed a rough track leading through the woods and up to the hills toward the place where Athene had told him . . .” Richard read on for a time. He was restless but tried to take an interest in Odysseus’ journey to the home of his loyal “swineherd”—what a word, what a way to make a living!—who of course doesn’t recognize him, nobody ever recognized anybody in these old books, but offers Odysseus a meal anyway and bangs his ear off with complaints. Now and then Richard glanced over at Ana, asleep beside him. He kept willing her to wake, to turn and open her arms to him—no such luck. Gloomy, impatient, he went back to the Odyssey. Ana had left it on the bedside table, open to this chapter, which Richard found boring and implausible. He leafed ahead to the part where Odysseus strings his bow and slaughters all the suitors, but there was a lot more fancy description and speechifying than he remembered from the version he’d read as a kid. He was supposed to have read it again, a couple years ago, as part of his freshman core at Columbia, but he’d come down with the flu that week. It was a library book. He studied the withdrawal dates—few of them and far between—then closed it and put it back down. Ana had only stirred a little when he turned on the lamp. Now he switched it off and plumped his pillow and fooled with the covers, hoping that all this would do the trick, but she slept on, snoring softly, face to the wall. The bed was narrow, and in the dark he became even more aware of the heat from her back and her legs, especially her legs. He touched his knee to the tender crook of hers and she drew away, leaving him jangly and resentful, but conscious also that he had no right to be, that she’d already given herself twice that night and had to get up early with a full day of waitressing ahead of her; he had only one class to attend, in the afternoon. But knowing this did not take the edge off his need—for it felt like need, nothing less—to have her against him again, her open mouth moving on his, her fingers digging into his back. Jesus! He had to think of something else. But what? Even thinking of something else, he’d know that he was doing it to distract himself, and that thought would lead right back to this bed, to the weight of Ana beside him, her breath, her heat. Still, if he kept it up long enough maybe he’d fall asleep, or at least be awake and ready when her alarm went off. Not that he’d pressure her. Unless they hurried, which she didn’t like, she’d have to go to work without breakfast or a shower. He’d just give her a look, his special look, and she’d know, and then she could do whatever she wanted. And he wouldn’t act hurt if she didn’t want to. Really, he wouldn’t. Not this time. Think of something else. O.K. “The Exorcist”—this old novel he’d found in his dormitory lounge. Richard had seen the movie with the possessed girl whose head spins on her neck like a top, but he hadn’t known that it came from a book—not that the book was great literature or anything. Still, it was pretty interesting. The writer had done a lot of research on exorcisms, and some of the cases were scary enough to make you believe in the Devil, at least while you were reading the novel. It turned out that there were certain priests who cast out demons as a specialty. That was their job, their market niche, waiting around like firemen for the alarm to go off. Demon in Idaho housewife! Demon in Delaware bus driver! How weird was that? As if being a priest weren’t strange enough already. Richard had been sort of religious when he was young, he’d said prayers before meals and gone to Sunday school, where he’d stuck cutouts of bearded men onto felt backdrops. Church was fine, he’d always felt good afterward. He could even see maybe becoming religious again someday, when he was a lot older. But giving up women? Never kissing a woman, never having a woman’s legs around you— He sat up and reached for the glass of water Ana had left for him on the bedside table. He’d knocked it over last weekend and made enough of a fuss to wake her, but he didn’t think he should try that again, so he took care picking it up and putting it down after he’d drunk his fill. He settled back against the pillow. He closed his eyes, but just then Ana made a little snort and moved beside him, giving off a fresh wave of warmth, and, faintly, that sweet warm bed-smell of hers, like baking bread, and he lay there tensed, waiting, but she didn’t move again. He heard the clock tick, his own breath returning, jagged and raspy. He looked up toward the ceiling, at a thin bar of light leaking though the shades from the street lamp outside. No more thinking about priests—that didn’t help. O.K., then, the Odyssey. He should read it again. He was going to, for sure, this time in the grownup version! He could get through a few speeches and descriptions, sort of earn his way to the good parts, especially the slaughter at the end. He liked the idea of Odysseus coming home after all his wanderings and screwups and setting things right, taking back his woman and his house, no discussion, no messing around. Then he would read the Iliad. Also “War and Peace” and “The Brothers Karamazov.” All the books that Ana had on her shelf, and actually liked. Richard was an econ major and didn’t have much time for outside reading, and when he did he kicked back with a mystery, or something scary. O.K., so he wasn’t a big literary type—so sue him! He’d like to see one of those sensitive souls handle the stuff he was dealing with in his International Environmental Economics seminar. Abatement Strategy Modules. Alternative Equity Criteria. General Equilibrium Impact Analyses. Go for it, he thought. Be my fucking guest. Not that Ana was like that—a snob. She wasn’t. She really loved these books, they were important to her, and Richard knew that he hadn’t been entirely honest about his own tastes when they first met. He’d allowed her to think that he was a great one for the classics, and she had believed him because she had the idea that Columbia students were not only smart but cultured, and that they went to the university not to set themselves up for a fat job later on but to search for knowledge and wisdom. To become better people. She was naïve that way. Richard had liked her innocence, and the sense of adult benevolence it gave him. She was a few years older than he, and at first it sort of evened things out, him knowing the score while humoring her, letting her have her notions. That was how he saw it then, in the beginning. Not anymore. After two months with Ana, he knew himself to be the green, untested one. Her family was Russian but they’d lived for many years in Chechnya, where her father managed a food-processing plant. During the war, the factory had been destroyed and Ana’s oldest brother had been killed. The family lost everything. She’d been sent to live with her mother’s mother in Tel Aviv—a widow, mean as a witch from some fairy tale. Now she was staying with an aunt here in Queens, and working illegally at a restaurant on Amsterdam. That was where Richard had met her. He’d heard her speaking Russian to another waitress, and when she came to his table he tried out a few phrases from his one year of high-school Russian, and she had almost wept with surprise and joy. She wasn’t his type, Ana—a bit heavy, round in the face. Little pockmarks on her forehead. Her English was pretty good but thickly accented. He hadn’t meant to ask her out. But then he did, the very next night. A week later she took him home, to this small attic room in her aunt’s house. They were just having fun, that was how he’d seen it, the two of them having some fun before going their separate ways, as people did, people their age with their whole lives still ahead of them. You didn’t want to get tied down now, when you didn’t know who you might still meet and what might open up, what chances and adventures. That was the idea. Some good times, no strings. But after a month or so he saw that Ana had gone all serious on him. She tried to pretend she hadn’t, but she had, and he knew it, and made up his mind to break things off. It would be wrong to take advantage of her. Also the long subway ride from his dorm and back was getting to him. But then he found that he couldn’t break it off, because even with friends, even talking to other girls, he missed her, missed her throaty voice and the strange, direct way she said things, missed giving her pleasure and seeing it in her eyes. He was desolate on the nights that he had to sleep in his dorm room. Loud voices outside—men’s voices, speaking in Spanish. Ana shifted, murmured. The voices moved on. Silence. Richard sat up and took another drink of water. Being away from her felt unnatural now. Alone in bed, sitting in class, writing an e-mail to his parents, he thought of her and ached. But it couldn’t last—he knew that. And he knew now that she would be the one to break it off. Ana was already who she was going to be, and he was not. She was a woman, and he was not a man. He looked like a man, even an interesting man, dark and ruggedly handsome, with a grave, thoughtful air. But his looks didn’t fit the way he felt—the way he knew himself to be. Sometimes, walking down the street, he glanced at the window of a store and was thrown by the sight of himself, as if he were wearing a costume. Girls liked him. They assumed certain things about him, and he’d learned to act his part, but he knew this wouldn’t hold up much longer with Ana. Not because she was older but because his ways of thinking were smaller than hers. He wasn’t curious, as she was, didn’t like and trust others, as she did, for all the hardships of her life. He complained a lot, and she never complained. And though he hated being apart from her, when they were out together he looked at other women and imagined having them, and even brought their images to this bed. Sometimes she caught him studying her coldly—wishing she’d lose weight, do something about those pockmarks—and he could feel his own smallness and triviality as the color drained from her face. Soon enough she would see him clearly, and understand her mistake. He was already watching for signs of retreat: impatience, condescension, a certain weariness. He’d seen all this before, with the only other girl he’d been close to. Had Ana really not caught on yet? How could she not know? Was it just because he was handsome, and always ready? Or because he was American, and maybe of use in some scheme? No! Ana didn’t think that way. And what sort of mean spirit, knowing her, could even imagine such a thing? Jesus! What had got into him? Ana was a noblewoman. O.K., that sounded like something from a book, but it was true. It was just that she’d come to him too soon. . . . She was the one he should have met later, after he’d stuck his neck out and suffered some losses, after he’d really messed things up, and been fucked over, and got lost, and kept going anyway—when this little green soul of his had taken some lumps and some weather and bulked up into a man’s soul, so that he could look out of his own eyes and not feel like a kid in a mask. Then he could have come to her and strung the great bow, and laid waste to all these chickenshit doubts and wants, and claimed love as his right. The bar of light on the ceiling paled away to nothing. Richard heard the groaning of the pipes downstairs—the aunt was in the shower. A car horn blared in the street below, and Ana stirred, turned, moved against him. He felt her hand on his hip. She whispered his name. He kept his eyes closed and did not answer.
Clara Just Loomis She had big breasts, slim legs, and blue eyes. That’s how I like to remember her. I don’t know why I fell madly in love with her, but I did, and at the start, I mean for the first days, the first hours, it all went fine; then Clara returned to the city where she lived, in the south of Spain (she’d been on vacation in Barcelona), and everything began to fall apart. One night I dreamed of an angel: I walked into a huge, empty bar and saw him sitting in a corner with his elbows on the table and a cup of milky coffee in front of him. She’s the love of your life, he said, looking up at me, and the force of his gaze, the fire in his eyes, threw me right across the room. I started shouting, Waiter, waiter, then opened my eyes and escaped from that miserable dream. Other nights I didn’t dream of anyone, but I woke up in tears. Meanwhile, Clara and I were writing to each other. Her letters were brief. Hi, how are you, it’s raining, I love you, bye. At first, those letters scared me. It’s all over, I thought. Nevertheless, after inspecting them more carefully, I reached the conclusion that her epistolary concision was motivated by a desire to avoid grammatical errors. Clara was proud. She couldn’t write well, and she didn’t want to let it show, even if it meant hurting me by seeming cold. She was eighteen at the time. She had quit high school and was studying music at a private academy, and drawing with a retired landscape painter, but she wasn’t all that interested in music, and it was pretty much the same with painting: she liked it, but couldn’t get passionate about it. One day, I received a letter informing me, in her usual terse fashion, that she was going to take part in a beauty contest. My response, which filled three double-sided pages, was an extravagant paean to her calm beauty, the sweetness of her eyes, the perfection of her figure, etc. The letter was a triumph of bad taste, and when I had finished it I wondered whether or not I should send it, but in the end I did. A few weeks went by before I heard from her. I could have called, but I didn’t want to intrude, and also at the time I was broke. Clara came in second in the contest and was depressed for a week. Surprisingly, she sent me a telegram, which read, “SECOND PLACE. STOP. GOT YOUR LETTER. STOP. COME AND SEE ME.” A week later, I took a train bound for the city where she lived, the first one leaving that day. Before that, of course—I mean after the telegram—we had spoken on the phone, and I had heard the story of the beauty contest a number of times. It had had a big impact on Clara, apparently. So I packed my bags and, as soon as I could, got on a train, and very early the next morning there I was, in that unfamiliar city. I arrived at Clara’s apartment at nine-thirty, after having a coffee at the station and smoking a few cigarettes to kill some time. A fat woman with messy hair opened the door, and when I said I had come to see Clara she looked at me as if I were a lamb on its way to slaughter. For a few minutes (they seemed extraordinarily long at the time, and, thinking the whole thing over, later on, I realized that in fact they were), I sat and waited for Clara in the living room, a living room that seemed welcoming, for no special reason, overly cluttered but welcoming and full of light. When Clara made her entrance, it was like the apparition of a goddess. I know it was a stupid thing to think—and it’s a stupid thing to say—but that’s how it was. The following days were pleasant and unpleasant. We saw a lot of films, almost one a day; we made love (I was the first guy that Clara had slept with, which seemed incidental or anecdotal, but in the end it would cost me dearly); we walked around; I met Clara’s friends; we went to two horrific parties; and I asked her to come and live with me in Barcelona. Of course, at that stage I knew what her answer would be. After a month, I took a night train back to Barcelona; I remember it was a terrible trip. Soon after that, Clara explained in a letter, the longest one she ever sent me, why she couldn’t go on: I was putting her under intolerable pressure (by suggesting that we live together); it was all over. After that, we talked three or four times on the phone. I think I also wrote her a letter full of insults and declarations of love. Once, when I was travelling to Morocco, I called her from the hotel where I was staying, in Algeciras, and that time we were able to have a civilized conversation. At least, she thought it was civilized. Or I did. Years later, Clara told me about the parts of her life I had missed out on. And then, years after that, both she and some of her friends told me her life story all over again, starting from the beginning, or from the point where we split up—since I was a minor character, it didn’t make any difference to them, or to me, really, although that wasn’t so easy to admit. Predictably, not long after the end of our engagement (I know “engagement” is hyperbolic, but it’s the best word I can find) Clara got married, and the lucky man was, logically enough, one of the friends I had met on my first trip to her city. But, before that, she had psychological problems: she used to dream about rats; at night she would hear them in her bedroom, and for months, the months leading up to her marriage, she had to sleep on the sofa in the living room. I’m guessing those damned rats disappeared after the wedding. So. Clara got married. And the husband, Clara’s dear husband, surprised everyone, even her. After one or two years, I’m not sure, exactly—Clara told me, but I’ve forgotten—they split up. It wasn’t an amicable separation. The guy shouted, Clara shouted, she slapped him, he responded with a punch that dislocated her jaw. Sometimes, when I’m alone and can’t get to sleep but don’t feel up to switching on the light, I think of Clara, who came in second in that beauty contest, with her jaw hanging loose, unable to get it back in place on her own, driving to the nearest hospital with one hand on the wheel and the other supporting her jawbone. I’d like to find it funny, but I can’t. What I do find funny is her wedding night. She’d had an operation for hemorrhoids the day before, so I guess she was still a bit groggy. Or maybe not. I never asked her if she was able to make love with her husband. I think they’d done it before the operation. Anyway, what does it matter? All these details say more about me than they do about her. In any case, Clara split up with her husband a year or two after the wedding, and started studying. She couldn’t go to a university because she hadn’t finished high school, but she tried everything else: photography, painting again (I don’t know why, but she always thought she could be a good painter), music, typing, I.T., all those one-year diploma courses supposedly leading to job opportunities that desperate young people keep jumping at or falling for. And although Clara was happy to have escaped from a husband who beat her, deep down she was desperate. The rats came back, and the depression, and the mysterious illnesses. For two or three years she was treated for an ulcer, until the doctors finally realized that there was nothing wrong, at least not in her stomach. Around that time she met Luis, an executive; they became lovers, and he persuaded her to study something related to business administration. According to Clara’s friends, she had at last found the love of her life. Before long, they were living together; Clara got a job in an office, a legal firm or some kind of agency—a really fun job, Clara said, without a hint of irony—and her life seemed to be on track, for good this time. Luis was a sensitive guy (he never hit her), and cultured (he was, I believe, one of the two million Spaniards who bought the complete works of Mozart in installments), and patient, too (he listened, he listened to her every night and on the weekends). Clara didn’t have much to say for herself, but she never got tired of saying it. She wasn’t fretting over the beauty contest anymore, although she did bring it up from time to time; now it was all about her periods of depression, her mental instability, the pictures she wanted to paint but hadn’t. I don’t know why they didn’t have children; maybe they didn’t have time, although, according to Clara, Luis was crazy about kids. She used her time to study, and listen to music (Mozart, but other composers, too, later on), and take photographs, which she never showed anyone. In her own obscure and useless way, she tried to defend her freedom, tried to learn. At the age of thirty-one, she slept with a guy from the office. It was just something that happened, not a big deal, at least for the two of them, but Clara made the mistake of telling Luis. The fight was appalling. Luis smashed a chair or a painting he had bought, got drunk, and didn’t talk to her for a month. According to Clara, from that day on nothing was the same, in spite of the reconciliation, in spite of their trip to a town on the coast, a rather sad and dull trip, as it turned out. By the time she was thirty-two, her sex life was almost nonexistent. Shortly before she turned thirty-three, Luis told her that he loved her, he respected her, he would never forget her, but for some months he had been seeing someone from work, who was divorced and had children, a nice, understanding woman, and he was planning to go and live with her. Buy the print » On the surface, Clara took the break-up pretty well (it was the first time someone had left her). But a few months later she lapsed into depression again and had to take some time off work and undergo psychiatric treatment, which didn’t help much. The pills she was given inhibited her sexually, although she did make some willful but unsatisfactory attempts to sleep with other men, including me. She started talking about the rats again; they wouldn’t leave her alone. When she got nervous she would constantly go to the bathroom. (The first night we slept together, she must have got up to pee ten times.) She talked about herself in the third person. In fact, she once told me that there were three Claras in her soul: a little girl, an old crone enslaved by her family, and a young woman, the real Clara, who wanted to get out of that city forever, who wanted to paint, and take photos, and travel, and live. For the first few days after we got back together, I feared for her life. Sometimes I wouldn’t even go out shopping because I was scared of coming back and finding her dead, but as the days went by my fears gradually faded, and I realized (or perhaps conveniently convinced myself) that Clara wasn’t going to take her life; she wasn’t going to throw herself off the balcony of her apartment—she wasn’t going to do anything. Soon after that, I left her, but this time I decided to call her every so often and stay in touch with one of her friends, who could fill me in (if only now and then). That’s how I came to know a few things it might have been easier not to know, stories that did nothing for my peace of mind, the kind of news an egotist should always take care to avoid. Clara went back to work (the new pills she was taking had done wonders for her outlook), and, shortly afterward, management, perhaps to pay her back for such a long absence, transferred her to a branch in another Andalusian city, though not very far away. She moved, started going to the gym (at thirty-four she was no longer the beauty I had known when I was seventeen), and made new friends. That’s how she met Paco, who was divorced, like her. Before long, they were married. At first, Paco would tell anyone willing to listen what he thought of Clara’s photos and paintings. And Clara thought that Paco was intelligent and had good taste. As time passed, however, Paco lost interest in Clara’s aesthetic efforts and wanted to have a child. Clara was thirty-five and at first she wasn’t keen on the idea, but she gave in, and they had a child. According to Clara, the child satisfied all her yearnings—that was the word she used. According to her friends, she was getting steadily worse, whatever that meant. On one occasion, for reasons irrelevant to this story, I had to spend a night in Clara’s city. I called her from my hotel, told her where I was, and arranged to meet her the following day. I would have preferred to see her that night, but after our previous encounter Clara regarded me, and perhaps with good reason, as a kind of enemy, so I didn’t insist. She was almost unrecognizable. She had put on weight, and in spite of the makeup her face looked worn, not so much by time as by frustration, which surprised me, since I’d never really thought that Clara aspired to anything. And if you don’t aspire to anything, how can you be frustrated? Her smile had also undergone a transformation. Before, it had been warm and slightly dumb, the smile of a young lady from a provincial capital, but it had become a mean, hurtful smile, and it was easy to read the resentment, rage, and envy behind it. We kissed each other on the cheeks like a pair of idiots and then sat down; for a while we didn’t know what to say. I was the one who broke the silence. I asked about her son; she told me he was at day care, and then asked me about mine. He’s fine, I said. We both realized that, unless we did something, the meeting was going to become unbearably sad. How do I look? Clara asked. It was as if she were asking me to slap her. Same as ever, I replied automatically. I remember we had a coffee, then went for a walk along an avenue lined with plane trees, which led directly to the station. My train was about to leave. We said goodbye at the door of the station, and that was the last time I saw her. We did, however, talk on the phone before she died. I used to call her every three or four months. I had learned from experience not to touch on personal or intimate matters (a bit like sticking to sports when chatting with strangers in bars), so we talked about her family, which in those conversations remained as abstract as a Cubist poem, or her son’s school, or her job; she was still at the same office, and over the years she had got to know all about her colleagues and their lives, and all the problems the executives were having—those secrets gave her an intense and perhaps excessive pleasure. On one occasion, I tried to get her to say something about her husband, but she clammed up at that. You deserve the best, I told her. That’s strange, Clara replied. What’s strange? I asked. It’s strange that you should say that—you, of all people, she said. I quickly tried to change the subject, claimed I was running out of coins (I’ve never had a phone of my own, and never will—I always called from a public phone booth), hurriedly said goodbye, and hung up. I realized I couldn’t face another argument with Clara; I couldn’t listen to her working up another one of her endless justifications. One night not long ago, she told me she had cancer. Her voice was as cold as ever, that voice in which she always recounted her life with the detachment of a bad storyteller, putting exclamation marks in all the wrong places, and passing over what she should have gone into, the parts where she should have cut to the quick. I remember asking her if she had already been to see a doctor, as if she had diagnosed the cancer herself (or with Paco’s help). Of course, she said. At the other end of the line I heard something like a croak. She was laughing. We talked briefly about our children, then (she must have been feeling lonely or bored) she asked me to tell her something about my life. I made up something on the spot, and said I’d call her back the following week. That night I slept very badly. I had one nightmare after another, and woke up suddenly, shouting, convinced that Clara had lied to me: she didn’t have cancer; something was happening to her, for sure, the way things had been happening for the past twenty years, little, fucked-up things, all full of shit and smiles, but she didn’t have cancer. It was five in the morning. I got up and walked to the Paseo Marítimo, with the wind at my back, which was strange, because the wind usually blows in from the sea, and hardly ever in the opposite direction. I didn’t stop until I got to the phone booth next to one of the biggest cafés on the Paseo. The terrace was empty, the chairs were chained to the tables. A little way off, right by the sea, a homeless guy was sleeping on a bench, with his knees drawn up, and every now and then he shuddered, as if he were having bad dreams. My address book contained only one other number in Clara’s city. I called it. After a long time, a woman’s voice answered. I said who I was, but suddenly found I couldn’t say anything more. I thought she’d hang up, but I heard the click of a lighter and smoke rushing in through lips. Are you still there? the woman asked. Yes, I said. Have you talked to Clara? Yes, I said. Did she tell you she had cancer? Yes, I said. Well, it’s true. All the years since I had met Clara suddenly came tumbling down on top of me, everything my life had been, most of it nothing to do with her. I don’t know what else the woman said at the other end of the line, hundreds of miles away; I think I began to cry in spite of myself, like in the poem by Rubén Darío. I fumbled in my pockets for cigarettes, listened to fragments of stories: doctors, operations, mastectomies, discussions, different points of view, deliberations, the activities of a Clara I couldn’t know or touch or help, not now. A Clara who could never save me now. When I hung up, the homeless guy was standing about five feet away. I hadn’t heard him approaching. He was very tall, too warmly dressed for the season, and he was staring at me, as if he were near-sighted, or worried I might make a sudden move. I was so sad I didn’t even get scared, although afterward, walking back through the twisting streets of the town center, I realized that, seeing him, I had forgotten Clara for an instant, for the first time, and only the first. We talked on the phone quite often after that. Some weeks I called her twice a day. Our conversations were short and stupid, and there was no way to say what I really wanted to say, so I talked about anything, the first thing that came into my head, some nonsense I hoped would make her smile. Once, I got sentimental and tried to summon up days gone by, but Clara put on her icy armor, and I soon got the message and gave up on nostalgia. As the date of the operation approached, my calls became more frequent. Once, I talked with her son. Another time with Paco. They both seemed well, they sounded well, at least not as nervous as I was. Though I’m probably wrong about that. Certainly wrong, in fact. Everyone’s worried about me, Clara said one afternoon. I thought she meant her husband and her son, but “everyone” included many more people, more than I could imagine, everyone. The day before she was to go into the hospital, I called in the afternoon. Paco answered. Clara wasn’t there. No one had seen her or heard from her in two days. From Paco’s tone of voice I sensed that he suspected she might be with me. I told him straight up, She’s not here, but that night I hoped with all my heart that she would come to my apartment. I waited for her with the lights on, and finally fell asleep on the sofa, and dreamed of a very beautiful woman, who was not Clara: a tall, slim woman, with small breasts, long legs, and deep brown eyes, who was not and never would be Clara, a woman whose presence obliterated Clara, reduced her to a poor, lost, trembling forty-something-year-old. She didn’t come to my apartment. The next day I called Paco. And two days after that I called again. There was still no sign of Clara. The third time I called Paco, he talked about his son and complained about Clara’s behavior. Every night I wonder where she could be, he said. From his voice and the turn the conversation was taking, I could tell that what he needed from me, or someone, anyone, was friendship. But I was in no state to provide him with that consolation.
The Dinner Party On occasion, the two women went to lunch and she came home offended by some pettiness. And he would say, “Why do this to yourself?” He wanted to keep her from being hurt. He also wanted his wife and her friend to drift apart so that he never had to sit through another dinner party with the friend and her husband. But after a few months the rift would inevitably heal and the friendship return to good standing. He couldn’t blame her. They went back a long way and you get only so many old friends. He leaped four hours ahead of himself. He ruminated on the evening in future retrospect and recalled every gesture, every word. He walked back to the kitchen and stood with a new drink in front of the fridge, out of the way. “I can’t do it,” he said. “Can’t do what?” The balls were up in the air: water slowly coming to a boil on the stove, meat seasoned on a plate sitting on the butcher block. She stood beside the sink dicing an onion. Other vegetables waited their turn on the counter, bright and doomed. She stopped cutting long enough to lift her arm to her eyes in a tragic pose. Then she resumed, more tearfully. She wasn’t drinking much of her wine. “I can predict everything that will happen from the moment they arrive to the little kiss on the cheek goodbye and I just can’t goddam do it.” “You could stick your tongue down her throat instead of the kiss goodbye,” she offered casually as she continued to dice. She was game, his wife. She spoke to him in bad taste freely and he considered it one of her best qualities. “But then that would surprise her, I guess, not you.” “They come in,” he said, “we take their coats. Everyone talks in a big hurry as if we didn’t have four long hours ahead of us. We self-medicate with alcohol. A lot of things are discussed, different issues. Everyone laughs a lot, but later no one can say what exactly was so witty. Compliments on the food. A couple of monologues. Then they start to yawn, we start to yawn. They say, ‘We should think about leaving, huh?,’ and we politely look away, like they’ve just decided to take a crap on the dinner table. Everyone stands, one of us gets their coats, peppy goodbyes. We all say what a lovely evening, do it again soon, blah-blah-blah. And then they leave and we talk about them and they hit the streets and talk about us.” “What would make you happy?” she asked. “A blow job.” “Let’s wait until they get here for that,” she said. She slid her finger along the blade to free the clinging onion. He handed her her glass. “Drink your wine,” he said. She took a sip. He left the kitchen. He sat on the sofa and resumed reading an article. Then he got up and returned to the kitchen and poured himself a new drink. “That’s another thing,” he said. “Their big surprise. Even their goddam surprises are predictable.” “You need to act surprised for their sake,” she said. “Wait for a little opening,” he said, “a little silence, and then he’ll say, he’ll be very coy, he’ll say, ‘Why don’t you tell them?’ And she’ll say, ‘No, you,’ and he’ll say, ‘No, you,’ and then she’ll say, ‘O.K., O.K., I’ll tell them.’ And we’ll take in the news like we’re genuinely surprised—like, holy shit, can you believe she’s knocked up, someone run down for a Lotto ticket, someone tell Veuve Clicquot, that bastard will want to know! And that’s just the worst, how predictable our response to their so-called news will be.” “Well, O.K.,” she said. “When that happens, why don’t you suggest they have an abortion?” He chewed his ice and nodded. “That would shake things up,” he said, “wouldn’t it?” “Tell them we can do it right here with a little Veuve Clicquot and one of the bedroom hangers.” “Delightful,” he said. “I’m in.” The kitchen was small. He would have done better to remain in one of the other rooms, but he wanted to be with her. She was sautéing the garlic and the onion. “He’s O.K.,” he said. “They’re both O.K. I’m just being a dick.” “We do this, what—at most, once or twice a year. I think you can handle it. And when they have the baby—” “Oh, Christ.” “When they have the baby, we’ll see even less of them.” “Holiday cards. Here’s our little sun-chine. See our little sun-chine? Christ.” “You aren’t the one who’s going to have to go to the baby shower,” she said. “How much you wanna bet they buy a stroller?” “A stroller?” “A stroller.” “A stroller,” she said. “To cart the baby around.” He put cheese on a cracker. “For to cart the baby around in, yes,” he said. “And you, if you had a baby, there’d be no stroller, right, because it would be oh so predictable? Absolutely no stroller?” “I was thinking we could duct-tape the child,” he said. “It would be cheaper.” “Like a BabyBjörn, but duct tape.” “Exactly.” “Would the baby face in or out?” “If it was sleeping, in. Not sleeping, kind of kicking its feet, wanting to see the world, duct-tape it out, so it has a view.” “Allowing the child to be curious,” she said. “Feeding its desire to marvel at this new experience called life.” “Something like that.” “The child must be so relieved that I’m barren,” she said. He left the kitchen. He stood in the living room with his drink, listening to the sounds of her cooking. They should have invited Ben and Lauren, too, like last time. Ben and Lauren were more his friends. With Ben and Lauren there, time didn’t move as it moved in hospital waiting rooms and the Midwestern churches of his youth. But she had wanted it just the four of them this time, probably so that they could more freely revel in their big news, and there was a limit to how many times he could say, unprompted, “Hey, should we invite Ben and Lauren?” At least he was doing Ben and Lauren a favor. He returned to the kitchen. “When they come in,” he said, “let’s make them do a shot, both of them.” “A shot?” “Of tequila.” “Her, too?” “Both of them.” “To sort of . . . fortify the baby.” “We’ll force them somehow,” he said. “I’ll figure it out.” “Better hurry,” she said. “All this talk of folic acid and prenatal vitamins. Give me a break. Do they think Attila the Hun got his daily dose of folic acid when he was in the womb? Napoleon?” She was going back and forth across the kitchen while he kept his drink close. “I could go on.” “George Washington,” she said, “a Founding Father.” “See? I could go on. Moses.” “I don’t think she’s going to be willing to do a shot,” she said. “We trick her somehow. Tell her it’s full of prenatal vitamins, and she shoots it down.” “Because she just graduated from the third grade,” she said, “and she’s blind and retarded.” “I’ll think of something,” he said. He left the kitchen again. On his way back in, he said, “O.K., I’ve got it.” He found the room empty. Her wedding ring and the one with the diamond were on the counter, where she always put them before starting to cook anything. The sink had filled with dishes. On the stove, a big pot and a smaller one with a handle unfurled steam into the beige hood where the vent rattled. The door of the cabinet under the sink hung open. He checked the bathroom off the kitchen. He returned the way he’d come, through the apartment, in the unlikely event she had passed by without his noticing as he was sitting on the sofa. He returned to the kitchen, to the animated appliances and stewing ingredients. She came in through the front door. “Where’d you go?” “Took the garbage down,” she said. “I would have done that.” He had come up with a good approach to the evening, but he was no longer in the mood to present it. Instead, he went over to her at the stove. He threaded his arms around her waist as she stirred one of the pots. Years earlier, they’d had a name for this hug. He couldn’t remember what it was. He kissed her neck, then the back of her hair. Her hair smelled of steam and shampoo and silk and wildflowers. “What can I do?” he said. “You can set the table,” she said. He set the table. He stood in front of the refrigerator with a new drink. “So I’ve figured it out,” he resumed. “They bring the bottle of wine, right? We thank them, we tuck it away in the kitchen. They never see it again. We start the evening. We don’t ask them what they want to drink. Like it’s just an oversight on our part. Because I know him. Even if she’s not drinking because of the big news, he’ll want a drink. I tell him we ran out. I tell him we’ll open their wine at dinner. But then we don’t. We just have water for the table. Then, in the middle of the meal—” “You know, you should work for Al Qaeda,” she said. “—in the middle of the meal, I get up and go to the kitchen and I bring back a beer for myself. I open it at the table and take a long drink. What do you think?” “Sounds promising.” “He says, ‘Hey, got another one of those?,’ and I’m, like, ‘Oh, actually, this is the last one.’ And then I kill it. Do you think they would leave?” “Leave? No.” “Really? They wouldn’t leave after that? Where the hell are they, anyway?” “They might never come back, but no. They would not leave.” “You know, they’re good people,” he said. “Ultimately.” “She’s my oldest friend,” she said. “And he can be very funny.” “You’re right, he can be very funny,” he agreed. Later, he came out of the bathroom just as the toilet was completing its roar. She was no longer in the kitchen. He took another cheese and cracker. He walked past the dressed table to the living room. She sat on the sofa reading the same magazine he had been reading. He stood in the middle of the room and raised his hands. “Where are they?” “If there’s one thing that’s predictable,” she said. “But it’s almost forty-five minutes.” “They’ll be eating some very cold appetizers.” “Have you cooked the meat?” “Everything but.” She casually flipped through the magazine. There was no outrage or impatience. She seemed resigned to waiting as long as it took. “You should maybe call her,” he said. “Isn’t this what you wanted?” she asked. “Something unpredictable?” She was on the phone, calling hospitals. It was ten o’clock, and then it was ten-thirty. She had tried to reach them a dozen times. She’d sent texts and e-mails. They hadn’t picked up and they hadn’t replied. “Not if it interfered with dinner,” he said. “Nice,” she said. “Magnanimous and humane.” “Those fucking drips,” he said, “have probably fallen asleep watching ‘Friends’ on DVD, for which they silence their phones and disable their BlackBerrys.” “Yes?” she said. She was speaking into the phone now. “O.K., thank you. Can you take my number just in case one of them comes in? Thank you.” She left her name and number and hung up. “Is it really possible,” she said. She was dialling the next number. “Is it really possible that you care about no one but yourself?” “I’m trying to be helpful.” “Your help isn’t worth a good God damn anymore,” she said. He didn’t like to be reminded. He left the room. “Sure,” she said to the phone. “I love to hold.” “Is this meat going bad?” he called out. He was in the kitchen. He had finished the cheese and crackers, the mini Caprese salad she’d made with grape tomatoes, and the figs wrapped in bacon caramelized with a homemade glaze. Now he was sitting on a barstool eating a saucer of the mushroom risotto that was meant to go with the lamb, while staring at the meat on the butcher block. He had opened another bottle of wine. “Hey, babe, this meat? Should we do something with this meat?” “Stick it up your ass,” she said. He stopped chewing. He looked with raised eyebrows at the two mustard-seasoned racks of lamb and thought how unpleasant it would be to insert one of their bony ribs into his butthole, but how much fun to walk out into the next room and moon her with a rack of lamb between his cheeks. “Stick it up my ass, huh,” he said. “You know who should stick it up . . . whose asses . . . up whose asses it should be stuck up is, are your two friends of yours, their asses. They should stick it up their asses,” he said. Another hospital had no record, either, and again she left her name and number. She walked into the kitchen. “What are you muttering?” “There are two racks there, one for each of their asses.” She put her fingertip on his forehead. “This isn’t like them,” she said, pushing his head back, “and you know it’s not like them, and you’re not being helpful.” She released him, and he sprang back on the stool to an upright position. “I’m sorry, am I supposed to be helpful?” he said. “Because I thought my help was no longer worth a good God damn.” She left the room. “Wait,” he said. He dropped the saucer to the counter and got off the stool. “Hold on.” He followed her through the dining room. “Obviously, I’m not saying—will you listen to me please?—that I don’t want to be helpful. Will you please turn around and listen?” She stopped and turned. “They just got their dates wrong, is all,” he said, “and tomorrow, when they call, they’ll tell you how sorry they are. They had to turn their phones off during the late showing of ‘Kung Fu Panda’ or something.” “So they went to see ‘Kung Fu Panda’ tonight,” she said. “Or something like it.” “And they turned their phones off so they wouldn’t ring during ‘Kung Fu Panda.’ ” “Or,” he said. “Or.” He put his finger up. They were standing near the bedroom doorway. There was dim light coming from the dark room and he was suddenly irrationally afraid, as he had been as a child, that if anyone stepped inside, if she stepped inside, she would plummet to the center of the earth. He lowered his finger. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t think they went to see ‘Kung Fu Panda.’ ” “You do not think, period,” she said. She stepped inside the bedroom. She did not plummet down but floated across the murk into the bathroom. She waited until the door was shut before switching on the light. He sat on the kitchen floor for thirty minutes. Then he said, “Hey!” He got no response. He stood and went into the bedroom. He found her in bed. She was in her pajamas. She was propped up against the headboard, flipping through another magazine in the light coming from the lamp on the nightstand. “What are you doing?” “Going to bed.” “The meat is still on the counter,” he said. “There’s food everywhere. Are we just going to let it go to waste? And aren’t you worried about your friends?” he asked. “I’m not hungry,” she said. “Should you really be paging through a magazine right now?” “What else would you suggest I do?” “I don’t know. Go over to their apartment? See if they’re there?” “I need to wait here in case I get a call from a hospital, or in case they show up.” He sat down on the bed. He put his head in his hands. He heard the glossy toss of one magazine page after another, and then, deeper in the ears, the squishy beat of his sobering heart. “Well,” he said, looking up. “Would you like me to go over there?” “What are you going to do about it, big man? Man of steel? Gonna get inside the Absolutmobile and go find the big danger?” He stared at her. “It’s too bad we can’t have one,” she said. “If it was ever abducted, what better daddy to save her?” “Her? Is that right? Her?” “I guess it would be important for you to have a boy, wouldn’t it? So you could pass along all these accumulated masculinity skills. All your big-man powers.” He stood up from the bed. “Do you want me to go over there or not?” he asked. He had been to their apartment a handful of times, but tonight the lighting was much lower. It was a sizable apartment with a quirky floor plan and a proliferation of rooms that seemed to spool out one after another. He stepped inside the foyer and saw the first of the bedrooms pulsing with candlelight just beyond the entrance to the kitchen. He saw silhouettes of people there and more in the room to his right. People were coming and going from the kitchen, some louder than others. He did not recognize the man who had opened the door. “Is there a party going on?” he asked. “Are you a neighbor?” “No. An old friend.” “There’s beer in the fridge,” the man said. He closed the door and introduced himself. They shook hands and the man disappeared. The noisy talk was crisper than it had been in the hall outside, where he had first noticed its underwater strains and thought it must be coming from some other apartment. He stayed in the foyer for a minute and then drifted down the small corridor to the kitchen. Here, too, the light was dim. Votives cast shadows against the chrome appliances and ceiling-mounted pots and pans and the people standing in twos and threes against the black marble counter. Someone reached into the fridge. The bright telescoping light broke the ambience and the door falling shut just as quickly restored it. “The last one of those, you bastard?” someone said. The one addressed mimicked smashing the bottle on the speaker’s head. There was more mimicry of hand-to-hand combat as he drifted out of the kitchen. He made his way through the rooms. He saw no one he recognized. It was hard to see in the low light, and some people, in the middle of conversations, had their backs to him. He did not want to go around tapping on shoulders or craning his neck conspicuously. He felt self-conscious despite the anonymity afforded by the darkness. He regretted not getting a drink while he was in the kitchen, not only because it had been a while since his last drink, and drinking was helpful in these situations, but because without a drink in hand he felt that much more out of place. He ended up by the gas fireplace below the mantel and mirror. Solid blue flames licked over fake logs with bulky knots, radiating a dry and passionless heat. No smoke, no ash. Just a steady dull and decorous burn. He stared at it until his eyes began to hurt, letting the competing voices behind him blend into one festive gibbering blur. When he looked up again, his eyes had hung a scrim of fire between him and the world. He could see only the vaguest shapes, the crudest outlines of people and walls, and then only at his periphery. He waited for the image to dissolve, but before it did completely a familiar voice said, “Well, look who it is.” He blinked to quicken his vision, which helped, but he didn’t think it could be possible. “Ben?” he said. “Lauren and I were just wondering where you could be,” Ben said. “We had plans,” he found himself saying, “earlier in the evening.” “Where’s Amy?” “She’s home,” he said. He added, “Not feeling well.” “Oh, no,” Ben said. “The flu?” “Flulike,” he said. “Where’s Lauren?” Ben turned around as if to locate Lauren. When he turned back, he spoke at a much lower register. “Listen, buddy, to your left, at ten o’clock? I’m going to pivot you, O.K.?” Ben reached out with his beer in hand and turned him a fraction. “Now she’s at noon, right over my shoulder. See her? Do you know who that is?” “She’s beautiful.” “Beautiful? Buddy,” he said, “do you have any idea who that woman is?” “I don’t know who any of these people are,” he said. Before he could study the woman any closer, he felt a hand on his arm. From the thinness of the grip he knew it to be a woman’s hand, and when he turned he was not surprised. “Hey,” he said. “You know we’ve been looking for you?” “Stay right where you are, Ben,” she said. “I’ll get you another drink.” She turned from Ben and addressed him. “Will you walk with me?” With her hand now on the small of his back, she led him through the rooms faster than he had meandered through them on his own. “What the hell’s going on?” he asked her. “We’ve been looking for you all night and you’re having a goddam party?” “Hey, you promised to wait for me, now,” she said to a group of people who turned to her all at once. “Oh, I won’t tell it without you,” a man said, and someone laughed. She turned back with a smile that quickly disappeared. “Hey,” he said. “Are you listening to me?” “Can you please wait?” she asked, without looking at him. “Where are we going?” She returned him to the foyer. She finished what was left in her glass and placed it on the floor. “Should you be drinking?” “It’s cranberry juice,” she said. Then she opened the door and they stepped out into the hallway. She waited for the door to close behind her. “Who invited you to this party?” she asked. “Who invited me?” he said. “No one invited me. We had dinner plans tonight, the four of us, and you stood us up.” “I’m sorry,” she said. “We did not have dinner plans.” “I’m afraid, yes, we did,” he said. “We made a huge spread for you guys and bought some very expensive meat and then I come here and find out you’re having a big party.” “Now, why would we throw a big party if we had plans with you?” “Why wouldn’t we get an invitation if you were throwing a big party?” he asked. She didn’t have an answer. People considered her pretty, but she had puffy cheeks and a pouty mouth that had annoyed him from the beginning, almost against his will. He had wanted to like her at first, but her kind of mouth he associated with spoiled brats and her voice didn’t help, nor the words she spoke. He felt sorry for that baby. “Can’t answer that, can you?” he said. “Let me ask you something,” she said. Her mouth, trembling a little, had never looked more punitive or ugly. “Why do you pretend to like us? Why do you invite us to dinner parties when everyone knows you don’t like us, that you’ve been full of contempt for us from the very beginning?” He was surprised by the forwardness of the question. He was tempted to argue the point. How could she know for certain that he didn’t like them? Instead, he said, “For Amy.” She was silent. “Well, you asked,” he said. “This party is by invitation only,” she said, “and we specifically did not invite you.” “So you don’t invite me or Amy, your oldest friend Amy, but you invite my friend Ben?” “We met Ben at one of your dinner parties.” “I know how you met him.” “And he and Lauren have since become friends.” “Who was that woman?” he asked. “What woman?” “The woman standing in front of me when I was talking to Ben.” “I must not be making myself very clear,” she said. “O.K., forget it,” he said, “forget it. You don’t want me here. That’s fine. But I came because Amy was worried about you when you didn’t show up for dinner. So what am I supposed to say to her when I go home knowing that you couldn’t come to our dinner party because you have a big party going on yourself, and that you specifically didn’t invite her?” She stared at him. Her arms were folded and her head was a little cocked, as if they were having a lovers’ quarrel, but her face was suddenly calm and expressionless. “You want to know what I think of you?” she asked. He was having a hard time reading her face. It was now so blank and flat and calm. He had no idea what she was thinking. It was as if she were a different person. “I think Amy made a terrible mistake marrying you,” she said. “I tried to tell her that, but I couldn’t do it the way I should have. Amy and I have nothing, absolutely nothing in common anymore, and I’m sorry but I blame you for that, because it’s so awful to have to see you and talk about you, and to think that she’s going to be alone with you for the rest of her life just breaks my heart.” He began to walk away. He stopped and turned back. “You’re barbarians,” he said. “You and Scott both.” He resumed walking. “Don’t come here again,” she cried after him. “Don’t call, either. Not tonight, and not tomorrow.” “I can’t wait to go home and tell Amy. She’s going to love this.” “I wish I could say I cared,” she said. He took a taxi home. In the back seat, he replayed the conversation again and again with such intensity that he began to shake his head and grit his teeth. He couldn’t believe the things she had said to him. They were outrageous, offensive, and final. He hardly saw anything out the car window, but he could vividly picture her mouth and then the blank expression that had preceded her outburst, which worked him up even more. When he stepped out of the cab, his anger had lessened through too much concentration on it. He wanted it to take hold of him again with its strangling grip, so he thought of the kitchen: every dish in the sink, the meat aging ruinously on the butcher block. He couldn’t wait to see it again. He walked through the front door and called out to her. He went through the apartment to the bedroom. The bed was unmade in that corner where she had lain flipping through her magazine, and the magazine itself was on the duvet. He looked in the bathroom before leaving the bedroom and walking back through the apartment, this time turning on all the overhead lights. On his way to the kitchen, he stopped at the closet and took an accounting of the coats, then he hurried on to the kitchen, where everything was as it had been a few hours earlier. He was that future self he had many times foretold but always dismissed as an impossibility. It was dizzying. He had to steady himself on the counter. He wanted nothing more than to tell her everything about the evening now. What cruel fun. What meagre compensation. Her wedding ring and the one with the diamond remained on the counter, where she had left them before she started cooking. When he returned to the bedroom he found her on the far side of the bed with her back to him. His relief was immense. He crossed the room and saw in the light coming in through the blinds that her eyes were open. She didn’t look at him, though she must have known he was there. He leaned against the wall. She continued to blink in a distant and lonely way. “They were home,” he said. He let that sink in. “They were home that whole time.” She closed her eyes. He prepared what he was going to say next. He wanted to go back now and start at the beginning, at the first sounds of the party he had picked up on in the hallway. With an economical and unsentimental gesture, she wiped a tear away before resettling her hand on her leg. He wasn’t expecting her to cry. He thought about how worried she had been. He thought about how much pride she took in her cooking and how much effort she had made for them. He lay down beside her on the bed. “They were sleeping,” he said. “I had to buzz them so many times just to wake them up. And she was so sorry. She said to me so many times how sorry she was.” She got out of bed and went into the other room. He was holding her one minute and the next he felt the enormity of the empty bed. He called out to her. She didn’t respond. He called out to her a second time. He thought about getting up and going to her, but that was usually no longer helpful. He heard her rummaging through the closet. When she came back in, she switched on the overhead light just as he happened to be staring at it. His eyes burned and he turned away. The next thing he knew, she had placed a roller bag on the bed and was unzipping it. “What are you doing?” he asked. He couldn’t believe what he was seeing. It was a totally predictable thing to do, to pack a bag, and yet completely outrageous. It was both dramatic and futile. Where did she plan to go? “You’re being ridiculous,” he said. “Please stop. What does this have to do with me?” She slowed down. She moved a few more things into the bag and then, with a gesture that was full of rage and yet halfhearted, she threw in a pair of socks. She seemed to recognize that what she was doing was preposterous, though nothing else appropriate or imaginable had come to her. She stood still in front of the bag. He got off the bed and took her in his arms. “She just forgot,” he said. “That’s all. You know her.” She began to sob. She heaved into his shoulder as he held her. Hot tears came through his shirt. “Why do I have this life?” she asked. Her arms dropped to her side and she went limp. She cried as if he were not holding her, as if he were not in the room with her, as if he were not in the world at all.
Yurt A year ago, Ms. Duffy, the fifth-grade English and history teacher, had come very close to losing it, what with her homeroom being right next to the construction site for the new computer lab, and her attempts to excise the Aztecs from the curriculum being thwarted, and her ill-advised affair with Mr. Polidori coming to an end. She had come very close—or at least that was the general opinion among both the middle- and upper-school faculty, and who was Ms. Hempel to disagree? But now, upon her return, Ms. Duffy looked unrecognizably happy. It was the first week of May, and she was holding court in the teachers’ lounge, her hair nearly down to her waist and her big belly protruding over her lap. Above the belly, Ms. Duffy laughed and swayed and gestured freely with her hands, as if to say, “What—this old thing?” Ms. Hempel couldn’t take her eyes off it. It looked as tough as a gourd. “Yemen is magical,” Ms. Duffy was telling the handful of teachers who happened to have fourth period free. “Just unbelievable. The pictures don’t capture it at all.” A stack of dun-colored photographs was circulating around the room. After her difficult year, Ms. Duffy had sublet her apartment and struck out for the ancient world. There had been long and poetic e-mails, reasonably free of gloating—they were full of figs, marketplaces, bare feet against cool tiles, shuttered naps at noon. In between classes, Ms. Hempel had stood in front of the faculty bulletin board and read about Ms. Duffy’s naps, trying to detect in these messages a note of melancholy, of homesickness. “Miss you all!!” Ms. Duffy would write in closing, but the absence of a subject, as well as the excessive punctuation, made the sentiment seem less than heartfelt. And then the e-mails had abruptly stopped. Ms. Hempel studied the photograph that had been passed to her: a blazingly bright and empty street with the tiny figure of Ms. Duffy standing at its center. Who had taken the picture—a Yemenese friend? A Yemenan? It seemed important to know a little more about the person who’d stood in the shade of those massive, intricate buildings and pointed the camera. Perhaps this was the first of many foreign transactions that had resulted, so spectacularly, in Ms. Duffy’s new belly. Ms. Hempel waved the photograph in the air. “Anna, where was this one taken?” But Ms. Duffy was distracted as more of her former colleagues filtered in to embrace her. “You astound me!” Mrs. Willoughby said, pressing her clasped hands to her lips, a gesture she normally bestowed upon seniors who were making their final appearance in the spring choral concert. Ms. Duffy looked triumphant: her face shone; gone was the faint grimace that had once been her habitual expression. This wasn’t like the first week of school, when the teachers turned up in shorts and sundresses and still had their summer tans—Ms. Hempel remembered the shock of seeing Mr. Polidori’s brown, hairy calves for the first time. The change in Ms. Duffy seemed permanent, irreversible. “Have you seen your kids?” Ms. Cruz, the assistant librarian, asked. “They’ll go crazy.” “They will freak!” Ms. Mulcahy said. “Suzanne, where’s the sixth grade now? Are they at lunch?” “They’re in gym,” Ms. Sprague said. “That’s all I’ve heard this year: ‘Ms. Duffy, Ms. Duffy.’ They can’t write their own names without mentioning Ms. Duffy.” “I missed them,” Ms. Duffy said, vaguely. “You won’t believe how big they are. Huge. Amy Weyland is wearing a bra now.” From his cubicle, Mr. Meacham moaned, “Must we?” And Mrs. Willoughby, peering into her coffee, said, “That girl’s going to have a great little figure.” “Amy Weyland?” Ms. Duffy echoed. “Yes! Can you believe it?” Ms. Olin, teacher of sixth-grade French, nearly shouted. She appeared slightly feverish; in fact, everyone did, everyone seemed eager and a little overheated. There was so much to tell: Jonathan Hamish had got suspended; Travis Bent had gone on medication; Mr. Peele had agreed to turn on the air-conditioning early. And, oh—the computer lab was finally done! Ms. Duffy needed to be apprised, and ushered back into the world they all had in common. The merry, frantic din of school rose up around them, louder and louder, as Yemen, fascinating and dusty, drifted farther away. Ms. Hempel placed the photograph back on its pile. She would have a chance to find out more, eventually; she and Ms. Duffy were friends, school friends, in the sense that they were both part of the group of younger teachers who liked to gather at a dark Irish bar as soon as the bell rang on Friday afternoons. Ms. Hempel watched as Ms. Duffy was escorted out of the faculty lounge, in search of her former fifth graders. “Look who’s here!” Ms. Olin cried, leading the way. The whole display was affecting but naïve. Did they all think that Ms. Duffy was back? That once more there would be field trips to Chinatown for soup dumplings, and scavenger hunts in the botanic gardens, and sing-alongs to the Meat Puppets and other college radio stars of the eighties? That the Temple of Dendur would once more be erected in all its cardboard and tempera glory, and the final bittersweet pages of “Tuck Everlasting” read aloud in Ms. Duffy’s husky, choked-up voice? Ms. Hempel knew better. She’d known as soon as she’d seen her: Anna Duffy wasn’t ever coming back, not even after her big hard belly had resolved itself into a baby. Most likely, necessity had prompted this visit; she probably needed to empty her locker, or roll over her retirement plan. Didn’t the others see? She was no longer one of them; at some point during her year off, she had turned away. Slipped into her civilian clothes and disappeared. And if she was back now, it was only to say goodbye. Mooney’s, the Irish bar, was just a few blocks away from the school. Beautiful Ms. Cruz, who really did lead the fabled double life of the librarian, had discovered it one night while careering through town with a free-jazz drummer nearly twice her age. It had been their last stop. What must Ms. Cruz have thought when they finally left the place, an hour before dawn, and she realized, looking up and down the avenue for a taxi, that she was just around the corner from her desk, her rubber stamps, her little stack of overdue notices? Maybe she thought, How perfect. To feel one’s real life rub up so closely, so carelessly, against one’s school life—there was no greater enchantment. Or so Ms. Hempel supposed, never having put enough distance between the two to experience it herself. She liked to hear Ms. Cruz talk, in her calm and self-effacing way, about all the old musicians she had fallen for, the hard-drinking drummer included. Ms. Cruz had taken him home with her that night, and the next Friday she had brought the teachers to Mooney’s. The narrow space was illuminated by strings of colored Christmas lights and a glowing clock. A jukebox stood in the back, in between the cavelike entrances to two unisex bathrooms. Battered black tables, high unsteady stools, linoleum floor. The floor was wonderful to dance on. It made Ms. Hempel feel graceful and coördinated, even before she started drinking. All the teachers loved to dance on Friday afternoons. The sticky blinds on Mooney’s windows were always pulled shut, so it was easy to forget that it was only four o’clock and the sun was still shining outside. They danced as if it were the middle of the night. They did the hustle. They did the electric slide. They did silly moves they remembered from high school, and they looked good doing them. When Mr. Radovich tried to dance as if he were black, no one minded. They were too happy feeding quarters into the jukebox, shimmying back to the bar. As she bumped hips with Ms. Cruz and sashayed toward the bathrooms, Ms. Hempel realized that an awful mistake had been made: she had actually been meant to spend her whole life dancing, not teaching English to the seventh grade. For someone who had an abundance of freckles and almost always wore clogs, Ms. Duffy could dance astonishingly well. She tossed back her hair and half closed her eyes and lifted her chin ever so slightly, as if a handsome invisible person were tilting her face up to kiss her. And then she stepped from side to side, with a barely discernible motion in her hips, her spine long and straight, her shoulders faintly twitching. It was the simplest dance in the world, and also the most beguiling, somehow. Other dancers drew close to her, unconsciously. She could often be found in the middle of a spontaneous dance sandwich. One afternoon, Mr. Polidori had sprung from his barstool, cracked his knuckles, and slid across the linoleum floor on his knees, arriving breathlessly at her neatly shuffling feet. Ms. Hempel liked to think that this was the moment that their romance had begun. Of course, she could be wrong; Mr. Polidori performed sudden extravagant gestures all the time—kissing your hand in gratitude, wrapping his fingers around your neck and gently throttling you, draping his arm across your shoulders with comradely affection—gestures that thrilled Ms. Hempel whenever she happened, through luck and proximity, to be the recipient of them. Her skin on fire, she felt how ridiculous it was to be thrilled: you could not, as a rule, take Mr. Polidori seriously. And, that afternoon on the dance floor, Ms. Duffy did not appear to do so. When he came gliding toward her, his arms outspread, she merely offered him her hand and hoisted him up, never once losing the beat of her winsome little dance. But what if, as their hands joined, a secret message had been exchanged? A message that had taken them both by surprise? Ms. Hempel sometimes thought of this moment now, as she tried to piece together a story of what had happened. How interesting it would have been to witness the very inception of an affair! She could have hoarded up the image—him on his knees, her swaying above him—to share with Amit when he came home. Often, walking dreamily home from the bar, the afternoon light slanting across the pavement, Ms. Hempel found herself full of marvellous observations and stories to relate to him. But then she went inside and it got dark; she turned up the television and felt a headache coming on, and by the time Amit returned from the lab she couldn’t think of anything to say, even when he wrinkled his nose and asked mildly, “How come you smell like cigarettes?” Ms. Hempel wondered about the father of Ms. Duffy’s baby. A sloe-eyed camel driver, singing under his breath? A poet studying English at the university, or maybe a young doctor who had led her through a bazaar? She spent much of the day’s final period considering the possibilities. And if in her speculations she caught a whiff of something faintly rotten and imperial she ignored it. Of all the wonderful novels E. M. Forster had written, “A Passage to India” was her favorite. It made her wonder, were there any caves in Yemen? Caves that Ms. Duffy could have wandered into to explore, and then stumbled out of, dazed and transformed? At the entrance to the library, Ms. Cruz sat behind her enormous wraparound desk. It resembled a sort of cockpit, its high sides studded with librarian paraphernalia, Ms. Cruz wheeling expertly about the interior in her ergonomic chair. The desk had two levels: the lower level was intended solely for the librarian’s use, while the upper level was used by anyone who wanted to stand around bothering the librarian, as Mrs. Willoughby was doing now. “Did you see?” Mrs. Willoughby turned to Ms. Hempel with excitement. Then she remembered. “Oh, yes, you were there. Isn’t she gorgeous?” Ms. Hempel said, “Gorgeous. And very—” She extended her arms. “I know, I know! Not what we expected. I thought she’d come back with a slide show and some nice scarves. But no! So much more.” She leaned toward Ms. Cruz, resuming: “Thirty-five miles from the nearest hospital. Isn’t that madness?” “There’s a midwife. She’ll be fine.” “Of course she will be. But still. Out in the middle of nowhere? With your first child? You have no idea.” “She was tired of living here. She said so all the time.” “You girls don’t know what it’s like. You get so lonely at the beginning. You’re tired, your nipples hurt, you can’t remember what day it is.” “Roman will be there. And they’re building a second yurt,” Ms. Cruz said firmly, and then glanced up at Ms. Hempel. “Anna is moving upstate,” she explained. But that explained nothing. “A yurt?” Ms. Hempel asked. “Is that something . . . Yemenese?” She blushed. “Mongolian,” Mrs. Willoughby said. “I had to ask, too. Not everybody who teaches here is a walking encyclopedia. It’s a big circular tent made out of animal skins. Or, in Anna’s case, some fancy state-of-the-art flame-retardant fabric.” Mrs. Willoughby conjured up a miniature yurt with her hands in the air. “Not like a tepee—more like a circus tent. Made out of yaks.” “But the father,” Ms. Hempel asked. “Is he from Yemen?” Mrs. Willoughby looked at her peculiarly. “Heavens, no.” For the trip abroad had been cut short. Something in the food had made Ms. Duffy sick, dangerously so. Only two months out of the country and she was doubled over, shitting water. This explained the end of the lyrical e-mails. Ms. Duffy had lost nearly twenty pounds by the time she’d crept onto the airplane and come home to convalesce at her mother’s; it was there that, looking pale and otherworldly, she had met Roman. A kite artist. “He was visiting his mother, too,” Ms. Cruz said. “They’re neighbors in the condo complex, the one her mother moved to after the divorce,” Mrs. Willoughby said. “Anna claims that it’s soulless and horrible. But maybe she feels different now.” “Wow,” Ms. Hempel said, collecting herself. So the father of Ms. Duffy’s baby was an American, whom she’d met in the courtyard of an ugly condominium. “Being a kite artist—that’s his job?” she heard herself asking. Ms. Cruz nodded. “He’s a master. You can find him on the Internet.” “He spends all day making kites?” “And flying them.” “How wonderful,” Ms. Hempel said uncertainly. “I’d like to do that.” “Oh, wouldn’t we all?” Mrs. Willoughby said, and took a great breath, and for a precarious moment it looked as if she might sing the chorus of “Let’s Go Fly a Kite.” But the opportunity passed. “There’s family money, too, of course. And a big piece of land passed down through the ages. Anna is living on an estate! In a yurt, admittedly, but still. Pretty grand. Isn’t this what they call marrying up?” “She got married?” Ms. Hempel asked, startled. She hadn’t seen a ring. A delicate look passed between the two other women. Ms. Hempel caught it, and felt her skin prickle. “It happened very quickly,” Ms. Cruz said. “As it so often does,” Mrs. Willoughby added. “One minute you’re all alone, and the next—boom!—you’re standing there in City Hall with the man of your dreams.” “And moving upstate,” Ms. Hempel said. “And having a baby.” “Exactly,” Mrs. Willoughby said, with a slap of her hands on the top of Ms. Cruz’s desk. “That’s the trick of life—how much everything can change.” And then, squeezing Ms. Hempel’s arm, she asked, “Remember? Anna was miserable.” But Ms. Hempel wouldn’t have described her as miserable, and she doubted that Ms. Duffy would have used the word herself. Because didn’t misery imply a wallowing sort of wretchedness? And a teacher had no time for that. The curriculum was always marching on, relentlessly: the ancient Egyptians melting into the ancient Greeks, the blur of check marks and smiley faces, the hot rattling breath of the photocopier, book reports corrected shakily on the bus, the eternal night of parent-teacher conferences, dizzy countdowns to every holiday, and the dumb animal pleasure of rest. One could be quite unhappy and never have a chance to know it. Ms. Hempel was sometimes astonished by the thoughts she’d have while walking to work. One morning, she looked longingly at a patch of ice on the pavement and realized that if she were to fall and fracture her leg in several places then she wouldn’t have to go to school. And maybe, if the doctors put her in traction, a substitute would be hired for the rest of the year. Perhaps she’d need a body cast. There was a way out, an honorable and dignified way out. All she had to do was undergo a terrible accident . . . But then her desk would be emptied in her absence, and all her secrets would come scuttling forth: the torn and smelly pair of stockings, abandoned there months ago; the descriptive paragraphs that had taken her so long to grade she’d finally claimed to have lost them at the laundromat; the open bag of Doritos. And, embarrassment aside, she had responsibilities: The volleyball finals were fast approaching—who would keep score? Someone else would have to chair the weekly meetings of the girls’ after-school book group, and conduct the middle-school assembly on Diversity Day. And who would finish grading the “Mockingbird” essays, adhering to the byzantine rubric she’d devised? The fact was that no one could. “Call in sick,” Amit would say sleepily, his arm flung over her. “Tell them you caught a cold.” He’d kiss her. “You’re infected. And extremely contagious. You need to stay in bed, O.K.?” But she would already be staggering toward the shower. Had Ms. Duffy ever thought about slipping on the ice? Probably not; her thoughts likely took a more enraged and practical turn. Probably, as she waited for the bus, she drafted letters of resignation in her head, letters that described in withering detail the incompetence of the new middle-school director, or the shabby state of the women’s second-floor bathroom. Ms. Duffy was so thoroughly good at complaining. She’d begin dryly enough, with a sigh and a little self-mocking smile, but soon the full force of her indignation would take over, and her complaints would build in hilarity until she was magnificent to behold—her whole body radiant with fury. Often her stories ended with poor Mr. Mumford, the head of the middle school, saying, “Now, Anna, just calm down”—a phrase that, even when recollected in the yeasty tranquillity of Mooney’s, made Ms. Duffy utter a murderous, strangled scream. “Aaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrr!” From the end of the bar, Mr. Polidori would raise his glass to her. The gesture was perfectly in character: joking, wry, yet also somehow gallant. He would then return his attention to Mimi Gertz, the person whose company he appeared to enjoy more than anyone else’s. She ran the art department, and made sculptures out of giant nails. She was fifteen years his senior and went on long bike trips with her girlfriend. Yet he, a teacher of physics, seemed always full of things to say to her. A mystery. But no more a mystery than his affair with Anna Duffy. Affairs. Flings. Apparently they happened all the time, and between the people you’d least expect. “You didn’t know about me and Phil?” Ms. Cruz asked, leaning forward in her ergonomic chair. Phil Macrae taught life science to the sixth grade. Beardless and cowlicked, he looked as if he himself had only recently completed the sixth grade. Ms. Cruz had also had sex with Mr. Rahimi, the computer teacher, and Jim, who ran the after-school program. “It got a little weird,” she said. Things had also got weird, Ms. Cruz revealed, for Mrs. Bell and Mr. Blanco—so weird, in fact, that he had had to go teach at another school for a few years, until the conflagration finally died out. “Julia?” Ms. Hempel cried in dismay. She loved Julia Bell, who taught both remedial and advanced math. “This was ages ago. Long before you came to us,” Mrs. Willoughby said. “But Daniel?” Ms. Hempel cried. “I thought he was gay.” “Oh, no. No. What ever gave you that idea? He’s just Spanish.” And, incredibly, the former lover of Mrs. Bell. With his pointed goatee and his funny little vests? It was very hard to picture. Perhaps in a younger version his ambiguous sexuality had actually been quite dashing. Even irresistible. So much so that Julia Bell—a teacher blessed with pluck and humor and sense—had risked everything to be with him. “This was before the boys were born?” Ms. Hempel asked. “Wally was two, I think, and not yet in school. But Nathan had already started kindergarten.” Mrs. Willoughby raised her eyebrows. “It could have been a real mess.” Unthinkable, Julia making a mess. Which was exactly why Ms. Hempel adored her: the serene, amused, and capable air; the way she kept an easy sense of order among even the most fractious children; the affection that her sons heaped upon her, tackling her in the middle of the hallway. She also had a plume of pure-white hair growing from her right temple—she was the Susan Sontag of eighth-grade algebra. Her husband taught math, too, at the state university; they had fallen in love during graduate school. And all this—her world of boys and equations and good cheer—had been hazarded. And then recovered. Now she could sit in faculty meetings with Daniel Blanco and not show the slightest sign that he was in any way special. If it weren’t for the older teachers like Mrs. Willoughby, who remembered, there would be no trace left of the perilous affair. Ms. Hempel couldn’t decide which amazed her more: the sight of Mrs. Bell and Mr. Blanco talking amiably by the coffee urn or the thought of them locked in an urgent, hopeless embrace. Leaving the library, Ms. Hempel was surprised to find Ms. Duffy standing alone in the vestibule, her hands resting lightly atop her belly. She seemed to have lost her entourage somewhere along the way. She was looking at the enormous bulletin boards that lined the walls and displayed the latest projects generated by the younger grades. Only a year ago, she had been responsible for filling such a board, a task which required judiciousness (for not every child’s hieroglyph could be hung) and a protracted struggle with crêpe paper and a staple gun. But now she was free of that. She gazed at the art work with the cool eye of an outsider. “Beatrice,” Ms. Duffy said, and Ms. Hempel gave her a hug. “Have you seen this?” She pointed to the fifth-grade bulletin board. “The projects are overlapping. You can’t read them. And he put a staple right through that kid’s name.” He being Mr. Chapman, Wall Street trader turned teacher, called in to replace Ms. Duffy for the year, and now, it seemed, quite possibly for good. “How are we supposed to know who drew the Minotaur?” she asked. “A child spent hours—hours!—working on this, and you can’t even read his name.” “The name is kind of obscured,” Ms. Hempel agreed, peering at the display. “My God,” Ms. Duffy muttered. “This isn’t rocket science.” She reached up and pinched the staple between her thumb and forefinger. With a worrying motion, she extracted it, and then flicked it to the ground like a cigarette butt. The child’s name was Lucien Nguyen. “Much better,” Ms. Hempel said, and smiled. She wanted to leave, her curiosity dulled now that she knew Ms. Duffy wasn’t harboring a little half-Yemenese baby. But Ms. Hempel’s tendency to suggest precisely the opposite of what she actually wished, in the vague and automatic hope of pleasing someone, asserted itself. “Do you want to walk to Izzy’s and get a bubble tea? My treat?” For a moment, it looked as if Ms. Duffy were going to agree. But just as she was turning away from the displays she inhaled sharply and wheeled back around. Her finger landed on a piece of pink paper, then circled a single word. “Did you see this?” The text was printed in a computer’s version of girlish handwriting: “Persephone picked up the pomegranate and ate four of its’ seeds.” Ms. Hempel winced. “Oooph. Not good.” “They’re kids,” Ms. Duffy said. “They make mistakes. But how are they going to know that they’ve made mistakes if their teacher hangs them up on the fucking wall? I mean, does he make them do drafts? Does he correct anything?” Ms. Hempel shrugged weakly. Her own alertness to error had wavered over the years. But maybe all it took was some time away, some time abroad, for one’s acuity to be restored, because now, simply standing beside Ms. Duffy, she could feel her powers beginning to return—the mistakes were leaping out at her, the bulletin board lighting up with offenses. “Upper right-hand corner,” she told Ms. Duffy. “Completely random capitalization. Since when is ‘swan’ a proper noun? Or ‘rape,’ for that matter?” Though, she had to admit, both choices had their own logic. She also spotted “Aries” for “Ares,” “alter” in the place of “altar,” and, there it was again, that old devil “its’.” The real wonder of it all was how these mistakes managed to survive spell-check. You had to kind of love them for it, for being indestructible. Ms. Duffy was pulling Persephone off the wall. “Where’s Leda?” she demanded. There was now a naked, pockmarked hole on the board. “Up there,” Ms. Hempel said, a little reluctantly. Ms. Duffy rose up onto the very tips of her clogs, like a ballerina in toe shoes. Her belly didn’t seem to throw off her balance. Up, up, her puffy fingers reached, quivering with purpose. “Got it,” she gasped. Down came Leda. Down, too, came Hera and the peacock, Echo and a weedy-looking Narcissus, Danaë dripping wet in her shower of gold. Down came the Minotaur and Medusa, Hermes, Neptune, Athena leaping bloodily from her father’s splitting head. “Neptune? Wasn’t that the name the Romans used?” “Exactly,” Ms. Duffy said. Ms. Hempel gazed at the pillaged display, felt afraid, and looked down the hallway, in the direction of help. She wondered briefly why she, of all the young teachers who drank too much at Mooney’s, had been chosen by Ms. Duffy to share this particular mission. Perhaps it was simply chance. The end of the day, an empty vestibule, a surge of nameless emotion—and then someone emerges, making you not alone anymore. So it had happened, a year ago, with Mr. Polidori. “Out of the blue?” Ms. Hempel had asked Ms. Duffy at the time. “The two of you just—?” She could not believe it then, but now, holding the plundered goods against her chest, it made a sort of sense to her. It was easy to find oneself, without warning or prelude, embroiled. She crouched down and tapped the papers against the floor, neatening the pile, making a crisp little sound, wanting above all to avoid the appearance of untowardness, wanting the whole operation to feel as tidy, as considered as possible. They agreed, finally, that the best thing would be to return the projects, with a carefully worded note attached, to Mr. Chapman’s classroom. “My room” was how Ms. Duffy referred to it, and then she alarmed Ms. Hempel by asking, “You’re going to sign it, too?” No, she was not, but she didn’t have the heart to say so yet, especially now that Ms. Duffy had been seized by some fresh distress. As the fluorescent lights flickered on in the classroom, she looked about her wildly. Things were not as she had left them. The purple beanbags were still in the reading corner, and the jade plants were thriving, having been faithfully watered by Ms. Cruz. The record-player was there, too, although it was buried under stacks of handouts, and the Calder mobile still dangled from the ceiling. But the Indonesian shadow puppets were gone, and so were the poems. “He took down my poems?” Ms. Duffy’s voice was small. She had gone to great lengths to procure them, even risking arrest. A few years earlier, the poems had begun appearing on subways and buses, alongside the advertisements for credit repair and dermatologists. As soon as a new poem was posted, Ms. Duffy would devise a plan for obtaining it: scouting out empty subway cars, climbing up onto the scarred seats, easing the poem from its curved plastic sheath, secreting it away beneath her long winter coat. All for the sake of her fifth graders! Every day they could gaze up and contemplate the words. Or not, and therein lay the beauty of osmosis. They passed the year in the company of Whitman and Dickinson, Mark Strand and May Swenson; some of the poetry would penetrate even the most obdurate souls. Which was probably the thinking of the transit authority as well—but the fact that her fifth grade’s edification came at the expense of the citizenry did not seem to give Ms. Duffy pause. And then it became possible to acquire the poems lawfully, by sending off a simple request on school letterhead—but Ms. Duffy, like all the best teachers, had a renegade spirit, and continued to haunt the buses late at night. Now, in the place of her stolen poems, hung boldly colored posters urging the class to READ! And pointing out that Reading Is Fun! That people everywhere should Celebrate Reading! Additionally, there was a poster commemorating a Super Bowl win of the Green Bay Packers. All of which, it was obvious, had been obtained through official channels. Ms. Duffy sank down onto one of the many little tables arranged throughout the room. The fifth graders didn’t yet know the isolation of desk-chairs; they still worked companionably at these low shiny tables. She covered her face with her hands and sighed, her elbows digging into the high mound of her stomach. “I hope he put them somewhere safe,” she said. “You want me to send them to you?” Ms. Hempel asked. “No, there’s no room. I just meant in case he changes his mind.” She glanced over at what had once been her desk, at the piles she was no longer accountable for. “He has them doing those dumb workbooks?” she asked, but all her earlier outrage was now exhausted. “It’s his first year,” Ms. Hempel said, and laid the ransacked myths on Mr. Chapman’s desk. “He should take whatever shortcuts he can find.” Ms. Duffy didn’t answer. She was still looking around the classroom, at the small ways in which it was now strange, at the names taped onto the backs of the chairs, names she would not recognize. She said, “I lost Theo McKibben at the Metropolitan Museum. My first year.” “Theo?” Ms. Hempel laughed. “That’s easy to do.” “It was a nightmare. My first waking nightmare.” “The first of many,” Ms. Hempel said. “But just think: you’ll never have to go on a field trip again.” Ms. Duffy smiled slightly. “Never again.” And then Ms. Hempel realized, with a sick feeling, that she had forgotten to distribute the permission slips for next week’s outing to the planetarium. Only three days left—not a problem for the organized students, but it didn’t allow much leeway for the children you always had to hound. She would have to resort to an incentive plan. Early dismissal? Ice cream? She paced around the desk, mindlessly, and saw it as both hopeful and doomed: the careful stacks beginning to slip; colored pens littered everywhere; memos from Mr. Mumford protruding at odd angles; the plastic in-box taken over by trading cards, half-eaten candy bars, extra-credit assignments on the verge of being lost. “You’re brilliant.” She turned to Ms. Duffy. “You are. Because we can’t leave to make more money—that’s despicable. And we can’t leave to do something easier, some nice quiet job in an office—that would be embarrassing! Am I supposed to tell my kids, ‘O.K., I’m off to answer phones at an insurance company’? It’s impossible. So what can we do? We can—” Ms. Hempel gestured helplessly at Ms. Duffy’s belly. “Why didn’t I think of that?” She had imagined a body cast instead. Again, Ms. Duffy gave her a thin smile. It wasn’t clear whether she took Ms. Hempel’s compliment as such. “So what’s stopping you?” she asked idly. She plucked a long, loose hair from the sleeve of her blouse and dropped it onto Mr. Chapman’s floor. Then she seemed suddenly to remember that she was pregnant, and undergoing a remarkable experience. She lit up. “You should do it!” she said with abrupt conviction. “You’ll love it. You will.” She pushed herself off the little table and began moving toward Ms. Hempel. “We think we have all the time in the world, but in reality we don’t. And when you’ve found the right person you just have to go for it. There’s never a good time—it’s never convenient. Don’t fool yourself into waiting for the perfect moment—” She stopped. Her hands flew up to her mouth. “I’m so sorry!” Ms. Hempel touched the fair, freckled arm. “Oh, don’t worry. Please, really, don’t worry.” “I’m an idiot!” Ms. Duffy cried. “You’re not,” Ms. Hempel said. “Because I forget, too. After I do the dishes, I get this panicked feeling that I’ve put my ring down somewhere and now I can’t find it.” She lifted her bare hand and looked at it. “Everything was friendly, it really was.” Ms. Duffy nodded, her face stricken. “Amit and I still talk on the phone. And last week he sent me a book.” She didn’t mention that it was actually one of her books, a book that he had taken with him by mistake. “We’re in very good touch,” she said. Ms. Duffy was unconsoled. “What happened?” she murmured. “What made you decide—” It was hard to keep straight—they had told people different things at different times. There was Amit’s fellowship in Texas, which he couldn’t turn down; and there was the difficulty of finding time to plan a wedding, not to mention the expense; there was their youth, of course, and the uncertainty that comes with it, the fearful cloudiness of the future (and what a mercy that was, to be considered, at nearly thirty, still hopelessly young). All of which was true, just as all of it was prevarication, and even in the midst of saying these things she was never sure exactly whose feelings were being spared, who was being protected. For whose sake was all this delicacy required? She hated to think that it might be hers. “It wasn’t the teaching, was it?” Ms. Duffy asked. Oh, no, it wasn’t that. At least she didn’t think so. But funny how everyone had a theory of her own. “It’s not your father, is it?” her mother had asked. Her father had been dead for two years now, but at times she still found herself ambushed by his absence. She had told her mother no, it wasn’t because she missed her father. And she had told Mr. Polidori no, it wasn’t because of him, either. She was surprised that he’d even asked. It had been a startling glimpse of vanity, of self-importance. He had cornered her by the jukebox and gazed down at her earnestly—the earnestness itself a surprise. They had only kissed! And nuzzled, with some breathless pressing and hugging, in the bathroom at Mooney’s. Ages ago, on one of those happy Friday afternoons. After he had ended things with Ms. Duffy but before he had fallen for the gamine younger half sister of Mimi Gertz. A pause between acts, there in the dark stall at Mooney’s, everyone giddy with the rapid approach of summer. She had tumbled into the bathroom and found him, back to the door, penis presumably in hand, and before she could even gasp he had glanced over his shoulder, told her to wait, and then unhurriedly finished, washed his hands, and dried them with a sheet from a roll of gray paper towels, asking her, “Do you hate this song as much as I do?” They had danced, barely able to move. He had lowered the swinging latch into the little round hook by the door. “Forgot to do that,” he’d said, and she’d laughed. Or had she? She would like to think that she had, that she had kept her wits about her and laughed, kept things floating along lightly, the encounter accidental and jolly. She would like to think that she hadn’t swooned. Hadn’t shut her eyes and given way, tipped her head and held on. There had been no hesitation—only treachery, only readiness—a perfect swan dive into the dark pool of flings and affairs. Maybe she had let out a little moan. But then the song had come to an end, and he had clasped her bearishly, pecked her on the forehead, and said, “I bet you make all the boys crazy, Ms. Hempel.” And, after releasing the latch, he had gallantly held the door open for her. She’d walked obediently back to her seat at the bar, wondering, What just happened? Later, she would return to this moment, flipping it back and forth like a tricky flash card, one that somehow refused to be memorized. She had asked herself all the boring questions (not pretty enough? odd smell? fiancé?), but couldn’t quite manage an answer. Causality kept escaping her. He had kissed her, then he had changed his mind—that was as far as she ever got. But always fascinating to her was the fact that she had felt him changing his mind. Felt it in her muscles and on her skin. Not that he had done anything as obvious as stiffen, and his body hadn’t once let go of hers, yet something had shifted—the pressure that was once excited now merely emphatic, the mouth still warm but only reassuringly so, the embrace turning into a squeeze. His body’s gracious withdrawal of interest in the very moment that he decided, No, this really isn’t for me. And though many things would reveal themselves in time—the sex of Ms. Duffy’s baby, a girl; and her name, Pina, after the bleak choreographer; the name of the woman who worked at Amit’s lab, which was Lilly; the right word, the word she’d been looking for, Yemeni—still she returned to the bathroom at Mooney’s, to its perfect mystery, to the moment when Mr. Polidori had wrapped his arms around her like a bear. That moment in which someone had made a decision. She wanted to remember how it felt.
The Teacher It was the girls who first brought him here. I call them “girls” because of their girlish temperaments, though they were almost middle-aged. Maeve was by far the more emotional of the two, with a habit of turning her pale-blue eyes upward like a saint or a martyr. Betty was sturdier, with a square muscular body to anchor them both. They shared an old house in the town, one of those run-down, peeling places that smell of mold inside. During the two or three years I had known them, their goodness had made them take up several needy causes in the town: pregnant teens, abandoned families, boys caught stealing for drugs. One time, they sheltered a suspected sex offender, which made them very unpopular; when he turned out to be guilty, they remained unrepentant, unshaken in the faith that they had done the right thing. They worked at home to make their living. Maeve typed documents on a computer; Betty read manuscripts for a publisher. That was how they had first met Dr. Chacko, by way of his manuscript, which he had submitted for publication. Betty’s own publisher had been too conventional to understand it, and so had several others she had tried. She decided that the appearance of the manuscript may have been at fault—it seemed to be the product of a very old typewriter, with some letters too faded to read. So, in her spare time, Maeve had copied the entire work onto her computer; it was more than seven hundred pages when printed out, but she was as inspired as Betty, and it became their cause, along with Dr. Chacko himself. They tried to explain his work to me, and it made them laugh that I didn’t understand it. It was so simple, they said—it was life itself, life and death—which I said didn’t sound all that simple to me. For them, they admitted, it was not the work but Dr. Chacko himself who was difficult to understand. But wasn’t it always like that, with rare human beings? They tried to describe him to me, but they couldn’t even say what nationality he was. They had taken him for an Italian, a Sicilian, until they discovered that he was partly Indian, the name Chacko coming from a Syrian Christian community in the south of India. They thought he was also partly Russian—or had he only lived in Russia? He had travelled to many distant places, but it was in England that he had started his first workshop. This had been dissolved, and so had some subsequent ones elsewhere; now they had high hopes for the workshop they had helped him start in New York City, about two hours away from our town upstate. In the meantime, they were searching for a suitable place for him to live. Accommodation had been found in a partly converted loft in the city, but he longed for trees, open sky, water, if possible, and so, for his sake, did the girls. I knew what they had in mind. I lived by myself in my house; it was set in several acres of ground and had a separate cottage, which was unoccupied. The girls knew that I had been left alone here after ten years of what I had considered a satisfactory marriage, and in proposing Dr. Chacko for my cottage they were also hoping, I suspected, to relieve my loneliness. What they didn’t know was that solitude had come to seem natural and pleasant to me. Of course, it had been different once, when my husband and I came here only at weekends with carloads of guests. That was before a cluster of modest homes had been built up to the back of the property—not for visitors from the city but for residents with jobs in the town, which itself had crept closer, with a diner and a Realtor’s office. The place was no longer such a getaway for the people who had been our friends, and maybe still were his and his young wife’s. I’m not sure now why I agreed to let Dr. Chacko move into the cottage. I have a memory of him riding past on his bicycle, but it has merged with so many later memories of him and his bicycle. It was a very old model, held together here and there with string, and not quite big enough for him, so that it wobbled as he rode. I think it was this sight—of a thin gray-haired man mounted on an inadequate nag—that made me give in. He moved in the same afternoon. I had been using the cottage as a sort of storage dump, so there were some old pieces of furniture in there, which the girls helped him rearrange. Afterward, they came up to the house to assure me that I had done a good deed for which I would receive great reward. I assumed they meant that Dr. Chacko’s proximity itself would be rewarding. But I had already begun to worry that he might visit me more often than I wished, and try to impose his philosophy or his mission on me, or whatever it was that had made the girls admire him so extravagantly. This fear turned out to be unfounded. I saw him only when he rode past the house on his bicycle, presumably on his way to the train station. The girls had told me that the members of the workshop in the city paid his fare, plus a small fee. That appeared to be his only source of income while everyone waited for his manuscript to be published and make him famous. Meanwhile, the girls brought meals for him every day in little covered dishes, waving to me as they drove past in their pickup. So his presence really should not have disturbed me—except that it did. Maybe because I had grown used to being alone on the property, or because the thought of him working in the cottage, as the girls told me he did, refining and extending his ideas, gave the place a sort of potency. It was at some distance from the house and shielded from it by a mass of old trees, but the fact that it was invisible only increased its hold on my imagination. I drove myself to the city to attend one of his workshops. New York held too many memories of the life I used to live, so the only times I went there now were to visit my doctor or to have my hair done. However, the place for which I was bound was unlike any I had known before. The house was in midtown, in a row of brownstones from the eighteen-seventies, now run-down and in the last stage of their existence. The only signs of life were here and there an air-conditioner dripping into the street or a window box planted with modest flowers that had not flourished. The house, when I found it, seemed to have lost all its tenants, for there was only one name beside the cluster of bells. I had to press it twice before a woman came down to open the door. She informed me that Dr. Chacko had already begun his work. Cutting my apology short, she sold me a fifteen-dollar ticket and told me to follow her. The stairs were worn and steep, but it was not too long a climb before she opened a door and ushered me inside. There were about twenty people in the small room, more women than men. Most of them were squatting on the floor, but I was given a folding chair beside two elderly women and a cripple. With so many people crowded together, the room was very hot and the air somewhat fetid—partly, perhaps, because of the indifference to health and hygiene of those who have gone beyond worldly satisfactions. The women there reminded me of Betty and Maeve: the same age, the same homespun dresses, with their hair in a fringe or a bun, and also, shining under this plain appearance, the same glow of aspiration. This was shared even by the one young person there, a teen-age girl with long, unkempt blond hair, who kept her eyes upturned in the same way as Maeve. What was he telling them that left everyone so breathless? He spoke for several stretches of five or ten minutes, and when he paused they all shut their eyes to concentrate. Afterward, he asked them to explain what they had understood. Some of them seemed to have understood more than others. The blond girl had got it all wrong, and laughed along with the rest at having her error exposed; and the cripple had understood so well that he went into a lengthy exegesis that made Dr. Chacko invite him to take charge of the class. This, too, made everyone laugh—altogether there was a friendly atmosphere emanating from Dr. Chacko himself, who behaved the way a very good teacher does with his favorite students. Although some of the people there may not have found it easy to spare the fifteen-dollar entrance fee, they all contributed another four dollars for the mug of herbal tea and the cookie that allowed them to stay in his presence for a half hour longer. I couldn’t help feeling out of place, partly because I had kept my shoes on, my high-heeled summer sandals, while everyone else’s had been left in a heap outside the door—like those of pilgrims who had walked many dusty miles to reach their destination. Dr. Chacko accepted my offer of a ride back home. He was asleep for most of the drive, slumped in the front seat with his legs stretched out as far as they would go. From time to time, he woke up briefly, not to talk but to sing snatches of song, gesturing with one hand as though scooping up some beautiful melody that hovered above him. When I asked him what it was that he was singing, his answer was to linger around a particularly lovely passage, making me a gift of it. I didn’t see him again for a few weeks. Then one day, at the height of the summer, I literally almost stumbled across him. I had spent the day in my air-conditioned house and had ventured out only into the evening air, when the sky was veiled in its dying light and the remains of a yellowed heat-haze. It was almost eight o’clock, but even the birds were still stirring uncomfortably, like restless sleepers, in their nests. It was while looking up at these restless birds in a tree that I stumbled on Dr. Chacko, who was lying beneath it. I had a shock, but he did not. He remained stretched out full-length, with his arms under his head. “It’s cool here,” he said. “Cool and beautiful.” And he patted the ground beside him for me to join him. Well, he was not young, and neither was I, and I should have thought nothing of it. And, actually, when I did lie down there was no awkwardness. Like him, I looked up into the roof of leaves; though thick, it had holes in it to let in what from our position looked not like a heat-exhausted sky but like stretches of pure cool silver. Dr. Chacko and I lay side by side, both of us gazing upward with the innocent pleasure of children or even angels—he seemed to be thinking more of the latter, for he said, “Yes, this is my evening paradise.” When he added, “Especially after a day like we’ve had,” I realized that he was referring not to my day in my air-conditioned house but to his in the cottage, where there wasn’t even a fan. I didn’t stay long under the tree but went home to search out a table fan for him. At first, I thought of going back to the tree with it, but I felt shy or embarrassed to do so, in case my return should be misinterpreted. (By whom? By him? Or, more likely, by myself?) Instead, I waited for the girls to take it to him the next day. They thanked me so profusely that I realized that they were grateful less for the fan than for what they took as a sign of my increased admiration for him. They hadn’t yet succeeded in placing his manuscript, and they had now decided that the only way forward was to publish it themselves. They had brought me a copy of it, together with a flyer they had put together to send to people who might be able to afford a limited edition of the book; and, since there weren’t many of these in their own acquaintance, they had come to ask me for a list of possible subscribers. This request made, the girls went to deliver their little cooked dishes before they grew cold. I took out my old address book, which was full of names I had expected never to need again. And when I saw those names and thought of the life I had lived for so many years—the fund-raiser banquets in hotel ballrooms, the catered dinners, and the ladies’ lunches—and then looked at the handbill designed on Maeve’s computer, with a passport-like photograph of Dr. Chacko, I was struck by the incompatibility of that past with this present. At the same time, I couldn’t help being amused by the idea of those people—or their social secretaries—receiving this flyer, and discarding it in the wastebasket, along with all the other crazy mail. And, if they were actually to read the text, what would they make of it? No more than I could. Here I stopped transcribing names to leaf through the manuscript itself, in the hope of gaining some glimmer of understanding. There was none; it remained turgid and incomprehensible to me and in no way reflected the man I had seen lying indolently under a tree. I put the list in an envelope with a note to say that I hoped it would be useful to him. I knocked on his door and, receiving no answer, pushed it open. The cottage was empty, not only of him but of any presence whatsoever: there was nothing except my abandoned furniture and the fan I had given him—no photographs, no pictures, nothing personal. I put the envelope on the table and left quickly, as though I were doing something underhanded. My instinct turned out to be correct: the next day, Betty came to see me, looking grave and holding the list in her hand. “Where’s Maeve?” I asked, for it was unusual for one to come without the other. Betty smiled at me, though sadly: “Maeve is as grateful to you as I am, for the list, but she’s hurt. She so loves to do things for him. Sometimes at night she makes me drive her here, just so she can leave a little gift for him.” I said, “And now she’s hurt because the gift of the list was mine and not hers?” “Poor Maeve, her heart’s too full of love. She’s an orphan, you know. She was found on the steps of one of the Sister Marie-Jo Homes. She has no idea who left her there. And, after the orphanage, foster homes. I won’t tell you about those—why should you hear such things. . . . Maeve has these strong feelings. Maybe they’re wrong; probably they are. What she’s always loved best is to leave anonymous gifts for him. It was the sweetest thought for her that he wouldn’t know—” “That you were helping him with the manuscript?” “But now he does know. He’s seen your list, so he knows we’re looking for subscribers.” She appeared to accept my apology, but from that time on something changed between me and the girls. This was true principally of Maeve, who seemed no longer quite to trust me—or was it that she didn’t trust me with him? It was that same day that I entered into a new relationship with Dr. Chacko. For the first time, he came to the porch where I sat with my evening drink. When I invited him to join me, he did so at once. He settled into a chair, and when I offered him a lemonade he indicated my silver cocktail shaker. I told him what was in it, and he said he’d have that. It was quite a potent Martini, but it seemed nothing new to him. After taking a sip, he thanked me for the list I had compiled. “Are you looking forward to having the book published?” I asked. He made a vague gesture—of an indifference that seemed to express something of his personality. I asked, “Don’t you think it ought to be published?” “What do you think?” He had turned fully toward me. If he was, as I had been told, part Indian and part Russian, I couldn’t see anything to suggest either. He was too dark to be Anglo-Saxon, and his teeth were very strong and white, the most alive thing in his lean face. He spoke English fluently—more than fluently. Under the layers acquired through much moving around in the world, there remained—like a canal still flowing in the oldest part of a city—the flat accent of the English Midlands. I had noticed this at his workshop, where he had deliberately stressed it—as though its homely and provincial sound would bring his message closer to the earth. When he felt that he had waited long enough for my opinion of his manuscript, he interpreted my silence as unfavorable. He admitted that it was hard labor for him to write, like birth pangs: “Thoughts trying to get themselves born—except I don’t have many thoughts.” He laughed with those magnificent teeth, at himself and at me, as if I might not believe him. But I did believe him. I’d seen him at his workshop, where he seemed to operate not through thoughts or words or ideas but just by being as he was. Over the course of that summer, he joined me several more times for drinks on the porch. When the season changed, we sat by the fireplace in my living room, and we carried on this practice throughout that year and the beginning of the next. But it wasn’t until the second summer that he joined me for a meal. Unlike the girls, and probably many others who attended his workshop, he wasn’t a vegetarian. He thoroughly enjoyed a veal cutlet, and the wine we drank with it; also the candles in my silver candelabra and their reflection on the mahogany table. Even on the days when he ate with me, I saw the girls going to the cottage with their covered dishes. At the end of one of our meals, I asked him what he did, on such nights, with the food they had cooked for him. He said that he ate it. “If I didn’t,” he explained, “they’d discover it the next day when they come to bring more. It’s their kind nature. There’s nothing I can do about it.” One evening, finding the cottage empty, they came up to the house to see if I knew where he was. At first, we didn’t notice them, standing silently in the doorway, holding their dishes, but, as soon as we did, he took charge like a good host. He drew out chairs for them; he gestured toward the table: “ There are some wicked things here that you won’t want, but what if”—he turned to me—“two more plates, would it be possible?” And it was he who uncovered their dishes and served them. “What delicious smells, and may I?” He dipped in a fork and, tasting, confirmed that the food was, indeed, delicious. Despite all this, he didn’t quite succeed in overcoming my embarrassment and whatever were their much stronger feelings. After a while, I managed to contribute some small talk, and so did Betty, both of us halfheartedly. As for Maeve, she just stared down at her plate, trying, perhaps, to hide the tears that were trickling into her untouched food. Later that summer, Betty told me that my list of potential subscribers had proved useless. Now she had a new suggestion, which was that I should underwrite the publication of the manuscript. She made it sound like a good business proposition, pointing out that in no time royalties would be coming in, whereupon I would be the first person to be reimbursed. Maeve didn’t say anything; she only traced her toe over the floor, looking down at it so as not to see my face or let me see hers. This was Maeve’s way with me now; and on subsequent visits, while Betty and I went over the details of the publication, Maeve always wandered off outside by herself, making it clear that she wanted no part of any discussion with me. During these warm months, my evening walk sometimes took me as far as the waterfall at the edge of my property. The precipitous climb to the rock from which it fell was no longer easy for me, but I enjoyed the solitude there, the moss-covered stones, the trees bending toward the arc of the water. One day, I saw a figure within that arc, sheathed in its iridescence and turning in its spray: it was Dr. Chacko, naked and singing as he soaped himself. His towel and a pair of rubber flip-flops lay on a rocky ledge far enough away not to get wet. Before I could leave, he emerged, still singing and naked; if he saw me, he gave no sign of it until he had reached his towel and wrapped it around himself. Nimbly, on bare feet, carrying his shoes, he climbed the rocks that separated us and sat down beside me, drops still sparkling on his thighs and his chest. As far as I could make out over the roar of the water, he was telling me how much he enjoyed coming here for his shower—though, of course, he didn’t feel the same way in the winter. Was he intending to spend another winter with us? I wondered then. By “us,” I meant those of us who were united in our care of him, except that now, apparently, I stood accused of having taken more than my fair share. It was so ridiculous! And, seemingly prompted by the same thought, he said that very word—“Ridiculous”—as we got up to walk together toward the house. “But it’s always happening,” he went on, “and it’s always my fault. I should have told them. Why wouldn’t I have told them? There’s nothing wrong in it.” “You mean in eating meat?” “And in your being my friend. Careful.” He lifted a prickly branch nodding over our narrow path. I hadn’t mentioned Maeve, but, in the way he had of taking up one’s unspoken thoughts, he continued, “It’s sad that she’s an orphan, but there are some orphans who grow up quite happy and carefree. When I was younger, very young, I used to look in the mirror: ‘Who is this?’ I didn’t even know my real name—Chacko comes from the parents who adopted me for a while. They were Indian, but they lived in the U.K., in a very dull town, and at seventeen I made my way elsewhere. I’d been reading the old Russian authors, and I thought all Russians were saints or swindlers, but when I went there I found no one like that; so I worked my way to Baku, and from there farther east. . . . A long story, a long odyssey.” He didn’t tell me any more of it that day (or any other day, now that I come to think of it). Instead, he plucked one of his melodies out of the air, some strange tune from far away. He did stay through the winter, and through the spring, and then another year had passed and it was summer again. In the meantime, Betty had seen his book through production and had made it into a very handsome volume. She watched me examining it, while Maeve stood by, gazing at her own toe circling the carpet. That evening, I sat down seriously with the book, but I still understood very little; actually, nothing. Carrying the book, I went to see him the next morning. He was sitting on the doorstep of the cottage, carving a piece of wood. He invited me to sit beside him, and when I did I had again that feeling of intimacy I’d had lying next to him under the tree. An innocent intimacy, enhanced by the way he was carving, like a boy whittling a stick. He told me that woodwork was just a hobby for him now, but once it had been useful—when he had fixed shelves and done minor repairs. It was his only skill, he said, since he hadn’t had much education. Then I did ask about the book, pointing at the title page, where his name was printed—with “Ph.D.” attached to it. “I bought it,” he said. “Not actually I, but a lady who liked to hear me talk. There’s a small college in India that sells Ph.D.s. B.A.s and M.A.s, too, if that’s all you want. . . . It never earned me a living. For that I had to do other things—when I really needed money, for my wife and kids.” He was silent for a while, and so was I. Then he went on, “Three of them, all grown up now. I miss them, but they’re doing all right. A couple of them are married. They may already have children of their own. I miss my wife, too, occasionally. She’s with someone else now. I liked her—I still do, though she never understood a word of anything I said or wrote. . . . Do you?” he asked me, but I didn’t have to answer, for he had opened the book and was leafing through it, reading a sentence here and there as if he had never seen it before. Then he shook his head and laughed. He had a rather whinnying laugh, like a horse; I liked his singing better. “Probably only God knows what it’s all about. . . . But there are others—others,” he said, and just then the girls’ car drew up, “who think it’s me who understands, and so I must be God.” He whinnied again, and waved at them, and Betty waved back. But Maeve was looking at me—at where I sat close beside him on the narrow doorstep; and from that day her hostility toward me entered a new phase. There were days of such unpleasant heat that summer that it became impossible, Betty told me, to continue the workshop in its present quarters. She proposed a solution. The first part of her solution consisted of taking a collection from the members to hire a bus to bring them to the country. The second part involved me, or, rather, my grounds, where the workshop was to be held. “They needn’t come in the house at all,” Betty promised, adding, in her truthful way, “except to use the toilet. They’ll sit under the trees—he’ll talk to them—and they’ll be happy, peaceful.” And that was more or less how it happened. They arrived in the late afternoon and fanned out for a while, admiring the flowering trees, breathing in the fragrant air. By the time he came out to talk to them, the shadows were long and cool. He had them sit under one of the trees, the same one beneath which he often lay, looking up into the leaves. They looked only at him—though without the intensity I had sensed in that rented room where they were squashed close together. Now each had space to breathe, to inhale his message. I watched from the porch. For me, there was something almost legendary about the scene—the earnest seekers gathered around their teacher, drawing inspiration from him and from their surroundings. Lively households rustled and stirred within the trees. A chipmunk scurried across the path with a nut in its mouth. And, as the sun contracted, a deer came out of the distant woods and stood, shy but fearless, against a sky that was partly rose-tinted and partly gold. Everyone was, as Betty had predicted, peaceful, serene. No one seemed to be aware that Maeve had got up from the group and was circling it, the way a wasp would. They didn’t come again. The workshops resumed in New York, but not for long. I learned about the great upheaval only by piecing it together from Betty’s reluctant account. Still, it was easy to imagine how, in that cramped and overcrowded room, simmering in the dog-day heat, the smallest spark could have caused an explosion. Betty admitted that she had known from early that morning that Maeve was not herself. Or, rather, that it was one of the days when she was only part of herself, the part that childhood trauma had drained of her natural sweetness. Betty had tried to dissuade her from going, but Maeve had insisted, with that stubborn, closed face that I had begun to think characteristic of her. Betty had settled her on a chair among the disabled, but it was only a few moments into the lecture that Maeve began her disturbance. At first, all she shouted was “No!” Then “Lies! Lies and fakery!” Maybe if Betty had succeeded in removing her at this stage the others might have settled back into their concentration. But, wedged between people on the floor, Betty couldn’t reach her, and Maeve spun further out of control, shouting, “Ask him! Why doesn’t anyone ask him!” Disconcerted by these wild shouts, the disciples turned their attention from their teacher to Maeve. Jerked out of a deep tranquillity, they reacted in shock and frustration. And Maeve worked them up, along with herself. “Ask him!” she shouted. “Ask him about the one he drinks with—and eats meat!” Then the room erupted. The cripple raised his crutch at her; others tried to pull her off her chair. By the time Betty managed to reach her, her frock was torn at the shoulder. She struggled against Betty, too—maybe she didn’t recognize her, confused her with the rest; although, Betty admitted, Maeve had sometimes fought against her in this way in the past. Betty put her arms around her to lead her out. Halfway down the stairs, Maeve was still struggling to free herself, sobbing and yelling, “Ask him what else he does with her!” No one followed them; the door upstairs was shut against them while the lecture continued. The girls no longer brought covered dishes for him, and he no longer cycled to the station for the train to New York. This made me suspect that the ugly uproar may have caused a split among the members; or perhaps he himself, for reasons of his own, had terminated the workshop, like those in England and in other places. I realized that this idea had always been at the back of my mind: that everything in his life was transient. Now, on my evening walks, I didn’t stumble over him under his tree, because I knew to expect him there; I never lay down with him again, but I sat beside him and we talked a bit. Strangely, I had become more shy with him than before. I even hesitated now to invite him in for a meal. One day, Betty drove up to my house. She had brought all the unsold copies of Dr. Chacko’s book, which was almost the entire edition. Only a few copies had been bought by some workshop students who had managed to come up with the price; efforts to place them on consignment in bookstores had been unsuccessful. “Where shall I put them?” Betty asked, staggering with armfuls of them up the steps of the porch. It’s not easy to accommodate more than five hundred books without prior arrangement, so they had to be piled on chairs, sofas, tables, wherever there was a surface. I helped her carry them in, and, when we had finished, she accepted a fresh lemonade. As she relaxed a little, I ventured to ask about Maeve. Her face softened, as it always did at mention of Maeve. “We’re past the worst of it, thank the Lord. . . . Put yourself in her place—someone who’s been betrayed so bitterly in the past.” I said, “I suppose everyone has been, at some point in their past.” This was as far as I ever went in speaking to her about mine. Anyway, it wasn’t me she wanted to talk about. “Maeve loved and trusted him, and shouldn’t have. What do we know about him? Only what he’s told us. Are you going to let him stay in the cottage?” I said, “He’s no trouble to me.” She clamped her lips tight for a moment before continuing: “Not that I listen to gossip, but they say he was in prison in Bangkok for two years before being deported. But people will say anything, so who knows what to believe or not to believe. . . . Well, thanks for the lemonade—it was a real treat on a day like this.” “And thank you for the books.” “Oh, no. Those are yours. You paid for them.” That day, I overcame my embarrassment, or whatever it was that had prevented me from inviting him to dinner. He laughed when he saw his books piled around the house. He said, “It looks like I’ve really taken you over here.” But that was untrue—he had never encroached on me or asked for anything. Since my table and chairs were occupied, we sat on the porch with plates on our laps and glasses at our feet. For the first time, I asked him about the workshop. He said, “People move on. I move on, too.” As he did so often, he answered my question before I had asked it. “There’s always somewhere. One gets used to it.” I said, “But wouldn’t you rather stay?” “If there are people who wish me to stay.” Evidently, he didn’t intend to continue this conversation, and I also realized that there was no need. It was cool outside now, in the night air. Glowworms glittered below, stars above. Instead of talking, he began to hum one of his songs. Was this his teaching? To say nothing? To want and need nothing? All the same, I couldn’t help myself—I had to ask. “So you think you won’t want the cottage much longer?” He stopped humming. “Why? Are you looking for a new tenant? If so, I hope he’ll pay you better than I.” “You’re not my tenant.” “No, of course not. Tenants pay rent. But I should do something for you. Look at this,” and he held up an early autumn leaf that had fluttered onto the porch. “You won’t be able to sit out here much longer—with luck, another month—and after that you’ll need your chairs and tables back. You’ll have to get rid of the books. They’re useless, anyway, if you don’t understand them.” “One day I shall.” “And till then? Are you going to eat and sleep with them? I tell you what I’ll do. I’ll build some shelves for them, so that they won’t be in your way, and you can have your house back.” Did he mean my house or the cottage? I couldn’t ask again, and he just went on talking about the shelves and how we would need to buy wood—good quality, he said, to go with the rest of the house. He came to take measurements, and then we drove to a building-supply depot in town. He filled two huge shopping carts, and, when it came time to pay, he wouldn’t let me sign my credit-card slip before he had checked the amounts. The next day, he set up the trestle table we had bought under a tree, and there he worked with his shirt off, and singing. I carried out sandwiches at lunchtime, and we ate them under the tree. The air was filled with the scent of sawdust, of grass, and of the wilted leaves that had begun to fall, and also the whiff of perspiration rising from the tangled hair on his bare chest. It was the last, the very last days of summer, with dusty, drooping trees, and flowers going to seed, and flying insects fierce in their final throes. I was eager to pay him for his work, and, while I was still wondering how to raise the subject, he presented me with a bill. He had itemized the hours he had spent working for me so far, and it came to a substantial amount. But, anyway, whatever I paid was worth it for me. I continued to make sandwiches for his lunch and to join him in eating them. More and more leaves had begun to fall, some on his naked back, and some scattered in his hair, where they remained like Bacchanalian vine leaves. Sometimes a stronger breeze brought down a shower of them which fell on both of us, veiling us in gold. One day, he said, “Betty came to ask when I would be moving out of the cottage.” “What did you say?” “I said I have a job to finish here.” Several days of rain followed, and since he could no longer work outdoors we carried the shelves into the house. The woodwork was almost finished, and he had begun to varnish and polish. As I realized that the work was drawing to a close, I thought up more jobs for him: a spice rack in the kitchen, towel rails in the laundry room. I kept on finding things I needed to have done around the house, including some that I didn’t need at all. When I had almost run out of ideas, he himself had a suggestion. He said that it made him uneasy to see my silver so insecure in the breakfront, where any intruder could smash the glass. In the dining room, there was a niche large enough, he told me, for a cabinet that he could build for me, with a lock to secure my silver inside. We went out to buy more wood, and he set to work at once. He explained the kind of lock he needed, and as I drove to the store I thought that maybe it was not only I but he, too, who was trying to prolong his stay—if, that is, he intended to stay. On my way back, I drove past the girls’ house. It was wide open, windows and doors flowing out into the front yard. It was full of toys, and playing with them were the usual children the girls gathered up from the town—orphans, or fugitives from bad homes. The girls had set up a swing, and Maeve was sitting on it, shouting “Higher!” while two laughing children pushed her. Betty saw me in my car and waved and called, “Isn’t this fun!” But, when she came over to talk to me through the car window, the first thing she said was “Is he still in the cottage?” “He’s working on my bookshelves.” “If he’s working for you, why don’t you let him stay in the house? There’s plenty of room for the two of you. He hardly needs a whole cottage to himself.” “Then who else would stay there?” “You’ve seen our kids—how happy they are just in the few inches of space we have for them. At your place, in that air, those trees—and the seasons! Rain and wind and snow! Beautiful.” I started the car, and, when I revved the engine, she had to talk louder: “It’s not good for people to stay alone. I know what I was before I met Maeve, and I know what she was, but together—” Here she shouted after the moving car. “The two of us together, that’s a life!” The cabinet took longer than the other jobs he had done for me. He became so involved in the work that he continued after our supper and after I had gone to bed. I listened to him hammering downstairs, and one night I got up to see how he was getting on. He was fitting in the shelves, but he seemed dissatisfied and took them out again to plane them. I stood silently watching him. When he turned around, he looked at me in the doorway, in my long nightdress, which was of delicate silk, fit for a bride. I remembered the thoughts that Betty had tried to put in my head—had actually put there—and the possibility that he could read them, as he so often could, both embarrassed and excited me. I went back upstairs and continued to lie in bed listening to his hammering. When it stopped, I heard him moving around downstairs and wondered what he was doing. I wanted to go and see for myself. But the same embarrassment overcame me, and I stayed in bed listening, and that, too, was nice, to hear him moving inside my house. When I woke in the morning, the sun was pouring a sea of sparkling autumn light into the room. I put on a robe and tied it as I hurried down the stairs, thinking that I might still find him there. But he had gone. He had completed his work and swept up the wood shavings, and altogether left everything neat. The cabinet was finished; it sat in its niche. The lock was on, so I knew that he had moved the silver inside and locked it up for security. One of his books was lying on the dining table with a note on it that said, “See page 420.” I opened it to that page and found the key inside. I scanned the page to see if there was a secret message for me in the text, but there was not. I read it again, but still detected no message. I tried the preceding page and the following one, with the same result. But the key was definitely there. I unlocked the new cabinet and found that I had been mistaken. He had not yet moved the silver inside. But the breakfront was empty, and so were the drawers in my sideboard, in which I had kept my silverware. The cottage, too, was empty and had been swept with a broom, which he had left leaning against the wall. The only thing missing here was the table fan. The first thing I wondered was how he had managed to transport everything on that rickety mount of his. I imagined him fastening the fan to the bike, then, like a real burglar, slinging the silver in a sack over his shoulder, and standing at dawn on the highway to thumb a ride from a long-distance truck on its way to some far-off, unknown, undiscoverable destination. The girls soon transformed the cottage into a playroom. The children painted fantastic murals of jungle animals and spaceships; Betty baked cookies while Maeve wove a rug on a loom, which had stood unused in the attic of their old house. As for me, I’ve been studying his book. I start at the beginning and read right through to the end; then, in the hope of understanding more, I go back and repeat the process. Maybe this is what he had in mind for me, in return for what he took. The loss of my silver may not be a loss at all, but simply the fee charged for my education. Sometimes, though not always, I think that it was worth it. Meanwhile, as Betty anticipated, each season here brings us its own joys: ghosts in bedsheets at Halloween, stars and angels on the Christmas tree, and, in the depths of winter, when the snow has fallen thick and fast, toboggans flying down the slope behind the cottage and into the hollow that in the spring will be covered with new grass and sprinkled with small flowers, bluebells and forget-me-nots.
Thirteen Hundred Rats There was a man in our village who never in his life had a pet of any kind until his wife died. By my calculation, Gerard Loomis was in his mid-fifties when Marietta was taken from him, but at the ceremony in the chapel he looked so scorched and stricken that people mistook him for a man ten or twenty years older. He sat collapsed in the front pew, his clothes mismatched and his limbs splayed in the extremity of his grief, looking as if he’d been dropped there from a great height, like a bird stripped of its feathers in some aerial catastrophe. Once the funeral was over and we’d all offered up our condolences and gone back to our respective homes, rumors began to circulate. Gerard wasn’t eating. He wouldn’t leave the house or change his clothes. He’d been seen bent over a trash barrel in the front yard, burning patent-leather pumps, brassieres, skirts, wigs, even the mink stole with its head and feet still attached that his late wife had worn with pride on Christmas, Easter, and Columbus Day. People began to worry about him, and understandably so. Ours is a fairly close-knit community of a hundred and twenty souls, give or take a few, distributed among some fifty-two stone-and-timber houses that were erected nearly a century ago in what the industrialist B. P. Newhouse hoped would be a model of utopian living. We are not utopians, at least not in this generation, but our village, set as it is in the midst of six hundred acres of dense forest at the end of a consummately discreet road some forty miles from the city, has fostered, we like to think, a closeness and uniformity of outlook that you wouldn’t find in some of the newer developments built right up to the edges of the malls, gallerias, and factory outlets that surround them. He should have a dog, people said. That sounded perfectly reasonable to me. My wife and I have a pair of shelties (as well as two lorikeets, whose chatter provides a tranquil backdrop to our evenings by the fireplace, and one very fat angelfish in a tank all his own, on a stand in my study). One evening at dinner, my wife glanced at me over her reading glasses and said, “Do you know that, according to this article in the paper, ninety-seven per cent of pet owners say their pets make them smile at least once a day?” The shelties—Tim and Tim II—gazed up from beneath the table with wondering eyes as I fed scraps of meat into their mobile and receptive mouths. “You think I ought to speak with him?” I said. “Gerard, I mean?” “It couldn’t hurt,” my wife said. And then, the corners of her mouth sinking toward her chin, she added, “The poor man.” I went to visit him the next day—a Saturday, as it happened. The dogs needed walking, so I took them both with me, by way of example, I suppose, and because when I’m home—and not away on the business that takes me all over the world, sometimes for weeks or even months at a time—I like to give them as much attention as I can. Gerard’s cottage was half a mile or so from our house, and I enjoyed the briskness of the season—it was early December, the holidays coming on, a fresh breeze spanking my cheeks. I let the dogs run free ahead of me and admired the way the pine forest that B. P. Newhouse had planted all those years ago framed and sculpted the sky. The first thing I noticed on coming up the walk was that Gerard hadn’t bothered to rake the leaves from his lawn or cover any of his shrubs against the frost. There were other signs of neglect: the storm windows weren’t up yet, garbage overspilled the two cans in the driveway, and a pine bough, a casualty of the last storm, lay across the roof of the house like the severed hand of a giant. I rang the bell. Gerard was a long time answering. When he did finally come to the door, he held it open just a crack and gazed out at me as if I were a stranger. (I was nothing of the sort—our parents had known each other, we’d played couples bridge for years and had once taken a road trip to Hyannis Port together, not to mention the fact that we saw each other at the lake nearly every day in the summer, shared cocktails at the clubhouse, and basked in an air of mutual congratulation over our separate decisions not to complicate our lives with the burden of children.) “Gerard,” I said. “Hello. How are you feeling?” He said nothing. He looked thinner than usual, haggard. I wondered if the rumors were true—that he wasn’t eating, wasn’t taking care of himself, that he’d given way to despair. “I was just passing by and thought I’d stop in,” I said, working up a grin, though I didn’t feel much in the mood for levity and had begun to wish I’d stayed home and let my neighbor suffer in peace. “And look,” I said, “I’ve brought Tim and Tim II with me.” The dogs, hearing their names, drew themselves up out of the frost-blighted bushes and pranced across the doormat, inserting the long damp tubes of their snouts into the crack of the door. Gerard’s voice was hoarse. “I’m allergic to dogs,” he said. Ten minutes later, after we’d gone through the preliminaries and I was seated on the cluttered couch in front of the dead fireplace while Tim and Tim II whined from the front porch, I said, “Well, what about a cat?” And then, because I was mortified at the state to which he’d sunk—his clothes were grubby; he smelled; the house was like the lounge in a transient hotel—I found myself quoting my wife’s statistic about smiling pet owners. “I’m allergic to cats, too,” he said. He was perched uncomfortably on the canted edge of a rocker and his eyes couldn’t seem to find my face. “But I understand your concern, and I appreciate it. And you’re not the first. Half a dozen people have been by, pushing one thing or another on me—pasta salad, a baked ham, profiteroles, and pets, too. Siamese fighting fish, hamsters, kittens. Mary Martinson caught me at the post office the other day, took hold of my arm, and lectured me for fifteen minutes on the virtues of emus. Can you believe it?” “I feel foolish,” I said. “No, don’t. You’re right, all of you—I need to snap out of it. And you’re right about a pet, too.” He rose from the chair, which rocked crazily behind him. He was wearing a stained pair of white corduroy shorts and a sweatshirt that made him look as gaunt as the Masai my wife and I had photographed on our safari to Kenya the previous spring. “Let me show you,” he said, and he wound his way through the tumbling stacks of magazines and newspapers scattered around the room and disappeared into the back hall. I sat there, feeling awkward—was this what it would be like if my wife should die before me?—but curious, too. And, in a strange way, validated. Gerard Loomis had a pet to keep him company: mission accomplished. When he came back into the room, I thought at first that he’d slipped into some sort of garish jacket or cardigan, but then I saw, with a little jolt of surprise, that he was wearing a snake. Or, that is, a snake was draped over his shoulders, its extremities dangling beyond the length of his arms. “It’s a python,” he said. “Burmese. They get to be twenty-five feet long, though this one’s just a baby.” I must have said something, but I can’t really recall now what it was. I wasn’t a herpetophobe or anything like that. It was just that a snake wasn’t what we’d had in mind. Snakes didn’t play fetch, didn’t bound into the car panting their joy, didn’t speak when you held a rawhide bone just above shoulder level and twitched it invitingly. As far as I knew, they didn’t do much of anything, except exist. And bite. “So what do you think?” he said. His voice lacked enthusiasm, as if he were trying to convince himself. “Nice,” I said. I don’t know why I’m telling this story—perhaps because what happened to Gerard could happen to any of us, I suppose, especially as we age and our spouses age and we’re increasingly set adrift. But the thing is, the next part of what I’m going to relate here is a kind of fiction, really, or a fictive reconstruction of actual events, because two days after I was introduced to Gerard’s python—he was thinking then of naming it either Jason or Siddhartha—my wife and I went off to Switzerland for an account I was overseeing there and didn’t return for more than four months. In the interval, here’s what happened. There was a heavy snowfall the week before Christmas that year, and for the space of nearly two days the power lines were down. Gerard woke the first morning to a preternaturally cold house, and his first thought was for the snake. The man in the pet shop at the mall had given him a long lecture before he bought the animal. “They make great pets,” he’d said. “You can let them roam the house if you want, and they’ll find the places where they’re comfortable. And the nice thing is they’ll come to you and curl up on the couch or wherever, because of your body heat, you understand.” The man—he wore a name tag that read “Bozeman” and he looked to be in his forties, with a gray-flecked goatee and his hair drawn back in a patchily dyed ponytail—clearly enjoyed dispensing advice. As well he should, seeing that he was charging some four hundred dollars for a single reptile that must have been as common as a garden worm in its own country. “But most of all, especially in this weather, you’ve got to keep him warm. This is a tropical animal we’re talking about here, you understand? Never—and I mean never—let the temperature fall below eighty.” Gerard tried the light on the nightstand, but it was out. Ditto the light in the hall. Outside, the snow fell in clumps, as if it had been preformed into snowballs somewhere high in the troposphere. In the living room, the thermostat read sixty-three degrees, and when he tried to click the heat on nothing happened. The next thing he knew he was crumpling newspaper and stacking kindling in the fireplace, and where were the matches? A quick search around the house, everything a mess (and here the absence of Marietta bit into him, down deep, like a parasitical set of teeth), the drawers stuffed with refuse, dishes piled high, nothing where it was supposed to be. Finally, he retrieved an old lighter from a pair of paint-stained jeans on the floor in the back of the closet and he had the fire going. Then he went looking for Siddhartha. He found the snake curled up under the kitchen sink where the hot-water pipe fed into the faucet and dishwasher, but it was all but inanimate, as cold and slick as a garden hose left out in the frost. It was surprisingly heavy, especially for an animal that hadn’t eaten in the two weeks it had been in the house, but he dragged it, stiff and frigid, from its cachette and laid it before the fireplace. While he was making coffee in the kitchen, he gazed out the window on the tumble of the day and thought of all those years that he’d gone to work in weather like this, in all weathers, actually, and felt a stab of nostalgia. Maybe he should go back to work—if not in his old capacity, from which he was gratefully retired, then on a part-time basis, just to keep his hand in, just to get out of the house and do something useful. On impulse he picked up the phone, thinking to call Alex, his old boss, and sound him out, but the line was down, too. Back in the living room, he sank into the couch with his coffee and watched the snake as it came slowly back to itself, its muscles shivering in slow waves from head to tail, like a soft breeze trailing over a still body of water. By the time he’d had a second cup of coffee and fixed himself an egg on the gas range, the crisis—if that was what it was—had passed. Siddhartha seemed fine. He never moved much even in the best of times, with the heat on high and the electric blanket that Gerard had bought for him draped across the big Plexiglas terrarium he liked to curl up in, so it was difficult to say. Gerard sat there a long while, stoking the fire, watching the snake unfurl its muscles and flick the dark fork of its tongue, until a thought came to him: Maybe Siddhartha was hungry. When Gerard had asked the pet-shop proprietor what to feed him, Bozeman had answered, “Rats.” Gerard must have looked dubious, because the man had added, “Oh, I mean, you can give him rabbits when he gets bigger, and that’s a savings, really, in time and energy, because you won’t have to feed him as often, but you’d be surprised—snakes, reptiles in general, are a lot more efficient than we are. They don’t have to stoke the internal furnace all the time with filet mignon and hot-fudge sundaes, and they don’t need clothes or fur coats, either.” He paused to gaze down at the snake, where it lay in its terrarium, basking under a heat lamp. “I just fed this guy his rat yesterday. You shouldn’t have to give him anything for a week or two, anyway. He’ll let you know.” “How?” Gerard had asked. A shrug. “Could be a color thing, where you notice his pattern isn’t as bright, maybe. Or he’s just, I don’t know, what you’d call lethargic.” They’d both looked down at the snake then, its eyes like two pebbles, its body all but indistinguishable from the length of rough wood it was stretched out on. It was no more animate than the glass walls of the terrarium, and Gerard wondered how anyone, even an expert, could tell if the thing was alive or dead. Then he wrote the check. But now he found himself chafing at an idea: the snake needed to be fed. Of course it did. It had been two weeks—why hadn’t he thought of it before? He was neglecting the animal, and that wasn’t right. He got up from the couch to close off the room and build up the fire, then went out to shovel the driveway and take the car down the long, winding community road to the highway and on into Newhouse and the mall. It was a harrowing journey. Trucks threw blankets of slush over the windshield, and the beating of the wipers made him dizzy. When he arrived, he was relieved to see that the mall had electricity, the whole place lit up like a Las Vegas parade for the marketing and selling of all things Christmas, and with a little deft maneuvering he was able to wedge his car between a plowed drift and the handicapped space in front of the pet store. Inside, Pets & Company smelled of nature in the raw, every creature in every cage and glassed-in compartment having defecated simultaneously, just to greet him, or so he imagined. The place was superheated. He was the only customer. Bozeman was up on a footstool, cleaning one of the aquariums with a vacuum tube. “Hey, man,” he said, his voice a high singsong. “Gerard, right? Don’t tell me.” He reached back in a practiced gesture to smooth down his ponytail, as if he were petting a cat or a ferret. “You need a rat. Am I right?” The rat—he didn’t see it; Bozeman had gone into the back room to fetch it—came in a cardboard container with a molded carrying handle on top, the sort of thing you got if you asked for a doggie bag at a restaurant. The animal was heavier than Gerard had expected, shifting its weight mysteriously from one corner of the box to another as he carried it out into the snow and set it on the seat beside him. He turned on the fan after he’d started up the engine, to give it some heat—but then it was a mammal, he figured, with fur, and it could warm itself. And, in any case, it was dinner, or soon to be. The roads were slick. Visibility was practically zero. He crawled behind a snowplow all the way back to Newhouse Gardens, and when he came in the door he was pleased to see that the fire was still going strong. All right. He set down the box and then dragged the python’s terrarium across the floor from the bedroom to the living room and set it to one side of the fireplace. Then he lifted the snake—it was noticeably warm to the touch on the side that had been closest to the fire—and laid it gently in the terrarium. For a moment, it came to life, the long run of muscles tensing, the great flat slab of the head gearing around to regard him out of its stony eyes, and then it was inert again, dead weight against the Plexiglas floor. Gerard bent cautiously to the rat’s box—would it spring out, bite him, then scurry away across the floor to live behind the baseboard forever, like some cartoon incarnation?—and, with his heart pounding, lowered the box into the terrarium and opened the lid. The rat—it was white, with pink eyes, like the lab rats he’d seen arrayed in their cages in the biology building when he was a student—slid from the box like a lump of gristle, then sat up on its haunches and began cleaning itself, as if it were the most natural thing in the world to be transported in a doggie bag and dumped into a glass-walled cavern in the presence of a tongue-flicking reptile. Which might or might not be hungry. For a long while, nothing happened. Snow ticked at the windows, the fire sparked and settled. And then the snake moved ever so slightly, the faintest shifting of the bright tube of its scales, energy percolating from the deepest core of its musculature, and suddenly the rat stiffened. All at once it was aware of the danger it was in. It seemed to shrink into itself, as if by doing so it could somehow become invisible. Gerard watched, fascinated, wondering how the rat—reared in some drowsy pet warehouse, slick and pink and suckling at its mother’s teats in a warm gregarious pack of its pink siblings, generations removed from the wild and any knowledge of a thing like this snake and its shining elongate bulk—could recognize the threat. Very slowly, by almost imperceptible degrees, the snake lifted its head from the Plexiglas floor, levelling on the rat like a sculpture come to life. Then it struck, so quickly that Gerard nearly missed it, but the rat, as if it had trained all its life for just this moment, was equal to it. It sprang over the snake’s head in a single frantic leap and shot to the farthest corner of the terrarium, where it began to emit a series of birdlike cries, all the while fastening its inflamed eyes on the white hovering face of Gerard. And what did he feel? He felt like a god, like a Roman emperor with the power of fatality in his thumb. The rat scrabbled at the Plexiglas. The snake shifted to close in on it. And then, because he was a god, Gerard reached into the terrarium and lifted the rat up out of the range of his python. He was surprised at how warm the animal was, and how quickly it accommodated itself to his hand. It didn’t struggle or try to escape but simply pressed itself against his wrist and the trailing sleeve of his sweater as if it understood, as if it were grateful. In the next moment he was cradling the rat against his chest, the pulse of its heart already slowing. He went to the couch and sank into it, uncertain what to do next. The rat gazed up at him, shivered the length of its body, and promptly fell asleep. The situation was novel, to say the least. Gerard had never touched a rat in his life, let alone allowed one to curl up and sleep in the weave of his sweater. He watched its miniature chest rise and fall, studied the intricacy of its naked feet that were like hands, saw the spray of etiolated whiskers, and felt the suppleness of the tail as it lay between his fingers like the suède fringe of the jacket he’d worn as a boy. The fire faltered, but he didn’t rise to feed it. When finally he got up to open a can of soup, the rat came with him, awake now and discovering its natural perch on his shoulder. He felt its fur like a caress on the side of his neck, and then the touch of its whiskers and fevered nose. It stood on its hind legs and stretched from Gerard’s lap to the edge of the table as he spooned up his soup by candlelight, and he couldn’t resist the experiment of extracting a cube of potato from the rich golden broth and feeding it into the eager, mincing mouth. And then another. And another. When he went to bed, the rat came with him, and if he woke in the dark of the night—and he did, twice, three times—he felt its presence beside him, its spirit, its heart, its heat, and it was no reptile, no cold thankless thing with a flicking tongue and two dead eyes, but a creature radiant with life. The house was very cold when he woke to the seeping light of morning. He sat up in bed and looked around him. The face of the clock radio was blank, so the electricity must still have been down. He wondered about that, but when he pushed himself up and set his bare feet on the floor it was the rat he was thinking about—and there it was, nestled in a fold of the blankets. It opened its eyes, stretched, and then climbed into the palm he offered it, working its way up inside the sleeve of his pajamas until it was balanced on his shoulder again. In the kitchen, he turned on all four gas burners and the oven, too, and shut off the room to trap the heat. It wasn’t until the kettle began to boil that he thought about the fireplace—and the snake stretched out in its terrarium—but by then it was too late. He returned to the pet store that afternoon, reasoning that he might as well convert the snake’s lair into a rat’s nest. Or no, that didn’t sound right—that was what his mother used to call his boyhood room. He’d call it a rat apartment. A rat hostel. A rat— Bozeman grinned when he saw him. “Not another rat?” he said, something quizzical in his eyes. “He can’t want another one already, can he? But then with Burms you’ve got to watch for obesity—they’ll eat anytime, whether they’re hungry or not.” Even under the best of conditions, Gerard was not the sort to confide in people he barely knew. “Yes” was all he said, in answer to both questions. And then he added, “I may as well take a couple of them while I’m here.” He looked away. “To save me the trip.” Bozeman wiped his hands on the khaki apron he wore over his jeans and came out from behind the cash register. “Sure,” he said. “Good idea. How many you want? They’re five ninety-nine each.” Gerard shrugged. He thought of the rat at home, the snugness of it, the way it sprang across the carpet in a series of little leaps or shot along the baseboard as if blown by a hurricane wind, how it would take a nut in its hands and sit up to gnaw at it, how it loved to play with anything he gave it—a paper clip, an eraser, the ridged plastic top of an Evian bottle. In a moment of inspiration, he decided to call it Robbie, after his brother in Tulsa. Robbie. Robbie the Rat. And Robbie needed company, needed playmates, just like any other creature. Before he could think, he said, “Ten?” “Ten? Whoa, man, that is going to be one fat snake.” “Is that too many?” Bozeman slicked back his ponytail and gave him a good, long look. “Hell, no—I mean, I’ll sell you all I’ve got if that’s what you want, and everything else, too. You want gerbils? Parakeets? Albino toads? I’m in business, you know—pets for sale. This is a pet shop, comprende? But I tell you, if that Burm doesn’t eat them P.D.Q., you’re going to see how fast these things breed. . . . I mean, the females can go into heat, or whatever you want to call it, at five weeks old. Five weeks.” He shifted his weight and moved past Gerard, gesturing for him to follow. They stopped in front of a display of packaged food and bright-colored sacks of litter. “You’re going to want Rat Chow,” he said, handing him a ten-pound sack, “and a bag or two of these wood shavings.” Another look. “You got a place to keep them?” By the time he left the store, Gerard had two wire cages (with cedar-plank flooring so the rats wouldn’t contract bumblefoot, whatever that was), twenty pounds of rat food, three bags of litter, and two super-sized doggie bags with five rats in each. Then he was home and shutting the door to keep out the cold even as Robbie, emerging from beneath the pillows of the couch, humped across the floor to greet him and all the lights flashed on simultaneously. It was mid-April by the time my wife and I returned from Switzerland. Tim and Tim II, who’d been cared for in our absence by our housekeeper, Florencia, were there to greet us, acting out their ecstasy on the doorstep and then carrying it into the living room with such an excess of animation that it was all but impossible to get our bags in the door before giving them their treats, a thorough back-scratching, and a cooed rehearsal of the little endearments they were used to. It was good to be home, back to a real community, after all that time spent living in a sterile apartment in Basel, and, what with making the rounds of the neighbors and settling in both at home and at work, it wasn’t till some weeks later that I thought of Gerard. No one had seen him, save for Mary Martinson, who’d run into him in the parking lot at the mall, and he’d refused all invitations to dinner, casual get-togethers, ice-skating on the lake, even the annual Rites of Spring fund-raiser at the clubhouse. Mary said that he’d seemed distracted and that she’d tried to engage him in conversation, thinking he was still locked in that first stage of grieving and just needed a little nudge to get him on track again, but he’d been abrupt with her. And she didn’t like to mention it but he was unkempt—and he smelled worse than ever. It was startling, she said. Even outdoors, standing over the open trunk of his car, which was entirely filled, she couldn’t help noticing, with something called Rat Chow, even with the wind blowing and a lingering chill in the air, he gave off a powerful reek of sadness and body odor. Someone needed to look in on him, that was her opinion. I waited till the weekend, and then, as I’d done back in December, I took the dogs down the wide, amicable streets, through the greening woods, and over the rise to Gerard’s cottage. The day was glorious, the sun climbing toward its zenith, moths and butterflies spangling the flower gardens, the breeze sweetened with a scent of the South. My neighbors slowed their cars to wave as they passed, and a few people stopped to chat, their engines rumbling idly. Carolyn Porterhouse thrust a bouquet of tulips at me and a mysterious wedge-shaped package wrapped in butcher paper, which proved to be an Emmentaler—“Welcome home,” she said, her grin anchored by a layer of magenta lipstick—and Ed Saperstein stopped right in the middle of the road to tell me about a trip to the Bahamas that he and his wife had taken on a chartered yacht. It was past one by the time I got to Gerard’s. I noticed right off that not much had changed. The windows were streaked with dirt, and the yard, sprouting weeds along the margins of the unmowed lawn, looked as neglected as ever. The dogs bolted off after something in the deep grass, and I shifted the bouquet under one arm, figuring I’d hand it to Gerard, to cheer him up a bit, and rang the bell. There was no answer. I tried a second time, then made my way along the side of the house, thinking to peer in the windows—for all anyone knew, he could be ill, or even, God forbid, dead. The windows were nearly opaque, with a scrim of some sort of pale fluff or dander. I rapped at the glass and thought I saw movement within, a kaleidoscopic shifting of shadowy forms, but couldn’t be sure. It was then that I noticed the odor, saturated and bottom-heavy with ammonia, like the smell of a poorly run kennel. I mounted the back steps through a heavy accounting of discarded microwave-dinner trays and a tidal drift of feed bags and knocked uselessly at the door. The wind stirred. I looked down at the refuse at my feet and saw the legend “Rat Chow” replicated over and over in neon-orange letters, and that should have been all the information I needed. Yet how was I to guess? How was anyone? Later, after I’d presented the bouquet and the cheese to my wife, I tried Gerard’s phone and, to my surprise, he answered on the fourth or fifth ring. “Hello, Gerard,” I said, trying to work as much heartiness into my voice as I could. “It’s me, Roger, back from the embrace of the Swiss. I stopped by today to say hello, but—” He cut me off then, his voice husky and low, almost a whisper. “Yes, I know,” he said. “Robbie told me.” If I wondered who Robbie was—a roommate? a female?—I didn’t linger over it. “Well,” I said, “how’re things? Looking up?” He didn’t answer. I listened to the sound of his breathing for a moment, then added, “Would you like to get together? Maybe come over for dinner?” There was another long pause. Finally, he said, “I can’t do that.” I wasn’t going to let him off so lightly. We were friends. I had a responsibility. We lived in a community where people cared about one another and where the loss of a single individual was a loss to us all. I tried to inject a little jocularity into my voice: “Well, why not? Too far to travel? I’ll grill you a nice steak and open a bottle of Côtes du Rhône.” “Too busy,” he said. And then he said something I couldn’t quite get hold of at the time. “It’s nature,” he said. “The force of nature.” “What are you talking about?” “I’m overwhelmed,” he said, so softly that I could barely hear him, and then his breathing trailed off and the phone went dead. They found him a week later. The next-door neighbors, Paul and Peggy Bartlett, noticed the smell, which seemed to intensify as the days went on, and when there was no answer at the door they called the Fire Department. I’m told that when the firemen broke down the front door a sea of rodents flooded out into the yard, fleeing in every direction. Inside, the floors were gummy with waste, and everything, from the furniture to the plasterboard walls and the oak beams of the living-room ceiling, had been gnawed and whittled till the place was all but unrecognizable. In addition to the free-roaming animals, there were hundreds more rats stacked in cages, most of them starving and many cannibalized or displaying truncated limbs. A spokeswoman for the local A.S.P.C.A. estimated that there were upward of thirteen hundred rats in the house, most of which had to be euthanized at the shelter because they were in no condition to be sent out for adoption. As for Gerard, he’d apparently succumbed to pneumonia, though there were rumors of hantavirus, which really put a chill into the community, especially with so many of the rodents still at large. We all felt bad for him, of course, I more than anyone else. If only I’d been home through the winter, I kept thinking, if only I’d persisted when I’d stood outside his window and caught the odor of decay, perhaps I could have saved him. But then I kept coming back to the idea that there must have been some deep character flaw in him that none of us had recognized—he’d chosen a snake for a pet, for God’s sake, and that low animal had somehow morphed into this horde of creatures that could only be described as pests, as vermin, as enemies of mankind that should be exterminated, not nurtured. And that was another thing that neither my wife nor I could understand: how could he allow even a single one of them to come near him, to fall under the caress of his hand, to sleep with him, eat with him, breathe the same air? For the first two nights, I could barely sleep, playing over that horrific scene in my mind. How could Gerard have sunk so far? How could anyone? The ceremony was brief, the casket closed (and there wasn’t one of us who wanted to speculate on the reason, though it didn’t take an especially active imagination to picture Gerard’s final moments). I was very tender with my wife afterward. We went out to lunch with some of the others, and when we got home I pressed her to me and held her for a long while. And though I was exhausted, I took the dogs out on the lawn to throw them their ball and watch the way the sun struck their rollicking fur as they streaked after the rumor of it, only to bring it back, again and again, and lay it in my palm, still warm from the embrace of their jaws.
Deep-Holes Sally packed devilled eggs—something she usually hated to take on a picnic, because they were so messy. Ham sandwiches, crab salad, lemon tarts—also a packing problem. Kool-Aid for the boys, a half bottle of Mumm’s for herself and Alex. She would have just a sip, because she was still nursing. She had bought plastic champagne glasses for the occasion, but when Alex spotted her handling them he got the real ones—a wedding present—out of the china cabinet. She protested, but he insisted, and took charge of them himself, the wrapping and packing. “Dad is really a sort of bourgeois gentilhomme,” Kent would say to Sally a few years later, when he was in his teens and acing everything at school, so sure of becoming some sort of scientist that he could get away with spouting French around the house. “Don’t make fun of your father,” Sally said mechanically. “I’m not. It’s just that most geologists seem so grubby.” The picnic was in honor of Alex’s publishing his first solo paper, in Zeitschrift für Geomorphologie. They were going to Osler Bluff because it figured largely in his research, and because Sally and the children had never been there. They drove a couple of miles down a rough country road—having turned off the highway and then off a decent unpaved country road—and found a place for cars to park, with no cars in it at present. A sign was painted on a board and needed retouching: “CAUTION. DEEP-HOLES.” Why the hyphen? Sally thought. But who cares? The entrance to the woods looked quite ordinary and unthreatening. Sally understood, of course, that these woods were on top of a high bluff, and she expected a daunting lookout somewhere. She did not expect the danger that had to be skirted almost immediately in front of them. Deep chambers, really, some the size of a coffin, some much bigger than that, like rooms cut out of the rocks. Corridors zigzagging between them, and ferns and mosses growing out of the walls. Not enough greenery, however, to make any sort of cushion over the rubble below. The path went meandering between them, over hard earth and shelves of not quite level rock. “Oooeee,” came the cry of the boys, Kent and Peter, nine and six years old, running ahead. “No tearing around in here,” Alex called. “No stupid showing off, you hear me? You understand? Answer me.” They said O.K., and he proceeded, carrying the picnic basket and apparently believing that no further fatherly warning was necessary. Sally stumbled after him faster than was easy for her, with the diaper bag and the baby, Savanna. She couldn’t slow down till she had her sons in sight, saw them trotting along taking sidelong looks into the black crevasses, still making exaggerated but discreet noises of horror. She was nearly crying with exhaustion and alarm and some familiar sort of seeping rage. The lookout did not appear until they had followed the dirt-and-rock path for what seemed to her like half a mile, and was probably a quarter mile. Then there was a brightening, an intrusion of sky, and her husband halted ahead. He gave a cry of arrival and display, and the boys hooted with true astonishment. Sally, emerging from the woods, found them lined up on an outcrop above the treetops—above several levels of treetops, as it turned out—with the summer fields spread far below in a shimmer of green and yellow. As soon as she put Savanna down on her blanket, she began to cry. “Hungry,” Sally said. Alex said, “I thought she got her lunch in the car.” “She did. But she’s hungry again.” She got Savanna latched on to one side and with her free hand unfastened the picnic basket. This was not how Alex had envisioned things. But he gave a good-humored sigh and retrieved the champagne glasses from their wrappings in his pockets, placing them on their sides on a patch of grass. “Glug glug. I’m thirsty, too,” Kent said, and Peter immediately imitated him. “Glug glug. Me, too. Glug glug.” “Shut up,” Alex said. Kent said, “Shut up, Peter.” Alex said to Sally, “What did you bring for them to drink?” “Kool-Aid, in the blue jug. The plastic glasses are in a napkin on top.” Of course, Alex believed that Kent had started that nonsense not because he was really thirsty but because he was crudely excited by the sight of Sally’s breast. He thought it was high time that Savanna was transferred to the bottle—she was nearly six months old. And he thought Sally was far too casual about the whole procedure, sometimes going around the kitchen doing things with one hand while the infant guzzled. With Kent sneaking peeks and Peter referring to Mommy’s milk jugs. That came from Kent, Alex said. Kent was a troublemaker and the possessor of a dirty mind. “Well, I have to do things,” Sally said. “That’s not one of the things you have to do. You could have her on the bottle tomorrow.” “I will soon. Not quite tomorrow, but soon.” But here she is, still letting Savanna and the milk jugs dominate the picnic. The Kool-Aid is poured, then the champagne. Sally and Alex touch glasses, with Savanna between them. Sally has her sip and wishes she could have more. She smiles at Alex to communicate this wish, and maybe the idea that it would be nice to be alone with him. He drinks his champagne, and, as if her sip and smile were enough to soothe him, he starts in on the picnic. She points out which sandwiches have the mustard he likes and which have the mustard she and Peter like and which are for Kent, who likes no mustard at all. While this is going on, Kent manages to slip behind her and finish up her champagne. Peter must have seen him do this, but for some peculiar reason he does not tell on him. Sally discovers what has happened some time later and Alex never knows about it at all, because he soon forgets that there was anything left in her glass and packs it neatly away with his own, while telling the boys about dolostone. They listen, presumably, as they gobble up the sandwiches and ignore the devilled eggs and crab salad and grab the tarts. Dolostone, Alex says, is the thick caprock they can see. Underneath it is shale, clay turned into rock, very fine, fine-grained. Water works through the dolostone and when it gets to the shale it just lies there; it can’t get through the thin layers. So the erosion—that’s the destruction of the dolostone—is caused as the water works its way back to its source, eats a channel back, and the caprock develops vertical joints. Do they know what “vertical” means? “Up and down,” Kent says lackadaisically. “Weak vertical joints, and they get to lean out and then they leave crevasses behind them and after millions of years they break off altogether and go tumbling down the slope.” “I have to go,” Kent says. “Go where?” “I have to go pee.” “Oh, for God’s sake, go.” “Me, too,” Peter says. Sally clamps her mouth down on the automatic injunction to be careful. Alex looks at her and approves of the clamping down. They smile faintly at each other. Savanna has fallen asleep, her lips slack around the nipple. With the boys out of the way, it’s easier to detach her. Sally can burp her and settle her on the blanket, without worrying about an exposed breast. If Alex finds the sight distasteful—she knows he dislikes the whole conjunction of sex and nourishment, his wife’s breasts turned into udders—he can look away, and he does. As she buttons herself up, there comes a cry, not sharp but lost, diminishing, and Alex is on his feet before she is, running along the path. Then a louder cry getting closer. It’s Peter. “Kent falled in. Kent falled in.” His father yells, “I’m coming.” Sally will always believe that she knew at once—even before she heard Peter’s voice, she knew what had happened. If an accident had happened, it would not be to her six-year-old, who was brave but not inventive, not a showoff. It would be to Kent. She could see exactly how—peeing into a hole, balancing on the rim, teasing Peter, teasing himself. He was alive. He was lying far down in the rubble at the bottom of the crevasse, but he was moving his arms, struggling to push himself up. Struggling so feebly. One leg caught under him, the other oddly bent. “Can you carry the baby?” she said to Peter. “Go back to the picnic and put her on the blanket and watch her. That’s my good boy. My good strong boy.” Alex was on his way into the hole, scrambling down, telling Kent to stay still. Getting down in one piece was just possible. It would be getting Kent out that was hard. Should she run to the car and see if there was a rope? Tie the rope around a tree trunk? Maybe tie it around Kent’s body so she could lift him when Alex raised him up to her? There wouldn’t be a rope. Why would there be a rope? Alex had reached him. He bent and lifted him. Kent gave a beseeching scream of pain. Alex draped him around his shoulders, Kent’s head hanging down on one side and useless legs—one so unnaturally protruding—on the other. He rose, stumbled a couple of steps, and while still hanging on to Kent dropped back down to his knees. He had decided to crawl and was making his way—Sally understood this now—to the rubble that partly filled the far end of the crevasse. He shouted some order to her without raising his head, and though she could not make out any word she knew what he wanted. She got up off her knees—why was she on her knees?—and pushed through some saplings to that edge of the rim, where the rubble came to within perhaps three feet of the surface. Alex was still crawling along with Kent dangling from him like a shot deer. She called, “I’m here. I’m here.” Kent would have to be raised up by his father, pulled to the solid shelf of rock by his mother. He was a skinny boy, who had not yet reached his first spurt of growth, but he seemed as heavy as a bag of cement. Sally’s arms could not do it on the first try. She shifted her position, crouching instead of lying flat on her stomach, and with the full power of her shoulders and chest and with Alex supporting and lifting Kent’s body from beneath they heaved him over. Sally fell back with him in her arms and saw his eyes open, then roll back in his head as he fainted again. When Alex had clawed his way out, they collected the other children and drove to the Collingwood Hospital. There seemed to be no internal injury. Both legs were broken. One break was clean, as the doctor put it. The other leg was shattered. “Kids have to be watched every minute in there,” he said sternly to Sally, who had gone into the examining room with Kent while Alex managed Peter and Savanna. “Haven’t they got any warning signs up?” With Alex, she thought, he would have spoken differently. “That’s the way boys are. Turn your back and they’re tearing around where they shouldn’t be,” he would have said. Her gratitude—to God, whom she did not believe in, and to Alex, whom she did—was so immense that she resented nothing. It was necessary for Kent to spend the next six months out of school, strung up for the first few weeks in a rented hospital bed. Sally picked up and turned in his school assignments, which he completed in no time. Then he was encouraged to go ahead with Extra Projects. One of these was “Travels and Explorations—Choose Your Country.” “I want to pick somewhere nobody else would pick,” he said. The accident and the convalescence seemed to have changed him. He acted older than his age now, less antic, more serene. And Sally told him something that she had not told to another soul. She told him how she was attracted to remote islands. Not to the Hawaiian Islands or the Canaries or the Hebrides or the Isles of Greece, where everybody wanted to go, but to small or obscure islands that nobody talked about and that were seldom, if ever, visited. Ascension, Tristan da Cunha, Chatham Island and Christmas Island and Desolation Island and the Faeroes. She and Kent began to collect every scrap of information they could find about these places, not allowing themselves to make anything up. And never telling Alex what they were doing. “He would think we were off our heads,” Sally said. Desolation Island’s main boast was of a vegetable, of great antiquity, a unique cabbage. They imagined worship ceremonies for it, costumes, and cabbage parades in its honor. Sally told her son that, before he was born, she had seen footage on television of the inhabitants of Tristan da Cunha disembarking at Heathrow Airport, having all been evacuated, owing to a great volcanic eruption on their island. How strange they had looked, docile and dignified, like creatures from another century. They must have adjusted to England, more or less, but when the volcano quieted down, a couple of years later, they almost all wanted to go home. When Kent went back to school, things changed, of course, but he still seemed mature for his age, patient with Savanna, who had grown venturesome and stubborn, and with Peter, who always burst into the house as if on a gale of calamity. And he was especially courteous to his father, bringing him the paper that he had rescued from Savanna and carefully refolded, pulling out his chair at dinnertime. “Honor to the man who saved my life,” he might say, or “Home is the hero.” He said this rather dramatically, though not at all sarcastically, yet it got on Alex’s nerves. Kent got on his nerves, had done so even before the deep-hole drama. “Cut that out,” Alex said, and complained privately to Sally. “He’s saying you must have loved him, because you rescued him.” “Christ, I’d have rescued anybody.” “Don’t say that in front of him. Please.” When Kent got to high school, things with his father improved. He chose to focus on science. He picked the hard sciences, not the soft earth sciences, and even this roused no opposition in Alex. The harder the better. But after six months at college Kent disappeared. People who knew him a little—there did not seem to be anyone who claimed to be a friend—said that he had talked of going to the West Coast. A letter came, just as his parents were deciding to go to the police. He was working at a Canadian Tire in a suburb just north of Toronto. Alex went to see him there, to order him back to college. But Kent refused, said that he was very happy with his job, and was making good money, or soon would be, when he got promoted. Then Sally went to see him, without telling Alex, and found him jolly and ten pounds heavier. He said it was the beer. He had friends now. “It’s a phase,” she said to Alex when she confessed the visit. “He wants to get a taste of independence.” “He can get a bellyful of it, as far as I’m concerned.” Kent had not said where he was living, and when she made her next visit to Canadian Tire she was told that he had quit. She was embarrassed—she thought she caught a smirk on the face of the employee who told her—and she did not ask where Kent had gone. She assumed he would get in touch, anyway, as soon as he had settled again. He did write, three years later. His letter was mailed in Needles, California, but he told them not to bother trying to trace him there—he was only passing through. Like Blanche, he said, and Alex said, “Who the hell is Blanche?” “Just a joke,” Sally said. “It doesn’t matter.” Kent did not say where he had been or whether he was working or had formed any connections. He did not apologize for leaving his parents without any information for so long, or ask how they were, or how his brother and sister were. Instead, he wrote pages about his own life. Not the practical side of his life but what he believed he should be doing—what he was doing—with it. “It seems so ridiculous to me,” he said, “that a person should be expected to lock themselves into a suit of clothes. I mean, like the suit of clothes of an engineer or doctor or geologist, and then the skin grows over it, over the clothes, I mean, and that person can’t ever get them off. When we are given a chance to explore the whole world of inner and outer reality and to live in a way that takes in the spiritual and the physical and the whole range of the beautiful and the terrible available to mankind, that is pain as well as joy and turmoil. This way of expressing myself may seem over-blown to you, but one thing I have learned to give up is intellectual pridefulness—” “He’s on drugs,” Alex said. “You can tell a mile off. His brain’s rotted with drugs.” In the middle of the night he said, “Sex.” Sally was lying beside him, wide awake. “What about sex?” “It’s what makes you do what he’s talking about—become a something-or-other so that you can earn a living. So that you can pay for your steady sex and the consequences. That’s not a consideration for him.” Sally said, “My, how romantic.” “Getting down to basics is never very romantic. He’s not normal is all I’m trying to say.” Further on in the letter—or the rampage, as Alex called it—Kent said that he had been luckier than most people, in having had what he called his “near-death experience,” which had given him perhaps an extra awareness, and he would be forever grateful to his father, who had lifted him back into the world, and to his mother, who had lovingly received him there. He wrote, “Perhaps in those moments I was reborn.” Alex groaned. “No. I won’t say it.” “Don’t,” Sally said. “You don’t mean it.” “I don’t know whether I do or not.” That letter, signed with love, was the last they heard from him. Peter went into medicine, Savanna into law. To her own surprise, Sally became interested in geology. One night, in a trusting mood after sex, she told Alex about the islands—though not about her fantasy that Kent was now living on one or another of them. She said that she had forgotten many of the details she used to know, and that she should look all these places up in the encyclopedia, where she had first got her information. Alex said that everything she wanted to know could probably be found on the Internet now. Surely not something so obscure, she said, and he got her out of bed and downstairs, and there in no time, before her eyes, was Tristan da Cunha, a green plate in the South Atlantic Ocean, with information galore. She was shocked and turned away, and Alex, who was disappointed in her, asked why. “I don’t know. Maybe I don’t want it so real.” He said that she needed something to do. He had just retired from teaching at the time and was planning to write a book. He needed an assistant and he could not call on graduate students now as he had been able to when he was still on the faculty. (She didn’t know if this was true or not.) She reminded him that she knew nothing about rocks, and he said never mind that, he could use her for scale, in the photographs. So she became the small figure in black or bright clothing, contrasting with the ribbons of Silurian or Devonian rock or with the gneiss formed by intense compression, folded and deformed by clashes of the North American and the Pacific plates to make the present continent. Gradually she learned to use her eyes and apply her knowledge, till she could stand in an empty suburban street and realize that far beneath her shoes was a crater filled with rubble that had never been seen, because there had been no eyes to see it at its creation or through the long history of its being made and filled and hidden and lost. Alex did such things the honor of knowing about them, and she admired him for that, although she knew enough not to say so. They were good friends in these last years, which she didn’t know were their last years. He went into the hospital for an operation, taking his charts and photographs with him, and on the day he was supposed to come home he died. This was in the summer, and that fall there was a dramatic fire in Toronto. Sally sat in front of her television watching coverage of the fire for a while. It was in a district that she knew, or used to know, in the days when its nineteenth-century buildings were inhabited by hippies, with their tarot cards and beads and paper flowers the size of pumpkins. Later, the vegetarian restaurants had been transformed into expensive bistros and boutiques. Now a block of those nineteenth-century buildings was being wiped out, and the newsman was bemoaning this, speaking of the people who lived in old-fashioned apartments above the shops and had now lost their homes or were being dragged out of harm’s way onto the street. He didn’t mention the landlords of the buildings, Sally thought, who were probably getting away with substandard wiring, as well as with epidemics of cockroaches, bedbugs, not to be complained about by the deluded or the fearful poor. She sometimes felt Alex talking in her head these days, and that was surely what was happening now. She turned off the television. No more than ten minutes later, the phone rang. It was Savanna. “Mom. Have you got your TV on? Did you see?” “You mean the fire? I did have it on, but I turned it off.” “No. Did you see—I’m looking for him right now—I saw him not five minutes ago. . . . Mom, it’s Kent. Now I can’t find him. But I saw him.” “Is he hurt? I’m turning it on now. Was he hurt?” “No, he was helping. He was carrying one end of a stretcher. There was a body on it—I don’t know if it was dead or just hurt. But Kent. It was him. You could even see him limping. Have you got it on now?” “Yes.” “O.K. I’ll calm down. I bet he went back into the building.” “But surely they wouldn’t allow—” “He could be a doctor, for all we know. Oh, fuck, now they’re talking to that same old guy they talked to before—his family owned some business for a hundred years. Let’s hang up and just keep our eyes on the screen. He’s sure to come in range again.” He didn’t. The footage began to repeat itself. Savanna phoned back. “I’m going to get to the bottom of this. I know a guy that works on the news. I can get to see that shot again. We have to find out.” Savanna had never known her brother very well—she had been nine when he left—so what was all the fuss about? Had her father’s death made her feel the need of family? She should marry soon, Sally thought. She should have children. But she had such a stubborn streak when she set her mind on something. Her father had told her when she was ten years old that she could gnaw an idea to the bone—she ought to be a lawyer. And, from then on, that was what she had said she would be. It was Kent, and within a week Savanna had found out all about him. No. Change that to found out all he wanted her to know. He had been living in Toronto for years. He had often passed the building where Savanna worked and thought he had spotted her a couple of times on the street. Of course, she wouldn’t have recognized him, because he was wearing a kind of robe. “A Hare Krishna?” Sally said. “Oh, Mom, if you’re a monk it doesn’t mean you’re a Hare Krishna. Anyway, he’s not that now.” “So what is he?” “He says he lives in the present. So I said, ‘Well, don’t we all, nowadays,’ and he said no, he meant in the real present.” “Where we are now,” he had said, and Savanna had said, “You mean, in this dump?” Because it was—the coffee shop where he had asked her to meet him was a dump. “I see it differently,” he said, but then he said he had no objection to her way of seeing it, or anybody else’s. “Well, that’s big of you,” Savanna said, but she made a joke of it and he sort of laughed. He said that he had seen Alex’s obituary in the paper and thought it was well done. He guessed Alex would have liked the reference to his contribution to geology. He had wondered if his own name would appear on the list of relatives, and he was rather surprised that it was there. Had his father told them what names he wanted listed, before he died? he asked. Savanna had said no—he hadn’t been planning on dying anything like so soon. It was the rest of the family who’d had a conference and decided that Kent’s name should be included. “Not Dad,” Kent had said. “Well, no.” Then he had asked about Sally. Sally felt a kind of inflated balloon in her chest. “What did you say?” “I said you were O.K., maybe at loose ends a little, you and Dad being so close and you not having much time yet to get used to being alone. Then he said, ‘Tell her she can come to see me, if she wants to,’ and I said I would ask you.” Sally didn’t reply. “You there, Mom?” “Did he say when or where?” “No. I’m supposed to meet him in a week in the same place and tell him what you said. I think he sort of enjoys calling the shots. I thought you’d agree right away.” “Of course I agree. Did he really risk his life in the fire?” “He won’t talk about it. But my information is yes. He’s quite well known, as it turns out, in certain parts of town and by certain people.” Sally received a note. This in itself was special, since most people she knew used e-mail or the phone. She was glad he hadn’t called. She did not yet trust herself to hear his voice. The note instructed her to leave her car in the subway parking lot at the end of the line and take the subway to a specified station, where he would meet her. She expected to see him on the other side of the turnstile, but he was not there. Probably he had meant that he would meet her outside. She climbed the steps and emerged into the sunlight and paused, as people hurried and pushed past her. She had a feeling of dismay and embarrassment. Dismay at Kent’s apparent absence and embarrassment because she was feeling just what people from her part of the country often felt in neighborhoods like this, though she would never have said what they said. You’d think you were in the Congo or India or Vietnam. On the steps of an old bank building just beyond the subway entrance, several men were sitting or lounging or sleeping. It was no longer a bank, of course, though the bank’s name was cut into the stone. She looked at the name rather than at the men, whose slouching or reclining postures were such a contrast to the old purpose of the building and the rush of the crowd coming out of the subway. “Mom.” One of the men on the steps got up and came toward her in no hurry, with a slight drag of one foot, and she realized that it was Kent and waited for him. She would almost as soon have run away. But then she saw that not all the men were filthy or hopeless-looking, and that some glanced at her without menace or contempt and even with friendly amusement, now that she had been identified as Kent’s mother. Kent didn’t wear a robe. He wore gray pants that were too big for him, a T-shirt with no message on it, and a threadbare jacket. His hair was cut so short you could hardly see the curl. His skin was quite pale, and his thin body made him look older than he was. He was missing some teeth. He did not embrace her—she did not expect him to—but he put his hand lightly on her back to steer her in the direction he wanted her to go. “Do you still smoke your pipe?” she said, sniffing the air, and remembering how he had taken up pipe smoking in high school. “Pipe? Oh. No. It’s the smoke from the fire you smell. We don’t notice it anymore. I’m afraid it’ll get stronger, where we’re walking.” “Are we going to go through where it was?” “No, no. We couldn’t, even if we wanted to. They’ve got it all blocked off. Too dangerous. Some buildings will have to be taken down. Don’t worry—it’s O.K. where we are. A good block and a half away from the mess.” “Your apartment building?” she said, alert to the “we.” “Sort of. Yes. You’ll see.” He spoke gently, readily, yet with an effort, like someone speaking, as a courtesy, in a foreign language. And he stooped a little, to make sure she heard him. The slight labor involved in speaking to her seemed something she was meant to notice. The cost. As they stepped off a curb he brushed her arm—perhaps he had stumbled a little—and he said, “Excuse me.” And she thought he gave a slight shiver. AIDS. Why had that never occurred to her before? “No,” he said, though she had certainly not spoken aloud. “I’m quite well at present. I’m not H.I.V.-positive or anything like that. I contracted malaria years ago but it’s under control. I may be a bit run-down but nothing to worry about. We turn here—we’re right on this block.” We. “I’m not psychic,” he said. “I just figured out something that Savanna was trying to get at, and I thought I’d put you at rest. Here we are then.” It was one of those houses whose front doors are only a few steps from the sidewalk. “I’m celibate, actually,” he said, holding open the door. A piece of cardboard was tacked up where one of its glass panes should be. The floorboards were bare and creaked underfoot. The smell was complicated, all-pervasive. The smoke had got in here, of course, but it was mixed with the odors of ancient cooking, burned coffee, toilets, sickness, decay. “Though ‘celibate’ might be the wrong word. That sounds as if it had something to do with will power. I guess I should have said ‘neuter.’ I don’t think of it as an achievement. It isn’t.” He was leading her around the stairs and into the kitchen. And there a gigantic woman stood with her back to them, stirring something on the stove. Kent said, “Hi, Marnie. This is my mom. Can you say hello to my mom?” Sally noticed a change in his voice. A relaxation, honesty, perhaps a respectfulness, that was different from the forced lightness he adopted with her. She said, “Hello, Marnie,” and the woman half turned, showing a squeezed doll’s face in a loaf of flesh but not focussing her eyes. “Marnie is our cook this week,” Kent said. “Smells O.K., Marnie.” To his mother he said, “We’ll go and sit in my sanctum, shall we?” and led the way down a couple of steps and along a back hall. It was hard to move there, because of the stacks of newspapers, flyers, and magazines neatly tied. “Got to get these out of here,” Kent said. “I told Steve this morning. Fire hazard. Jeez, I used to just say that. Now I know what it means.” Jeez. She had been wondering if he belonged to some plainclothes religious order, but if he did he surely wouldn’t say that, would he? Of course, it could be an order of some faith other than Christian. His room was down some more steps, actually in the cellar. There was a cot, a battered old-fashioned desk with cubbyholes, a couple of straight-backed chairs with rungs missing. “The chairs are perfectly safe,” he said. “Nearly all our stuff is scavenged from somewhere, but I draw the line at chairs you can’t sit on.” Sally seated herself with a feeling of exhaustion. “What are you?” she said. “What is it that you do? Is this a halfway house or something like that?” “No. Not even quarter-way. We take in anybody that comes.” “Even me.” “Even you,” he said without smiling. “We aren’t supported by anybody but ourselves. We do some recycling with stuff we pick up. Those newspapers. Bottles. We make a bit here and there. And we take turns soliciting the public.” “Asking for charity?” “Begging,” he said. “On the street?” “What better place for it? On the street. And we go into some pubs that we have an understanding with, though it is against the law.” “You do that yourself?” “I could hardly ask the others to do it if I wouldn’t. That’s something I had to overcome. Just about all of us have something to overcome. It can be shame. Or it can be the concept of ‘mine.’ When somebody drops a ten-dollar bill, or even a loonie, into the hat, that’s when the notion of private ownership kicks in. Whose is it, huh? Ours or—unh-uh—mine? If the answer comes back ‘mine,’ it usually gets spent right away, and we have the person turning up here smelling of booze and saying, ‘I don’t know what’s the matter with me today—I couldn’t get a bite.’ Then they might start to feel bad later and confess. Or not confess, never mind. We see them disappear for days—weeks—then show up back here when the going gets too rough. And sometimes we’ll see them working the street on their own, never letting on that they recognize us. Never coming back. And that’s all right, too. They’re our graduates, you could say. If you believe in the system.” “Kent—” “Around here I’m Jonah.” “Jonah?” “I just chose it. I thought of Lazarus, but it’s too self-dramatizing. You can call me Kent, if you like.” “I want to know what’s happened in your life. I mean, not so much these people—” “These people are my life.” “I knew you’d say that.” “O.K., it was kind of smart-arse. But this, this is what I’ve been doing for—seven years? Nine years? Nine years.” She persisted. “Before that?” “What do I know? Before that? Before that. Man’s days are like grass, eh? Cut down and put into the oven. Listen to me. Soon as I meet you again I start the showing-off. Cut down and put in the oven—I’m not interested in that. I live each day as it happens. Really. You wouldn’t understand that. I’m not in your world, you’re not in mine. You know why I wanted to meet you here today?” “No. I didn’t think of it. I mean, I thought naturally maybe the time had come—” “Naturally. When I read about my father’s death in the paper I thought, Well, where is the money? I thought, Well, she can tell me.” “It went to me,” Sally said, with flat disappointment but great self-control. “For the time being. The house as well, if you’re interested.” “I thought likely that was it. That’s O.K.” “When I die, to Peter and his boys and Savanna.” “Very nice.” “He didn’t know if you were alive or dead.” “You think I’m asking for myself? You think I’m that much of an idiot to want the money for myself? But I did make a mistake thinking about how I could use it. Thinking, Family money, sure, I can use that. That’s the temptation. Now I’m glad, I’m glad I can’t have it.” “I could let—” “The thing is, though, this place is condemned—” “I could let you borrow.” “Borrow? We don’t borrow around here. We don’t use the borrow system around here. Excuse me, I’ve got to go get hold of my mood. Are you hungry? Would you like some soup?” “No, thanks.” When he was gone, she thought of running away. If she could locate a back door, a route that didn’t go through the kitchen. But she could not do it. It would mean that she would never see him again. And the back yard of a house like this, built before the days of automobiles, would have no access to the street. It was half an hour before he came back. He seemed a little surprised or bewildered to find her still there. “Sorry. I had to settle some business. And then I talked to Marnie. She always calms me down.” “You wrote a letter to us,” Sally said. “It was the last we heard from you.” “Oh, don’t remind me.” “No, it was a good letter. It was a good attempt to explain what you were thinking.” “Please. Don’t remind me.” “You were trying to figure out your life—” “My life, my life, my progress, what all I could discover about my stinking self. The purpose of me. My crap. My spirituality. My intellectuality. There isn’t any inside stuff anymore, Sally. You don’t mind if I call you Sally? It just comes out easier. There is only outside, what you do, every moment of your life. Since I realized this, I’ve been happy.” “You are? Happy?” “Sure. I’ve let go of that stupid self stuff. I think, How can I help? And that’s all the thinking that I allow myself.” “Living in the present?” “I don’t care if you think I’m banal. I don’t care if you laugh at me.” “I’m not—” “I don’t care. Listen. If you think I’m after your money, fine. I am after your money. Also, I am after you. Don’t you want a different life? I’m not saying I love you. I don’t use stupid language. Or, I want to save you. You know you can only save yourself. So what is the point? I don’t usually try to get anywhere talking to people. I usually try to avoid personal relationships. I mean I do. I do avoid them.” Relationships. “Why are you trying not to smile?” he said. “Because I said ‘relationships’? That’s a cant word? I don’t fuss about my words.” Sally said, “I was thinking of Jesus. ‘Woman, what have I to do with thee?’ ” The look that leaped to his face was almost savage. “Don’t you get tired, Sally? Don’t you get tired being clever? I can’t go on talking this way, I’m sorry. I’ve got things to do.” “So have I,” Sally said. It was a complete lie. “We’ll be—” “Don’t say it. Don’t say we’ll be in touch.” “Maybe we’ll be in touch. Is that any better?” Sally gets lost, then finds her way. The bank building again, the same or possibly a whole new regiment of loiterers. The subway ride, the car park, the keys, the highway, the traffic. Then the lesser highway, the early sunset, no snow yet, the bare trees, and the darkening fields. She loves this countryside, this time of year. Must she now think herself unworthy? The cat is glad to see her. There are a couple of messages from friends on her machine. She heats up a single serving of lasagna. She buys these separated, precooked, and frozen portions now. They are quite good and not too expensive when you think that there’s no waste. She sips from a glass of wine during the few-minute wait. She is shaking with anger. What is she supposed to do, go back to the condemned house and scrub the rotten linoleum and cook up the chicken parts that were thrown out because they’re past the best-before date? And be reminded every day of how she falls short of Marnie or any other afflicted creature? All for the privilege of being useful in the life that somebody else—Kent—has chosen? He’s sick. He’s wearing himself out; maybe he’s dying. He wouldn’t thank her for clean sheets and fresh food. Oh, no. He’d rather die on that cot under a blanket with a burned hole in it. But a check, she can write some sort of check, not an absurd one. Not too big or too small. He won’t help himself with it, of course. He won’t stop despising her, of course. Despising. No. Not the point. Nothing personal. There is something, anyway, in having got through the day without its being an absolute disaster. It wasn’t, was it? She had said “maybe.” He hadn’t corrected her. And it was possible, too, that age could become her ally, turning her into somebody she didn’t know yet. She has seen that look of old people, now and then—clear-sighted but content, on islands of their own making.
The Headstrong Historian Many years after her husband had died, Nwamgba still closed her eyes from time to time to relive his nightly visits to her hut, and the mornings after, when she would walk to the stream humming a song, thinking of the smoky scent of him and the firmness of his weight, and feeling as if she were surrounded by light. Other memories of Obierika also remained clear—his stubby fingers curled around his flute when he played in the evenings, his delight when she set down his bowls of food, his sweaty back when he brought baskets filled with fresh clay for her pottery. From the moment she had first seen him, at a wrestling match, both of them staring and staring, both of them too young, her waist not yet wearing the menstruation cloth, she had believed with a quiet stubbornness that her chi and his chi had destined their marriage, and so when he and his relatives came to her father a few years later with pots of palm wine she told her mother that this was the man she would marry. Her mother was aghast. Did Nwamgba not know that Obierika was an only child, that his late father had been an only child whose wives had lost pregnancies and buried babies? Perhaps somebody in their family had committed the taboo of selling a girl into slavery and the earth god Ani was visiting misfortune on them. Nwamgba ignored her mother. She went into her father’s obi and told him she would run away from any other man’s house if she was not allowed to marry Obierika. Her father found her exhausting, this sharp-tongued, headstrong daughter who had once wrestled her brother to the ground. (Her father had had to warn those who saw this not to let anyone outside the compound know that a girl had thrown a boy.) He, too, was concerned about the infertility in Obierika’s family, but it was not a bad family: Obierika’s late father had taken the Ozo title; Obierika was already giving out his seed yams to sharecroppers. Nwamgba would not starve if she married him. Besides, it was better that he let his daughter go with the man she chose than to endure years of trouble in which she would keep returning home after confrontations with her in-laws; and so he gave his blessing, and she smiled and called him by his praise name. To pay her bride price, Obierika came with two maternal cousins, Okafo and Okoye, who were like brothers to him. Nwamgba loathed them at first sight. She saw a grasping envy in their eyes that afternoon, as they drank palm wine in her father’s obi; and in the following years—years in which Obierika took titles and widened his compound and sold his yams to strangers from afar—she saw their envy blacken. But she tolerated them, because they mattered to Obierika, because he pretended not to notice that they didn’t work but came to him for yams and chickens, because he wanted to imagine that he had brothers. It was they who urged him, after her third miscarriage, to marry another wife. Obierika told them that he would give it some thought, but when they were alone in her hut at night he assured her that they would have a home full of children, and that he would not marry another wife until they were old, so that they would have somebody to care for them. She thought this strange of him, a prosperous man with only one wife, and she worried more than he did about their childlessness, about the songs that people sang, the melodious mean-spirited words: She has sold her womb. She has eaten his penis. He plays his flute and hands over his wealth to her. Once, at a moonlight gathering, the square full of women telling stories and learning new dances, a group of girls saw Nwamgba and began to sing, their aggressive breasts pointing at her. She asked if they would mind singing a little louder, so that she could hear the words and then show them who was the greater of two tortoises. They stopped singing. She enjoyed their fear, the way they backed away from her, but it was then that she decided to find a wife for Obierika herself. Nwamgba liked going to the Oyi stream, untying her wrapper from her waist and walking down the slope to the silvery rush of water that burst out from a rock. The waters of Oyi seemed fresher than those of the other stream, Ogalanya, or perhaps it was simply that Nwamgba felt comforted by the shrine of the Oyi goddess, tucked away in a corner; as a child she had learned that Oyi was the protector of women, the reason it was taboo to sell women into slavery. Nwamgba’s closest friend, Ayaju, was already at the stream, and as Nwamgba helped Ayaju raise her pot to her head she asked her who might be a good second wife for Obierika. She and Ayaju had grown up together and had married men from the same clan. The difference between them, though, was that Ayaju was of slave descent. Ayaju did not care for her husband, Okenwa, who she said resembled and smelled like a rat, but her marriage prospects had been limited; no man from a freeborn family would have come for her hand. Ayaju was a trader, and her rangy, quick-moving body spoke of her many journeys; she had even travelled beyond Onicha. It was she who had first brought back tales of the strange customs of the Igala and Edo traders, she who had first told stories of the white-skinned men who had arrived in Onicha with mirrors and fabrics and the biggest guns the people of those parts had ever seen. This cosmopolitanism earned her respect, and she was the only person of slave descent who talked loudly at the Women’s Council, the only person who had answers for everything. She promptly suggested, for Obierika’s second wife, a young girl from the Okonkwo family, who had beautiful wide hips and who was respectful, nothing like the other young girls of today, with their heads full of nonsense. As they walked home from the stream, Ayaju said that perhaps Nwamgba should do what other women in her situation did—take a lover and get pregnant in order to continue Obierika’s lineage. Nwamgba’s retort was sharp, because she did not like Ayaju’s tone, which suggested that Obierika was impotent, and, as if in response to her thoughts, she felt a furious stabbing sensation in her back and knew that she was pregnant again, but she said nothing, because she knew, too, that she would lose it again. Her miscarriage happened a few weeks later, lumpy blood running down her legs. Obierika comforted her and suggested that they go to the famous oracle, Kisa, as soon as she was well enough for the half day’s journey. After the dibia had consulted the oracle, Nwamgba cringed at the thought of sacrificing a whole cow; Obierika certainly had greedy ancestors. But they performed the ritual cleansings and the sacrifices as required, and when she suggested that he go and see the Okonkwo family about their daughter he delayed and delayed until another sharp pain spliced her back, and, months later, she was lying on a pile of freshly washed banana leaves behind her hut, straining and pushing until the baby slipped out. They named him Anikwenwa: the earth god Ani had finally granted a child. He was dark and solidly built, and had Obierika’s happy curiosity. Obierika took him to pick medicinal herbs, to collect clay for Nwamgba’s pottery, to twist yam vines at the farm. Obierika’s cousins Okafo and Okoye visited often. They marvelled at how well Anikwenwa played the flute, how quickly he was learning poetry and wrestling moves from his father, but Nwamgba saw the glowing malevolence that their smiles could not hide. She feared for her child and for her husband, and when Obierika died—a man who had been hearty and laughing and drinking palm wine moments before he slumped—she knew that they had killed him with medicine. She clung to his corpse until a neighbor slapped her to make her let go; she lay in the cold ash for days, tore at the patterns shaved into her hair. Obierika’s death left her with an unending despair. She thought often of a woman who, after losing a tenth child, had gone to her back yard and hanged herself on a kola-nut tree. But she would not do it, because of Anikwenwa. Later, she wished she had made Obierika’s cousins drink his mmili ozu before the oracle. She had witnessed this once, when a wealthy man died and his family forced his rival to drink his mmili ozu. Nwamgba had watched an unmarried woman take a cupped leaf full of water, touch it to the dead man’s body, all the time speaking solemnly, and give the leaf-cup to the accused man. He drank. Everyone looked to make sure that he swallowed, a grave silence in the air, because they knew that if he was guilty he would die. He died days later, and his family lowered their heads in shame. Nwamgba felt strangely shaken by it all. She should have insisted on this with Obierika’s cousins, but she had been blinded by grief and now Obierika was buried and it was too late. His cousins, during the funeral, took his ivory tusk, claiming that the trappings of titles went to brothers and not to sons. It was when they emptied his barn of yams and led away the adult goats in his pen that she confronted them, shouting, and when they brushed her aside she waited until evening, then walked around the clan singing about their wickedness, the abominations they were heaping on the land by cheating a widow, until the elders asked them to leave her alone. She complained to the Women’s Council, and twenty women went at night to Okafo’s and Okoye’s homes, brandishing pestles, warning them to leave Nwamgba alone. But Nwamgba knew that those grasping cousins would never really stop. She dreamed of killing them. She certainly could, those weaklings who had spent their lives scrounging off Obierika instead of working, but, of course, she would be banished then, and there would be no one to care for her son. Instead, she took Anikwenwa on long walks, telling him that the land from that palm tree to that avocado tree was theirs, that his grandfather had passed it on to his father. She told him the same things over and over, even though he looked bored and bewildered, and she did not let him go and play at moonlight unless she was watching. Ayaju came back from a trading journey with another story: the women in Onicha were complaining about the white men. They had welcomed the white men’s trading station, but now the white men wanted to tell them how to trade, and when the elders of Agueke refused to place their thumbs on a paper the white men came at night with their normal-men helpers and razed the village. There was nothing left. Nwamgba did not understand. What sort of guns did these white men have? Ayaju laughed and said that their guns were nothing like the rusty thing her own husband owned; she spoke with pride, as though she herself were responsible for the superiority of the white men’s guns. Some white men were visiting different clans, asking parents to send their children to school, she added, and she had decided to send her son Azuka, who was the laziest on the farm, because although she was respected and wealthy, she was still of slave descent, her sons were still barred from taking titles, and she wanted Azuka to learn the ways of these foreigners. People ruled over others not because they were better people, she said, but because they had better guns; after all, her father would not have been enslaved if his clan had been as well armed as Nwamgba’s. As Nwamgba listened to her friend, she dreamed of killing Obierika’s cousins with the white men’s guns. The day the white men visited her clan, Nwamgba left the pot she was about to put in her oven, took Anikwenwa and her girl apprentices, and hurried to the square. She was at first disappointed by the ordinariness of the two white men; they were harmless-looking, the color of albinos, with frail and slender limbs. Their companions were normal men, but there was something foreign about them, too: only one spoke Igbo, and with a strange accent. He said that he was from Elele, the other normal men were from Sierra Leone, and the white men from France, far across the sea. They were all of the Holy Ghost Congregation, had arrived in Onicha in 1885, and were building their school and church there. Nwamgba was the first to ask a question: Had they brought their guns, by any chance, the ones used to destroy the people of Agueke, and could she see one? The man said unhappily that it was the soldiers of the British government and the merchants of the Royal Niger Company who destroyed villages; they, instead, brought good news. He spoke about their god, who had come to the world to die, and who had a son but no wife, and who was three but also one. Many of the people around Nwamgba laughed loudly. Some walked away, because they had imagined that the white man was full of wisdom. Others stayed and offered cool bowls of water. Weeks later, Ayaju brought another story: the white men had set up a courthouse in Onicha where they judged disputes. They had indeed come to stay. For the first time, Nwamgba doubted her friend. Surely the people of Onicha had their own courts. The clan next to Nwamgba’s, for example, held its courts only during the new yam festival, so that people’s rancor grew while they awaited justice. A stupid system, Nwamgba thought, but surely everyone had one. Ayaju laughed and told Nwamgba again that people ruled others when they had better guns. Her son was already learning about these foreign ways, and perhaps Anikwenwa should, too. Nwamgba refused. It was unthinkable that her only son, her single eye, should be given to the white men, never mind the superiority of their guns. Three events, in the following years, caused Nwamgba to change her mind. The first was that Obierika’s cousins took over a large piece of land and told the elders that they were farming it for her, a woman who had emasculated their dead brother and now refused to remarry, even though suitors came and her breasts were still round. The elders sided with them. The second was that Ayaju told a story of two people who had taken a land case to the white men’s court; the first man was lying but could speak the white men’s language, while the second man, the rightful owner of the land, could not, and so he lost his case, was beaten and locked up, and ordered to give up his land. The third was the story of the boy Iroegbunam, who had gone missing many years ago and then suddenly reappeared, a grown man, his widowed mother mute with shock at his story: a neighbor, whom his father had often shouted down at Age Grade meetings, had abducted him when his mother was at the market and taken him to the Aro slave dealers, who looked him over and complained that the wound on his leg would reduce his price. He was tied to others by the hands, forming a long human column, and he was hit with a stick and told to walk faster. There was one woman in the group. She shouted herself hoarse, telling the abductors that they were heartless, that her spirit would torment them and their children, that she knew she was to be sold to the white man and did they not know that the white man’s slavery was very different, that people were treated like goats, taken on large ships a long way away, and were eventually eaten? Iroegbunam walked and walked and walked, his feet bloodied, his body numb, until all he remembered was the smell of dust. Finally, they stopped at a coastal clan, where a man spoke a nearly incomprehensible Igbo, but Iroegbunam made out enough to understand that another man who was to sell them to the white people on the ship had gone up to bargain with them but had himself been kidnapped. There were loud arguments, scuffling; some of the abductees yanked at the ropes and Iroegbunam passed out. He awoke to find a white man rubbing his feet with oil and at first he was terrified, certain that he was being prepared for the white man’s meal, but this was a different kind of white man, who bought slaves only to free them, and he took Iroegbunam to live with him and trained him to be a Christian missionary. Iroegbunam’s story haunted Nwamgba, because this, she was sure, was the way Obierika’s cousins were likely to get rid of her son. Killing him would be too dangerous, the risk of misfortunes from the oracle too high, but they would be able to sell him as long as they had strong medicine to protect themselves. She was struck, too, by how Iroegbunam lapsed into the white man’s language from time to time. It sounded nasal and disgusting. Nwamgba had no desire to speak such a thing herself, but she was suddenly determined that Anikwenwa would speak enough of it to go to the white men’s court with Obierika’s cousins and defeat them and take control of what was his. And so, shortly after Iroegbunam’s return, she told Ayaju that she wanted to take her son to school. They went first to the Anglican mission. The classroom had more girls than boys, sitting with slates on their laps while the teacher stood in front of them, holding a big cane, telling them a story about a man who transformed a bowl of water into wine. The teacher’s spectacles impressed Nwamgba, and she thought that the man in the story must have had powerful medicine to be able to transform water into wine, but when the girls were separated and a woman teacher came to teach them how to sew Nwamgba found this silly. In her clan, men sewed cloth and girls learned pottery. What dissuaded her completely from sending Anikwenwa to the school, however, was that the instruction was done in Igbo. Nwamgba asked why. The teacher said that, of course, the students were taught English—he held up an English primer—but children learned best in their own language and the children in the white men’s land were taught in their own language, too. Nwamgba turned to leave. The teacher stood in her way and told her that the Catholic missionaries were harsh and did not look out for the best interests of the natives. Nwamgba was amused by these foreigners, who did not seem to know that one must, in front of strangers, pretend to have unity. But she had come in search of English, and so she walked past him and went to the Catholic mission. Father Shanahan told her that Anikwenwa would have to take an English name, because it was not possible to be baptized with a heathen name. She agreed easily. His name was Anikwenwa as far as she was concerned; if they wanted to name him something she could not pronounce before teaching him their language, she did not mind at all. All that mattered was that he learn enough of the language to fight his father’s cousins. Father Shanahan looked at Anikwenwa, a dark-skinned, well-muscled child, and guessed that he was about twelve, although he found it difficult to estimate the ages of these people; sometimes what looked like a man would turn out to be a mere boy. It was nothing like in Eastern Africa, where he had previously worked, where the natives tended to be slender, less confusingly muscular. As he poured some water on the boy’s head, he said, “Michael, I baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” He gave the boy a singlet and a pair of shorts, because the people of the living God did not walk around naked, and he tried to preach to the boy’s mother, but she looked at him as if he were a child who did not know any better. There was something troublingly assertive about her, something he had seen in many women here; there was much potential to be harnessed if their wildness were tamed. This Nwamgba would make a marvellous missionary among the women. He watched her leave. There was a grace in her straight back, and she, unlike others, had not spent too much time going round and round in her speech. It infuriated him, their overlong talk and circuitous proverbs, their never getting to the point, but he was determined to excel here; it was the reason he had joined the Holy Ghost congregation, whose special vocation was the redemption of black heathens. Nwamgba was alarmed by how indiscriminately the missionaries flogged students: for being late, for being lazy, for being slow, for being idle, and, once, as Anikwenwa told her, Father Lutz put metal cuffs around a girl’s hands to teach her a lesson about lying, all the time saying in Igbo—for Father Lutz spoke a broken brand of Igbo—that native parents pampered their children too much, that teaching the Gospel also meant teaching proper discipline. The first weekend Anikwenwa came home, Nwamgba saw welts on his back, and she tightened her wrapper around her waist and went to the school and told the teacher that she would gouge out the eyes of everyone at the mission if they ever did that to him again. She knew that Anikwenwa did not want to go to school and she told him that it was only for a year or two, so that he could learn English, and although the mission people told her not to come so often, she insistently came every weekend to take him home. Anikwenwa always took off his clothes even before they had left the mission compound. He disliked the shorts and shirt that made him sweat, the fabric that was itchy around his armpits. He disliked, too, being in the same class as old men, missing out on wrestling contests. But Anikwenwa’s attitude toward school slowly changed. Nwamgba first noticed this when some of the other boys with whom he swept the village square complained that he no longer did his share because he was at school, and Anikwenwa said something in English, something sharp-sounding, which shut them up and filled Nwamgba with an indulgent pride. Her pride turned to vague worry when she noticed that the curiosity in his eyes had diminished. There was a new ponderousness in him, as if he had suddenly found himself bearing the weight of a heavy world. He stared at things for too long. He stopped eating her food, because, he said, it was sacrificed to idols. He told her to tie her wrapper around her chest instead of her waist, because her nakedness was sinful. She looked at him, amused by his earnestness, but worried nonetheless, and asked why he had only just begun to notice her nakedness. When it was time for his initiation ceremony, he said he would not participate, because it was a heathen custom to be initiated into the world of spirits, a custom that Father Shanahan had said would have to stop. Nwamgba roughly yanked his ear and told him that a foreign albino could not determine when their customs would change, and that he would participate or else he would tell her whether he was her son or the white man’s son. Anikwenwa reluctantly agreed, but as he was taken away with a group of other boys she noticed that he lacked their excitement. His sadness saddened her. She felt her son slipping away from her, and yet she was proud that he was learning so much, that he could be a court interpreter or a letter writer, that with Father Lutz’s help he had brought home some papers that showed that their land belonged to them. Her proudest moment was when he went to his father’s cousins Okafo and Okoye and asked for his father’s ivory tusk back. And they gave it to him. Nwamgba knew that her son now inhabited a mental space that she was unable to recognize. He told her that he was going to Lagos to learn how to be a teacher, and even as she screamed—How can you leave me? Who will bury me when I die?—she knew that he would go. She did not see him for many years, years during which his father’s cousin Okafo died. She often consulted the oracle to ask whether Anikwenwa was still alive, and the dibia admonished her and sent her away, because of course he was alive. Finally, he returned, in the year that the clan banned all dogs after a dog killed a member of the Mmangala Age Grade, the age group to which Anikwenwa would have belonged if he did not believe that such things were devilish. Nwamgba said nothing when Anikwenwa announced that he had been appointed catechist at the new mission. She was sharpening her aguba on the palm of her hand, about to shave patterns into the hair of a little girl, and she continued to do so—flick-flick-flick—while Anikwenwa talked about winning the souls of the members of their clan. The plate of breadfruit seeds she had offered him was untouched—he no longer ate anything at all of hers—and she looked at him, this man wearing trousers and a rosary around his neck, and wondered whether she had meddled with his destiny. Was this what his chi had ordained for him, this life in which he was like a person diligently acting a bizarre pantomime? The day that he told her about the woman he would marry, she was not surprised. He did not do it as it was done, did not consult people about the bride’s family, but simply said that somebody at the mission had seen a suitable young woman from Ifite Ukpo, and the suitable young woman would be taken to the Sisters of the Holy Rosary in Onicha to learn how to be a good Christian wife. Nwamgba was sick with malaria that day, lying on her mud bed, rubbing her aching joints, and she asked Anikwenwa the young woman’s name. Anikwenwa said it was Agnes. Nwamgba asked for the young woman’s real name. Anikwenwa cleared his throat and said she had been called Mgbeke before she became a Christian, and Nwamgba asked whether Mgbeke would at least do the confession ceremony even if Anikwenwa would not follow the other marriage rites of their clan. He shook his head furiously and told her that the confession made by women before marriage, in which, surrounded by female relatives, they swore that no man had touched them since their husband declared his interest, was sinful, because Christian wives should not have been touched at all. The marriage ceremony in the church was laughably strange, but Nwamgba bore it silently and told herself that she would die soon and join Obierika and be free of a world that increasingly made no sense. She was determined to dislike her son’s wife, but Mgbeke was difficult to dislike, clear-skinned and gentle, eager to please the man to whom she was married, eager to please everyone, quick to cry, apologetic about things over which she had no control. And so, instead, Nwamgba pitied her. Mgbeke often visited Nwamgba in tears, saying that Anikwenwa had refused to eat dinner because he was upset with her, that Anikwenwa had banned her from going to a friend’s Anglican wedding because Anglicans did not preach the truth, and Nwamgba would silently carve designs on her pottery while Mgbeke cried, uncertain of how to handle a woman crying about things that did not deserve tears. Mgbeke was called “missus” by everyone, even the non-Christians, all of whom respected the catechist’s wife, but on the day she went to the Oyi stream and refused to remove her clothes because she was a Christian the women of the clan, outraged that she had dared to disrespect the goddess, beat her and dumped her at the grove. The news spread quickly. Missus had been harassed. Anikwenwa threatened to lock up all the elders if his wife was treated that way again, but Father O’Donnell, on his next trek from his station in Onicha, visited the elders and apologized on Mgbeke’s behalf, and asked whether perhaps Christian women could be allowed to fetch water fully clothed. The elders refused—if a woman wanted Oyi’s waters, then she had to follow Oyi’s rules—but they were courteous to Father O’Donnell, who listened to them and did not behave like their own son Anikwenwa. Nwamgba was ashamed of her son, irritated with his wife, upset by their rarefied life in which they treated non-Christians as if they had smallpox, but she held out hope for a grandchild; she prayed and sacrificed for Mgbeke to have a boy, because she knew that the child would be Obierika come back and would bring a semblance of sense again into her world. She did not know of Mgbeke’s first or second miscarriage; it was only after the third that Mgbeke, sniffling and blowing her nose, told her. They had to consult the oracle, as this was a family misfortune, Nwamgba said, but Mgbeke’s eyes widened with fear. Michael would be very angry if he ever heard of this oracle suggestion. Nwamgba, who still found it difficult to remember that Michael was Anikwenwa, went to the oracle herself, and afterward thought it ludicrous how even the gods had changed and no longer asked for palm wine but for gin. Had they converted, too? A few months later, Mgbeke visited, smiling, bringing a covered bowl of one of those concoctions that Nwamgba found inedible, and Nwamgba knew that her chi was still wide awake and that her daughter-in-law was pregnant. Anikwenwa had decreed that Mgbeke would have the baby at the mission in Onicha, but the gods had different plans, and she went into early labor on a rainy afternoon; somebody ran in the drenching rain to Nwamgba’s hut to call her. It was a boy. Father O’Donnell baptized him Peter, but Nwamgba called him Nnamdi, because he would be Obierika come back. She sang to him, and when he cried she pushed her dried-up nipple into his mouth, but, try as she might, she did not feel the spirit of her magnificent husband, Obierika. Mgbeke had three more miscarriages, and Nwamgba went to the oracle many times until a pregnancy stayed, and the second baby was born at the mission in Onicha. A girl. From the moment Nwamgba held her, the baby’s bright eyes delightfully focussed on her, she knew that the spirit of Obierika had finally returned; odd, to have come back in a girl, but who could predict the ways of the ancestors? Father O’Donnell baptized the baby Grace, but Nwamgba called her Afamefuna—“my name will not be lost”—and was thrilled by the child’s solemn interest in her poetry and her stories, by the teen-ager’s keen watchfulness as Nwamgba struggled to make pottery with newly shaky hands. Nwamgba was not thrilled that Afamefuna was sent away to secondary school in Onicha. (Peter was already living with the priests there.) She feared that, at boarding school, the new ways would dissolve her granddaughter’s fighting spirit and replace it with either an incurious rigidity, like her son’s, or a limp helplessness, like Mgbeke’s. The year that Afamefuna left for secondary school, Nwamgba felt as if a lamp had been blown out in a dim room. It was a strange year, the year that darkness suddenly descended on the land in the middle of the afternoon, and when Nwamgba felt the deep-seated ache in her joints she knew that her end was near. She lay on her bed gasping for breath, while Anikwenwa pleaded with her to be baptized and anointed so that he could hold a Christian funeral for her, as he could not participate in a heathen ceremony. Nwamgba told him that if he dared to bring anybody to rub some filthy oil on her she would slap them with her last strength. All she wanted before she joined the ancestors was to see Afamefuna, but Anikwenwa said that Grace was taking exams at school and could not come home. But she came. Nwamgba heard the squeaky swing of her door, and there was Afamefuna, her granddaughter, who had come on her own from Onicha because she had been unable to sleep for days, her restless spirit urging her home. Grace put down her schoolbag, inside of which was her textbook, with a chapter called “The Pacification of the Primitive Tribes of Southern Nigeria,” by an administrator from Bristol who had lived among them for seven years. It was Grace who would eventually read about these savages, titillated by their curious and meaningless customs, not connecting them to herself until her teacher Sister Maureen told her that she could not refer to the call-and-response her grandmother had taught her as poetry, because primitive tribes did not have poetry. It was Grace who would laugh and laugh until Sister Maureen took her to detention and then summoned her father, who slapped Grace in front of the other teachers to show them how well he disciplined his children. It was Grace who would nurse a deep scorn for her father for years, spending holidays working as a maid in Onicha so as to avoid the sanctimonies, the dour certainties, of her parents and her brother. It was Grace who, after graduating from secondary school, would teach elementary school in Agueke, where people told stories of the destruction of their village by the white men with guns, stories she was not sure she believed, because they also told stories of mermaids appearing from the River Niger holding wads of crisp cash. It was Grace who, as one of a dozen or so women at the University College in Ibadan in 1953, would change her degree from chemistry to history after she heard, while drinking tea at the home of a friend, the story of Mr. Gboyega. The eminent Mr. Gboyega, a chocolate-skinned Nigerian, educated in London, distinguished expert on the history of the British Empire, had resigned in disgust when the West African Examinations Council began talking of adding African history to the curriculum, because he was appalled that African history would even be considered a subject. It was Grace who would ponder this story for a long time, with great sadness, and it would cause her to make a clear link between education and dignity, between the hard, obvious things that are printed in books and the soft, subtle things that lodge themselves in the soul. It was Grace who would begin to rethink her own schooling: How lustily she had sung on Empire Day, “God save our gracious king. Send him victorious, happy and glorious. Long to reign over us.” How she had puzzled over words like “wallpaper” and “dandelions” in her textbooks, unable to picture them. How she had struggled with arithmetic problems that had to do with mixtures, because what was “coffee” and what was “chicory,” and why did they have to be mixed? It was Grace who would begin to rethink her father’s schooling and then hurry home to see him, his eyes watery with age, telling him she had not received all the letters she had ignored, saying amen when he prayed, and pressing her lips against his forehead. It was Grace who, driving past Agueke on her way to the university one day, would become haunted by the image of a destroyed village and would go to London and to Paris and to Onicha, sifting through moldy files in archives, reimagining the lives and smells of her grandmother’s world, for the book she would write called “Pacifying with Bullets: A Reclaimed History of Southern Nigeria.” It was Grace who, in a conversation about the book with her fiancé, George Chikadibia—stylish graduate of King’s College, Lagos, engineer-to-be, wearer of three-piece suits, expert ballroom dancer, who often said that a grammar school without Latin was like a cup of tea without sugar—understood that the marriage would not last when George told her that it was misguided of her to write about primitive culture instead of a worthwhile topic like African Alliances in the American-Soviet Tension. They would divorce in 1972, not because of the four miscarriages Grace had suffered but because she woke up sweating one night and realized that she would strangle George to death if she had to listen to one more rapturous monologue about his Cambridge days. It was Grace who, as she received faculty prizes, as she spoke to solemn-faced people at conferences about the Ijaw and Ibibio and Igbo and Efik peoples of Southern Nigeria, as she wrote common-sense reports for international organizations, for which she nevertheless received generous pay, would imagine her grandmother looking on with great amusement. It was Grace who, feeling an odd rootlessness in the later years of her life, surrounded by her awards, her friends, her garden of peerless roses, would go to the courthouse in Lagos and officially change her first name from Grace to Afamefuna. But on that day, as she sat at her grandmother’s bedside in the fading evening light, Grace was not contemplating her future. She simply held her grandmother’s hand, the palm thickened from years of making pottery.
Natasha On the stairs Natasha ran into her neighbor from across the hall, Baron Wolfe. He was somewhat laboriously ascending the bare wooden steps, caressing the bannister with his hand and whistling softly through his teeth. “Where are you off to in such a hurry, Natasha?” “To the drugstore to get a prescription filled. The doctor was just here. Father is better.” “Ah, that’s good news.” She flitted past in her rustling raincoat, hatless. Leaning over the bannister, Wolfe glanced back at her. For an instant he caught sight from overhead of the sleek, girlish part in her hair. Still whistling, he climbed to the top floor, threw his rain-soaked briefcase on the bed, then thoroughly and satisfyingly washed and dried his hands. Then he knocked on old Khrenov’s door. Khrenov lived in the room across the hall with his daughter, who slept on a couch, a couch with amazing springs that rolled and swelled like metal tussocks through the flabby plush. There was also a table, unpainted and covered with ink-spotted newspapers. Sick Khrenov, a shrivelled old man in a nightshirt that reached to his heels, creakily darted back into bed and pulled up the sheet just as Wolfe’s large shaved head poked through the door. “Come in, glad to see you, come on in.” The old man was breathing with difficulty, and the door of his night table remained half open. “I hear you’ve almost totally recovered, Alexey Ivanych,” Baron Wolfe said, seating himself by the bed and slapping his knees. Khrenov offered his yellow, sticky hand and shook his head. “I don’t know what you’ve been hearing, but I do know perfectly well that I’ll die tomorrow.” He made a popping sound with his lips. “Nonsense,” Wolfe merrily interrupted, and extracted from his hip pocket an enormous silver cigar case. “Mind if I smoke?” He fiddled for a long time with his lighter, clicking its cogged screw. Khrenov half-closed his eyes. His eyelids were bluish, like a frog’s webbing. Graying bristles covered his protruding chin. Without opening his eyes, he said, “That’s how it’ll be. They killed my two sons and heaved me and Natasha out of our natal nest. Now we’re supposed to go and die in a strange city. How stupid, all things considered. . . .” Wolfe started speaking loudly and distinctly. He spoke of how Khrenov still had a long time to live, thank goodness, and how everyone would be returning to Russia in the spring, together with the storks. And then he proceeded to recount an incident from his past. “It was back when I was wandering around the Congo,” he was saying, and his large, somewhat corpulent figure swayed slightly. “Ah, the distant Congo, my dear Alexey Ivanych, such distant wilds—you know . . . Imagine a village in the woods, women with pendulous breasts, and the shimmer of water, black as karakul, amid the huts. There, under a gigantic tree—a kiroku—lay orange fruit like rubber balls, and at night there came from inside the trunk what seemed like the sound of the sea. I had a long chat with the local kinglet. Our translator was a Belgian engineer, another curious man. He swore, by the way, that, in 1895, he had seen an ichthyosaur in the swamps not far from Tanganyika. The kinglet was smeared with cobalt, adorned with rings, and blubbery, with a belly like jelly. Here’s what happened—” Wolfe, relishing his story, smiled and stroked his pale-blue head. “Natasha is back,” Khrenov quietly and firmly interjected, without raising his eyelids. Instantly turning pink, Wolfe looked around. A moment later, somewhere far off, the lock of the front door clinked, then steps rustled along the hall. Natasha entered quickly, with radiant eyes. “How are you, Daddy?” Wolfe got up and said, with feigned nonchalance, “Your father is perfectly well, and I have no idea why he’s in bed. . . . I’m going to tell him about a certain African sorcerer.” Natasha smiled at her father and began unwrapping the medicine. “It’s raining,” she said softly. “The weather is terrible.” As usually happens when the weather is mentioned, the others looked out the window. That made a bluish-gray vein on Khrenov’s neck contract. Then he threw his head back on the pillow again. With a pout, Natasha counted the drops, and her eyelashes kept time. Her sleek dark hair was beaded with rain, and under her eyes there were adorable blue shadows. II Back in his room, Wolfe paced for a long time, with a flustered and happy smile, dropping heavily now into an armchair, now onto the edge of the bed. Then, for some reason, he opened a window and peered into the dark, gurgling courtyard below. At last he shrugged one shoulder spasmodically, put on his green hat, and went out. Old Khrenov, who was sitting slumped on the couch while Natasha straightened his bed for the night, observed indifferently, in a low voice, “Wolfe has gone out to dinner.” Then he sighed and pulled the blanket more tightly around him. “Ready,” Natasha said. “Climb back in, Daddy.” All around there was the wet evening city, the black torrents of the streets, the mobile, shiny cupolas of umbrellas, the blaze of shopwindows trickling down onto the asphalt. Along with the rain the night began to flow, filling the depths of the courtyards, flickering in the eyes of the thin-legged prostitutes, who slowly strolled to and fro at the crowded intersections. And, somewhere above, the circular lights of an advertisement flashed intermittently like a spinning illuminated wheel. Toward nightfall, Khrenov’s temperature had risen. The thermometer was warm, alive—the column of mercury climbed high on the little red ladder. For a long time he muttered unintelligibly, kept biting his lips and gently shaking his head. Then he fell asleep. Natasha undressed by a candle’s wan flame, and saw her reflection in the murky glass of the window—her pale, thin neck, the dark braid that had fallen across her clavicle. She stood like that, in motionless languor, and suddenly it seemed to her that the room, together with the couch, the table littered with cigarette stubs, the bed on which, with open mouth, a sharp-nosed, sweaty old man slept restlessly—all this started to move, and was now floating, like the deck of a ship, into the black night. She sighed, ran a hand across her warm bare shoulder, and, transported partly by dizziness, lowered herself onto the couch. Then, with a vague smile, she began rolling down and pulling off her old, oft-mended stockings. Once again the room started floating, and she felt as if someone were blowing hot air onto the back of her head. She opened her eyes wide—dark, elongated eyes, whose whites had a bluish sheen. An autumn fly began to circle the candle and, like a buzzing black pea, collided with the wall. Natasha slowly crawled under the blanket and stretched, sensing, like a bystander, the warmth of her own body, her long thighs, and her bare arms thrown back behind her head. She felt too lazy to douse the candle, to shoo away the silken formication that was making her involuntarily compress her knees and shut her eyes. Khrenov gave a deep groan and raised one arm in his sleep. The arm fell back as if it were dead. Natasha lifted herself slightly and blew toward the candle. Multicolored circles started to swim before her eyes. I feel so wonderful, she thought, laughing into her pillow. She was now lying curled up, and seemed to herself to be incredibly small, and all the thoughts in her head were like warm sparks that were gently scattering and sliding. She was just falling asleep when her torpor was shattered by a deep, frenzied cry. “Daddy, what’s the matter?” She fumbled on the table and lit the candle. Khrenov was sitting up in bed, breathing furiously, his fingers clutching the collar of his shirt. A few minutes earlier, he had awakened and was frozen with horror, having mistaken the luminous dial of the watch lying on a chair nearby for the muzzle of a rifle motionlessly aiming at him. He had awaited the gunshot, not daring to stir, then, losing control, started screaming. Now he looked at his daughter, blinking and smiling a tremulous smile. “Daddy, calm down, it’s nothing. . . .” Her naked feet softly shuffling on the floor, she straightened his pillows and touched his brow, which was sticky and cold with sweat. With a deep sigh, and still shaken by spasms, he turned toward the wall and muttered, “All of them, all . . . and me, too. It’s a nightmare. . . . No, you mustn’t.” He fell asleep as if falling into an abyss. Natasha lay down again. The couch had become even bumpier, the springs pressed now into her side, now into her shoulder blades, but at last she got comfortable and floated back into the interrupted, incredibly warm dream that she still sensed but no longer remembered. Then, at dawn, she awoke again. Her father was calling to her. “Natasha, I don’t feel well. Give me some water.” Slightly unsteady, her somnolence permeated by the light-blue dawn, she moved toward the washbasin, making the pitcher clink. Khrenov drank avidly and deeply. He said, “It will be awful if I never return.” “Go to sleep, Daddy. Try to get some more sleep.” Natasha threw on her flannel robe and sat down at the foot of her father’s bed. He repeated the words “This is awful” several times, then gave a frightened smile. “Natasha, I keep imagining that I am walking through our village. Remember the place by the river, near the sawmill? And it’s hard to walk. You know—all the sawdust. Sawdust and sand. My feet sink in. It tickles. One time, when we travelled abroad . . .” He frowned, struggling to follow the course of his own stumbling thoughts. Natasha recalled with extraordinary clarity how he had looked then, recalled his fair little beard, his gray suède gloves, his checkered travelling cap that resembled a rubber pouch for a sponge—and suddenly felt that she was about to cry. “Yes. So that’s that,” Khrenov drawled indifferently, peering into the dawn mist. “Sleep some more, Daddy. I remember everything.” He awkwardly took a swallow of water, rubbed his face, and leaned back on the pillows. From the courtyard came a cock’s sweet throbbing cry. III At about eleven the next morning, Wolfe knocked on the Khrenovs’ door. Some dishes tinkled with fright in the room, and Natasha’s laughter spilled forth. An instant later, she slipped out into the hall, carefully closing the door behind her. “I’m so glad—Father is a lot better today.” She was wearing a white blouse and a beige skirt with buttons along the hips. Her elongated, shiny eyes were happy. “Awfully restless night,” she continued rapidly, “and now he’s cooled down completely. His temperature is normal. He has even decided to get up. They’ve just bathed him.” “It’s sunny out today,” Wolfe said mysteriously. “I didn’t go to work.” They were standing in the half-lit hall, leaning against the wall, not knowing what else to talk about. “You know what, Natasha?” Wolfe suddenly ventured, pushing his broad, soft back away from the wall and thrusting his hands deep into the pockets of his wrinkled gray trousers. “Let’s take a trip to the country today. We’ll be back by six. What do you say?” Natasha stood with one shoulder pressed against the wall, also pushing away slightly. “How can I leave Father alone? Still, though . . .” Wolfe suddenly cheered up. “Natasha, sweetheart, come on—please. Your dad is all right today, isn’t he? And the landlady is nearby in case he needs anything.” “Yes, that’s true,” Natasha said slowly. “I’ll tell him.” And, with a flip of her skirt, she turned back into the room. Fully dressed but without his shirt collar, Khrenov was feebly groping for something on the table. “Natasha, Natasha, you forgot to buy the papers yesterday. . . .” Natasha busied herself brewing some tea on the alcohol stove. “Daddy, today I’d like to take a trip to the country. Wolfe invited me.” “Of course, darling, you must go,” Khrenov said, and the bluish whites of his eyes filled with tears. “Believe me, I’m better today. If only it weren’t for this ridiculous weakness . . .” When Natasha had left he again started slowly groping about the room, still searching for something . . . With a soft grunt he tried to move the couch. Then he looked under it—he lay prone on the floor, and stayed there, his head spinning nauseatingly. Slowly, laboriously, he got back on his feet, struggled over to his bed, lay down . . . And again he had the sensation that he was crossing some bridge, that he could hear the sound of a lumber mill, that yellow tree trunks were floating, that his feet were sinking deep into the moist sawdust, that a cool wind was blowing from the river, chilling him through and through. . . . IV “Yes—all my travels . . . Oh, Natasha, I sometimes felt like a god. I saw the Palace of Shadows in Ceylon and shot at tiny emerald birds in Madagascar. The natives there wear necklaces made of vertebrae, and sing so strangely at night on the seashore, as if they were musical jackals. I lived in a tent not far from Tamatave, where the earth is red, and the sea dark blue. I cannot describe that sea to you.” Wolfe fell silent, gently tossing a pinecone with his hand. Then he ran his puffy palm down the length of his face and broke out laughing. “And here I am, penniless, stuck in the most miserable of European cities, sitting in an office day in, day out, like some idler, munching on bread and sausage at night in a truckers’ dive. Yet there was a time . . .” Natasha was lying on her stomach, elbows widespread, watching the brightly lit tops of the pines as they gently receded into the turquoise heights. As she peered into this sky, luminous round dots circled, shimmered, and scattered in her eyes. Every so often something would flit like a golden spasm from pine to pine. Next to her crossed legs sat Baron Wolfe in his ample gray suit, his shaved head bent, still tossing his dry cone. Natasha sighed. “In the Middle Ages,” she said, gazing at the tops of the pines, “they would have burned me at the stake or sanctified me. I sometimes have strange sensations. Like a kind of ecstasy. Then I become almost weightless, I feel I’m floating somewhere, and I understand everything—life, death, everything. . . . Once, when I was about ten, I was sitting in the dining room, drawing something. Then I got tired and started thinking. Suddenly, very rapidly, in came a woman, barefoot, wearing faded blue garments, with a large, heavy belly, and her face was small, thin, and yellow, with extraordinarily gentle, extraordinarily mysterious eyes. . . . Without looking at me, she hurried past and disappeared into the next room. I was not frightened—for some reason, I thought she had come to wash the floors. I never encountered that woman again, but you know who she was? The Virgin Mary . . .” Wolfe smiled. “What makes you think that, Natasha?” “I know. She appeared to me in a dream five years later. She was holding a child, and at her feet there were cherubs propped on their elbows, just like in the Raphael painting, only they were alive. Besides that, I sometimes have other, very little visions. When they took Father away in Moscow and I remained alone in the house, here’s what happened: On the desk there was a small bronze bell like the ones they put on cows in the Tyrol. Suddenly it rose into the air, started tinkling, and then fell. What a marvellous, pure sound.” Wolfe gave her a strange look, then threw the pinecone far away and spoke in a cold, opaque voice. “There is something I must tell you, Natasha. You see, I have never been to Africa or to India. It’s all a lie. I am now nearly thirty, but, apart from two or three Russian towns and a dozen villages, and this forlorn country, I have not seen anything. Please forgive me.” He smiled a melancholy smile. He suddenly felt intolerable pity for the grandiose fantasies that had sustained him since childhood. The weather was autumnally dry and warm. The pines barely creaked as their gold-hued tops swayed. “An ant,” Natasha said, getting up and patting her skirt and stockings. “We’ve been sitting on ants.” “Do you despise me very much?” Wolfe asked. She laughed. “Don’t be silly. After all, we are even. Everything I told you about my ecstasies and the Virgin Mary and the little bell was fantasy. I thought it all up one day, and after that, naturally, I had the impression that it had really happened. . . .” “That’s just it,” Wolfe said, beaming. “Tell me some more about your travels,” Natasha asked, intending no sarcasm. With a habitual gesture, Wolfe took out his solid cigar case. “At your service. Once, when I was sailing on a schooner from Borneo to Sumatra . . .” V A gentle slope descended toward the lake. The posts of the wooden jetty were reflected like gray spirals in the water. Beyond the lake was the same dark pine forest, but here and there one could glimpse a white trunk and the mist of yellow leaves of a birch. On the dark-turquoise water floated glints of clouds, and Natasha suddenly recalled Levitan’s landscapes. She had the impression that they were in Russia, that you could only be in Russia when such torrid happiness constricts your throat, and she was happy that Wolfe was recounting such marvellous nonsense and, with his little noises, launching small flat stones, which magically skidded and skipped along the water. On this weekday there were no people to be seen; only occasional cloudlets of exclamation or laughter were audible, and on the lake there hovered a white wing—a yacht’s sail. They walked for a long time along the shore, ran up the slippery slope, and found a path where the raspberry bushes emitted a whiff of black damp. A little farther, right by the water, there was a café, quite deserted, with nary a waitress or a customer to be seen, as if there were a fire somewhere and they had all run off to look, taking with them their mugs and their plates. Wolfe and Natasha walked around the café, then sat down at an empty table and pretended that they were eating and drinking and an orchestra was playing. And, while they were joking, Natasha suddenly thought she heard the distinct sound of real orange-hued wind music. Then, with a mysterious smile, she gave a start and ran off along the shore. Baron Wolfe ponderously loped after her. “Wait, Natasha—we haven’t paid yet!” Afterward, they found an apple-green meadow, bordered by sedge, through which the sun made the water gleam like liquid gold, and Natasha, squinting and inflating her nostrils, repeated several times, “My God, how wonderful . . .” Wolfe felt hurt by the unresponsive echo and fell silent, and, at that airy, sunlit instant beside the wide lake, a certain sadness flew past like a melodious beetle. Natasha frowned and said, “For some reason, I have a feeling that Father is worse again. Maybe I should not have left him alone.” Wolfe remembered seeing the old man’s thin legs, glossy with gray bristles, as he hopped back into bed. He thought, And what if he really does die today? “Don’t say that, Natasha—he’s fine now.” “I think so, too,” she said, and grew merry again. Wolfe took off his jacket, and his thickset body in its striped shirt exhaled a gentle aura of heat. He was walking very close to Natasha; she was looking straight ahead, and she liked the feel of this warmth pacing alongside her. “How I dream, Natasha, how I dream,” he was saying, waving a small, whistling stick. “Am I really lying when I pass off my fantasies as truth? I had a friend who served for three years in Bombay. Bombay? My God! The music of geographical names. That word alone contains something gigantic, bombs of sunlight, drums. Just imagine, Natasha—that friend of mine was incapable of communicating anything, remembered nothing except work-related squabbles, the heat, the fevers, and the wife of some British colonel. Which of us really visited India? . . . It’s obvious—of course, I am the one. Bombay, Singapore . . . I can recall, for instance . . .” Natasha was walking along the very edge of the water, so that the child-size waves of the lake plashed up to her feet. Somewhere beyond the woods a train passed, as if it were travelling along a musical string, and both of them stopped to listen. The day had become a bit more golden, a bit softer, and the woods on the far side of the lake now had a bluish cast. Near the train station, Wolfe bought a paper bag of plums, but they turned out to be sour. Seated in the empty wooden compartment of the train, he threw them at intervals out the window, and kept regretting that, in the café, he had not filched some of those cardboard disks you put under beer mugs. “They soar so beautifully, Natasha, like birds. It’s a joy to watch.” Natasha was tired; she would shut her eyes tightly, and then again, as she had been in the night, she would be overcome and carried aloft by a feeling of dizzying lightness. “When I tell Father about our outing, please don’t interrupt me or correct me. I may well tell him about things we did not see at all. Various little marvels. He’ll understand.” When they arrived in town, they decided to walk home. Baron Wolfe grew taciturn and grimaced at the ferocious noise of the automobile horns, while Natasha seemed propelled by sails, as if her fatigue sustained her, endowed her with wings and made her weightless, and Wolfe seemed all blue, as blue as the evening. One block short of their house, Wolfe suddenly stopped. Natasha flew past. Then she, too, stopped. She looked around. Raising his shoulders, thrusting his hands deep into the pockets of his ample trousers, Wolfe lowered his light-blue head like a bull. Glancing sideways, he said that he loved her. Then, turning rapidly, he walked away and entered a tobacco shop. Natasha stood for a while, as if suspended in midair, then slowly walked toward the house. This, too, I shall tell Father, she thought, advancing through a blue mist of happiness, amid which the street lamps were coming alight like precious stones. She felt that she was growing weak, that hot, silent billows were coursing along her spine. When she reached the house, she saw her father, in a black jacket, shielding his unbuttoned shirt collar with one hand and swinging his door keys with the other, come out hurriedly, slightly hunched in the evening fog, and head for the newsstand. “Daddy,” she called, and walked after him. He stopped at the edge of the sidewalk and, tilting his head, glanced at her with his familiar wily smile. “My little rooster, all gray-haired. You shouldn’t be going out,” Natasha said. Her father tilted his head the other way, and said very softly, “Dearest, there’s something fabulous in the paper today. Only I forgot to bring money. Could you run upstairs and get it? I’ll wait here.” She gave the door a push, cross with her father, and at the same time glad that he was so chipper. She ascended the stairs quickly, aerially, as in a dream. She hurried along the hall. He might catch cold standing there waiting for me. . . . For some reason, the hall light was on. Natasha approached her door and simultaneously heard the susurration of soft speech behind it. She opened the door quickly. A kerosene lamp stood on the table, smoking densely. The landlady, a chambermaid, and some unfamiliar person were blocking the way to the bed. They all turned when Natasha entered, and the landlady, with an exclamation, rushed toward her. . . . Only then did Natasha notice her father lying on the bed, looking not at all as she had just seen him, but a dead little old man with a waxen nose.
Tits-up in a Ditch Her mother had been knockout beautiful and no good, and Dakotah had heard this from the time she could recognize words. People said that Shaina Lister, with aquamarine eyes and curls the shining maroon of water-birch bark, had won all the kiddie beauty contests and then had become the high-school slut, knocked up when she was fifteen and cutting out the day after Dakotah was born, slinking and wincing, still in her hospital johnny, down the back stairs of Mercy Maternity to the street, where one of her greasy pals picked her up and headed west for Los Angeles. It was the same day the television evangelist Jim Bakker, an exposed and confessed adulterer, resigned from his Praise the Lord money mill, his fall mourned by Bonita Lister, Shaina’s mother. Bonita’s husband, Verl, blamed the television for Shaina’s wildness and for her hatred of the ranch. “She seen it was O.K. on the teevee and so she done it,” he said. He wanted to get rid of the set, but Bonita said there was no sense in locking up the horse after the barn burned down. Verl and Bonita Lister were in their late thirties and stuck with the baby. If it had been a boy, Verl said, letting the words squeeze out around his roll-yer-own, he could have helped with the chores when he got to size. And inherited the ranch was the implied finish to the sentence. Verl had named Dakotah after his homesteading great-grandmother, born in the territory, married and widowed and married again only after she had proved up on her land and the deed was in her name and in her hand. At a time when the mourning period for a husband was two or three years, and for a wife three months, she had worn black for her first husband an insulting six weeks before taking up a homestead claim. Verl treasured a photograph showing her with the deed, standing in front of her neat clapboard house, a frowsy white dog leaning against her checkered skirt. She held one hand behind her back, and Verl said this was because she smoked a pipe. Dakotah was almost sure she could see a wisp of smoke curling up, but Bonita said it was just dust raised by the wind. Since that pioneer time, the country had become trammelled and gnawed, stippled with cattle, coal mines, oil wells, and gas rigs, striated with pipelines. The road to the ranch had been named Sixteen Mile, though no one was sure what that distance signified. Bottle-blond Bonita (her great-grandfather had been a squaw man, and black hair was in the genes) made an early grandmother. Ranch-raised and -trained, she counted the grandchild as a difficulty that had to be met. She was used to praising thankless work as the right and good way, but what she was going to do without Jim Bakker’s exhortation and encouragement she didn’t know. First, an impaired husband, the endless labor and (sometimes forced) good humor that were expected of women, then a bad-girl daughter, and now the bad girl’s baby to raise. Verl Lister was burden enough. By himself, he could not run the ranch, and they often had to ask their neighbors to throw together and give them a hand. Of course, it was because he had been a wild boy in his youth, had rodeoed hard, a bareback rider who suffered falls, hyperextensions, and breaks that had bloomed into arthritis and aches as he aged. A trampling had broken his pelvis and legs, so that now he walked with the crouch of a bagpipe player. She could not fault him for ancient injuries, and remembered him as the curly-headed young man with beautiful eyes sitting on his horse, back straight as a metal fence post. But a man, she thought, was supposed to endure pain, cowboy up, and not bitch about it all day long. She, too, had arthritis in her left knee, but she suffered in silence. Throughout the nineteen-eighties, it was a puzzle where all the ablebodied labor had gone. During the energy boom, oil companies had sucked up Wyoming boys, offering high wages that no one else, not even Wyatt Match, the county’s richest rancher, could pay. When the bust came, there were still no ranch hands for hire. “You’d think,” Verl said, “with all them oil companies pullin out there’d be fifty guys on every corner lookin for work.” But the hands, after their taste of roustabout money, had followed the dollar away from Wyoming. Verl was a trash rancher, Wyatt Match said, oyster eyes sliding around behind his gold-rimmed lenses that darkened in sunlight, and not so much because Verl’s land was overgrazed but because there were fences down and gates hanging by one hinge, binder twine everywhere and rusting machinery in the pastures. There was an old sedan with the hood up in one of the irrigation ditches. A defunct electric stove rested on the front porch. The Lister cows roamed the roads, constantly suffered accidents—drowning in the creek in spring flood, bogging in mud pots that came from nowhere. Spring was the hardest time, the weather alternating between blizzards and Saharan heat. On a snow-whipped evening, Dakotah setting the table for supper, Verl said a cow who had tried to climb a steep, wet slope that apparently slid out from under her had landed on her back in the ditch. “Had me some luck today. Goddam cow got herself tits-up in the ditch couple days ago. Dead, time I found her,” he said in a curiously satisfied tone, squinting through faded lashes, winking his eyes, the same aquamarine as those of the wayward Shaina. “Not every man would say that is luck,” Bonita said wearily. She went to the sink, stepping over Bum, Verl’s ancient heeler crippled by cow kicks, and began scrubbing out the only pot large enough to boil potatoes in quantity, a pot she washed and used several times a day. “It is, in a way of speakin.” She couldn’t have puzzled that one out even if she had had the time. With Verl, it was one thing after another. He went into the national forest to cut wood every fall, and she knew that he someday would cut himself in half with his cranky old chain saw. She almost hoped he would. For Verl Lister everything turned on luck, and he had experienced very little of the good kind. His secret boyhood dream had been to become a charismatic radio man, meeting singing personalities, giving the news, announcing songs, describing the weather. All this ambition grew from a small, cheap radio he had earned as a boy selling Rosebud salve, riding from ranch to ranch on an aged mare. In bed at night, he put it under the covers and turned it whisper low, listening to honey-voiced Paul Kallinger on a high-watt border station and the lonely-hearts-club ads, pitches for tonics and elixirs, yodelling cowboys, and, by the time he was in his teens, Wolfman Jack, with his scandalous sex talk and his panting and howls. Yet he had never wanted to be like Wolfman Jack. Kallinger was his ideal. He had no idea how to get into the radio game, and the plan faded as he grew into work on the home ranch. For fun he rode broncs, the source of his present miseries. He still kept the radio in his truck on constantly, had a radio in every room of the house despite the region’s bad reception. But the stations were pale imitations of the old border blasters of his youth. When NPR came to Wyoming, in the nineteen-seventies, he judged it dull and hoity-toity. Growing up, Wyatt Match had been given every advantage. He’d had good horses from the time he could walk, trips abroad, hand-tooled boots. He went to an Eastern prep school and then to the University of Pennsylvania. After graduation, he came back to Wyoming with one or two ideas about agricultural progress and tried too soon to get into the legislature when the times favored conservative, frugal ranchers as political leaders, not spendthrift rich men, a label his father’s private golf course had burned into an envious population. Over the years, he had become a sharp-horned archconservative with a hard little mind. After his youthful start flirting with useless ideas sown by the Eastern professors, he had dedicated himself to maintaining the romantic heritage of the nineteenth-century ranch, Wyoming’s golden time. Descended from Irish stock, he had milky skin that flamed with sunburn, and his ginger hair had turned a saintly white. His pride was a blue neon sign—“Match Ranch”—near his post-and-lintel gate that was large enough to be the torii of a Shinto shrine. After years of trying, he had finally made it into the state legislature. Local people were used to seeing his dusty Silverado bulge out onto the road and pass them on the right, throwing up a storm of gravel. There was a tinge of superiority in all that he said, even in meaningless comments about the weather. Match seemed to indicate that blizzards, windstorms, icy roads, and punishing hail were for other people; he moved in a cloud of different, special weather. In the days when he was trying to push his way into the legislature with his radical ideas, a well-respected older rancher took him aside and told him, stressing his words, that Wyoming was fine just the way it was. Gradually, he learned the truth of that statement. His political value increased after he married Debra Gale Sunchley, a Wyoming ranchwoman, a hard worker with a built-in capacity for endurance, who dressed in crease-ironed jeans, boots, and an old Carhartt jacket. The first Sunchley had come to Wyoming with the 11th Ohio Volunteers to fight Indians during the Civil War. Debra Gale Sunchley Match was secretary-treasurer of the Cow Belles, and a member of the Christian Women’s Book Circle. Debra Gale had read no more than ten books in her life, but she knew she had as much right as anyone to give her opinion. After Wyatt divorced her to marry Carol Shovel, whom he had met on a California golf vacation, Debra Gale and her brother Tuffy stayed on as joint ranch managers. Match built his ex-wife her own house on the property, a simple one-story ranch with a big shed for her nine dogs. He paid her a wage. She was a good worker, and he wasn’t going to let her go. As Dakotah grew up, the Lister ranch staggered along, Bonita making ends meet, worrying about money and Verl’s health. The only free time she had was when she knelt at the side of the bed saying her prayers, asking for the strength to go on and for her husband’s well-being. “Don’t let yourself get old before your time,” she said impatiently to Verl, who seemed to look forward to old age. It took half an hour in the morning for him to limber up his joints. It irritated her that the child, Dakotah, had little interest in riding or rodeo, resisted 4-H meetings. Bonita could always think of some task or job for the girl, whether it was collecting eggs, picking over beans, or discovering the section of broken fence where the cows got out. Scraping the burned toast for Verl was the most hated task. Verl insisted on toast but would not part with the money for a toaster. “My mother made good toast on the griddle,” he said. “It come already buttered.” But Bonita often burned the toast as she tried to cook eggs and hash, forgetting the smoking bread. Dakotah rasped the charcoal into the sink with a table knife. Once, moved by some filament of need for affection, Dakotah tried to hug Bonita, who was scrubbing potatoes in the sink. Bonita briskly shoved her away. Sometimes Dakotah wandered around the ranch on foot, usually heading for a steep pine slope with a tiny spring, the ground littered with old gray bones from a time when a mountain lion had had her den beneath a fallen tree. Bonita herself never went for a walk, a wasteful dereliction of duty. She worked spring branding with the men and still managed dinner for all the hands, was back on a horse at November sale time overseeing the cows prodded into cattle trucks with Swiss-cheese sides, while Verl cut winter wood in the forest. Verl walked nowhere, was always in his truck when he wasn’t in the reclining chair he favored. He’d come into the house and sigh. “Well, I had me some luck today,” he’d say in his plaintive voice. She waited. What followed might be one of his slowly unwinding stories that went nowhere, wasted her time. “Filled up the gas can, got up there in the woods, and damned if the can hadn’t tipped over and spilled out all the gas.” Yes, it was. He was speaking in his portentous, I’ve-got-grave-news voice. She nodded and scraped carrots, making the orange fibre fly. She was still in her red pajama bottoms, but had pushed the heifers out of the east pasture, mended a broken section of fence, got the mail, fed the bum lambs, and was now cooking dinner. There had been no time to pull on a pair of jeans. She wasn’t going to town anyway. “And then I got to workin awhile and the chain broke.” “Well, you surely had problems.” Once, oppressed by Verl’s self-pitying complaints, she had considered poisoning him. But they carried no insurance, and how she would manage alone she didn’t know. Then, too, she never forgot the joyous winter when they were courting, the long freezing drive in from the ranch in a truck with a broken heater to meet him at the Double Arrow Café. Her teeth chattering, she would walk from the snowy street into the wonderfully hot and noisy bar, Russ Eftink punching G5 again and again to make “Blue Bayou” play continuously, and Verl, the tough handsome cowboy, slouching across the room toward her and pulling her into the music. Into the pot went the carrots, and she started on the potatoes with an ancient peeler that had been in the kitchen since Verl’s great-grandmother’s day. His voice lifted. “And my chest didn’t hurt today the way it done yesterday.” “Uh-huh.” She rinsed the potatoes and cubed them so they would cook faster. “I supposed to go see her, that doctor, tomorrow mornin at ten minutes before eight. I don’t know if I should now. Seein it didn’t hurt today.” “Well, Verl, it might a been a matter a luck, don’t you think? That it didn’t hurt and you workin so hard.” He squinted at her, trying to tell if she was being sarcastic. “It’s just I don’t want a leave you all alone, and me dead of a heart attack,” he said sanctimoniously. She said nothing. “So I guess I better go.” It was what he’d intended to do from the beginning. Wyatt Match thought Verl Lister’s dilapidated place gave Wyoming ranchers a slob name. He personally thanked heaven that Lister was not on the main road. He often quoted Robert Frost’s line “Good fences make good neighbors” without understanding the poem or the differences of intent between those who made fences of stone and those who used barbed wire. He had picked the Listers to criticize, and whether it was Verl’s work habits, or the way he never looked straight at anyone except in the left eye, or Bonita’s aqua rayon pants suit, Wyatt Match made them out to be the county fools. In truth, Verl Lister’s cows were wild and rough because they were rarely worked; they suffered parasites, hoof rot, milk fever, prolapses, and hernias; they were shot by rifle and by bow and arrow; they fell on T-posts, ate wire, coughed and snuffled, stumbled into streams and drowned. Verl referred to Match as “him and his click—them bastards pretty much run things the way they want.” Yet if he met Match at a cattle sale or at the feed store he would smile and greet him cordially. And Match, in turn, would say, “How’re you, Verl?” Verl resented Match, but it was Match’s second wife, Carol, whom he truly detested. She was a California woman with red eyebrows and foxy hair, clothed in revealing dresses and garnished with clanking bracelets. Carol Match had endless recipes for Wyoming’s betterment: bring back the train or start up a bus line for public transportation; invite black people and Asians to move in and improve ethnic diversity; shift the capital to Cody; make the state attractive to moviemakers and computer commuters. It got around that she had said Wyoming people were lazy. Lazy! Verl was outraged. Although he himself avoided as much work as he could, it was because he was half crippled and it was bad for his heart. The whole world, except this California bitch, knew that there were no more frugal, thrifty, and hardworking people on the face of the earth than those in Wyoming. Work was almost holy, good physical labor done cheerfully and for its own sake, the center of each day, the node of Wyoming life. That and toughing it out when adversity struck, accepting that it was not necessary to wear a seat belt, because when it was time for you to go you went. Not being constrained by a seat belt was the pioneer spirit of freedom. “I’d sure tell her where to set her empties, but you can’t tell nobody like that nothin,” he said to Bonita. “She is too ignorant. It would just be water off a duck’s ass.” One day in the auto-parts store, where Carol Match was checking to see if her order for a side-window sunscreen for the restored 1948 Chevy half-ton had come in, he listened to her talking to Chet Breen behind the counter. She was wearing a tiny blue skirt, with the hem just below her fatty buttocks, and a silky top that showed off her robust tanned breasts. “They have got to put a traffic light at that intersection. Somebody is going to get killed one day.” Her bracelets rattled. “Always been O.K. the way it is. Just got to be a little bit careful. People here never had no trouble with it.” Breen looked at her chest for a few seconds, then looked away, then again let his gaze slide down into the cleft. “The place needs some new people,” she said. Verl understood that she didn’t just mean importing strangers. She meant an exchange. For every California fool she brought in, a native would be removed. He was sure she had a list, and that he was on it. Breen said nothing, and that, thought Verl, had probably got him on the list, too. “Wyomin is fine just the way it is,” Verl said to Bonita. “They come in here and . . . ” For Dakotah, kindergarten was packed with revelations. On the first day the teacher, a fat woman with a pink, hairy sweater, asked the children for their birthdays. “We’ll have a party each time it is somebody’s birthday,” she said with false excitement. Each child named a date, but Dakotah was confused. The boy next to her said, “December nine.” The teacher looked expectantly at Dakotah. “December nine,” she whispered. “Oh, class! Did you hear that? Dakotah has the same birthday as Billy! That’s so wonderful! We’ll have a double birthday party! Two children have the same birthday! We’ll have two cakes!” Riding home in the truck with Bonita, she asked if she had a birthday and if it was December nine. “Well, of course. Everbody has a birthday! Yours is April 1st, April Fools’ Day. That’s when you play mean tricks on somebody. Like the April Fool trick your mother pulled on us. Why do you want to know?” Dakotah explained that the teacher wanted to make parties at school, with cakes and games. And she didn’t know her birthday. And there was a song. “Well, we never went in for that birthday stuff. We don’t do such foolishness. No wonder the school is always runnin out a money if they spend it on cakes.” In school, she learned again what she already knew: that she was different from others, unworthy of friends. The Listers did their duty, raising Dakotah, Bonita making peanut-butter sandwiches for her school lunch while listening to “Morning Glory.” The radio voices roared in the bathroom, where Verl crouched on the toilet with chronic constipation. His chest pain, which often migrated to some remote interior organ, where it pulsed and gnawed, had long baffled the young woman doctor from India, who tried to fit into the rural life by uncomprehendingly attending the local amusements of fishing derbies, calcuttas, poker runs, and darts tournaments. “You see Jimmy Mint catch that three-hundred-dollar fish?” she asked, to put Verl at ease. He preferred to describe his torments in exquisite detail, drawing the devious path of a pain with his finger, tracking across his chest, down to his groin, around to the side and back again, rising to the throat. At last the doctor sent Verl to Salt Lake City for advanced tests. Bonita went with him after arranging for Dakotah to stay with Pastor Alf Crashbee and his wife, Marva. Dakotah, then seven years old, stood shyly in the hallway while Bonita and Marva Crashbee talked. Mrs. Crashbee spoke in emphatic phrases to set up her salient points. She puffed her cheeks and her nostrils flared. As Dakotah waited to be told what to do, she fell in love with a candy dish. The single piece of furniture in the hallway was a long, narrow table. On its gleaming surface rested Mrs. Crashbee’s car keys. At the farthest end was a small blue plate, close to a saucer in size, and shaped like a fish. On it were seven or eight watermelon-flavored Jolly Rancher candies. It was the amusing shape and color of the dish that entranced, its variegated blues ranging from cobalt to flushes of teal. Mrs. Crashbee noticed her gaping and told her to help herself, thinking that the poor thing probably never had much candy. After Bonita left, she said it again, in a spasm of urging. “Go ahead! Help yourself.” Dakotah took a Jolly Rancher and unwrapped it, not sure where to put the wrapper. The pastor’s wife led the way into the kitchen and pointed at a chrome can. When Dakotah tried to lift the lid, the pastor’s wife motioned her away, trod on a foot pedal, and the lid flew open. This, too, was novel. Dakotah blushed with shame, because she had not known about the foot pedal. At her grandparents’ house, trash went into a paper grocery bag that sat on a newspaper. Bonita returned to pick her up. She told Mrs. Crashbee that Verl’s tests showed serious arthritis in his joints and lumps of bone where old breaks had healed badly, but that not much could be done. He needed a whole new skeleton, and his heart was weak. A bull had stepped on his chest when he was twenty and bruised his heart. They told him just to take it easy. “He’s at home resting this very minute,” Bonita said. On the way out, Dakotah’s coat sleeve somehow brushed the blue dish off the hall table. Jolly Ranchers skittered along the floor like pale-red nuts. “For pity’s sake,” Bonita said, bending down to pick up the broken pieces. “Clumsy as a calf.” Mrs. Crashbee, shaking her head and thrusting out her chin, said, “It is nothing, just an old cheap dish.” But her tone implied that it had been part of a set of Royal Worcester. Bonita gave Dakotah a good leg whipping when they got home. Mrs. Crashbee had a microwave oven that had magically heated the soup for lunch. When Dakotah described this marvel to Bonita a few days later, Verl, who was listening from his chair in the living room, snorted and shouted that he guessed he would stick with the good old kitchen stove. It was a way of saying that there would be no microwave oven for Bonita, who had shown some interest in Dakotah’s description. Thin and with colorless brown-gray hair and grayish eyes, yet with a boy-size nose and chin, and no trace of her mother’s vivid beauty, Dakotah hunched over and kept to herself at school, was considered somewhat slow by her teachers. When she was in the fourth grade, Sherri Match brought four kittens to school. “They’re for free,” Sherri said. “You can choose.” Dakotah instantly wanted the tiny black one with white paws and a diminutive tail that stood straight up. She smoothed him, and he purred. “You can have him,” Sherri said grandly, dispenser of munificence. She brought the kitten home under her sweater, where he scratched and wriggled, terribly strong for such a small creature. In the kitchen, she gave him a saucer of milk. He sneezed, then drank greedily. Bonita said nothing, but her expression was chill. “Where’d that cat come from?” Verl demanded at supper. “Sherri Match was givin kitties away.” “I bet she was,” Verl said grimly. “Well, it can’t stay here. Cats give me asthma. I’ll take it back to them goddam Matches.” And he picked up the kitten and strode out to the truck. At school the next day, Dakotah mumbled to Sherri that she was sorry her granddad had brought the kitten back. “He said cats give him asmar.” Sherri looked at her. “He didn’t bring it back. He didn’t come to our house. What’s asmar?” When she approached her teens, the leg whippings stopped. Bonita seemed to soften through time or remorse. Yet as Dakotah filled out her grandparents became very watchful. She was not allowed to go to anyone’s house, or to walk to and from school. Social nights were out, and Bonita told her there would be no dating, as that was the way her mother had been ruined. All around them the gas fields opened up, and Verl squinted down the road to see if EnCana or British Petroleum was coming to free him from poverty. She was curious about her mother. “Didn’t you save any of her stuff?” she asked Bonita after a secret rummage through the attic. “No, I didn’t. I burned those whorish clothes and the stupid pictures she pasted on the walls. She was kind of crazy is what I come to figure. Always makin some mess or doin some outlandish thing. She never did nothin in the kitchen except one time she cooked a whole pot a Minute rice, caught a trout in the stock pond, and cut off a piece a that raw trout and laid it on the rice and ate it. Raw. I about gagged. That’s the kind a thing she did. Crazy stuff.” Dakotah, knowing herself to be unattractive, was too eager to please, hungry beyond measure for affection. She was ready to love anyone. Sash Hicks, a skinny boy dressed perpetually in camouflage clothing, with a face and body that seemed to have been broken and then realigned, noticed her, attracted to her shy silence. She responded with long, intense stares when she thought he wasn’t looking, and daydreams that never went farther than swooning kisses. One day Mr. Lewksberry, the history teacher, in an effort to make his despised subject more interesting, pandered to the local definition of “history” by assigning his students an essay on Western outlaws. In the school library, turning the pages of the “Encyclopedia of Western Badmen,” Dakotah came upon a photograph of Billy the Kid. It seemed as if Sash Hicks were looking up from the page, the same smirky triumph in the face, the slouched posture and dirty pants. Now, in her daydreams, they rode away together, Sash twisting back in the saddle to shoot at their pursuers, Verl and Bonita. In real life, they began to think of themselves as a couple, meeting in hallways, sitting near each other in classes, exchanging notes. At home, she kept Sash a secret. At the beginning of their senior year, Sash Hicks made up his mind. No judge of character, he gauged her a biddable handmaiden who would look to his comforts. He said, “Let’s get married,” and she agreed. She expected her grandparents would boil with rage when they heard the news. She said it quickly at the dinner table. But they were pleased. “You’ll get along good with Sash,” Verl said, jovial with relief that she would soon be off his hands. “Too bad Shaina didn’t think a that, might a saved her,” Bonita mumbled. Their approval was the closest thing to praise they had ever bestowed on Dakotah. She dropped out of school a few months before graduation. The school counsellor, Mrs. Lenski, middle-aged and with murky blue eyes outlined in brown, tried to persuade her to finish. “Oh, I know how you feel. I completely understand that you want to get married, but, believe me, you will never, never regret finishing school. If you should have to get a job or if trouble comes—” No, Dakotah thought, you don’t know how I feel, you don’t know what it is like to be me, but she said nothing. She found a waitressing job at Big Bob’s travel stop. The pay was minimum wage, and the tips rarely more than dimes or quarters, but it was enough to rent a three-room apartment over the Elks lodge with Sash. Otto and Virginia Hicks and Verl and Bonita came with them to the town clerk’s office on her day off. After the brief ceremony, aware that some kind of celebration was proper, they went to Big Bob’s and sat in a booth, surrounded by truckers and gas-field workers. Mr. Castle, the manager, gave them free drinks and his best wishes. Sash ate three Big Bobbers with a quart-size milkshake. Dakotah ordered hot chocolate with whipped cream. Mrs. Hicks spilled cola on her lilac skirt and became impatient to get home and sponge it off. “I hope it don’t stain,” she mourned. The Hickses were famous for their card parties, at which canasta was the game of choice, and the first prize was one of Virginia Hicks’s pecan pies, for she came from Texas and prided herself on them. Bonita and Verl also hurried away, as Verl felt his old pain encroaching, moving stealthily toward his heart. None of them knew what it was like having a serious medical condition, Verl thought, nor what it was like waking in the morning and never knowing if he would see the yard light come on at twilight. He had given up on the clinic doctors and now followed the local practice of consulting a chiropractor. The chiropractor, a fat man with steel-rod fingers, told him that his problem was in his spine, and that most ailments, including cancer, were caused by bad, jammed-up spines. Verl’s spine, he said, was one of the worst he had ever seen. Verl slid out of the booth, and Bonita followed, leaving their balled-up greasy napkins on the table instead of putting them in the disposal bin. Dakotah, unable to shake off her job training, picked up after them, threw the cups and paper wrappers in the trash bin, something Sash Hicks (and Mr. Castle) noticed with approval. No one had paid for the food, and Mr. Castle told Dakotah he would deduct the cost from her next paycheck. Sash Hicks discovered that her quiet demeanor masked a gritty stubbornness. After a few weeks, when they weren’t rolling on the new Super-Puff mattress, they were fighting over issues petty and large. “Chrissake,” said Hicks, who was still in school, working toward his goal of becoming a computer programmer. “All I asked was for you to get me a beer and some a them chips and the salsa. That goin a break your arm?” “Get it yourself. I been bossed around since I was a kid. I didn’t agree to be your maid. I worked a full shift and I’m tired. You should be gettin me a beer. You act like a customer. Go on, talk to the manager and get me fired!” She surprised herself. Where had this hard attitude come from? It must be from her rebellious, unknown mother. And maybe also from Bonita, who had her own raspy side when Verl wasn’t around. Hicks, aggrieved, saw that he had made a dreadful mistake. Plus, she was flat-chested. After months of her obstinate refusals to bring him tools or beers or to pull off his stinking sneakers, they had it out. He said he was through, and she said good, but she was keeping the apartment, since she paid the rent. In a flare of accusations and blames, they agreed to divorce. He moved back to his parents’ house and indulged in a debauch of drinking and partying to celebrate his new freedom. When he failed his final exams, he joined the Army, telling his father that the Army would train him in computer programming and he’d get paid for it, too. It was even better than his original plan—it really would let him be all he could be. He used the investment bonus for a down payment on a new truck, which his family would keep for him until he came back. But before he left for basic training Dakotah discovered she was pregnant. “Oh, my God,” Bonita said. “You get hold a Sash Hicks right now.” “What for? We are gettin a divorce. I’m Dakotah Lister now. He’s goin in the Army. Me and Sash are through.” “Not if you are havin his baby. You’re not through by a long shot. You better call him up right now and stop this divorce mess.” Dakotah would not call him. Why, she wanted to ask Bonita, didn’t you and Verl stop me from marrying him in the first place? But she knew that if they had protested she would have run off with Sash to spite them. The months went by. Dakotah kept working at Big Bob’s, enjoying the apartment, having all that room to herself. Sometimes she talked to the absent Sash Hicks: “Get me a glass a champagne, Sash. And a turkey sandwich. With mayo and pickles. Run down the store and pick up some chocolate puddin. What’s the matter, cat got your tongue?” She planned to keep the apartment after the baby came. She had not considered who would take care of the baby while she worked. One day Mrs. Lenski, the school counsellor, came into Big Bob’s and sat in a booth by herself. She pulled a tissue from her purse and blew her nose, sopped at her watery eyes. “Why, Dakotah. I wondered where you were these days. I see you and Sash are expecting. Excuse me, I think I’m getting the flu.” “I’m expecting. He don’t even know. We broke up. You were right. It would of been better if I graduated. Get a better job than this.” She gestured at the booths, at the cubbyhole where the orders from the kitchen came out—Adam and Eve on a raft, axle grease, Mike and Ike, and Big Bob’s superburger, called a “bomb” in the kitchen. “It could be worse,” Mrs. Lenski said. “You could have been a school counsellor. Heartbreaker job.” She gave Dakotah her card and said they should stay in touch. She came in once a week after that and always asked what Dakotah was doing, planning, thinking of for the future—those questions that adults believed occupied the thoughts of the young. Mr. Castle asked her to come into his office, a windowless hole that barely contained his desk. A huge tinted photograph of his wife and triplet daughters took up most of the desk top. Boxes of paper cups were piled in the corner. Mr. Castle had a red, jolly face and a store of mossy jokes. “Well, Dakotah,” he began. “I don’t have no problem with you havin a baby, but the company got a policy that no lady more than six months gone can work here.” “That’s not fair,” said Dakotah. “I need this job. Sash and me split up. I’m on my own. I work hard for you, Mr. Castle.” “Oh, I know that, Dakotah, but it’s not for me to say.” He cast a husband’s practiced eye over her. “That baby is expected pretty damn soon, right? Like in a few weeks? You can’t fool me, Dakotah, so don’t try.” All the jolliness had dried up. She understood that she was being fired. The boy was born six days later, and Mr. Castle winced as he realized how close they had come to having a delivery during noon rush hour. He sent a potted chrysanthemum with a card saying, “From the Gang at Big Bob’s!” Dakotah had somehow expected the baby to be a quiet creature that she would care for as one cared for a pet. She was unprepared for the child’s roaring greediness, his assertion of self, and for the violence of love that swamped her, that made her shake with what she knew must come next. “I guess I got a put the baby up for adoption,” she said to Bonita, then broke down and bawled. “I had money saved up for the doctor, but now I don’t have my job and can’t pay the rent.” Bonita was aghast. The boy was legitimate, though deserted by his father. She could almost hear the Matches sneering that Bonita and Verl would not care for their own flesh and blood. “You can’t bring more shame on this family. It’s almost as bad as what your mother done. You come up with some support money from that no-good bum you married, and your granddad and me will take care a the child. We’ll have to do it. Your mother’s sin unto the second generation. I want you to call up Mrs. Hicks and tell her that her precious son skipped out on his child. Tell her that you are goin to the child-support people and a lawyer. I’ll bet you anything he give the enlistment bonus to his folks.” “I spose you want a squeeze money out a him,” Mrs. Hicks said to Dakotah. “He is in the Army, and we don’t know where. Someplace in California. He didn’t tell us where they was sendin him. Probably Eye-rack by now. He said he was bein deployed to Eye-rack. But we don’t know for sure. He didn’t tell me.” There was bitterness in her voice, perhaps the bitterness of the neglected mother, or of someone wishing to be in the land of fresh pecans. Bonita sighed. “She’s lyin. She knows where he is. But them Hickses stick together tighter than cuckleburrs. We’ll have to take care a him. You name that baby Verl, after your granddad. That’ll make him more interested to help the boy.” Among the privileges of Western malehood from which the baby benefitted were opened dams of affection in Bonita and Verl. Dakotah was amazed at the way Verl hung over the infant’s crib mouthing nonsense words, but she understood what had happened. It was the same knife slice of love that had cut her. He wanted Dakotah to change the child’s last name to Lister, but she said that although Sash Hicks was a rat he was still the legal and legitimate father and the baby would stay a Hicks. Nor could Sash Hicks be located. He had been at Fort Irwin National Training Center and had sent home a cryptic letter: “I learned some Arab words. Na’am. Marhaba. Marhaba means hello. Na’am means yes. So you know.” Neither Bonita nor Verl would hear of Dakotah’s going on welfare or accepting social services, for the Matches would rightly condemn them as weak-kneed sucks on the taxpayer’s tit. They talked it through at night, the yard light casting its corrosive light on the south wall. She could go back to Mr. Castle and beg for her old job. Bonita and Verl would care for the baby. Or— “Way we see it,” Bonita said to Dakotah, “is you ought a join the Army yourself. They take women. You can support Little Verl that way. Finish your education. And find out how to get through the red tape that will track down Sash Hicks. Me and Big Verl will take care a him until you get through with the Army. A job at Big Bob’s don’t pay enough.” Verl added his opinion. “When you come back, you can get a real good job. And if you can get one a them digital cameras cheap at the PX we’ll take pictures a him—” He nodded at the baby sleeping in his carry chair. She could not believe how solicitous they had become. It was as though their icy hearts had melted and the leg whippings had never happened, as though they were bound by affection instead of grudging duty. She marvelled that this change of heart was rooted in involuntary love, a love that had not moved them when they brought her as an infant to the ranch. Her grandfather drove her to the recruitment office in Crack Springs, harping all the way on duty, responsibility, the necessity of signing the papers so child support could come to them. He also drove her to the Military Entrance Processing Station in Cody. He had even picked out a specialty for her: combat medic. “I checked around,” he said, winking his pinpoint aquamarine eyes, which, as he aged, had almost disappeared under colorless eyebrows and hanging folds of flesh. “E.M.T.s make good money. You could get to be a medic, and when you come back, why, there’s your career, just waiting.” The word “career” sounded strange coming out of his mouth. For years, he had ranted against women who worked out of the home. On the ranches, wives held everything together—cooking for big crowds, nursing the sick and injured, cleaning, raising children and driving them to rodeo practice, paying the bills, making mail runs and picking up feed at the farm supply, taking the dogs in for their shots, riding with the men at branding and shipping time, and, in mountain country, helping with the annual shove up and shove down to and from Forest Service leases—but were treated with little more regard than the beef they helped produce. It was almost spring, last night’s small snow spiking up the dead grass in ragged points, balling in the yellow joints of the streamside willow, snow that would melt as soon as the sun touched it. She was joining the Army, leaving behind the seedy two-story town, the dun-colored prairie flattened by wind, leaving the gumbo roads, the radio voices flailing through nets of static, the gossip and the narrow opinions. As they drove through the town, she saw the muddy truck that was always parked in front of the bar, the kid named Bub Carl, who hung around the barbershop. The sun was up, warming the asphalt, and already heat waves ran across the road as the old landscape fell away behind her. Yet she felt nothing for the place or for herself, not even relief at escaping Verl and Bonita, nor sorrow nor regret at putting the baby in their care. As for the child, she would be coming back to him. He would wait, as she had waited, but for him there would be a happy ending, for she would return. She picked him up and stared into his slate-blue eyes. “See? I’m comin back to get you. I’m comin back for you. I love you and will come back. Promise.” She went to Fort Leonard Wood, in Missouri, for basic training. The first thing she learned was that it was still a man’s army and that women were decidedly inferior in all ways. The memory flashed of a time when she had gone shopping with Bonita in Cody. Bonita favored a pint-size mall that featured Cowboy Meats, Radio Shack, and a video store. Dakotah chose to wait in the truck instead of trailing after Bonita, who was a ruthless and vociferous shopper for the cheapest of everything. Dakotah watched a man and his two children outside Grum’s Dollar Mart, where there was a tiny patch of grass. The man had a hard red face and a brown mustache. He was throwing a Frisbee gently to the boy, a slow toddler unable to catch it. Against the wall of the Dollar Mart stood the girl, a year or two older than the boy, but the father did not throw the Frisbee to her. Dakotah smiled at the girl staring so fixedly at the father and son. Finally, Dakotah got out of the truck and walked over. “Hey there,” she said to the girl. “What’s your name?” The child did not answer but flattened herself against the grimy wall. “What d’you want?” the father said, letting his arm down, the Frisbee sagging against his leg. “Nothin. Just sayin hello. To the little girl.” “Yeah. Well, here comes your granny. Git home and don’t be botherin my kids.” The little girl gave her a look of pure hatred and stuck out a long yellow tongue. “What’re you doin talkin a him?” Bonita said. “I wasn’t! I was sayin hello to the little girl. Who are they?” “He’s Rick Sminger, one a Shaina’s old . . . friends. Least said about him the better. I was you, I wouldn’t ask no questions. Get in and let’s get goin.” The worst thing about the Army, the thing she knew she could never get used to, was the constant presence of too many people, too close, in her face, radiating heat and smells, talking and shouting. Someone who has grown up in silence amid vast space, who was born to solitude, suffers in the company of others. So homesickness took the shape of pining for wind, an empty landscape, for silence and privacy. She longed for the baby and came to believe she was homesick for the old ranch. She made a low score on the aptitude test, edging into the borderline just enough to continue on. She thought about Verl’s suggestion that she become a combat medic. She had no other ideas. At least she would be helping people. She named it as her choice of a military occupational specialty. During basic training, she heard that becoming a combat medic was very tough. But she had learned C.P.R. in sophomore gym class and thought she could study enough to pass a few tests. After basic training, she went to Fort Sam Houston, in San Antonio, for E.M.T. training. All of her fellowvolunteers seemed to have been practicing medicine since kindergarten. Pat Moody, a wiry blonde from Oregon, was the daughter of a doctor and had heard medical talk for years. Marnie Jellson came from a potato farm in Idaho and had cared for her sick mother for two years. When the mother died, she had enlisted. Tommet Means had been an E.M.T. since high school. Chris Jinkla came from a family of veterinarians and had accompanied his father on calls a thousand times. “I grew up bandaging paws,” he said. She and Pat and Marnie became friends. Pat played the guitar and taught Dakotah enough chords to string together “Michael, Row the Boat Ashore.” Marnie had a collection of movies that they watched on weekends. She had a potato tattooed on her left calf and knew dozens of potato jokes. Both of them talked about their families, and finally Dakotah explained that her grandparents had bought her up, told about Sash and the breakup and the baby. “You poor kiddo,” Marnie said. “You’ve been through a lot.” “How can it be,” she asked them, “that you feel homesick for a place you hate?” She thought of the neutral smell of dust, like stones or old wood, of summer haze from distant forest fires, of rose-rock outcrops breaking from the rusty earth. She thought of the run-down town, every other building sporting a weathered “For Sale” sign. “Maybe it’s the people you are homesick for, not the place,” Pat said. And, of course, it was. She saw that right away. Not just Baby Verl but even closed-up Bonita and Verl hitching along on his bad legs. She bought a camera and sent it to Bonita and Verl, begging them to take photographs of the baby. She taped dozens of them on her wall. She wrote long letters to Baby Verl, covered the margins with symbols of kisses and hugs. She and Pat and Marnie raided the PX for baby toys, miniature bluejeans, pajamas imprinted with tanks and planes. They went to dinner at restaurants, and Dakotah learned that it was bad manners to stack the empty dishes. “I was just helpin the waitress out,” she explained. At a Japanese place, one night, Pat persuaded her to try sushi. “What is it?” she asked, looking at the hump of rice with an orange slice of something on top. “It is salmon and rice, and that is wasabi, a kind of grated horseradish. It’s hot.” She ate it, and the texture of the salmon startled her. “It’s not cooked!” “It’s not supposed to be cooked.” “It’s raw—raw fish! I ate it!” Her stomach heaved, but she kept it down and even ate another. A day later, she remembered Bonita describing Shaina putting raw trout on some Minute rice. Was it possible that her mother had heard somewhere about sushi and decided to try it—Wyoming style? Was it possible that her mother had been exhibiting not craziness but curiosity about the outside world? She told Pat and Marnie about it, and they decided that was it: curiosity and a longing for the exotic. As the tsunami of reading material, lectures, slides, videos, X-rays, computer tutorials on anatomy, diseases, trauma, physiology, obstetrics, pediatrics, shock, and a bewildering vocabulary of medical terms swept over the group, Dakotah did not think she would pass the E.M.T. Basic Registry Exam. And, even if she did, then came primary-care training and the horror courses in chemical, explosive, and radiation injuries. “I will never get to Whiskey level,” she said calmly to Pat, thinking of needle chest decompression and clearing airways, both of which she dreaded. “Come on, you’ll make it,” Pat, who aced every test, said. Dakotah passed the E.M.T. test, but at the bottom of the class. Marnie flat out failed. “Suggest you think about changin to military police,” the squinty-eyed, spotted-banana-skin instructor said to Dakotah. “Medicine is not your thing. I know I’d sure hate to be lyin there with my guts hangin out and here comes old rough-hand Dakotah tryin to remember what to do.” Pat went to Fort Drum, in New York, for training at the medical-simulation center, where darkness, explosions, and smoke mimicked realistic battlefield situations. She sent Marnie and Dakotah a letter describing Private Hunk, a computerized patient-simulation mannequin who could bleed, breathe, and even talk a little. He was complete in every detail, constructed for countless intubations, tracheotomies, catheterizations. He suffered sucking chest wounds, hideous traumas. He bled and moaned for help, and on occasion shrieked an inhuman bird call, like a falcon. He was hot or cold, at the instructor’s wish, could run a fever or suffer severe hypothermia. “He’s got a cute little dick,” Pat wrote. “I’m in love with him.” Dakotah answered the letter, but they never heard from Pat again. There were many letters from Bonita, the words looping downhill across the page and ending with a two-line prayer. She always began with news of Baby Verl’s progress—cutting teeth, crawling, standing up, how Verl’s old dog Bum had taken to him, following him everywhere and letting Baby Verl pull his ears, how Verl had got another dog, Buddy, because Bum was getting old, and how Buddy loved the baby even more than Bum did; and only when she had detailed every wonderful thing Baby Verl had done did she report on other things. Big Verl, she said, had quit his chiropractor and was now going to a fat woman who gave massages and charged terrific prices: “At least she advertises they are massages. If Verl wasn’t Verl, I would think it was something else.” Dakotah felt a rare and even painful rush of affection mixed with pity for Bonita, although she suspected she was only writing out of a sense of duty. A few letters came from Mrs. Lenski, alternately sardonic and cheerful. It seemed to Dakotah that, as soon as she had left, the town started dying off. One of the Vasey twins had been killed and the other severely injured in a car crash at the intersection, where everybody knew to slow down. Some truck with Colorado plates had blasted through and T-boned them. And, Mrs. Lenski wrote, two lesbian women with a herd of goats had bought the Tin Can house and planned to make cheese and sell it locally. Dakotah was shocked to see the word “lesbian” on the page of a letter like any ordinary word. Tug Diceheart and two other hands riding for the Tic-Tac had been caught making meth in the bunkhouse and had been arrested. Juiciest of all, Carol Match had left Wyatt and returned to California to become a real-estate agent. Dakotah wondered if Verl was gloating. In Iraq, both Dakotah and Marnie changed their M.O.S. to military police. They had become close, closer than she had ever been to Sash. Dakotah, for the first time in her life, had someone to talk to, someone who understood everything, from rural ways to failing at tests. Marnie said they were in love. They talked about setting up house together with Baby Verl after they got out. One day they were in a Humvee, Dakotah clutching a machine gun, on their way to a checkpoint to search Iraqi women. “Yup, here we are with the fuckups. M.P. is where the dumb ones end up. Supposed a be the stupidest part of the entire Army.” “Don’t you think some of the officers could get that prize?” “Yeah. So probably M.P.s come second. Second-dumbest, something to brag about.” They had learned that the checkpoints were intensely dangerous, and after a few weeks Dakotah developed a little magic ritual to keep herself alive. She rapidly twitched the muscles of her toes, heel, calf, knee, hip, waist, shoulder, eyebrows, elbow, wrist, thumb, fingers on the right side, and then repeated the series for the left side. Bonita had sent her a silver-plated cross that she recognized. It had always been in the second drawer of the kitchen dresser with a tortoiseshell comb, a pot holder too nice to use, a pair of small kid gloves that had belonged to Verl’s famous great-grandmother, a red box with a sliding lid filled with old buttons. She wore the cross once, but it got tangled with her dog tags and she put it away. She hated searching the Iraqi women, knew that they hated her doing it. Some of them smelled, and their voluminous, often ragged and dusty burkas could conceal anything from a black-market radio to baby clothes or a bomb. One young woman had six glossy eggplants hidden under her garment. Dakotah pitied her, unable even to buy and carry home a few eggplants without an American soldier groping at her. On the day the I.E.D. exploded under the Humvee, she had not completed the left side of the protecting muscle twitches, choosing a third cup of coffee instead. It happened too suddenly for anything to register. One moment they were travelling fast, the next she was looking up into the face of Chris Jinkla. “Moooo,” she said, trying to make a cow joke for the veterinarian’s son, but he didn’t recognize her and thought she was moaning. She felt nothing at that moment and tried her magic muscle-twitch sequence, but something was wrong on the right side. “I’m fine, Chris. Except my arm.” The medic was startled. He peered into her bloody face. “My God, it’s Pat, right?” “Dakotah,” she whispered. “I’m Dakotah. I’m fine, but I need my arm. Please look for it. I can’t go home without it.” She turned her head and saw a heap of bloody rags and a patch of skin. “Marnie?” Her right arm was still there, though cruelly shattered, and the best they could hope for, said the doctor at the field hospital, was to amputate and save enough stump to allow for a prosthetic. “You’re young and strong,” he said. “You’ll make it.” “I’m fine,” she agreed. “How about Marnie?” She knew as she asked. She was shipped out to Germany with other wounded soldiers, gradually aware that there was some awful knowledge hovering, something worse than her mangled arm, which had been amputated, something as bad as losing Marnie. Maybe they had discovered that she had cancer and wouldn’t tell her. But it was not until she was sent to Walter Reed that she heard the bad news from Bonita, who stood at her bedside with a curious expression of sorrow and, looking at the stump of her arm, ghoulish curiosity. “Oh, oh,” Bonita whispered, and then burst into streaming tears. Never had Dakotah seen anyone cry that way, tears pouring down Bonita’s cheeks to the corners of her mouth, splashing from her jawline onto her rayon blouse as though her head were filled with water. She could not speak for long minutes. “Baby Verl,” she finally said. “What?” Dakotah knew instinctively that it was the worst thing. “Ridin in the back a Big Verl’s truck—” And the tears began again. The story came slowly. The eighteen-month-old child had loved riding with his great-grandfather, but this day Verl had put him with the dogs in the open truck bed. Big Verl was so proud to have a boy and wanted him to be tough. The dogs loved him. Bonita said that several times. The rest of it came in a rush. “See, Verl thought he’d just sit with the dogs. They done it before. But you know how dogs hang over the edge. Baby Verl did that, too, near as we can tell, so that when the truck went down in one a them dips it threw him out. It was a accident. He fell under the wheels, Dakotah. Big Verl is half crazy. They got him sedated. The doctors are fixin it up for you to come home.” Dakotah threw back her head and howled. She began to curse Bonita and Verl. How could he be so stupid as to put a baby in the bed of a pickup? The shouting and crying brought an irritated nurse, who asked them to keep it down. Bonita, who had been backing away, ran into the corridor and did not return. “It takes a year, Dakotah,” said Mrs. Parka, the grief counsellor, a fullbosomed woman with enormous liquid eyes. “A full turn of the seasons before you begin to heal. Time does heal all wounds, and right now the passage of time is the best medicine. And you yourself must heal physically as well as spiritually. You need to be very strong. What is your religion?” Dakotah shook her head. She had asked the woman to write to Mrs. Lenski and tell her what had happened, but the woman said it was part of the healing process for Dakotah to face the fact of Baby Verl’s passing and tell Mrs. Lenski herself. She wanted to choke the woman until she went blue-black and died. “There are other ways for you to communicate. The telephone. E-mail?” “Get away from me,” Dakotah said. At the end of the summer, she was still there, in a grimy old motel somehow connected to the hospital, getting used to the prosthesis. She sat in the dim room doing nothing. She struggled to understand the morass of papers about disability allowances, death allowances, Baby Verl’s support. One of the official letters said that support payments for Baby Verl Hicks should never have been paid to, by, or through Dakotah but through the child’s father, S/Sergeant Saskatoon M. Hicks, currently at Walter Reed hospital recuperating. That Sash was somewhere at the hospital amazed her. That she had learned about it amazed her more, for the confusion and chaos of lost patients was like the nest of rattlesnakes Verl had once shown her, a coiling mass under a shelving boulder. He had fired his old 12-gauge at them, and still the torn flesh twisted. One afternoon a volunteer came to her. Dakotah saw that she must be rich; she was trim and tanned and wore an elegant raspberry-colored wool suit with a white silk shirt. “Are you Dakotah Hicks?” She had forgotten they were still married. Sash’s divorce action had gone dormant when he left for basic training. “Yes, but we were gettin a divorce. And then I don’t know what happened.” “Well, your husband is here in the complex, and his doctors think you ought to see him. I should warn you, he has suffered very severe injuries. He may not recognize you. He probably won’t. They are hoping that seeing you again will . . . sort of wake him up.” Dakotah said nothing at first. She did not want to see Sash. She wanted to see Marnie. She wanted Baby Verl. She half believed he was waiting at home, ready to play patty-cake. She could feel his small warm hands. “I don’t really want to see him. We got nothin to talk about.” But the woman sat beside her chair and cajoled. Dakotah breathed in a delicious fragrance, as rich as apricots in cream and with the slight bitterness of the cyanide kernel at its core. The woman’s hands were shapely, with long pale nails. Because it seemed that the only way to get rid of the woman was to agree, in the end she went. Sash Hicks had disintegrated, both legs blown off at mid-thigh, the left side of his face a mass of shiny scar tissue, the left ear and eye gone. It was almost like seeing Marnie, whom she knew was dead, although she kept hearing her voice in corridors. Sash’s nurse told her that he had suffered brain damage. But Dakotah recognized him, old Billy the Kid shot up by Pat Garrett. More than ever, he looked like the antique outlaw. He stared at the ceiling with his right eye. The destroyed face showed no comprehension of anything except that something was terribly wrong. “Sash. It’s me, Dakotah.” He said nothing. Although his face was ruined and he was ravaged from the waist down, his right shoulder and arm were muscular and stout. She didn’t know what she felt for him—pity, or nothing at all. Words came out of the distorted mouth. “Ah, ah, eh.” He subsided as though someone had unscrewed the valve that kept his body inflated and upright. His moment of grappling with the world had passed, and his chin sank onto his chest. “Are you asleep?” Dakotah asked. There was no answer, and she left. The trip to the ranch was hard, but there was nowhere else to go. She dreaded seeing Verl. Would she scream and punch him? Grab the .30-30 on top of the dish cupboard and shoot him? Sonny Ezell’s old taxi moved very slowly. Her prosthesis was in her suitcase. She knew they would have to see the arm stump to believe what had happened, just as she would have to see Baby Verl’s grave. They passed the Match ranch, unchanged, and turned onto Sixteen Mile. The days were shortening, but there was still plenty of light, the top of Table Butte, layered bands of buff, gamboge, and violet, gilded by the setting sun. The shallow river, as yellow as lemon rind, lay flaccid between denuded banks. The dying sun hit the willows, transforming them into fiery wands. Light reflected off the road as from glass. They seemed to be travelling through a hammered red landscape in which ranch buildings appeared dark and sorrowful. She knew what blood-soaked ground was, knew that severed arteries squirted like the back-yard hose. A dog came out of the ditch and ran into a stubble field. They passed the Persa ranch, where the youngest son had drowned in last spring’s flood. She realized that every ranch she passed had lost a boy, lost boys early and late, boys smiling, sure in their risks, healthy, tipped out of the current of life by liquor and acceleration, rodeo smashups, bad horses, deep irrigation ditches, high trestles, tractor rollovers, and unsecured truck doors. Her boy, too. This was the waiting darkness that surrounded ranch boys, the dangerous growing up that cancelled out their favored status. The trip along this road was a roll call of grief. Wind began to lift the fine dust, and the sun set in haze. When she got out at the house, the wind swallowed her whole, snatching at her scarf, huffing up under the hem of her coat, eeling up her sleeve. She could feel the grit. Every step she took, dried weeds snapped under her shoes. Sonny Ezell carried her suitcase to the porch and wouldn’t take any money. Someone inside switched on the porch light. She did not attack Verl. Both of her grandparents hugged her and cried. Verl fell to his knees and sobbed that he was sorry unto death. He pressed his wet face against her hand. He had never before touched her in any way. She felt nothing and took it to mean recovery. There was a large color photograph of Baby Verl on the wall. He was sitting on a bench with one chubby leg folded under him, the other dangling and showing a snowy white stocking and miniature sneaker. They must have taken him to the Wal-Mart portrait studio. He held a plush bear by its ear. Bonita brought out a big dinner— fried chicken, mashed potatoes, string beans with cream sauce, fresh rolls, and for dessert a pecan pie that she said Mrs. Hicks had sent over. She said something about Mrs. Hicks that Dakotah did not catch. It was a terrible dinner. None of them could eat. They pushed the food around and in hoarse, teary voices said how good everything looked. Verl, perhaps trying to set an example, took a forkful of mashed potato and retched. At last they got up. Bonita wrapped the food with plastic film and put it in the refrigerator. “We’ll eat it tomorrow,” she said. They sat in awful silence in the living room, the television set dark. “Your old room is made up,” Bonita said. In the quiet, the kitchen refrigerator hummed like wind in the wires. “You know, them Hickses couldn’t afford to go to Warshinton and see Sash. They need to know about him. They can’t find out a thing. They telephoned a hunderd times. Every time they call that hospital, they get cut off or transferred to somebody don’t know. They need for you to tell them. It’s bad, them not knowing.” She could not tell them how much worse it was to know. The next morning, they could all drink coffee. Mourning, grief, and loss were somehow eased by hot, black coffee. But still no one could eat. At noon, Dakotah left Verl and Bonita and went for a walk up the pine slope. A new power line ran through the slashed trees. At supper, the welcome-home meal reappeared, heated in Bonita’s microwave, which she had bought with some of Dakotah’s money. They finally ate, very slowly. In a low voice, Dakotah said that the chicken was good, though it had no taste. Bonita made more coffee—none of them would sleep, anyway—and cut Mrs. Hicks’s pecan pie. Verl gazed at the golden triangle on his plate, seemed unable to lift his fork. There was the creak of the kitchen door, and Otto and Virginia Hicks came in, tentatively. Bonita urged them to sit down, got coffee for them. Mrs. Hicks’s red eyes went to Dakotah. Her hand shook and the cup stuttered against the saucer. “What about Sash?” she blurted. “You seen him. We got that official letter that says he is coming home. They don’t say how bad he was hurt. We can’t find out nothing. He don’t call us. Maybe he can’t call us. What about Sash?” Bonita looked at Dakotah, opened her mouth to say something, then closed it again. The silence spread out like a rain-swollen river, lapping against the walls of the room, mounting over their heads. Dakotah thought of Sonny Ezell’s taxi rolling slowly past the bereft ranches. She felt the Hickses’ fear begin to solidify into knowledge. Already, grief was settling around the tense couple like a rope loop, the same rope that encircled all of them. She had to draw the Hickses’ rope tight around them until they went numb to the pain, had to show that it didn’t pay to love. “Sash,” she said at last, so softly they could barely hear. “Sash is tits-up in a ditch.” They sat frozen, like survivors in the aftermath of an explosion, each silently calculating his chances. The air vibrated. At last Mrs. Hicks turned her red eyes on Dakotah. “You’re his wife,” she said. And Dakotah felt her hooves slip as she began her descent into the dark, watery mud.
Don’t Cry Our first morning in Addis Ababa there was wedding music playing outside the hotel. We had travelled for twenty hours and we were deeply asleep. The music entered my sleep in the form of lights, moving like fireflies or animate laughter, in a pattern, but a loose and playful one. I was dreaming that I was with my husband, Thomas; he had just died, but in the dream he was alive and very young, and we were chasing a light that had come free of the others, running down a winding path with darkness all around. When I woke, at first I did not know where I was. The music seemed more real than the dingy room; its sound saturated me with happiness and pain. Then I saw Katya and remembered where we were and why. She was already up and standing at the window, lifting a shade to peer out—the sun made a warm place on her skin and I felt affection for her known form in this unknown place. She turned and said, “Janice, there’s weddings going on outside—plural!” We went outside. All around our hotel were gardens, and in the gardens were crowds of people dressed in the bright colors of undiluted joy. Brides and grooms were wearing white satin, and the streets were lined with white flower-covered limousines, and together with so much color the white also seemed colorful. Little girls in red-and-white crinoline ran past us, followed by a laughing woman. Everyone was laughing or smiling, and because I could not tell where the music was coming from, I had the sensation that it was coming directly from these smiling, laughing people. Katya turned to me and said, “Are we in heaven?” I answered, “I don’t know,” and for a second I meant it. In the dirty hotel restaurant we ate dry, bricklike croissants and lots of good fruit—papaya, mangoes, bananas, oranges, and pineapple. The coffee was burnt, so we decided to go to an espresso place that we’d been told was just a few blocks away. We never found it, although we walked a long time. At first, we walked on a crowded paved street, with department stores, an Internet café, and a grocery store with a big Magic Marker drawing (green and red) of fruit and vegetables in the window. Starving dogs wandered freely. The pavement abruptly fell off and the street became rocky. We saw another wedding party, in a Mercedes decked with rich-colored flowers, moving through a herd of donkeys, the herders lagging behind, talking on their cell phones. Beggars swarmed around us, shouting and showing us their deformed limbs, their blind eyes. We forgot our espresso. The rocky street gave way to dirt with pools of muddy water. Houses, patched together with tin, plastic, canvas, and wood, bulged out, sagged in, lurched, and leaned this way and that. Wedding guests in gold pants and silky shirts pushed their broken-down car through slowly parting pedestrians. A little boy marched along blowing a horn; he was followed by an even smaller boy, shouting and rhythmically shaking a clutch of bells on a strap. The smell of fresh shit rose up suddenly and mixed with the odors of sweat and cooked meat. An old woman seated in the roots of a giant tree sold bundled sticks and dresses mounted on smiling white mannequins. Trees made soft, blunt, deep-green shapes with their boughs. Katya turned to me, her face dazed. “We’d better go back,” she said. “We’re getting lost.”Katya was in Ethiopia to adopt a baby; I was there to help her. Katya had asked me to go with her because I was one of her oldest friends, going back to our waitressing days in Manhattan. She was a narrow little woman with a broad, bossy air: ugly-beautiful, her full lower lip a bit too pendulous, her hips and breasts small but highly charged, her black hair big, curly, and shining with secreted oil. The restaurant we’d worked at was run by Mafia thugs, and they would sometimes come in before our shift to do coke with us. The head thug really liked Katya; he confided in her and asked her advice and she consoled him and bossed him around. In those days, I was putting myself through a writing program; she was having experiences. I got married and turned into an English professor who publishes stories in quarterly magazines. She started various businesses, which she either failed at or got bored of and sold. She had family money to begin with, and in spite of the failures along the way she actually amassed some money of her own. Eventually, she opened a boutique in D.C., which was where she lived. She had made some Ethiopian friends, one of whom, a woman named Meselu, ran a “big woman’s” store across the street from Katya’s. Katya had been thinking of adoption for some time. This was 2005, and she was already forty-nine. She didn’t want to go through an agency in America, because it pissed her off that the agencies would give the birth mother full disclosure regarding the adoptive parent but not vice versa. She didn’t want to go through a foreign agency, because most of them required a two-year wait, and she felt that she was too old. She had learned through someone on the Internet—a woman in California who’d adopted an Ethiopian child three years earlier—that independent adoptions in Ethiopia were relatively easy. It helped, of course, that Meselu could hook her up with people in Addis Ababa, including a driver named Yonas, who specialized in clients who were there to adopt. When Katya asked me if I would go to Africa with her, I said yes, because Thomas had died four months earlier and I hadn’t yet gone back to teaching. In the emptiness of my life, it didn’t seem to matter what I did; between doing nothing and doing something, it seemed better to do something. Thomas and I had never had children, and maybe, without thinking about it, I wanted to help my friend give a child safe passage. Katya had never been lucky with men and I knew that she had always envied me my marriage; perhaps I was hoping to balance my loss with something good for her. In any case, before I left I took Thomas’s wedding ring from the altar I had made in our bedroom, took my own ring from my finger, and put them both on a gold chain around my neck. T he day after we arrived was a Saturday, so we weren’t able to go to any orphanages; instead, we had dinner with Meselu’s relatives. We took with us the huge bundles of clothes, toiletries, and batteries that Meselu had sent. The house was behind a high stone wall, with an archway bowered with thick-growing plants. The family matriarch, Zeyneb, served us a spread with a dozen little meat dishes—goat and lamb in a variety of sauces—with bread made from a grain called teff. Zeyneb sat at the head of the table in a crimson dress and passed the dishes in a formal manner. Most of her family was there: one of her two daughters, three of her four sons, and six grandchildren. One of the sons—Meselu’s uncle—spoke a little English, and he translated as well as his skill would allow. We couldn’t understand a lot of it; we heard something about the election and the government. Zeyneb said something about adoption and things having changed. The grandchildren talked loudly and happily among themselves, listening sideways to the uncle’s translations of our speech. Zeyneb asked how many children I had. When I said none, one of the little girls looked at me piercingly. That night we went to bed early—we had to. The power was out and by eight-thirty it had got too dark to read. It was almost cold, so we slept with the windows shut; the muffled street sound had a lulling effect. Katya said she was too excited to sleep, but she drifted off quickly; I was the one who stirred all night, unable to sleep or to stay fully awake. The morning’s wedding music crowded my mind, the bright colors and smiles, the running girls, the laughing woman. Cars mingled with donkeys. Beggars came bursting out of the wedding crowd, shouting. One of them was a boy I had seen that morning and tried not to notice, a boy with a gouged-out eye socket. We emptied our purses, but it was not enough. I touched the wedding rings around my neck. Thomas appeared to me and sat on the bed. I stretched out my hand to him; the street crowd vanished. I remembered Thomas inside me. Children peered around a dark corner—first they were Zeyneb’s grandchildren, then they were unborn children waiting for Thomas and me to conceive them. Among them was the boy with the gouged eye, not begging but waiting to be born. “I want you now,” I whispered. Thomas answered, “I am here,” but faintly. Chanting sounded. It was haunting, stern, as implacable as a machine. Rules, I thought. Punishment: it’s coming. The chanting filled the suffocating room. “Shut up!” I hissed. “Just shut the fuck up!” Katya stirred and murmured, “What?” “This noise, what is it?” “Zeyneb said it’s from the churches. Go back to sleep—it’s going to go on all day.” When Yonas came to pick us up at the hotel, he told us that every Saturday at this time of year people in Addis Ababa come out to get married and that our hotel was an especially popular spot because of the gardens. He was a young man with a profound feeling of age about him. When we told him how heavenly the weddings had seemed to us, he gravely bobbed his head and made the quick, sharp inhalation that we were beginning to understand as “yes.” He held open the door of his rattling Soviet car for us and said something I didn’t catch. We got in and sank into the broken, reeking cushions, almost down to the floor. Yonas drove us to the first orphanage on our list. It was Catholic. It was a compound made of concrete, with a tin door, heavily patched with roofing tile, in a doorway that was big enough to drive a car through. A girl pocked with open sores and dressed in filthy rags was huddled near it, with a baby in her arms. I expected her to beg from us but she didn’t have the strength; she didn’t have the strength to swat the flies away. We tried to give her money—I bent down and held it in front of her face—but she didn’t even look at it. She just stared at the door. We tried the door and found it locked. Katya knocked. No one came. I looked at the girl’s baby; its eyelids were encrusted with parasites and swarming with flies. Katya knocked again, louder and longer. Street traffic went back and forth. Again, I tried to give the girl some money. She stared at the door as if I weren’t there. I tried to look into the baby’s eyes but its little face was numb with suffering; it didn’t see me, either. Katya knocked again. We waited. I imagined children peering from behind the door. Finally, Katya turned away, her face white. When we got back into the car we asked Yonas if there was something we could do for the girl with the baby. He shook his head. “I don’t think we can help her. Probably she’s dying—she knows she’s dying and she wants her baby to be taken into the orphanage when she does.” His tone was gentle and matter-of-fact, and there was no response to make to what he had said. At the next orphanage we knocked and the door was opened. We were escorted through a barren courtyard and into a large office with a concrete floor. A girl dressed in shabby Western clothes passed by the open door, craning her head to look at us as she did. We waited half an hour before a young woman came to tell us that the director of the orphanage was not available. We asked when she might be available and the young woman shook her head. Katya asked if we might meet some of the children, anyway; again the young woman shook her head. “They are busy,” she said. No one in authority was available at the next orphanage, or the next one, or the one after that; all the children were busy. When we got back into the car, Katya said to Yonas, “Get us out of here. Please. Take us someplace out of the city. Someplace where we can breathe.” We drove down a street of tin shanties and stalls hung with bananas and talismans that appeared to be made of hair; a dim electrical buzzing began in my ears. He can’t breathe. Thomas’s daughter, Elena, had said this just before he died. His breath had become faster and shallower. He was still alive, but decomposition had begun—I was so used to it that it didn’t even seem horrible to me. I was so used to it that, even then, when I touched him, I could feel him. His warmth, his personality, everything that I had thought of as his physical energy: I still felt it when I put my hands on him; it was moving in him still. Though maybe now it was moving out of instead of through him. We passed a street that looked like a dark pit letting loose its buildings and people. There was garbage strewn all around. A woman in a huge hat crouched in it, selling what looked like prepared food. I thought of Thomas’s old aunt Lucinda in her big hat, picking through somebody’s garage sale. Lucinda had raised Thomas, because one day, when he was seven, his mother had got on a bus and never come back. Lucinda had been the only member of his family to really accept me, and she was half-senile. When Thomas and I met, Elena was already a young woman. I’d see her and her brother, Frank, on holidays, and our relationship was mostly polite. But when Thomas got sick she rented an apartment close to us. She was there for her father, but her feeling for me had changed, too; I could tell by the way her hip touched mine when she kissed me good night. But Frank, the son—in the beginning he flirted with me, and by the end he was screaming about money. Especially he screamed about my having redone the bathroom with a luxury marble shower while his dad was sick—but that damn shower was one of the last things that Thomas had been coherent about. He had wanted it, not me. The buzzing in my ears grew louder. “Look!” Katya cried. Out the window, there was a smiling lion carved into a stony hill, climbing three steps at the top of which a Coca-Cola bottle announced a refreshment stand. We parked, and Yonas hired two teen-agers to take us up into the mountains for three U.S. dollars. We walked for about two hours. The landscape was densely beautiful. The sky was a soft rolling gray, deep and full of round shapes amid stretches of radiant blankness. Beneath us was a valley in which grew dark clumps of bushes and trees, pale grasses and deep patches of earth. We passed farmers with wooden plows drawn by oxen, turning up soil and chunks of stone so crystalline they gave light back to the sun. I wished that Thomas were there to see it all. And then he was there. I was flooded with memories of our first meeting: I was twenty-four and he was fifty-two. People say that young women are attracted to older men because of social power. But my response was like strong weather—not chosen, not social. I was a graduate student and he was a visiting writer and a party was being held for him in the house of some faculty eminence. It was dull, and I went out into the yard to play with somebody’s dog, a chocolate-spotted terrier with a chewed-up ball that I threw until it landed in a pond with a skin of chartreuse scum. The dog and I were looking through the weeds at the water’s edge when the guest of honor appeared with a drink in his hand. “Did you lose something?” he asked. He wore an elegant suit and expensive shoes. He was ripe, confident, bursting with sex. “The dog’s ball,” I said. “It went in the water, I think.” And, still holding his drink, he walked into the water in his suit and his expensive shoes and got it for me. I shifted my eyes. White seeped into the soft gray of the sky; the earth hummed through the waving hairs of its pale grasses, its bright leaves, the pores of its dark flesh. My body remembered the flesh of my husband’s arms, the warm intelligence of his chest, his willful, goatish belly. I quickly dried my eyes. One of the teen-agers turned to us. Yonas said, “O.K., we’re here.” He had brought us to a church that was built into a ravine. Looking at it was like looking down into a ruined palace, a system of courtyards, chambers, and antechambers that instead of being built into the air had been carved into the earth. There were steps down into it, but they were eroded and overgrown. Still, we made our way down slowly, crouching and clutching at bushes and vines that felt alive enough to close over our heads and swallow us whole, not like an animal but like an element. Inside, the church seemed to have been carved so that it would appear nearly natural, an expression of the earth’s mind. In its decay it was covered with lichen, deep-colored moss, and small trees; it smelled like rock and humus. There were remnants of stone arches in the roof, thickly overgrown with clinging vines. Niches were cut into the walls, and in the niches were stone figures whose faces were worn away. There were stone benches, too, like pews. Further inside there was another short descent into a grotto, a chapel with a stream of water running through it like a vein of shining blood. The steps descending into the chapel were intact so the descent was not that difficult. Still, there was the sense that we might not be able to return. We reached the bottom and stood wordlessly absorbing a feeling of power that was embodied by earth but was bigger than earth. Again came the fear of being swallowed, but also a desire to be swallowed, as if by a lover. I clasped my hands and bent my head. Instead of prayer, a memory came to me, half-blotted in darkness; a memory of my cheek on the floor, my knees spread, my eyes closed, my body naked. I loosed my hands and looked up. The memory passed, or became a memory of something else, someone else—someone I had not thought of for years, someone I had not really thought of at all. She was Thomas’s first wife, Frank and Elena’s mother; he had left her to be with me. I had never met her but I had seen her once, when Thomas and I were walking down the street in Manhattan. He took my arm abruptly and muttered her name under his breath. I looked and saw a small middle-aged woman in glasses looking fixedly ahead as she passed. I turned away, embarrassed. But now I saw her vividly. I saw her and felt her loneliness. On the street she had looked about fifty—the age I am now. For two days, wherever we went no one was available to speak with us. Finally, we went back to the first place we had tried. This time the dying girl was not there—though I thought I could make out a shadow, perhaps an indentation or a soft mark, where she had lain. We knocked for a while and were about to go when the door was opened. The head nun was a tall, erect woman with a still, cold face and fiery eyes, whose fire seemed to come from far away, far down in the hole of herself. We sat with her in her office and she told us the story of another woman who had come to do an independent adoption; the story took almost an hour to tell, and it ended with the woman leaving Addis Ababa to look elsewhere. As an afterthought, the nun added that, at present, she had no babies. “But what about the girl who was outside the door a few days ago?” Katya asked. “She was obviously very sick and she had a beautiful baby and I was wondering if you took that baby in?” The nun said that if the girl was sick she was probably with her family now. And then she made it clear that we were to leave. Some version of this episode was repeated at several other orphanages. Finally, Katya went to the ministry that oversees adoptions, to meet with the man everyone referred to as “the Head”; we never found out what his actual title was. He suggested that we go to an orphanage on the outskirts of town, but when we got there we were told that they had no babies available, either. Just as the supervisor, or whatever she was, told us this, a baby began crying in the next room. Katya stood up, one hand on her hip, the other pointing toward the sound. “And what,” she demanded, “is that?” “Obviously, that is a baby,” the woman said stiffly. “But as this baby has AIDS he is not up for adoption in America.” Katya sat back down; she put her head in her hands. “I’m sorry,” she said. “I don’t mean to be rude.” The supervisor sighed and leaned back in her chair. She looked out the window for a long time. When she looked back, she said, “I should not tell you this, but I am going to tell you. The Head told us that you were coming. And he explicitly told us that we were not to do any independent adoptions. That’s it. No independent adoptions.” Katya jumped up. “But he told us to come here!” “If he has changed his mind,” the woman said, “then he needs to put it in writing. You need to get a letter from him stating that he gives permission. And I doubt he will give it to you.” The next day Katya was sick with diarrhea and couldn’t eat anything but a banana. Still, we went to see the Head. Katya went in to meet him in his office; I stayed in the car with Yonas. He talked to me about the election; he said that the government had lied about the results in order to hold on to power and that people were going to fight about it. I asked him how he had learned to speak English so well. He said that he had studied it at the university and that driving had given him the chance to practice. He had studied for only a year even though he loved it; his brother and sister had children and he needed to help make money for them so that they could get the best education possible. Katya came out and said, “What a prick!” She got in the car and slammed the door. “Sorry for my language, Yonas. The agencies must’ve gotten to him—that’s the only explanation. He said I don’t need a letter, so why should he write me a letter? I said, ‘How am I going to get a child?’ He said, ‘That’s your concern, not mine.’ ” Yonas drove us back to the hotel. “I just don’t know what to do,” Katya said. “We can’t stay here forever. I don’t know what to do. God, I feel sick.” She took out her cell phone and began rifling through her purse. “Who are you calling?” I asked. “A guy named Kebede. Meselu gave me his number. He’s a sort of liaison between the hospital and orphanages in Arba Minch. I didn’t want to call because he’s in a whole other city. But I don’t know what else to try.” Yonas muttered unhappily; we were suddenly floating in a flood of people and donkeys. Katya got Kebede on the phone. Music came from somewhere, lots of instruments blended energetically. I smiled; I remembered the first time that Thomas and I had had really good sex. Afterward, he’d put on some old pop music and danced in his underwear. He’d danced comically but also intently. The song played: I’ve got a hard-ass pair of shoulders. I’ve got a love you can’t imagine. Katya frowned into the phone, covering her other ear. “Really?” she said. “You know the Head?” Suddenly her voice was round and shining. Thomas danced; the car bucked forward; we rolled past a graveyard of white tombs and faceless angels standing guard over the dead. Katya hung up the phone. “He has a child,” she said. A love you can’t imagine. “A boy. Almost two. His mother dropped him off at the local hospital and hasn’t been back for six months. The hospital just gave the child to Kebede and he’s at Kebede’s house—he hasn’t gone into the orphanage yet, so the rules don’t apply to him. Kebede says to call back tomorrow.” She looked as if she’d been struck by lightning. Two days later, we were on a plane to Arba Minch. The weather was turbulent and the small jet bobbed like an open boat on choppy water. Katya clutched her armrests. She was still too sick to eat, and her thinness made the taut, tense nature of her will more visible. I stood slightly and looked into the cockpit; the door was open and I could see the pilots. They were leaning back in their seats, laughing and talking as if they were sharing a very good joke. I said, “The pilots look drunk.” “Oh, sit down,” Katya said. I sat down and looked out the window; the wing was vibrating ferociously. I began to sweat. “I loved Thomas,” I said. “I loved him right up until the end.” “I know,” Katya said. “I know you did.” The plane dropped suddenly, then steadied, then rose above the clouds. The sun hit the wing with piercing brilliance. “I loved him,” I said. “Yes,” Katya said. “But I was unfaithful.” Katya turned to face me, her fear interrupted by her surprise. “It was only once. One person, once. A student. Not even technically a student—he had just graduated.” I spoke rapidly. “How did it happen?” “He was someone I really disliked—rude in class, so arrogant it made him stupid. It was clear that he disliked me, too. I was glad to be getting rid of him. Then we saw each other at the graduation party and he came over to talk to me. I was surprised at first. Then I realized after about two minutes that it wasn’t exactly dislike he felt for me. And I didn’t dislike him, either. And I knew that Thomas wouldn’t be surprised if I came home late.” “Was Thomas sick by then?” It was a blow, but I could not be angry at her for striking it. “Yes,” I said, “but I didn’t know it yet. He had become very bad-tempered and strange—he was always starting fights and yelling at me, cursing at me, which he’d never done before. I was really mad at him. That partly explains why I did it, but not fully. I can’t explain it fully. I wanted sex and I wanted it to hurt. Not physically but . . .” “I know,” Katya said. She said it quickly, as though to stop me from saying more. I looked out the window. Below us was a forest of textured green, a still mass of depth and roughness, of mesmerizing sameness. I looked at it and my thoughts dissolved like foam on an ocean. “I didn’t know that he was sick,” I said. “But I could tell that something was changing, that he was leaving me. The parts of Thomas that I knew were leaving.” Katya put her hand on my arm and stroked it. Beneath us the forest fell away. We flew over bare ochre earth. I sat on the bed next to Thomas and tried to coax a spoonful of soup into his mouth. He wouldn’t take it. I closed my eyes. On one side of me was the dark image of my grief. On the other was bright sky, a rattling plastic window, and the torn edge of my seat cushion. How strange the contrast. How strange that I wished I could return to that moment of sitting on the bed, trying to get Thomas to take a spoonful of soup. When we landed, Kebede was waiting for us in an old pickup truck. He was a small, fine-boned man with a high-bridged nose, unsmiling, his eyes quick and clear. He asked did we want to see the baby now, or go to the hotel first? Katya said, “ The baby, please.” As we neared the town, the vegetation became more lush. We glimpsed a great blue body of water between the trees and rich greenery. We turned down a street of stone houses mostly hidden behind walls and gates. Kebede’s house was small but elegantly constructed, of big smooth stones contrasting with a door deliberately made of rough wooden planks. His young daughter greeted us and led us into a long, narrow room. A woman in a vermillion dress emerged from a side room with a crying baby in her arms. “ This is Sofia, my wife,” Kebede said. Smiling, Sofia handed the baby to Katya. The baby stopped crying. Cradling him, Katya looked at us, grinning as if she had given birth. The baby was beautiful, fragile and small for almost two, with a severe mouth, a high forehead, almond-shaped eyes, and slightly pointed ears that made his gaze seem radically attuned. When you held him you felt the pure unprotected tenderness of an infant, but in those eyes there was also something uncanny and strong, nascent and vibrating with the desire to take form. He had come to the hospital half-starved, with pneumonia and parasites, and although he was now healthy he was still undernourished and weak. Sofia made us all a pasta dish with spicy onion purée, so spicy that I could barely eat it, so spicy that Katya didn’t dare eat it. I wouldn’t have expected even a robust baby to eat something so strong, but this baby ate it. He ate and conveyed with each bite, I intend to thrive. “Son,” Katya said. “Sonny. I’m going to name him Sonny.” When we were done eating we took Sonny back to the hotel. Sofia and her older daughter, an eleven-year-old in braids whose name was Mekdes, went with us. Mekdes was amazed at the hotel’s plumbing; she kept turning the water on and off. Katya was itching to buy baby food and clothes—what Sonny had on was filthy—so Sofia made Mekdes calm down and instructed her to watch the baby while we went shopping. “Can she do that?” Katya asked. “At her age?” “Of course she can,” Sofia said. “She’s cared for children younger than this.” The clothing store was a dark little hole stuffed with boxes of ridiculously ugly baby clothes from Eastern Europe; Katya loaded her arms with them. Sofia’s phone rang and she turned her back to us to answer it. Smiling, Katya held up an orange corduroy jumper with a lavender collar. Sofia turned to us. “Stop,” she said. “You have to stop. This is my husband. The mother just came back to the hospital. She is very angry. She wants her baby back.” Kebede drove us to the hospital. Sofia held Sonny; Katya didn’t want to. She had pulled into herself and become very contained. Kebede told us that the hospital staff were upset with the mother for showing up after leaving the child for so long. “Why?” Katya said tonelessly. “It’s her right.” “She’s a day laborer,” Kebede said. “She lives outdoors. She lives from hand to mouth. The hospital staff say she’s retarded. The baby will die with her.” A crowd was gathered in front of the hospital, and they came forward to meet us when we got out of the car. They were all talking loudly, but my eyes went to the only silent person among them: a small, beaten-looking woman with long dirty hair and flat breasts hanging way down her body. She was dressed in filthy ragged clothes, and earrings had been torn from her ears. Her eyes were small and hot, and I could not read their expression. Her eyes went past me and fell on Katya. Katya steadily returned the look; I could not read her expression, either. Sofia came forward and put the baby in his mother’s arms. Everyone fell silent. The mother glanced at Sofia, went toward Katya, and tried to hand the baby to her. Katya automatically reached for the baby, but before she could take him Kebede stepped in and took him. The baby screamed and reached for his mother. Looking meaningfully at the mother, Kebede gave the sobbing baby to a female hospital staffer. The staffer handed the child back to his mother. The mother took the child, walked around the staffer, and tried to approach Katya again. Everybody was yelling by then. Kebede moved in front of the mother, blocking her. The baby screamed. Katya hung her head and turned back to the car, both hands pressed against her chest. It was over in less than five minutes. After the mother had walked away with the baby, Sofia went to the car to comfort Katya. I was too stunned by the scene to leave it that quickly. Kebede stood awhile talking with the hospital people, but I could not understand what they were saying. When we got back to the hotel, Katya lay down in bed. “This was a mistake,” she said. “An arrogant mistake. People told me that and they were right. I have been lazy and selfish all my life and I think I can just come and buy a kid, after living in a world that stole the ground out from under his parents and his grandparents and sucked the blood out of them and—” I said, “Don’t start with that. You aren’t buying a kid. You’re not giving anyone money. Even as a metaphor it doesn’t work—Ethiopia never sold slaves.” “Don’t give me that shit. This isn’t an English class. You know there’s truth in what I say. And, anyway, I am sick of everything always being wrong. Every relationship I’ve ever had there’s been some reason it couldn’t work. Even with sex, half the time there’s something in the way—somebody is scared or married, or I touched him the wrong way or he said the wrong thing and it’s gone. And now this. Maybe I deserve it.” “Katya,” I said, “that mother wants you to have her baby. I saw it. You saw it. Wait and see what happens.” We lay in the darkness and heat and talked about the baby and the mother and how the mother had looked when she had seen Katya—we tried to understand what her expression had meant. Soon it was too hot to talk, too hot to think. Again and again we got up for water. Then we got up to piss and it came out scalding. The dark and heat became a private maze we wandered through, in and out of a delirium that passed as sleep. Far away I stood in front of a classroom, talking about a girl carrying her dead baby through a dark forest; I was lecturing on Chekhov’s “In the Ravine.” There were a dozen students in that class, but Kevin was the only one whose face I saw before me. He was right to despise me—I, who had no child, lecturing on this experience, as if I knew. I read aloud from the story something that a peasant said to the girl: “Yours is not the worst of sorrows.” But it was. I had wanted him to hurt me, and he had. Or at least I thought he had. In fact, the real shock and pain came a few weeks later, along with something worse: Thomas’s Alzheimer’s was diagnosed. He was hurt, too, and I had done it to him. Or at least it felt as if I had. Katya stirred and talked in her sleep. I felt a protective tenderness, a feeling that could not fill the emptiness but softened it. A single word came to me: “faith.” This is not a word I use often or hear used often, except lightly, ignorantly, or manipulatively. But there it was, standing singly in my head. This word has meaning, I thought. Whatever it has faithlessly been made to mean, it has actual meaning. But it was very little to hold on to. In the morning, we went down to the dining room for breakfast. I ate fruit and a little plastic container of vanilla pudding; Katya had coffee and a piece of bread. There were some Italians talking about the election a few tables over; we heard them say something about getting out of the country. Then they glanced at us and fell silent. We took our coffee and went outside to the terrace. The air was warm, thriving and dense with the smell of earth and minerals. We sat quietly for a bit. A car went past, blaring pop music. Two boys walked by, driving two skinny cows, lustily slapping their bony haunches with whiplike branches. Katya said, “Being here is like being in Biblical times and modern times at the same time. Like all times are happening at once, and people are just walking back and forth between them.” Not walking, I thought—falling. Katya’s cell phone rang in her lap. Irritated, she picked it up and listened; her attention went taut like a bow. She dropped the phone and shouted, “The mother brought the baby back!” Then she grabbed the phone again. It was Kebede. The mother had slept outside the hospital all night with the baby. She wanted to put him up for adoption, and she wanted Katya to have him. It took a few days for the mother to do the paperwork, but we got Sonny right away. We went back to the store of ugly clothes and bought a little suitcaseful. We bathed Sonny and dressed him. But he would not stop screaming. It seemed to Katya that the baby screamed most when she tried to hold him. Sofia came to help us. She brought more of the spicy pasta dish that Sonny had devoured on the day we met him, but he refused it with a frown that was deep and imperial. He refused to eat at all. “Maybe he wants to go back to his mother,” Katya said. “Do you think that’s what he’s saying?” “Nonsense,” Sofia said. “Don’t even think it. They were sleeping outside during malaria season. Do you know what that means? The baby is already weak. If he stayed with that woman he would die.” “And, besides, he’s bossy like you,” I said. “Did you see the frown on him?” And so we came before the judge. We took Sonny back to Addis Ababa. He screamed the whole flight. But Katya was unfazed; the strength of her doubt was now transformed and was feeding her determination. Exhausted but almost mechanically activated, we were carried forward on a current of will that we had initiated, but which had become a force of its own. Yonas met us at the airport and took us to a bed-and-breakfast exclusively for people who were in Addis to adopt, a compound with barbed wire and shards of glass atop its high walls. Because Sonny tended to get carsick, I stayed at the B. and B. with him while Yonas drove Katya around the city getting letters to prove who she was and who Sonny was, translations of these letters into English or Amharic, and a birth certificate, a passport, and a visa for Sonny. Katya mounted a daily assault on the Head, from whom she needed to get a letter of approval for an orphanage to sponsor the adoption. Each of these tasks was, of course, impossible. When I tell the story to people, I make it sound as if Katya flowed through the city, coursing around the obstacles in her path with the smooth determination of water. But she was not water and she came home bruised and furious from bumping her head against every damn thing. My time alone was dreamlike and lullingly dull, the surreal darkness of grief blended with the bright reality of caring for a malnourished child. Sonny’s movements were weak, uncoördinated. He couldn’t walk more than a few steps and his gaze was intense but not quite focussed, as if he were in a mild psychic fever. He just wanted to be carried around the house, out into the yard and back, again and again. The first day I carried him until I couldn’t take any more, then I lay on the floor and rolled back and forth with him, as he clung to me weakly, but with a hint of triumph in his raised head. I rocked him and crooned to him and dreamed of Thomas: of rocking him and crooning, of being rocked by him. Of straddling my husband and kissing him, bending to brush my breasts against him; of straddling him and struggling to reposition him on the bed, him cursing me with strange half-words because he could no longer move himself. Sonny put his hand on my face and it came away wet. I kissed his tiny palm and held it. Thomas lost motor control and could get into bed only by moving into a sitting position over it and then letting himself flop backward. I had to allow him to do it that way—it was important for him to do what he could. But then I had to reposition him, because if I left him as he fell, he woke in pain. It made Thomas furious to be straddled and repositioned. Yet I treasured his fury, as a vestige of his pride, treasured the fact that it could still trigger anger in me, make me feel like a normal wife again with a strong husband to quarrel with. I gave Sonny my finger; he squeezed it and I rolled into a seated position, cradling him. Friends ask me when I suspected that something was wrong with Thomas. I don’t know how to answer. There were indications, most of them disguised as age and its eccentricities. But at least once the disease paraded itself garishly before me. Four years before the Alzheimer’s was diagnosed, we went to Spain for three weeks. We arrived home in the evening, left our bags in the front hall, and went to bed. The next morning I found him sitting in the kitchen, visibly afraid. He had no memory of our trip, yet he realized when he saw our bags in the hall that we had been somewhere. I made breakfast; I described for him everything we had done on the trip. He said that he remembered, and I made myself forget it. And, because nothing quite like that happened again, I could. After a few days, Sonny began to eat in earnest—mashed bananas, cereal, formula, pasta, all of it. He built pyramids of empty film containers and prescription bottles, and then knocked them down. He unscrewed and screwed the top on the milk bottle over and over. He discovered that he wanted to walk and then—as if a bomb had gone off in his brain—he discovered that he could try to walk up and down the stairs. I passed through a sad and enchanted mirror: I walked Sonny as I had walked Thomas, facing him, his hands in mine, giving him a footstep pattern to follow, holding his eyes with encouragement. Everything depended on the slow placement of his blunt feet, finding it, trusting it, finding it again. Everything depended on it: I pulled my husband out of bed to a standing position and led him backward, holding his hands. I smiled at him and he smiled at me. I got him on the john, waited for him to finish, and wiped him. I bathed him in the marble shower, which was so big it made the whole room a shower where we could be naked together. We sat on the fancy marble floor and played, passing the hose back and forth, spraying, laughing. . . . And Sonny, with his little forehead blazing, several times nearly falling, climbed the stairs. His hands radiated into my hands, imparting his being and sampling mine. “Look,” I said aloud. Look, my husband, my father, my lover, my child: look at this little boy and bless him. When Katya came home she would jealously take the baby from me—of course, jealously. Every day she walked in and saw me having intimacy that she couldn’t have because she was out doing the shit. What she didn’t see was that it didn’t matter. Sonny knew that Katya was his mother and that I was his nurse; we hadn’t imagined that uncanny gleam in his eyes. On our seventh day in Addis, Katya succeeded; she came back with a letter from the Head and a letter from an orphanage (run by a friend of the Head) that said it would sponsor the adoption. Out of fighting mode, she was dazed and unsure of how this had happened. “We were going at it as usual,” she said. “I told him I would be back in his office every day until I got permission and he said, ‘Fine.’ And then a stomach cramp doubled me over; my head went between my legs, my teeth were gritted, and my intestines made this indescribable sound—I thought I was going to have diarrhea right there. The only reason I didn’t leave was that I was worried about what might happen if I got up suddenly. He didn’t say anything. He just looked at me—almost like he felt sorry for me! Then he got a piece of paper and wrote the letter and pushed it across the desk.” That night we finally went out for dinner. We wore the dresses we had brought to celebrate in; Sonny wore his orange jumper. I chose an Italian restaurant we’d walked past several times because the people in it always looked lively. But it wasn’t lively this night. On the way there the streets were nearly empty, and the few people out seemed angry and tense. We were the only customers in the restaurant. Katya didn’t feel well enough to eat more than a few bites of pasta and she was too tired to talk much. The next day Katya and Sonny went to the American Embassy in the morning and returned early in the afternoon. Sonny was tired and cranky, so Katya wanted to rest before going to the travel agency to arrange our flight out. They napped together while I went to the laundry room and washed our clothes. While I was in the dining area waiting for the clothes to come out of the washer I met the mother of our host, a neurasthenic Italian fellow who had written several unpublished books. She was feeding her pug dog sliced fruit from a dish in her lap. I told her we were about to leave. “I hope you can get out,” she said. “You chose a terrible time to come. You didn’t know about the election?” I pointed out that she was here. She shrugged and meticulously peeled the skin off a fig. “I spent my childhood here,” she said. “I know the place. You don’t.” I woke Katya and we tried to call Yonas. We couldn’t reach him. This was unusual. We waited an hour and tried again; nothing. We waited another hour. We heard the huge gate open; people came in talking loudly. Someone ran up the stairs, past our door. Katya and I stared at each other. Sonny stirred. It wasn’t right then that we heard gunfire, but maybe ten minutes later. Not close by. But close enough to hear. Off and on, during the afternoon and into the night. Much closer than the gunshots was the buzzing machine of my body. The buzzing came from inside me and also enclosed me like the darkness and the warmth of the night. It said, It doesn’t matter if you die here. It might be better if you died here. But Katya and Sonny have to get home. It won’t be better if they die. The next day, Yonas came in his uncle’s car instead of his taxi. We saw him pull in to the driveway, and we ran out to meet him. From the car, he held up a hand to indicate that he was talking on the phone. We stopped; he had never signalled for us to wait before, and this signal scared me more than anything so far. But he didn’t keep us waiting long. He put the phone down and got out to tell us: There had been a demonstration about the election. Twenty-five people had been killed. He could not take us anywhere. He would be in touch. He had to get home as quickly as he could. We played with Sonny all day, both of us, going up and down the stairs. When we heard shots, we looked up and then went back to what we were doing. The buzzing said, Your parents are dead. Your husband is dead. You should be dead. But Katya and Sonny don’t deserve to die. In the early evening, Katya said, “We have to get something to eat.” “We can’t go out,” I said. “It isn’t safe.” “Sonny is out of food. He hasn’t eaten for eight hours.” “Katya, nothing is open. You heard Yonas.” “The fruit stand will be open. There’s no way they’ll close. They’re just down the street.” “We’re hearing guns.” “The shots aren’t close. I have to go out. If you won’t go, I’ll go alone.” We took Sonny; I carried him, because Katya was too weak. Outside on the street people and animals were walking around normally. Who were these people? I felt half-scared of them, half-linked with them, and didn’t know which feeling was most real. I reached inside my shirt and held the rings for a moment in my cupped hand. Thomas’s face, flat and beautifully misshapen, rippled in me like a reflection in water. There was a boy at my side, trying to push a cow out of the way. Thomas’s face stretched unrecognizably on the moving water. The boy came suddenly around the cow and tore my chain off my neck. I screamed; the boy flashed down the street. I was after him. My legs are long and I almost had him but couldn’t grab him, because Sonny was screaming, forgotten, in my arms. I darted back to Katya, who was standing motionless, and thrust Sonny at her. The boy was a quick pixilation of limbs, disappearing. Katya shouted, “Janice!” and I ran. The boy was a bright movement that I chased like a creature with a single instinct. I turned a corner, stumbled into a pothole full of warm brown water, and nearly fell. I staggered and bent to catch myself with my hands. I looked up; he was gone. I whipped my head around, looking, my instinct trying to leap in every direction—but it had nothing to leap at. I panted heavily, sweat running into my eyes. Ragged women holding children stared at me. Faces peered from the broken hole of a window. Skeletal dogs, fierce and cringing, watched with starving eyes. My instinct felt them all as it felt itself: quick force in slow mammal bodies; soft brain in hard bone; a machine of thoughts; a machine of sex; the dark radiance of emotions; the personality; eyes, nose, mouth. A little boy with a large round head pointed at me and said words I couldn’t understand. My instinct broke; everything that had been joined was now in pieces again. I put my face in my hands and cried like an animal. I came out of the alley to find my way back to Katya. I tried to stop making noise. I couldn’t. I felt people following me. I understood. The current had reversed. As I had chased the boy, they would follow me. They would kill me. I heard myself sobbing. Thomas was dead. I had let him die. They would kill me. It was right. “Miss? Miss?” A small voice was at my side, gently tugging me without touching me. “Miss? What’s wrong, Miss?” I looked at the voice. There were two young girls, maybe thirteen years old, at my side. They were dressed in school uniforms. Their faces were soft but intensely focussed in the nose and eyes. I wiped my face; I glanced behind me. There was a small crowd there, made up mostly of teen-age girls and a few boys with curious faces. I turned to look at them. “My husband died,” I said. “He died and somebody stole our wedding rings. Now I don’t have anything.” Tears ran down my face, human tears now. “I have to find my friend and her baby. Thank you.” The girls nodded gravely. I continued to walk. One girl followed me. “It will be all right,” she said. “God will help you.” I said, “Thank you, honey.” Machine-gun fire sounded in the distance. The girl dropped away. “Janice!” It was Katya, rounding a corner, Sonny in her arms. She said, “What happened? Why did you do that?” “I was robbed. That boy took my wedding rings. I couldn’t catch him.” “Then we need to call the police.” If she hadn’t been holding Sonny I would’ve slapped her. “Do you know how stupid you sound?” I said. “ ‘Call the police’?” “Janice—” “Look around you!” I was trembling, still dripping tears with no force. “They’re in the middle of a war and you think the police are going to come because of my rings?” “Janice—” “Shut up!” I turned to get away, to go back to the B. and B. “Stop.” Someone touched my arm from behind; I turned. A very small old man stood before me. “What?” I asked, or thought. “Stop,” he said. “Don’t cry. Please. It’s O.K.” He said “please,” but his eyes had an expression of command. I lifted my hand to wipe my eyes. He reached out and took it. He held it palm up; he put my rings in my hand and closed my fingers over them. “O.K.?” he said. “But how—?” He shook his head and said, “Just don’t cry. O.K.?” I stopped crying. He turned to go. “Wait,” I said. “There was a chain, too?” He turned his head and looked hard at me. “The rings were on a chain. Do you know about that?” He shook his head and walked away. Years later, I told this story at a party at the university. I told it to a woman who had travelled extensively in Africa. She was a big woman, very grand, with a high chest and a chunky necklace made of precious stones. When I told her how I had lost my rings and how the old man had given them back she made a face. She said, “Really, you make too big a fuss of yourself. You should not go to Africa and then make such a fuss.” I answered her vaguely. I let myself be chastised. Because in that room she was right. In that room I was a privileged and foolish woman running around bawling about rings while a whole city fell apart and people were killed. But I didn’t meet the old man in that room. I met him in a place of Biblical times and modern times, where people walked back and forth between times, all times. In this place I walked back and forth between the time of the living and the time of the dead. In the middle of my walking, war broke out, and the path between the living and the dead opened up and everything dear to me fell down the crack. I fell, too, and I might have fallen forever—but the old man said, “Stop.” And I stopped. That same night at the university, another person asked, “Did you thank him?” And I was amazed to realize that I didn’t know. Probably I did not. How could I? Thanking him would have been like thanking an angel. I sit in my darkened house sometimes, holding a glass of wine, and I thank him. The next day, we rode through the streets crouched on the floor of the car that Yonas had borrowed from his uncle. We went to the American Embassy, sharing the car with five Ethiopians, women and girls whom Yonas was taking “to safety.” He didn’t dare drive his cab lest protesters turn it over and burn it. But there were no taxis in the street, no cars, no people. There were huge high trucks full of soldiers in camouflage with automatic weapons. Still, the Ethiopian women sat on the seat and we crouched on the floor, hiding the whiteness that declared us paying customers. One of the women, a girl really, held Sonny against her breast. A military truck passed close by, bristling with guns. The girl holding our baby looked at me with wide, frightened eyes. Katya pressed her forehead to the sweat-drenched seat and reached up to clasp Sonny’s foot as though it were a hand. Outside, the Embassy was surrounded by guards with machine guns; inside, it was jammed with frightened people and with officials behind windows. We took a number and waited. Waiting next to us was an American doctor who had been on emergency-room duty when gunshot victims began to come in. He was calm, over-calm, but he smelled like fear, and when he got up to one of the windows he began talking loud and fast, telling someone, really everyone, that there had been many killings, many more than the reported twenty-five. The whole room smelled of fear. Something was missing from Sonny’s file, and Katya was shouting at someone, her jaw moving like cheap animation on her stark, chalk-white face, her body giving off an odor that was nearly savage, the scent of someone ready to attack. She turned to me suddenly, and I flinched. “I’ve got to go,” she said. “I’ll be back.” She was already dialling Yonas on her cell. I went to take Sonny from her, but the child refused; he hadn’t let me hold him since I’d handed him off and run down the middle of the street and come back howling in pain. So I just held his hand and walked out to the hall with him. Thomas walked out of the sun-shadowy water, stepping on his elegant pants, damp and sagging, his shoes squishy wet. He smiled as he handed me the dog’s chewed-up ball, the dog, standing on its hind legs, dancing. With an ecstatic face, Sonny took the stairs two at a time. He looked up at me, gurgling with pleasure, his forehead shining with effort. I stroked his hair. I thought of his mother’s beaten face, her torn ears, her breasts hanging down. The child grabbed my hem with his tiny fist. Katya came back beaming, papers in her hand, her sweat rank and innocent. That night, I dreamed that Katya and I were in a small, dark house of mud and thatch. Thomas was there, too, asleep on a dirty mat, and so was Sonny’s mother, who was terribly sick. Katya kept trying to nurse the mother, to suckle her at her breast, but the woman couldn’t hold her head up, and I kept wanting to say, Stop, it’s ridiculous, she’s the mother. But I was distracted by Thomas’s mother in the next room, laughing as she played with Sonny; I was distracted, too, by gunfire, which came closer and closer. . . . I woke in the dark with my heart pounding; I reached for my wedding rings on the table beside me. “Katya,” I whispered, only half-expecting her to be awake, too. She replied unintelligibly. “When Sonny gets older, and he asks you about his mother, what are you going to tell him?” She didn’t answer. Shortly, she began to snore. But the next day, when we were at the airport, she answered. She said, “If he asks, I’ll tell him that his mother was a great woman. That she was a fighter, and because she had to fight so hard she gave me her most precious child to keep him safe. Something like that. Here.” Without thinking, she handed me the baby. I stiffened, expecting Sonny to protest. But he didn’t; he reached for me and let me hold him. Katya bent to pick up her bag. I thrive, his body said to mine. I will thrive. I put my hand on the back of his head and held it to my shoulder, my cheek against his hair. It was time to go.
A Night at the Opera We acted the cliché. We melted with laughter. Not the prickly melt that comes from sitting on a hot stove but the cool relaxing melt, in defiance of chemistry, like dropping deep into a liquid feather bed. We did not know or remember the reason for laughing. There was a film, yes: a dumb sad man with hair like wheat and round eyes like paddling pools; another man with a mustache like a toy hearth brush; and many other people and things—blondes, irate managers, stepladders, whitewash, all the stuff of farce. And there was a darkened opera house growing cardboard trees and shining wooden moons. I shall never know why we laughed so much. Perhaps other films had been as funny, but this one seemed to contain for us a total laughter, a storehouse of laughter, like a hive where we children, spindly-legged as bees, would forever bring our foragings of fun to mellow and replenish this almost unbelievably collapsing mirth. Nor was it the kind of laughter that cheats by turning in the end to tears, or by needing reinforcement with imagery. It was, simply, like being thrown on a swing into the sky, and the swing staying there, as in one of those trick pictures we had seen so often and marvelled at—divers leaping back to the springboard, horses racing back to the starting barrier. It was like stepping off the swing and promenading the sky. After the film, we managed somehow to walk home. The afternoon was ragged with leaves and the dreary, hungry untidiness of a child’s half past four. Faces and streets seemed wet and serious. The hem of sky, undone, hung down dirty and gray. But the laughter stayed with us, crippling, floating, rolling, aching, dissolving. “It must have been a comic picture,” our mother said, not knowing, not knowing, when she saw our faces. The refractory, or disturbed, part of the hospital, known as Park House, was built a safe distance from the bright admission ward, where the pastel walls were hung with soothing seascapes and sunset-occupied skies, where two-toned autumnal rugs matched the golden bedspreads, and where floral curtains bunched themselves across wide-opening unbarred windows. The door of the admission ward stood unlocked, in the modern way, and the path led to a lawn, bright green like a lawn in a shopwindow where a wax man is mowing. In the center, a marooned willow wept, with no pool. Birds flipped themselves, dry and hot, in the empty birdbath. Circling the lawn was a high red brick wall, dressed in a seemly way with slowly burning ivy. A country retreat? Yes, a country retreat. Gentle patients, exclaiming at the beauty and calm of it all, wandered in and out of the ward, or sat, at meals, in the light airy dining room, with napkins matching the tablecloths spread in front of them. They said grace. They pursued civilized conversation. Park House squatted directly opposite the door of the hospital kitchen, like a dirty brick imbecile waiting for food. Its buildings were old, and leaked in the winter, water running down the inside of the plaster walls. The dayroom, blessed with a timely and multiple personality, served as dayroom, dining room, and playroom, a huge space lined with long heavy tables like castoff banquet tables, and long wooden benches, split and seamed with dirt, and shiny from being sat on. And the people who played and dined and spent the day there? They were the violent, the uncontrollably deluded and hallucinated, those who had murdered or would murder, the sadly deformed, the speechless. And up on the wall, sitting primly and securely in its wire cage, the electric clock looked down, saying tick tock, tick tock, the way clocks are supposed to. It was a strange, unreal sound, like the sound of knitting; it was as if someone had mistaken the Last Judgment for an afternoon tea party or a sewing bee. For what communication could the clock hold with that world, where time, tribal and primitive, told itself not by hours and minutes but by years of the lion and the panther and days of the hurricane, by hours of getting up, using the toilet, eating, going to bed, by days of sausages and saveloys, of bathing, of hair being combed with kerosene to discourage the lice, of head operations, of official inspections. The weeks had no name, nor the months, nor the years. Once, on a privileged walk, there was for me the Time of the Striped Waterfall, but I am not sure if it actually happened, for I was butcher-frocked and hallucinated, with my name on a list called Prefrontal Leukotomy. The patients of Park House could not, of course, be taken to the Hospital Hall. The way there led through winding, urine-scented passages, past dormitories where ghostly, wildly staring men exposed themselves, standing in rows by the windows, or pressed their faces up to the glass, like people trying to climb in or out of mirrors. Sometimes we learned weeks afterward that a dance had been held at Hospital Hall, or a concert to which members of the public came, and where the Superintendent had got up and given a talk about the New Attitude; or that the patients had performed a play there, under the supervision of an enthusiastic young doctor, and local drama clubs had been invited, along with newspaper critics, who had used the words “promising,” “talented,” “therapeutic.” One day, when a wildly struggling woman was dragged into the ward, we learned that she had been the lion’s back legs and tail in “Androcles and the Lion.” Ah, well, perhaps we were our own drama. There were two Christs, one Queen of Norway, no female Napoleons; there was Millie, as round as the full moon, who had dressed up as a man, taken an axe, and murdered three people on a lonely farm; there was Elna, who had held her child under the water in the washing tub, holding it there till it no longer struggled; there were those whose arms were folded close in cloth or canvas straitjackets; and there were the many who suffered from having no interesting delusions, who were not known as characters, and were not pointed out with pride because they had murdered or would murder or lay claim to European thrones. They were the self-centered, irritating epileptics, the paranoiacs, proud and persecuted. And the huddled quiet ones with sun-stained faces—in their quietness, a different kind of violence, an assault on everything that we imagined human. There was no place for them but Park House. They sat in the sun and rain alike, wearing no shoes or pants, their world or no-world contained in their minds, and other people might as well have been planets or stones or anything, as long as they were not identified. The violence of these patients lay in their refusal to name or be named. They sat in their straitjackets for meals at one of the long tables, and their throats were massaged to make them swallow, as if touch could provide some clue to the name and nature of their bodies. Then they would lumber out again into the sun or rain, with their hands and feet disowned by their minds, and their blood heavy and blue and swollen; in the yard, unaccustomed to walking, they moved stiffly, like blue snowmen. So days passed, and weeks and perhaps years. Sausage days came and went; rice days snowed on us. We had honey one day, thickly peopled with ants, but honey, and apple pie made of little burned apples, topped with pastry that tasted like damp cotton wool layered with scorched brown paper. But we liked it, and we asked for more. Doctors visited, and went away shaking their heads; new doctors fled timidly through the screams and cries of the park and the yard. Heads were shaved, and head operations performed, and the strange people with bandaged heads and damp faces and ink-filled eyes lay in the small rooms along the corridor, stared at with fear by patients and nurses alike. One heard the conversation after a few days: “Hasn’t Molly changed? You wouldn’t know Marion. Cristina’s so docile. She spoke today. I’ve never heard her speak before.” Yet, as more days and weeks passed, there was Molly sitting nameless and dead in a corner of the dayroom, and Cristina with the blank eyes, giggling and saying nothing, and Marion in a canvas jacket, being taken to solitary confinement. Once, someone was allowed to go home, and was returned by terrified parents, unable to face the estrangement of her simple cooing and rocking in all-day masturbation. And, once, someone else, Leila or Doris or Nora, was promoted to another ward, and went with envious farewells—not to the admission ward, that would have been too much to hope for, but to a place where they had rugs on the floor and a tablecloth on the table, but no contemporary furniture. The seats in that dayroom were like seats taken from old-fashioned motorcars or railway carriages. Sitting on the buttoned and worn splitting leather, one had the absurd sensation of travelling, so that if one sat close enough to the windows, which opened six inches only, and looked out at the unattainable sky and not at the animal-filled park, one could quite easily imagine oneself out for a Sunday-afternoon run in the country. Then, suddenly, one day in early summer, the Superintendent became determined about the New Attitude, and the need for Park House to have a share in it. He was a kindly man who liked pastel shades and pictures of lakes and bright bedspreads; he was also realistic enough to imagine that a few films of murders and barroom brawls and lovely ladies kissing handsome men would help the patients of Park House to face what was called the “real world.” And he was sensible enough to know that Park House people could never be taken to see films in the Hospital Hall, mingling there with the gentle convalescents who carried handbags, and wore their own clothes, and used handkerchiefs. So it was decided to show films in Park House itself, in the dayroom, after the more violently uncontrollable patients had been put to bed. There would be no screen. The walls, though gravy- and sausage-stained, and stuck with bits of apple pie, were of a light color, but unfortunately there were no blinds, and the daylight at that time of year was not of a secretive nature but outspoken and honest, and preferred the company of the sky to being tucked down between hills. Our bedtime was half past six. How could we see a film in that light? “Your bedtime can be extended, an hour perhaps,” the matron said graciously. The first film, it was decided, would be shown in a week’s time, on a Tuesday. Oh, it did not seem possible, such bliss. For Tuesday was sausage day—of very real and symbolic value in a ward of women. It was also canteen day, when the Sister of the ward went with a large clothes basket to the canteen and returned with tins of biscuits, which were not for us, and tins of sweets, which were thrown in handfuls into the middle of the dayroom, prompting a lively scramble and a few black eyes and bleeding noses. They were paper sweets, with mint intestines, and words written on the outside of the wrapper, “The Sweet for All Times and All Places,” so that, eating them, one felt a delicious sense of inclusiveness. There was not really much excitement in the week of waiting for our first film to be shown. Each day had its small pleasures: food; fights; the appearance of the doctor, perhaps a smile from him; the occasional escapes. (Timmy, who made a daring escape, also made the mistake of paying the taxi-driver with a check made of toilet paper.) For me, there was a visit to the kitchen to collect a tray of stew. There I saw what looked like the activity of a whaling station: huge vats of meat boiling; a man with long hairy arms using one of them to stir a copper pot full of semolina; trays of white failed scones. It was also in that week that I managed to get hold of a book to read, by finding a small locked shelf where three volumes rather drunkenly held each other up: “A Girl of the Limberlost,” “Moths of the Limberlost” (I remembered my mother saying what lovely books these were), and another book, which I read, about a sheepdog who gets his university degree and becomes a lecturer at the University of Glasgow. It was also in that week that we spent a whole day downstairs in the yard, in the sun; climbing on the veranda rail, we could look out over the harbor and see the tide drawing slowly in toward the streaked gray mudflats, and the lines of warmth dancing up and up into the sky. From somewhere in the city we heard a tramcar and a three-o’clock factory whistle, and then we knew that the world was still there, and people still went out shopping, and worked in factories, making biscuits and blue bags and plastic raincoats. Tuesday came. The impossibly violent people, like naughty children, were whisked off to bed. A timid-looking new attendant entered the dayroom and built a fence of benches around himself and set up a projector. Then he announced the name of the film. “It is,” he said, “the Marx Brothers in ‘A Night at the Opera.’ ” And then I remembered the laughter, the stifling, collapsing laughter, the pails of whitewash, and the banana skins, and the stepladders and garden rakes, all the beautiful paraphernalia of accepted nonsense, without any strangeness or fear in it, no monstrous ballooning faces phosphorescent in the dark, just something obviously and happily mad. “A Night at the Opera.” I waited. The attendant, still looking timidly about him, began to show the film. The projector whirred and the pictures danced about, finding focus on the pale wall, then they settled, and the sound began, raucous and quick, and the blurred wall cleared a little, but not much—the room was so light—then there was a cry and a whirring sound and a noise like water, and the people in the film retraced their lives swiftly and relentlessly. The film began again. We saw figures moving about, laughing in a stupid fashion, talking quickly or not at all or out of step with the violent whining sound. Light speared the screen, like rain, and flickered, and all the time the dumb sad man with the round eyes like paddling pools and the hair like wheat stood in rain, whether the sun was shining or not; he was pathetic and strange, and his companion, the little man with the toy hearth brush for a mustache, seemed shrunken, as if he hadn’t had enough to eat, and cold, standing there in the rain. One of the patients ran up to him and tried to stroke his face; another shook her fist at him; another blotted out the whole screen with the shadow of her magnified head. Then something funny happened. I cannot remember what it was, but I laughed, dutifully. It was no use, I knew that. The laughter had gone; the characters were speaking another language. “Shall I go on?” the attendant asked, when Noeline punched Lorna in the stomach. “It’s really too light to show it, and”—he pointed to the patients, who were becoming more and more restless—“the experiment doesn’t seem to be working.” “A little longer,” the Sister said, wiping away the traces of her lonely laughter. “It’s their bedtime soon, anyway.” Darkness came suddenly then, as it does in the North, and the film stopped raining, and there they were, the blond women and the little man and his sad dumb companion, playing his harp, his curls like wheat hanging over his eyes. So it really was the same film I’d seen years ago, “A Night at the Opera,” but it wasn’t total laughter because nothing can be total laughter unless it is also total tears, and it wasn’t that, either. Then, toward the end of the picture, by some trick of the light, the rain began again, and the people waved and swam, as if they were drowning fast, and the sound broke down with a harsh cry that turned into a wailing, like the wind in the top branches of a tree. In the opera house, the moon shone; a cardboard palace toppled over and was trampled on; all in silence now. And then the film ended, abruptly. Someone ran to the black-stained wall and pummelled it with her fists, as if she were knocking at the door of a secret room that would open to reveal the treasure there for everyone to take, as in the story. But nothing like that happened; there were no secret panels. The attendant placed the film in a flat silver box marked “Urgent,” gave a scared look about him, and moved toward the door. “Bed, ladies,” a nurse called out in a reminding voice. So we went to bed, assaulted by sleep that fumed at us from medicine glasses, or was wielded from small sweet-coated tablets—dainty bricks of dream wrapped in the silk stockings of oblivion. The shutters were closed across the wooden moon. Outside, in the hospital grounds, where the gardens were, a fake wind shook the cardboard trees in a riot of collapsing mirth. Then the day’s thin scenery toppled over, revealing the true dark. A real wind came blowing clearly, without pretense or laughter, from the cold actual sea, and spread its layers of knives across the empty stage. Unless it was protected by some miracle of faith, tomorrow would bleed, walking here.
East Wind The previous November, a row of wooden beach huts, their paintwork lifted and flaked by the hard east wind, had burned to the ground. The fire brigade came from twelve miles away, and had nothing to do by the time it arrived. “YOBS ON RAMPAGE,” the local paper decided, though no culprit was ever found. An architect from a more fashionable part of the coastline told the regional TV news that the huts had been part of the town’s social heritage and must be rebuilt. The council announced that it would consider all options, but since then had done nothing. Vernon had moved to the town only a few months before, and had no feelings about the beach huts. If anything, their disappearance improved the view from the Right Plaice, where he sometimes had lunch. From a window table, he now looked out across a strip of concrete to damp shingle, a bored sky, and a lifeless sea. That was the east coast: for months on end you got bits of bad weather and lots of no weather. This was fine by him: he’d moved here to have no weather in his life. “You are done?” He didn’t look up at the waitress. “All the way from the Urals,” he said, still gazing at the long, flat sea. “Pardon?” “Nothing between here and the Urals. That’s where the wind comes from. Nothing to stop it. Straight across all those countries.” Cold enough to freeze your knob off, he might have added in other circumstances. “Oorals,” she repeated. As he caught the accent, he looked up at her. A broad face, streaked hair, chunky body, and not doing any waitressy number in hope of a bigger tip. Must be one of those Eastern Europeans who were all over the country nowadays. Building trade, pubs and restaurants, fruit picking. Came over here in vans and coaches, lived in rabbit warrens, made themselves a bit of money. Some stayed; some went home. Vernon didn’t mind one way or the other. That’s what he found more often than not these days: he didn’t mind one way or the other. “Are you from one of them?” “One of what?” “One of those countries. Between here and the Urals.” “Oorals. Yes, perhaps.” That was an odd answer, he thought. Or maybe her sense of geography wasn’t so strong. “Fancy a swim?” “A swim?” “Yes, you know. Swim. Splash splash, front crawl, breaststroke.” “No swim.” “Fine,” he said. He hadn’t meant it, anyway. “Bill, please.” As he waited, he looked back across the damp concrete to the shingle. A beach hut had recently sold for twenty grand. Or was it thirty? Somewhere down on the south coast. Spiralling house prices, the market going mad: that’s what the papers said. Not that it touched this part of the country, or the property he dealt in. The market had bottomed out here long ago, the graph as horizontal as the sea. Old people died, and you sold their flats and houses to people who would get old in them in their turn, and then die. That was a lot of his trade. The town wasn’t fashionable, never had been. Londoners carried on up the A12 to somewhere pricier. Fine by him. He’d lived in London all his life until the divorce. Now he had a quiet job, a rented flat, and saw the kids every other weekend. When they got older, they’d probably be bored with this place and start acting the little snobs. But for the moment they liked the sea, throwing pebbles into it, eating chips. When she brought the bill, he said, “We could run away together and live in a beach hut.” “I do not think,” she replied, shaking her head, as if she believed he meant it. Oh, well, the old English sense of humor—takes a while for people to get used to it. He had a few rentals to attend to—changes of tenancy, redecoration, damp problems—and then a sale up the coast, so he didn’t return to the Right Plaice for a few weeks. He ate his haddock and mushies, and read the paper. There was some town in Lincolnshire that was suddenly half Polish, there’d been so many immigrants. Nowadays, more Catholics went to church on Sundays than Anglicans, they were saying, what with all these Eastern Europeans. He didn’t mind one way or the other. Actually, he liked the Poles he’d met—brickies, plasterers, electricians. Good workers, well trained, did what they said they would, trustworthy. It was time the good old British building trade had a kick up the arse, Vernon thought. The sun was out that day, slanting low across the sea, annoying his eyes. Late March, and bits of spring were getting even to this part of the coast. “How about that swim, then?” he asked as she brought the bill. “Oh, no. No swim.” “I’m guessing you might be Polish.” “My name is Andrea,” she replied. “Not that I mind whether you’re Polish or not.” “I do not also.” The thing was, he’d never been much good at flirting—never quite said the right thing. And since the divorce he’d got worse at it, if that was possible, because his heart wasn’t in it. Where was his heart? Question for another day. Today’s subject: flirting. He knew all too well the look in a woman’s eye when you didn’t get it right. Where’s he coming from, the look said. Anyway, it took two to flirt. And maybe he was getting too old for it. Thirty-seven, father of two, Gary, eight, and Melanie, five. That’s how the papers would put it if he was washed up on the coast some morning. “I’m an estate agent,” he said. That was another line that often hampered flirting. “What is this?” “I buy and sell houses. And flats. And we do rentals. Rooms, flats, houses.” “Is it interesting?” “It’s a living.” “We all need living.” He suddenly thought, No, you can’t flirt, either. Maybe you can flirt in your own language, but you can’t do it in English, so we’re even. He also thought, She looks sturdy. Maybe I need someone sturdy. She might be my age, for all I know. Not that he minded one way or the other. He wasn’t going to ask her out. He asked her out. There was little enough choice of “out” in this town. One cinema, a few pubs, and the couple of restaurants where she didn’t work. Apart from that, there was bingo for the old people whose flats he would sell when they were dead, and a club where some halfhearted Goths loitered. Kids drove into Colchester on a Friday night and bought enough drugs to see them through the weekend. No wonder they’d burned down the beach huts. He liked her at first for what she wasn’t. She wasn’t flirty; she wasn’t gabby; she wasn’t pushy. She didn’t mind that he was an estate agent, or that he was divorced with two kids. Other women had taken a quick look and said no. He reckoned women were more attracted to men who were still in their marriages, however fucked up those marriages were, than to ones who were picking up the pieces afterward. Not surprising, really. But Andrea didn’t mind all that. Didn’t ask questions much. Didn’t answer them, either, for that matter. The first time they kissed, he thought of asking if she was really Polish, but then he forgot. He suggested coming back with him, but she refused. She said she’d come the next time. He spent an anxious few days wondering what it would be like to go to bed with someone new after so long. He drove fifteen miles up the coast to buy condoms where no one knew him. Not that he was ashamed or embarrassed; just didn’t want anyone knowing, or guessing, his business. “This is a nice apartment.” “Well, if an estate agent can’t find himself a decent flat, what’s the world coming to?” She had an overnight bag with her; she took off her clothes in the bathroom and came back in a nightdress. They climbed into bed and he turned out the light. She felt very tense to him. He felt very tense to himself. “We could just cuddle,” he suggested. “What is cuddle?” He demonstrated. “So cuddle is not fucking?” “No, cuddle is not fucking.” “O.K., cuddle.” After that they relaxed, and she soon fell asleep. The next time, after some kissing, he reacquainted himself with the lubricated struggle of the condom. He knew he was meant to unroll it, but found himself trying to tug it on like a sock, pulling at the rim in a haphazard way. Doing it in the dark didn’t help, either. But she didn’t say anything, or cough discouragingly, and eventually he turned toward her. She pulled up her nightie and he climbed on top of her. His mind was half filled with lust and fucking, and half empty, as if wondering what he was up to. He didn’t think about her very much that first time. It was a question of looking out for yourself. Later you could look out for the other person. “Was that O.K.?” he said after a while. “Yes, was O.K.” Vernon laughed in the dark. “Are you laughing at me? Was not O.K. for you?” “Andrea,” he said, “everything’s O.K. Nobody’s laughing at you. I won’t let anyone laugh at you.” As she slept, he thought, We’re starting again, both of us. I don’t know what she’s had in her past, but maybe we’re both starting again from the same sort of low point, and that’s O.K. Everything’s O.K. The next night, she was more relaxed, and gripped him hard with her legs. He couldn’t tell whether she came or not. “Gosh, you’re strong,” he said afterward. “Is strong bad?” “No, no. Not at all. Strong’s good.” But the time after he noticed that she didn’t grip him so hard. She didn’t much like him playing with her breasts, either. No, that was unfair. She didn’t seem to mind if he did or didn’t. Or, rather, if he wanted to, that was fine, but it was for him, not for her. That’s what he understood, anyway. And who said you had to talk about everything right away? Now he was glad neither of them was any good at flirting. Flirting was a kind of deception. Whereas Andrea was never anything but straight with him. She didn’t talk much, but what she said was what she did. She would meet him where and when he asked, and be standing there, looking out for him, brushing a streak of hair out of her eyes, holding on to her bag more firmly than was necessary in this town. “You’re as reliable as a Polish builder,” he told her one day. “Is that good?” “That’s very good.” “Is English expression?” “It is now.” She asked him to correct her English when she made a mistake. He got her to say “I don’t think so” instead of “I do not think,” but, actually, he preferred the way she talked. He always understood her, and those phrases that weren’t quite right seemed part of her. Maybe he didn’t want her talking like an Englishwoman in case she started behaving like one—well, like one in particular. And, anyway, he didn’t want to play the teacher. It was the same in bed. Things are what they are, he said to himself. If she always wore a nightie, perhaps it was a Catholic thing—not that she ever mentioned going to church. When he asked her to do stuff to him, she did it, and seemed to enjoy it, but she didn’t ask him to do stuff back to her—didn’t even seem to like his hand down there much. But this didn’t bother him; she was allowed to be who she was. She never asked him in. If he dropped her off, she’d be trotting up the concrete path before he’d got the hand brake on; if he picked her up, she’d already be outside, waiting. At first this was fine, then it began to feel a bit odd, so he asked to see where she lived, just for a minute, so he could imagine where she was when she wasn’t with him. They went back into the house—nineteen-thirties semi, pebble dash, multi-occupation, metal window frames rusting up badly—and she opened her door. His professional eye took in the dimensions, furnishings, and probable rental cost; his lover’s eye took in a small dressing table with photos in plastic frames and a picture of the Virgin. There was a single bed, a tiny sink, a rubbish microwave, a small TV, and clothes on hangers clipped precariously to the picture rail. Something in him was touched by seeing her life laid out like that in the minute or so before they stepped outside again. To cover this sudden emotion, Vernon said, “You shouldn’t be paying more than fifty-five. Plus services. I can get you somewhere bigger for the same price.” “Is O.K.” Now that spring was here, they went for drives. They drove into Suffolk and looked at English things: half-timber houses with no damp courses, thatched roofs that put you in a higher insurance band. They stopped by a village green and he sat down on a bench overlooking a pond, but she didn’t fancy that, so they looked at the church instead. He hoped she wouldn’t ask him to explain the difference between Anglicans and Catholics—or the history behind it all. Something about Henry VIII wanting to get married again. The King’s knob. All sorts of things came down to sex if you looked at them closely enough. But, anyway, she didn’t ask. She began to take his arm, and to smile more easily. He gave her a key to his flat; tentatively, she started leaving overnight stuff there. One Sunday, in the dark, he reached across to the bedside drawer and found the condom packet was empty. He swore, and had to explain. “Is O.K.” “No, Andrea, is bloody not O.K. Last thing I need is you getting pregnant.” “I do not think so. Not get pregnant. Is O.K.” He trusted her. Later, as she slept, he wondered what exactly she’d meant. That she couldn’t have kids? Or that she was taking something herself, to make doubly sure? If so, what would the Virgin Mary have to say about that? Let’s hope she isn’t relying on the rhythm method, he suddenly thought. Guaranteed to fail on a regular basis and keep the Pope as happy as Larry. Time passed. She met Gary and Melanie; they took to her. She didn’t tell them what to do; they told her, and she went along with it. They also asked her some questions he’d never dared, or cared, to ask. “Andrea, are you married?” “Can we watch TV as long as we like?” “Were you married?” “If I ate three, would I be sick?” “Why aren’t you married?” “How old are you?” “What team do you support?” “You got any children?” “Will you take me to the toilet?” “Are you and Dad getting married?” He learned the answers to some of these questions. Like any sensible woman, Andrea wasn’t telling her age. One night, in the dark, after he’d delivered the kids back and was too upset for sex, as he always was on those occasions, he said, “Do you think you could love me?” “Yes, I think I would love you.” “Is that a would or a could?” “What is the difference?” He paused. “There’s no difference. I’ll take either. I’ll take both. I’ll take whatever you’ve got to give.” He didn’t know how it started, the next bit. Because he was beginning to fall in love with her, or because he didn’t really want to? Or wanted to but was afraid? Or was it that, deep down, he had an urge to fuck everything up? That’s what his wife—ex-wife—had said to him one morning over breakfast: “Look, Vernon, I don’t hate you, I really don’t. I just can’t live with you because you always fuck things up.” Her statement seemed to come out of the blue. True, he snored, and dropped his clothes where he shouldn’t, and watched the normal amount of sports on TV. But he came home on time, loved his kids, didn’t chase other women. In some people’s eyes, that was the same as fucking things up. “Can I ask you something?” “For sure.” “No, ‘for sure’ is American. English is ‘yes.’ ” She looked at him, as if to say, Why are you now correcting my English? “Yes,” she repeated. “When I didn’t have a condom and you said it was O.K., did you mean it was O.K. then or O.K. always?” “O.K. always.” “Blimey, do you know what a twelve-pack costs?” That was the wrong thing to say, even he could see that. Christ, maybe she’d had some terrible abortion or been raped or something. “So you can’t have children?” “No. Do you hate me?” “Andrea, for God’s sake.” He took her hand. “I’ve got two kids already. Point is, is it O.K. with you?” She looked down. “No. Is not O.K. with me. It makes me very unhappy.” “Well, we could . . . I don’t know, see the doctor. See an expert.” He imagined that the experts over here were more clued up. “No, no expert. No expert.” “Fine, no experts.” He thought, Adoption? But can I afford another, with my outgoings? He stopped buying condoms. He started asking questions, as tactfully as he could. But tact was like flirting: either you had it or you didn’t. No, that wasn’t right. It was just easier to be tactful if you didn’t care whether you knew things or not, harder when you cared. “Why are you now asking these questions?” “Am I?” “Yes, I think so.” “Sorry.” But he was only sorry that she’d noticed. Also sorry that he wouldn’t stop. Couldn’t stop. When they first got together, he’d liked the fact that he didn’t know anything about her; it had made things different, fresher. Gradually, she’d learned about him, while he hadn’t learned about her. Why not just continue like that? Because you always fuck things up, his wife, ex-wife, whispered. No, he didn’t accept that. If you fall in love, you want to know. Good, bad, indifferent. Not that you’re looking for bad things. That’s just what falling in love means, Vernon said to himself. Or thinking about falling in love. Anyway, Andrea was a nice person—he was certain about that. So what was wrong with finding out about a nice person behind her back? They all knew him at the Right Plaice: Mrs. Ridgewell, the manageress; Jill, the other waitress; and old Herbert, who owned the restaurant but only dropped in when he fancied a free bite. Vernon chose a time when the lunch trade was starting, and walked past the counter toward the toilets. The room—more of a cupboard, really—where the staff left their coats and bags was just opposite the gents. Vernon went in, found Andrea’s bag, took her keys, and came back out flapping his hands as if to say, That whirry old hand dryer never quite does the trick, does it? He winked at Andrea, walked to the hardware shop, complained about clients who had only one set of keys, strolled around for a bit, picked up the new set, went back to the Right Plaice, prepared a line about the chilly weather playing havoc with his bladder, didn’t need to use it, put her keys back, and ordered a cappuccino. The first time he went, it was the sort of drizzly afternoon when no one looks at anyone who’s passing. A chap in a raincoat goes up a concrete path to a front door with frosted-glass panels. Inside, he opens another door, sits on a bed, gets up suddenly, smooths out the dent in the bed, turns, sees that the microwave isn’t rubbish, actually, puts his hand under the pillow, feels one of her nightdresses, looks at the clothes hanging from the picture rail, touches a dress she hasn’t worn before, deliberately doesn’t let himself look at the pictures on the little dressing table, sees himself out, locks up behind him. No one did anything wrong, did they? The second time, he examined the Virgin Mary and the half-dozen pictures. He didn’t pick anything up, just went down on his haunches and looked at the photos in their plastic frames. That must be Mum, he thought, looking at the tight perm and big glasses. And there’s little Andrea, all blond and chubby. And is that a brother or a boyfriend? And here’s somebody’s birthday with so many faces you can’t tell who’s important and who isn’t. He looked again at the six- or seven-year-old Andrea—just a bit older than Melanie—and took the image home in his head. The third time, he eased open the top drawer; it stuck, and Andrea’s mum toppled over. There was mainly underwear, most of it familiar. Then he went to the bottom drawer, because that’s where secrets are normally kept, and found only sweaters and a couple of scarves. But in the middle drawer, under some shirts, were three items he laid on the bed in the same order, and even the same distance apart, as he found them. On the right was a medal, in the middle a photo framed in metal, on the left a passport. The photo showed four girls in a swimming pool, their arms around one another, a lane divider with cork floats separating one pair from the other. They were all smiling up at the camera, and had wrinkles in their white rubber caps. He instantly picked out Andrea, second from the left. The medal showed a swimmer diving into a pool, with some lines of German writing on the back and a date, 1986. How old would she have been then—eighteen, twenty? The passport confirmed it: born 1967, which made her forty. It said she’d been born in Halle, so she was German. And that was that. No diary, no letters, no vibrator. No secrets. He was in love—no, he was thinking about being in love—with a woman who’d once won a swimming medal. Where was the harm in knowing that? Not that she swam anymore. And now he remembered how she’d got all jumpy when Gary and Melanie had tried to make her go to the water’s edge and splash around. Maybe she didn’t want to be reminded. Or perhaps it was quite different, swimming in a competition pool versus having a dip in the sea. Like ballet dancers not wanting to do the sort of dancing everyone else did. That evening, he was deliberately jolly when they met, even a bit silly, but she seemed to notice, so he stopped. After a while, he felt normal again. Almost normal, anyway. When he first started going out with girls, he’d found there were moments when he suddenly thought, I don’t understand anything at all. With his second girlfriend, Karen, for instance: they’d been jogging along nicely, no pressure, having fun, when she’d asked, “So where’s all this leading, then?” As if there were only two choices: up the aisle or up the garden path. Other times, with other women, he’d say something, just something ordinary, and—splash—he’d find himself in deep water. They were in bed, Andrea’s nightie pulled up around her waist in the fat roll he was quite used to feeling against his belly, and he was going it a bit, when she shifted her legs and crushed him with them, like a nutcracker, he thought. “Mmm, big strong swimmer’s legs,” he muttered. She didn’t answer, but he knew she’d heard. He carried on, but could tell from her body that her mind wasn’t on things. Afterward, they lay on their backs, and he said some stuff, but she didn’t pick up on anything. Oh, well, work tomorrow, Vernon thought. He went to sleep. When he dropped by the Right Plaice to pick her up that evening, Mrs. Ridgewell said Andrea had called in sick. He rang her mobile but she didn’t answer, so he texted her. Then he went around to the house and tried her bell. He left it a couple of hours, phoned again, rang the bell, then let himself in. Her room was quite neat, and quite empty. No clothes on the picture rail, no photos on the little chest of drawers. Something made him open the microwave and look inside; all he saw was the circular plate. On the bed were two envelopes, one for the landlord, the other for Mrs. Ridgewell. Nothing for him. Mrs. Ridgewell asked if they’d had a quarrel. No, he said, they never quarrelled. “She was a nice girl,” the manageress said. “Very reliable.” “Like a Polish builder.” “I hope you didn’t say that to her. It’s not a nice remark. And I don’t think she was Polish.” “No, she wasn’t.” He looked out to sea. “Oorals,” he found himself saying. “Pardon?” You went to the station and showed a photograph of the missing woman to the booking clerk, who remembered her face and told you where she’d bought a ticket to. That’s what they did in films. But the nearest station was twelve miles away, and it didn’t have a ticket office, just a machine you put money or plastic into. And he didn’t even have a picture of her. They’d never done that thing couples do, crowding into a booth together, the girl sitting on the man’s lap, both giggly and out of focus. They were probably too old for that, anyway. At home, he Googled Andrea Morgen and got four hundred and ninety-seven thousand results. Then he put her in quotes and cut it down to three hundred and ninety-three. Did he want to search for “Andrea Morgan”? No, he didn’t want to search for someone else. Most of the results were in German, and he scrolled through them helplessly. He’d never done languages at school, never needed them since. Then he had a thought. He looked up an online dictionary and found the German for “swimmer.” It was a different word if you were a man or a woman. He typed in “Andrea Morgen” and “Schwimmerin.” Eight results, all in German. Two seemed to be from newspapers, one from an official report. And there was a picture of her. The same one he’d found in the drawer: there she was, second from the left, arms around her teammates, big wrinkles in her white swimming cap. He paused, then hit “Translate this page.” Later, he found links to other pages, this time in English. How could he have known, he asked himself. He could barely understand the science and wasn’t interested in the politics. But he could understand, and was interested in, things that, even as he looked out at the sea from a window table in the Right Plaice, were already beginning to change his memory of her. Halle was in what used to be East Germany. There had been a state recruiting scheme. Girls were picked out when they were as young as eleven—only four years older than that chubby little girl in the photograph. Vernon tried to put together her probable life. Her parents signing a consent form, perhaps a secrecy form as well. Andrea enrolled in the Child and Youth Sports School, then in the Dynamo Sports Club in East Berlin. She had some school lessons, but was mostly trained to swim and swim. It was a great honor to be a member of the Dynamo: that was why she’d had to leave home. Blood was taken from her earlobe to test how fit she was. There were pink pills and blue pills. Vitamins, she was told. Later, there were injections—just more vitamins. Except that they were anabolic steroids and testosterone. It was forbidden to refuse. The training motto was “You eat the pills or you die.” The coaches made sure she swallowed them. She didn’t die. Other things happened instead. Muscles grew, but tendons didn’t, so tendons snapped. There were sudden bursts of acne, a deepening of the voice, an increase of hair on the face and body; sometimes the pubic hair grew up over the stomach, even above the navel. There was retarded growth and problems with fertility. Vernon had to look up terms like “virilization” and “clitoris hypertrophy,” then wished he hadn’t. He didn’t need to look up heart disease, liver disease, ovarian cysts, deformed children, blind children. They doped the girls because it worked. East German swimmers won gold medals everywhere, the women especially. Not that Andrea had got to that level. When the Berlin Wall came down and the scandal broke, when they put the trainers, doctors, bureaucrats—the poisoners—on trial, her name wasn’t even mentioned. In spite of the pills, she hadn’t made the national team. The others, the ones who went public about what had been done to their bodies and their minds, at least had gold medals and a few years of fame to show for it. Andrea had come out with nothing more than a relay medal at some forgotten championship in a country that no longer existed. Vernon looked out at the concrete strip and the shingle beach, at the gray sea and the gray sky beyond. The view was pretending that it had always been the same, for as long as people had sat at this café window. Except that there used to be a row of beach huts blocking the view. Then someone had burned them down.
A Man Like Him The girl, unlike most people photographed for fashion magazines, was not beautiful. Moreover, she had no desire to appear beautiful, as anyone looking at her could tell, and for that reason Teacher Fei stopped turning the pages and studied her. She had short, unruly hair and wide-set eyes that glared at the camera in a closeup shot. In another photo, she stood in front of a bedroom door, her back to the camera, her hand pushing the door ajar. A bed and its pink sheet were artfully blurred. Her black T-shirt, in sharp focus, displayed a line of white printed characters: “My father is less of a creature than a pig or a dog because he is an adulterer.” The girl was nineteen, Teacher Fei learned from the article. Her parents had divorced three years earlier, and she suspected that another woman, a second cousin of her father’s, had seduced him. On her eighteenth birthday, the first day permitted by law, the daughter had filed a lawsuit against him. As she explained to the reporter, he was a member of the Communist Party, and he should be punished for abandoning his family, and for the immoral act of taking a mistress in the first place. When the effort to imprison her father failed, the girl started a blog and called it A Declaration of War on Unfaithful Husbands. “What is it that this crazy girl wants?” Teacher Fei asked out loud before reaching the girl’s answer. She wanted her father to lose his job, she told the reporter, along with his social status, his freedom, if possible, and his mistress for sure; she wanted him to beg her and her mother to take him back. She would support him for the rest of his life as the most filial daughter, but he had to repent—and, before that, to suffer as much as she and her mother had. What malice, Teacher Fei thought. He flung the magazine across the room, knocking a picture frame from the bookcase and surprising himself with this sudden burst of anger. At sixty-six, Teacher Fei had seen enough of the world to consider himself beyond the trap of pointless emotions. Was it the milkman, his mother asked from the living room. Milkmen had long ago ceased to exist in Beijing, milk being sold abundantly in stores now; still, approaching ninety, she was snatched from time to time by the old fear that a neighbor or a passerby would swipe their two rationed bottles. Remember how they had twice been fined for lost bottles, she asked as Teacher Fei entered the living room, where she sat in the old armchair that had been his father’s favorite spot in his last years. Teacher Fei hadn’t listened closely, but it was a question he knew by heart, and he said yes, he had remembered to pick up the bottles the moment they were delivered. Be sure to leave them in a basin of cold water so the milk does not turn sour, she urged. He stood before her and patted her hands, folded in her lap, and reassured her that there was no need for her to worry. She grabbed him then, curling her thin fingers around his. “I have nothing to say about this world,” she said slowly. “I know,” Teacher Fei said. He bent down and placed her hands back in her lap. “Should I warm some milk?” he asked, though he could see that already she was slipping away into her usual reverie, one that would momentarily wash her mind clean. Sometimes he made an effort, coaxing her to walk with baby steps to exercise her shrinking muscles. A few years ago, the limit of her world had been the park two blocks down the street, and later the stone bench across the street from their apartment; now it was their fifth-floor balcony. Teacher Fei knew that in time he would let his mother die in peace in this apartment. She disliked strangers, and he couldn’t imagine her in a cold bed in a crowded hospital ward. Teacher Fei withdrew to the study, which had been his father’s domain until his death. His mother had long ago stopped visiting this room, so Teacher Fei was the one who took care of the books on the shelves, airing the yellowing pages twice a year on the balcony, but inevitably some of the books had become too old to rescue, making way for the fashion magazines that Teacher Fei now purchased. The black-clad girl taunted him from the magazine lying open on the floor. He picked her up and carefully set her on the desk, then fumbled in the drawer for an inkpot. Much of the ink in the bottle had evaporated from lack of use, and few of the brushes in the bamboo container were in good shape now. Still, with a fine brush pen and just enough ink on the tip, he was able to sketch a scorpion in the margin of the page, its pincers stabbing toward the girl’s eyes. It had been six years since he retired as an art teacher, nearly forty since he last painted out of free will. Teacher Fei looked at the drawing. His hand was far from a shaking old man’s. He could have made the scorpion an arthropod version of the girl, but such an act would have been beneath his standards. Teacher Fei had never cursed at a woman, either in words or in any other form of expression, and he certainly did not want to begin with a young girl. Later, when Mrs. Luo, a neighbor in her late forties who had been laid off by the local electronics factory, came to sit with Teacher Fei’s mother, he went to a nearby Internet café. It was a little after two, a slow time for the business, and the manager was dozing off in the warm sunshine. A few middle-school students, not much older than twelve or thirteen, were gathered around a computer, talking in tones of hushed excitement, periodically breaking into giggles. Teacher Fei knew these types of kids. They pooled their pocket money in order to spend a few truant hours in a chat room, impersonating people much older than themselves and carrying on affairs with other human beings who could be equally fraudulent. In his school days, Teacher Fei had skipped his share of classes to frolic with friends in the spring meadow or to take long walks in the autumn woods, and he wondered if, in fifty years, the children around the computer would have to base their nostalgia on a fabricated world that existed only in a machine. But who could blame them for paying little attention to the beautiful April afternoon? Teacher Fei had originally hired Mrs. Luo for an hour a day so that he could take a walk; ever since he had discovered the Internet, Mrs. Luo’s hours had been increased. Most days now she spent three hours in the afternoon taking care of Teacher Fei’s mother and cooking a meal for both of them. The manager of the Internet café had once suggested that Teacher Fei purchase a computer of his own; the man had also volunteered to set it up, saying that he would be happy to see a good customer save money, even if it meant that he would lose some business. Teacher Fei had rejected the generous offer—despite his mother’s increasing loss of her grip on reality, he could not bring himself to perform any act of dishonesty in her presence. Teacher Fei located the girl’s blog without a problem. There were more pictures of her there, some with her mother. Anyone could see the older woman’s unease in front of the camera. In her prime she would have been more attractive than her daughter was now, but perhaps it was the diffidence in her face that had softened some of the features that in her daughter’s case were accentuated by rage. Under the heading “Happier Time,” Teacher Fei found a black-and-white photo of the family. The girl, aged three or four, sat on a high stool, and her parents stood on either side. On the wall behind them was a garden, painted by someone without much artistic taste, Teacher Fei could tell right away. The girl laughed with a mouthful of teeth, and the mother smiled demurely, as a married woman would be expected to in front of a photographer. The father was handsome, with perfectly shaped cheekbones and deep-set eyes not often found in a Chinese face, but the strain in his smile and the tiredness in those eyes seemed to indicate little of the happiness the daughter believed had existed in her parents’ marriage. Teacher Fei shook his head and scribbled on a scrap of paper the man’s name and address and home phone number, as well as the address and number of his work unit, which had all been listed by the girl. A scanned image of his resident’s I.D. was displayed, too. Teacher Fei calculated the man’s age, forty-six, and noted that on the paper. When he went to the message board on the girl’s Web site, Teacher Fei read a few of the most recent posts, left by sympathetic women claiming to have been similarly hurt by unfaithful husbands or absent fathers. “Dearest Child,” one message started, from a woman calling herself “Another Betrayed Wife,” who praised the young girl as an angel of justice and courage. Teacher Fei imagined these women dialling the father’s number at night, or showing up in front of his work unit to brandish cardboard signs covered with words of condemnation. “To all who support this young woman’s mission,” he typed in the box at the bottom of the Web page, “the world will be a better place when one learns to see through to the truth instead of making hasty and unfounded accusations.” “A Concerned Man,” Teacher Fei signed his message. A different opinion was not what these women would want to hear, but any man with a brain had to accept his responsibility to make the truth known. A girl among the group of middle schoolers glanced at Teacher Fei and then whispered to a companion, who looked up at him with a snicker before letting herself be absorbed again by the screen. An old man with wrinkles and without hair. Teacher Fei assessed himself through the girls’ eyes: bored and boring, no doubt undesirable in any sense, but who could guarantee the girls that the flirtatious young man online who made their hearts speed was not being impersonated by an equally disgraceful old man? Later that evening, when Teacher Fei had wrung a warm towel to the perfect stage of moistness and passed it to his mother, who sat on another towel on her bed, a curtain separating her partly undressed body from him, he thought about the two girls and their youthful indifference. One day, if they were fortunate enough to survive all the disappointments life had in store for them, they would have to settle into their no longer young bodies. “Do you remember Carpenter Chang?” Teacher Fei’s mother asked from the other side of the curtain. Three times a week, Mrs. Luo bathed Teacher Fei’s mother, and on the other evenings Teacher Fei and his mother had to make do with the curtain as he assisted her with her sponge bath and listened to her reminisce about men and women long dead. Half an hour, and sometimes an hour, would pass, his mother washing and talking on one side of the curtain, him listening and sometimes pressing for details on the other side. This was the time of day they talked the most, when Teacher Fei knew that although his mother’s body was frail and her mind tangled by memories, she was still the same graceful woman who, with her unhurried storytelling, knew how to take the awkwardness out of a situation in which she had to be cared for by a grown son who had remained a bachelor all his life. Having his mother as his only companion in old age was not how Teacher Fei had envisioned his life, but he had accepted this with little grievance. He enjoyed conversations with her, for whom things long forgotten by the world were as present as the air she shallowly breathed: two apprentices pulling a giant paper fan back and forth in a barbershop to refresh the sweating customers, the younger one winking at her while her grandfather snored on the bench waiting for his daily shave; the machine her father had installed in the front hall of their house, operated by a pedalling servant, which cut a long tube of warm, soft toffee into small neat cubes that, once hardened, were wrapped in squares of cellophane by her and her four sisters; the cousins and second cousins who had once been playmates, fed and clothed and schooled alongside her and her sisters when they were young, but who later claimed to have been exploited as child laborers by her capitalist father; her wedding to Teacher Fei’s father, attended by the best-known scholars of the day and lamented by most of her relatives, her mother included, as a bad match. Teacher Fei’s father had been the oldest and poorest of his mother’s suitors. Twenty years her senior, he had worked as a part-time teacher in the élite high school that she and her sisters attended, and when she rejected him a renowned scholar wrote to her on his behalf, assuring the sixteen-year-old girl of what was beyond her understanding at the time: that Teacher Fei’s father would become one of the most important philosophers in the nation and, more than that, would be a devoted husband who would love her till death parted them. Teacher Fei had always suspected that his mother had agreed to see his father only to appease the scholar, but within a year the two had married, and afterward, before Teacher Fei’s father found a university position, his mother used her dowry to help her husband support his parents and siblings in the countryside. Unable to become pregnant, she had adopted a boy—Teacher Fei—from the long line of nephews and nieces who lived in close quarters in her husband’s family compound, which had been built and rebuilt in the course of four generations. She had never hidden this fact from Teacher Fei, and he remembered being saddened after a holiday in his father’s home village when he was eight and finally understood that he alone had been plucked from his siblings and cousins. His relatives, his birth parents included, had treated him with respect and even awe. It was his good fortune, his mother had said, comforting him, to have two pairs of parents and two worlds. Poor man, she said now, and for a moment, lost in his reverie, Teacher Fei wondered if he had told her about the avenging daughter. Then he realized that his mother was still talking about the carpenter, who had once carved five coffins for his children, all killed by typhoid within a week. The carpenter’s wife, who had been hired as a wet nurse for Teacher Fei when he first left his birth mother, had returned to the house years later with the news. Even as a ten-year-old, Teacher Fei could see that the woman had been driven out of her mind and would go on telling the story to any willing ears until her death. It’s the innocent ones who are often preyed upon by life’s cruelty, Teacher Fei replied, and when his mother did not speak he recounted the girl’s story from the magazine. He paused when his mother, dressed in her pajamas, pulled the curtain aside. All set for the dreamland, she said. He did not know if she had heard him, but when he tucked her in she looked up from the pillow. “You should not feel upset by the girl,” she said. He was not, Teacher Fei replied; it was just that he found the girl’s hatred extraordinary. His mother shook her head slightly on the pillow, looking past his face at the ceiling, as if she did not want to embarrass him by confronting his lie. “The weak-minded choose to hate,” she said. “It’s the least painful thing to do, isn’t it?” She closed her eyes as if exhausted. Rarely did she stay in a conversation with him with such clarity these days, and he wondered whether she had chosen to neglect the world simply because it no longer interested her. He waited, and when she did not open her eyes he wished her a night of good sleep and clicked off the bedside lamp. “The weak-minded choose to hate,” Teacher Fei wrote in his journal later that night. For years, he’d had the habit of taking notes of his mother’s words. “I have nothing to say about this world,” he wrote, the line most often repeated in the journal. Twenty-five years ago, his father, after a long day of musing in his armchair, had said the same thing, his final verdict before he swallowed a bottle of sleeping pills. Teacher Fei’s mother had not sounded out of sorts when she had called him that evening to report his father’s words, nor had she cried the following morning on the phone with the news of his father’s death. Teacher Fei suspected that, if his mother had not been an active accomplice, she had, at the least, been informed of the suicide plan; either way it made no difference, for the border between husband and wife had long been obscured in his parents’ marriage. What surprised Teacher Fei was his mother’s willingness to live on. He visited her daily after his father’s death and within a year had moved in with her. He recorded and analyzed every meaningful sentence of hers, looking for hints that the words were her farewell to the world. He was intentionally careless about his pills, and hers, too, as he believed she must have been in his father’s final days—they had always been a family of insomniacs—but by the fifth anniversary of his father’s death Teacher Fei had stopped waiting. She had nothing to say about the world, she told him that day, more out of amusement than resignation, and he knew then that she would not choose to end her life. The message that Teacher Fei had left on the girl’s Web site was not there when he checked the next day at the Internet café. Why was he surprised? Still, his hands shook as he composed another message, calling the girl a manipulative liar. A young couple, seventeen or eighteen at most, cast disapproving glances at Teacher Fei from another computer, seemingly alarmed by his vehement treatment of the keyboard. The chat rooms he normally frequented held little attraction for him today. He was leaving on a business trip abroad, he told a friend in one chat room who called herself Perfume Beauty, and then repeated the news to similarly named women in other chat rooms, knowing that they would find other idling men to flirt with. The night before, he had imagined the reaction of the girl and her female allies to his message, and had composed an eloquent retort to throw at these petty-minded women. But no doubt the girl would again erase it, and he could not stop her, nor could he expose her dishonesty. Teacher Fei logged off the computer and watched the boy sneak a hand under the girl’s sweater and wiggle it around, perhaps trying to unhook her troublesome bra. She looked at the screen with a straight face, but her body, moving slightly in coöperation, betrayed her enjoyment. The girl noticed Teacher Fei’s attention first and signalled to her boyfriend to stop. Without withdrawing his hand, he mouthed a threat at Teacher Fei, who lifted his arms as if surrendering and stood up to leave. When he walked past the couple, he raised a thumb and gave the boy a smile, as if they were conspiring comrades; the boy, caught off guard, grinned disarmingly before turning his face away. Teacher Fei had never cupped his hands around a woman’s breasts, and for an instant he wished that he possessed the magic to make the boy disappear and let him take his place next to the girl. What stupidity, Teacher Fei chided himself, after he had gulped down a can of ice-cold soda water at a roadside stand. It was that angry girl and her fraudulence—that was what was depriving him of his peace. He wished that he had been his mother’s birth son, that he had her noble and calm blood running through his veins, guarding him against the ugliness of the world. The good fortune that his mother had once assured him of had not lasted long. At eighteen, he had been an ambitious art student about to enter the nation’s top art institute, but within a year his father, an exemplary member of the reactionary intellectuals, was demoted from professor to toilet cleaner, and Teacher Fei’s education had been terminated. For the next twenty years, Teacher Fei’s mother had accompanied his father from building to building, one hand carrying a bucket of cleaning tools and the other holding her husband’s arm, as if they were on their way to a banquet. Yet, in the end, even she could not save her husband from despair. Teacher Fei’s father had killed himself two years after he was restored to his position at the university. The next day, Teacher Fei saw that his second message to the girl had also been confiscated by the cyberworld. A different message, left by a woman who hailed the girl as a guardian of the morality of modern China, taunted Teacher Fei in bold type. He hastily composed another post, and then spent twenty minutes rephrasing it in a calmer tone, but a day later, when that message had also been deleted, his rage erupted. He called her a “scorpion girl” in a new message, saying that he hoped no man would make the mistake of his life by marrying her and succumbing to her poison; he took great pity on her father, since an evil daughter like her would make any father live in a hell. Her father . . . Teacher Fei paused in his typing, as the man’s unhappy face in the photo came back to him. He decided to call the man’s work unit, an institute affiliated with the Ministry of Propaganda, from a phone booth in the street. A woman answered, and when Teacher Fei asked for the man by name she inquired about the nature of his business. An old school friend who has lost touch, he said, apologizing that he did not have another number for him and so had to make the initial contact through the work unit. The woman hesitated and then told him to wait. When the phone was picked up again, Teacher Fei was surprised by the voice, which sounded as though it belonged to a much older man. It didn’t matter what his name was, Teacher Fei replied when the girl’s father asked for it; he was merely calling as a man who was sympathetic to a fellow-man’s situation. He then asked if there was a chance that they could meet in person. The line clicked dead while he was in midsentence. When Mrs. Luo came the next day, Teacher Fei begged her to stay till later in the evening. He would pay her double for the extra hours, he said, and Mrs. Luo, after complaining about the inconvenience, agreed, adding that a man like Teacher Fei indeed deserved an occasional break from caring for an elderly woman. Mrs. Luo had not lowered her voice, and Teacher Fei glanced at his mother, who sat in the armchair with her eyes fixed on a square of afternoon sunshine on the floor. She was obedient and quiet in front of Mrs. Luo, who, like everybody else, believed that Teacher Fei’s mother had long been lost in her own world of dementia. A man like him. In the street, Teacher Fei pondered Mrs. Luo’s words. What did that mean—a man like him—a bachelor without a son to carry on his blood, a retired art teacher whose name most of his students had forgotten the moment they graduated from elementary school, a disgraceful old man who purchased fashion magazines at the newsstand and wasted his afternoons alongside teenagers in a cyberworld, making up names and stories and sending out romantic lies? What did he deserve but this aimless walk in a world where the only reason for him to live was so that his mother could die in her own bed? There must be places for a man like him to go, inexpensive foot-massage shops where, behind an unwashed curtain, a jaded young woman from the countryside would run her hands where he directed her while she chatted with a companion behind another curtain. Or, if he was willing to spend more—and he could, for he had few expenditures beyond his magazines and the Internet café, and had long ago stopped buying expensive brushes and paper and pretending to be an artist—one of the bathing palaces would welcome him into its warmth, with a private room and a woman of his choice to wait on him. It was a few minutes after five when Teacher Fei arrived at the institute, betting that the girl’s father was not the type to leave work early, since there would be little reason for him to hurry home. While Teacher Fei waited for a guard to inform the man of his arrival, he studied the plaque at the entrance to the institute. “The Association of Marxist Dialectical Materialism,” it said, and it occurred to Teacher Fei that had his father been alive he would have said that it was the parasites in these institutes who had ended hope for Chinese philosophers. “Please don’t get me wrong. I am a serious man,” Teacher Fei said to the girl’s father when he appeared. “A man most sympathetic to your situation.” “I don’t know you,” the man said. Had Teacher Fei not known his age, he would have guessed him to be more than sixty; his hair was more gray than black, and his back was stooped with timidity. A man closer to death than most men his age, Teacher Fei thought. But perhaps he would have more peace to look forward to in death. A stranger could be one’s best friend just as one’s wife and daughter could be one’s deadly enemies, Teacher Fei replied, and he suggested that they go out for tea or a quick drink. A small group of workers, on their way from the institute to the bus stop across the street, passed the pair of men; two women looked back at them and then talked in whispers to the group. The girl’s father recoiled, and Teacher Fei wondered if the daughter knew that her father already lived in a prison cell, its bars invisible to the people in the street. They could go to the man’s office for a chat, Teacher Fei offered, knowing that this was the last thing he would want. The father hurriedly agreed to go to a nearby diner instead. He was the kind of man who was easily bullied by the world, Teacher Fei thought, realizing with satisfaction that he had not sought out the wrong person. At the diner, the girl’s father chose a table in the corner farthest from the entrance, and in the dim light he squinted at the bench, wiping off some grease before he sat down. When the waitress came, Teacher Fei asked for a bottle of rice liquor and a plate of assorted cold cuts. He was not a drinker, nor had he ever touched marinated pig liver or tongue, but he imagined that a friendship between two men should start over harsh liquor and variety meats. Neither spoke for a moment. When their order came, Teacher Fei poured some liquor for the girl’s father. A good drink wipes out all pain for a man, Teacher Fei said, and then poured a glass for himself, but it soon became clear that neither of them would touch the drink or the meat, the man apparently feeling as out of place in the dingy diner as Teacher Fei did. “What are you going to do?” Teacher Fei asked when the silence between them began to attract prying glances from the middle-aged proprietress of the diner, who sat behind the counter and studied the few occupied tables. The man shook his head. “I don’t understand the question,” he said. “I think you should sue your daughter,” Teacher Fei said, and immediately saw the man freeze with hostility. Perhaps someone had approached him with a similar proposition already. Or perhaps that was why the young girl had sued her father in the first place, egged on by an attorney, a manipulative man using her rage for his own gain. Not that he could offer any legal help, Teacher Fei explained. He had been an art teacher in an elementary school before his retirement. He was in no position to do anything to hurt the girl’s father, nor did he have the power to help him in his situation. It was only that he had followed his daughter’s story in the media, and when he had seen the family picture he had known that he needed to do something for the girl’s father. “ ‘How many people in this world would understand this man’s pain?’ I asked myself when I saw your picture.” The girl’s father flinched. “I am not the kind of man you think I am,” he said. “What?” Teacher Fei asked, failing to understand his meaning. He was not into other men, the girl’s father said, so could Teacher Fei please stop this talk of friendship. The proprietress, who had been loitering around the nearby tables checking on the soy-sauce bottles, perked up despite the man’s hushed voice. It took Teacher Fei a moment to grasp what the man was hinting at. Nor am I who you think I am, he thought of protesting, but why should he, when he had long ago made the decision not to defend himself against this ridiculous world? The proprietress approached the table and asked about the quality of the food and drink. When the man did not reply, Teacher Fei said that they were very fine. The woman chatted for a moment about the weather, and returned to her counter. Only then did the man insist that it was time for him to go home. “Who is waiting at home?” Teacher Fei asked, and the man, taken aback, stood up and said he really needed to leave. “Please,” Teacher Fei said, looking up at the man. “Could you stay for just a minute?” If he sounded pathetic, he did not care. “You and I . . . ,” he said slowly, glancing over at the entrance to the diner, where a pair of college students, a girl and a boy, were studying the menu on the wall. “We are the kind of men who would not kick our feet or flail our arms if someone came to strangle us to death. Most people would assume that we must be guilty if we didn’t fight back. A few would think us crazy or stupid. A very few would perhaps consider us men with dignity. But you and I alone know that they are all wrong, don’t we?” The man, who was about to leave some money on the table, tightened his fingers around the bills. Teacher Fei watched the college students take seats by the window, the boy covering the girl’s hands with his own on the table. When the man sat back down, Teacher Fei nodded gratefully. He did not want to look up, for fear that the man would see his moist eyes. “When I was twenty-four, I was accused of falling in love with a girl student,” he said. “Pedophile” had been the word used in the file at the school, the crime insinuated in the conversations taking place behind his back. The girl was ten and a half, an ordinary student, neither excelling among her classmates nor falling behind; one often encountered children like her in teaching, faces that blended into one another, names misrecalled from time to time, but there was something in the girl’s face, a quietness that did not originate from shyness or absent-mindedness, as it usually did in children of her age, that intrigued Teacher Fei. He envisioned her at different ages—fifteen, twenty, thirty—but there was little desire in that imagining other than the desire to understand a face that had moved him as no other face had. “No, don’t ask any questions, just as I won’t ask whether you indeed kept a mistress while being married to your wife. It doesn’t matter what happened between your cousin and you, or my girl student and me. You see, these accusations exist for the sake of those who feel the need to accuse. If it wasn’t your cousin, there would have been another woman to account for your not loving your wife enough, no?” The man took a sip from his glass, spilling the liquor when he put it down. He apologized for his clumsiness. “My mother used to say that people in this country were very good at inventing crimes, but, better still, we were good at inventing punishments to go with them,” Teacher Fei said. When he and his cousin were young, they had vowed to marry each other, the man said; a children’s game mostly, for when the time came they had drifted apart. She was widowed when they met again, and he had tried to help her find a job in the city, but she had never been his mistress. “You don’t have to explain these things to me,” Teacher Fei said. “Had I not known to trust you, I would not have looked for you.” The man could say a thousand things to defend himself, but people, his own daughter among them, would just laugh in his face and call him a liar. The crime that Teacher Fei had been accused of amounted to nothing more than a few moments of gazing, but one of the other students, a precocious eleven-year-old, had told her parents of the inappropriate attention the young teacher had paid to her classmate; later, when other girls were questioned, they seemed to be caught easily in the contagious imagination. He had just been curious, Teacher Fei said when he was approached by the principal. About what, he was pressed, but he could not explain how a face could contain so many mysteries visible only to those who knew what to look for. His reticence, more than anything, caused fury among the parents and his fellow-teachers. In the end, he chose to be called the name that had been put in the file: a man’s dirty desire was all his accusers could grasp. “One should never hope for the unseeing to see the truth,” Teacher Fei said now. “I could’ve denied all the accusations, but what difference would it have made?” “So there was no . . . proof of any kind?” the man said, looking interested for the first time. “Nothing to put me in jail for,” Teacher Fei said. “And someone just reported you?” “We can’t blame a young girl’s imagination, can we?” Teacher Fei said. The man met Teacher Fei’s eyes. It was just the kind of thing his daughter would have done, the man said. “She’d have made sure you lost your job,” he added with a bitter smile, surprising Teacher Fei with his humor. “Count yourself a lucky person.” Teacher Fei nodded. He had won the district mural contest for the school every year, his ambition and training in art making him a craftsman in the end, but shouldn’t he consider it good fortune that his ability to paint the best portrait of Chairman Mao in the district had saved him from losing his job? The time to think about marriage had come and then gone, his reputation such that no matchmaker wanted to bet a girl’s future on him. Still, his parents had treated him with gentle respect, never once questioning him. But, as cleaners of public toilets, they could do little to comfort him other than to leave him undisturbed in his solitude. Indeed, he was a lucky man, Teacher Fei said now; he had never married, so no one could accuse him of being an unfaithful husband or a bad father. “Unwise of me to start a family, wasn’t it?” the girl’s father said. “Before my divorce, my daughter said there were three things she would do. First, she would sue me and put me in prison. If that failed, she would find a way to let the whole world know my crime. And if that didn’t make me go back to her mother she would come with rat poison. Let me tell you—now that she has done the first two things, I am waiting every day for her to fulfill her promise, and I count it as my good fortune to have little suspense left in my life.” Teacher Fei looked at the college students paying at the counter, the boy counting money for the proprietress and the girl scanning the restaurant, her eyes passing over Teacher Fei and his companion without seeing them. “I have nothing to say about this world,” Teacher Fei said. Neither did he, the man replied, and they sat for a long time in silence till the proprietress approached again and asked if they needed more food. Both men brought out their wallets. “Let me,” Teacher Fei said, and though the man hesitated for a moment, he did not argue. In the dusk, a thin mist hung in the air. The two men shook hands as they parted. There was little more for them to say to each other, and Teacher Fei watched the man walk down the street, knowing that nothing would be changed by their brief meeting. He thought about his mother, who would be eager to see him return, though she would not show her anxiety to Mrs. Luo. He thought about his girl student: fifty-two she would be now, no doubt a wife and mother herself, and he hoped that he had not been mistaken and she had grown into a woman like his mother. She—the girl student, whom he had never seen again—would outlive him, just as his mother had outlived his father, their beauty and wisdom the saving grace for a man like him, a man like his father. But for the other man, who would be watching the night fall around the orange halo of the street lamps with neither longing nor dread, what did the future offer but the comfort of knowing that he would, when it was time for his daughter to carry out her plan of revenge, coöperate with a gentle willingness?
Them Old Cowboy Songs Archie and Rose McLaverty staked out a homestead where the Little Weed comes rattling down from the Sierra Madre, water named not for miniature obnoxious flora but for P. H. Weed, a gold-seeker who had starved near its source. Archie had a face as smooth as a skinned aspen, his lips barely incised on the surface, as though scratched in with a knife. All his natural decoration was in his red cheeks and his springy waves of auburn hair, which seemed charged with voltage. He lied about his age to anyone who asked—he was not twenty-one but sixteen. The first summer, they lived in a tent while Archie worked on a small cabin. It took him a month of rounding up stray cows for Bunk Peck before he could afford two glass windows. The cabin was snug, built with eight-foot squared-off logs tenoned on the ends and dropped into mortised uprights, a size Archie could handle himself, with a little help from their only neighbor, Tom Ackler, a sun-dried prospector with a summer shack up on the mountain. They chinked the cabin with heavy yellow clay. One day, Archie dragged a huge flat stone to the house for a doorstep. It was pleasant to sit in the cool of the evening with their feet on the great stone and watch the deer come down to drink and, just before darkness, see the herons flying upstream, their color matching the sky so closely they might have been eyes of wind. Archie dug into the side of the hill and built a stout meat house, sawed wood while Rose split kindling until they had four cords stacked high against the cabin, almost to the eaves, the pile immediately tenanted by a weasel. “He’ll keep the mice down,” Rose said. “Yeah, if the bastard don’t bite somebody,” Archie said, flexing his right forefinger. A faint brogue flavored his sentences, for he had been conceived in Ireland and born, in 1868, in Dakota Territory, of parents arrived from Bantry Bay, his father to spike ties for the Union Pacific Railroad. His mother’s death from cholera when he was seven was followed a few weeks later by that of his father, who had guzzled an entire bottle of strychnine-laced patent medicine that was guaranteed to ward off cholera and measles if taken in teaspoon quantities. Before Archie’s mother died, she had taught him dozens of old songs and the rudiments of music structure by painting a plank with black and white piano keys, sitting him before it, and encouraging him to touch the keys with the correct fingers. The family wipeout removed the Irish influence. Mrs. Sarah Peck, a warmhearted Missouri Methodist widow, raised the young orphan, to the great resentment of her son, Bunk. A parade of saddle bums drifted through the Peck bunkhouse, and from an early age Archie listened to the songs they sang. He was a quick study for a tune, and had a memory for rhymes, verses, and intonations. When Mrs. Peck died, caught in a grass conflagration she had started while singeing slaughtered chickens, Archie was fourteen and Bunk in his early twenties. Without Mrs. Peck as a buffer, the relationship became one of hired hand and boss. There had never been any sense of kinship, fictive or otherwise, between them, and Bunk Peck fumed over the hundred dollars his mother had left Archie in her will. Archie McLaverty had a singing voice that once heard was never forgotten. It was a straight, hard voice, the words falling out halfway between a shout and a song. Sad and flat and without ornamentation, it expressed things that were unsayable. He sang plain and square-cut, “Brandy’s brandy, any way you mix it, a Texian’s a Texian any way you fix it,” and the listeners laughed at the droll way he rolled out “fix it,” the words surely meaning castration. He could sing every song—“Go ’Long Blue Dog,” and “When the Green Grass Comes,” “Don’t Pull Off My Boots,” and “Two Quarts of Whiskey,” and at all-male roundup nights he had endless verses of “The Stinkin Cow,” “The Buckskin Shirt,” and “Cousin Harry.” He courted Rose by singing, “Never marry no good-for-nothin boy,” it being understood that the boy was himself, the “good-for-nothin” a disclaimer. Later, with winks and innuendo, he sang, “Little girl, for safety you better get branded.” Archie, advised by an ex-homesteader working for Bunk Peck, used his inheritance from Mrs. Peck to buy eighty acres of private land. It would have cost nothing if he had filed for a homestead twice that size on public land, or eight times larger on desert land, but Archie feared the government would discover he was a minor. Since he had never expected anything from Mrs. Peck, buying the land with the surprise legacy seemed like getting it for free. Archie, thrilled to be a landowner, told Rose he had to sing the metes and bounds. He started on the southwest corner early one morning and headed east. Rose walked along with him at the beginning and even tried to sing with him but got out of breath from walking so fast and singing at the same time. Nor did she know the words to many of his songs. Archie kept going. Late in the afternoon, he was on the west line, drawing near and still singing, though his voice was raspy, “an we’ll go downtown, an we’ll buy some shirts . . .,” and slouching down the slope the last hundred feet in the evening dusk so worn of voice she could only just hear him breathily chant “never had a nickel and I don’t give a shit.” There is no happiness like that of a young couple in a little house they have built themselves in a place of beauty and solitude. Archie had hammered together a table with sapling legs and two benches. At the evening meal, their faces lit by the yellow shine of the coal-oil lamp whose light threw wild shadows on the ceiling, their world seemed in order. Rose was not pretty, but warmhearted and quick to laugh. She had grown up at the Jackrabbit stage station, the daughter of kettle-bellied Sundown Mealor, who dreamed of plunging steeds but because of his bottle habit drove a freight wagon. The station was on a north-south trail that connected hardscrabble ranches with the blowout railroad town of Rawlins after the Union Pacific line went through. Rose’s mother was gray with some wasting disease that kept her to her bed, sinking slowly out of life. She wept over Rose’s early marriage at barely fourteen but gave her a family treasure, a large silver spoon that had come across the Atlantic. The stationmaster was Robert F. Dorgan, affable and jowly, yearning to be appointed to a position of importance and seeing the station as a brief stop not only for freight wagons but for himself. His second wife, Flora, stepmother to his daughter Queeda, went to Denver every winter with Queeda, and so they became authorities on fashion and style. They were as close as a natural mother and daughter. In Denver, Mrs. Dorgan sought out important people who could help her husband climb to success. Many political men spent the winter in Denver, and one of them, Rufus Clatter, with connections to Washington, hinted that there was a chance for Dorgan to be appointed as the territory’s surveyor. “I’m sure he knows a good deal about surveying,” he said with a wink. “Considerable,” she said, thinking that Dorgan could find some stripling surveyor to do the work for a few dollars. “I’ll see what I can do,” Clatter said, pressing heavily against her thigh, but tensed to step away if she took offense. She allowed him a few seconds, smiled, and turned away. Back at the station in the spring, where her rings and metallic dress trim cast a golden aura, she bossed the local society and gossip, saying that Archie McLaverty had ruined Rose, precipitating their youthful marriage, but what could you expect from a girl with a drunkard father, an uncontrolled girl who’d had the run of the station, sassing rough drivers and exchanging low repartee with bumpkin cowhands, among them Archie McLaverty, a lowlife who sang vulgar songs? She whisked her hands together as though ridding them of filth. The other inhabitant of the station was an old bachelor (the country was rich in bachelors), Harp Daft, the telegraph key operator. His face and neck formed a visor of scars, moles, wens, boils, and acne. One leg was shorter than the other, and his voice twanged with catarrh. His window faced the Dorgan house, and a black circle that Rose knew to be a telescope sometimes showed in it. Rose both admired and despised Queeda Dorgan. She greedily took in every detail of the beautiful dresses, the fire-opal brooch, satin shoes, and saucy hats so exquisitely out of place at the dusty station, but she knew that Miss Dainty had to wash out her bloody menstrual rags like every woman, although she tried to hide them by hanging them on the line at night or inside pillow slips. Beneath the silk skirts, she, too, had to put up with sopping pads torn from old sheets, the crusted edges chafing her thighs and pulling at her pubic hairs. At those times of the month, the animal smell seeped through Queeda’s perfumed defenses. Rose saw Mrs. Dorgan as an iron-boned, two-faced enemy, her public sweetness offset by private coarseness. She had seen the woman spit on the ground like a drover, had seen her scratch her crotch on the corner of the table when she thought no one was looking. Believing that she was a superior creature, Mrs. Dorgan never spoke to the Mealors, nor to the despicable bachelor pawing his telegraph key, or, as he said, seeking out constellations. Every morning in the little cabin, Rose braided her straight brown hair, dabbed it with drops of lilac water from the blue bottle Archie had presented her on the day of their wedding, and wound it around her head in a coronet, the way Queeda Dorgan bound up her hair. She did not want to become like a homestead woman, with skunky armpits and greasy hair yanked into a bun. She hoped that their children would get Archie’s auburn waves and his red-cheeked, handsome face. She trimmed his hair with a pair of embroidery scissors dropped in the dust by some lady stagecoach passenger at the station years before. But it was hard, keeping clean. Queeda Dorgan had little to do at the station except primp and flounce, but Rose, in her cabin, lifted heavy kettles, split kindling, baked bread, scrubbed pots, and hacked the stone-filled ground for a garden, and hauled water when Archie was not there. They were lucky their first winter that the river did not freeze. Her personal wash and the dishes and the floor took four daily buckets of water lugged up from the Little Weed, each trip disturbing the ducks who favored the nearby setback for their business meetings. She tried to keep Archie clean as well. He rode in from days of chasing Peck’s cows or running wild horses on the desert with a stubbled face, mosquito-bitten neck and grimed hands, cut, cracked nails, and stinking feet. She pulled off his boots and washed his feet in the dishpan, patting them dry with a clean feed-sack towel. “If you had stockins, it wouldn’t be so bad,” she said. “If I could get me some knittin needles and yarn I could make stockins.” “Mrs. Peck made some. Once. Took about a hour before they was holed. No point to it, and they clamber around in your boots. Hell with stockins.” Supper was venison hash or a platter of fried sage hen she had shot, but not beans, which Archie said had been and still were the main provender at Peck’s. Occasionally their neighbor Tom Ackler rode down for supper, sometimes with his yellow cat, Gold Dust, riding behind him on the saddle. While Tom talked, Gold Dust set to work to claw the weasel out of the woodpile. Rose liked the black-eyed, balding prospector and asked him about the gold earring in his left ear. “Used a sail the world, girlie. That’s my port ear and that ring tells them as knows that I been east round Cape Horn. And if you been east, you been west first. Been all over the world.” He had a rich collection of stories of storms, violent williwaws, and southerly busters, of waterspouts and whales leaping like trout, icebergs and doldrums and enmeshing seaweed, of wild times in distant ports. “How come you to leave the sailor-boy life?” Rose asked. “No way to get rich, girlie. And this fella wanted a snug harbor after the pitchin deck.” Archie asked about maritime songs, and the next visit Tom Ackler brought his concertina with him, and for hours sea chanteys and sailors’ verses filled the cabin, Archie asking for a repeat of some and often chiming in after a single hearing. They say old man your horse will die. And they say so, and they hope so. O poor old man your horse will die. O poor old man. Rose was an eager lover when Archie called, “Put your ass up like a whip-poor-will,” and an expert at shifting his occasional glum moods into pleased laughter. She seemed unaware that she lived in a time when love killed women. One summer evening, their bedspread on the floor among the chips and splinters in the half-finished cabin, they fell to kissing. Rose, in some kind of transport, began to bite her kisses, sharp nips along his neck, his shoulder, in the musky crevice between his arm and torso, his nipples, until she felt him shaking and looked up to see his eyes closed, tears in his lashes, face contorted in a grimace. “Oh, Archie, I didn’t mean to hurt, Archie—” “You did not,” he groaned. “It’s. I ain’t never been. Loved. I just can’t hardly STAND IT—” And he began to blubber “Feel like I been shot,” pulling her into his arms, rolling half over so that the salty tears and his saliva wet her embroidered shirtwaist, calling her his little birdeen, and at that moment she would have walked into a furnace for him. On the days he was away she would hack at the garden. She shot a hawk that was after her three laying hens, plucked and cleaned it, and threw it in the soup pot with a handful of wild onions and some pepper. Another day she gathered two quarts of wild strawberries, her fingers stained a deep red that would not wash away. “Look like you killed and skinned a griz bear by hand,” he said. “It could be a bear might come down for his berries, so don’t you go pickin no more.” The second winter came on and Bunk Peck laid off all the men, including Archie. Cowhands rode the circuit, moving from ranch to ranch, doing odd jobs in return for a place in the bunkhouse and three squares. Down on the Little Weed, Archie and Rose were ready for the cold. He had waited for good tracking snow and shot two elk and two deer in November when the weather chilled, swapping a share of the meat with Tom Ackler for his help, for it could take a lone man several days to pack a big elk out, with bears, lions, and wolves, coyotes, ravens, and eagles gorging as much of the unattended carcass as they could. The meat house was full. They had a barrel of flour and enough baking powder and sugar for the city of Chicago. Some mornings the wind stirred the snow into a scrim that bleached the mountains and made opaline dawn skies. Once the sun below the horizon threw savage red onto the bottom of the cloud that hung over Barrel Mountain, and Archie glanced up and saw Rose in the doorway burning an unearthly color in the lurid glow. By spring, both of them were tired of elk and venison, tired of bumping into each other in the little cabin. Rose was pregnant. Her vitality seemed to have ebbed away, her good humor with it. Archie carried her water buckets from the river and swore he would dig a well the coming summer. It was hot in the cabin, the April sun like an oven door ajar. “You better get somebody knows about well diggin,” she said sourly, slapping the bowls on the table for the everlasting elk stew, nothing more than meat, water, and salt, simmered to chewability, then reheated for days. “Remember how Mr. Town got killed when his well caved in and him in it?” “A well can damn cave in and I won’t be in it,” he said. “I got in mind not diggin a deep killin well but clearin out that little seep east a the meat house. Could make a good spring, and I’d build a springhouse, put up some shelves, and maybe git a cow. Butter-and-cream cow. Hell, I’m goin a dig out that spring today.” He was short but muscular, and his shoulders had broadened, his chest filled out with the work. He started to sing, “Got to bring along my shovel if I got to dig a spring,” ending with one of Tom’s yo-heave-hos, but his jokey song did not soothe her irritation. An older woman would have seen that, although they were little more than children, they were shifting out of the days of clutching love and into the long haul of married life. “Cows cost money, specially butter-and-cream cows. We ain’t got enough for a butter dish even. And I’d need a churn. Long as we are dreamin, might as well dream a pig, too, give the skim and have the pork in the fall. Sick a deer meat. It’s too bad you spent all your money on this land. Should a saved some out.” “Still think it was the right way to do, but we sure need some chink. I’m ridin to talk with Bunk in a few days, see can I get hired on again.” He pulled on his dirty digging pants, still spattered with mud from the three-day job of the privy pit. “Don’t git me no dinner. I’ll dig until noon and come in for coffee. We got coffee yet?” Bunk Peck took pleasure in saying there was no job for him. Nor was there anything at the other ranches. Eight or ten Texas cowhands left over from last fall’s Montana drive had stayed in the country and taken all the work. He tried to make a joke out of it for Rose, but the way he breathed through his teeth showed it wasn’t funny. After a few minutes she said in a low voice, “At the station they used a say they pay a hunderd a month up in Butte.” “Missus McLaverty, I wouldn’t work in no mine. You married you a cowboy.” And he sang, “I’m just a lonesome cowboy who loves a gal named Rose, I don’t care if my hat gets wet or if I freeze my toes, but I won’t work no copper mine, so put that up your nose.” He picked a piece of turnip from the frying pan on the stove and ate it. “I’ll ride over Cheyenne way an see what I can find. There’s some big ranches over there and they probly need hands. Stop by Tom’s place on my way an ask him to look in on you.” Despite the strong April sun, there was still deep snow under the lodgepoles and in the north hollows around Tom Ackler’s cabin; the place had a deserted feeling to it, something more than if Tom had gone off for the day. His cat, Gold Dust, came purring up onto the steps, but when Archie tried to pet her she tore his hand and with flattened ears raced into the pines. Inside the cabin he found the stub of a pencil and wrote a note on the edge of an old newspaper, and left it on the table. Tom I looking for werk arond Shyanne. Check on Rose now & than, ok? KAROK’S COWS In a saloon on a Cheyenne street packed with whiskey mills and gambling snaps, he heard that a rancher up on Rawhide Creek was looking for spring roundup hands. The whiskey bottles glittered as the swinging doors let in planks of light—Kellogg’s Old Bourbon, Squirrel, Great Gun, G. G. Booz, Day Dream. He bought his informant a drink. The thing was, the man said, a big-mustached smiler showing rotten nutcrackers, putting on the sideboards by wrapping his thumb and forefinger around the shot glass to gain another inch of fullness, that although Karok paid well and he didn’t hardly lay off men in the fall, he would not hire married men, because they had the bad habit of running off home to see wife and kiddies while Karok’s cows fell in mud holes, were victimized by mountain lions and rustlers, drifted down the draw, and suffered the hundred other ills that could befall untended cattle. The bartender, half listening, sucked a draught of Wheatley’s Spanish Pain Destroyer from a small bottle near the cash register. “Stomach,” he said to no one, belching. Big Mustache knocked back his brimming shot of Squirrel and went on. “He’s a foreigner from back East, and the only thing counts to him is cows. He learned that fast when he come here back in the early days, cows is the only thing. Grub’s pretty poor, too. There ain’t no chicken in the chicken soup.” “Yeah, and no horse in the horseradish,” said Archie, who’d heard all the feeble bunkhouse jokes. “Huh. Well, he rubs some the wrong way. Most a them quit. What I done. Some law dog come out there once with his hand hoverin over his shooter, and I could see he was itchin to dabble in gore. I felt like it was a awful good place a put behind me. But there’s a few like Karok’s ways. Maybe you are one a them. Men rides for him gets plenty practice night ropin. See, his herd grows like a son of a bitch, if you take my meanin. But I’ll give you some advice: one a these days there’ll be some trouble there. That’s how come that law was nosin round.” Archie rode up through country as yellow and flat as an old newspaper and went to see Karok. There was a big sign on the gate: “NO MaRIED MeN.” When the dour rancher asked him, Archie lied himself single, and said that he had to fetch his gear and would be back in six days. “Five,” said the kingpin, looking at him suspiciously. “Other fellas look for work, they carry their fixins. They don’t have to go home and git it.” Archie worked up some story about visiting Cheyenne and not knowing he’d been laid off until one of the old outfit’s boys showed up and said they were all on the bum. “Yeah? Get goin, then. Roundup started two days ago.” Back on the Little Weed with Rose, he half explained the situation, said she would not be able to send him letters or messages until he worked something out, said he had to get back to Karok’s outfit fast and would be gone for months and that she had better get her mother to come down from the station to help with the baby, expected in late September. “She can’t stand a make that trip. You know how sick she is. Won’t you come back for the baby?” Even in the few days he had been gone, he seemed changed. She touched him and sat very close, waiting for the familiar oneness to lock them together. “If I can git loose I will. But this is a real good job, good money, fifty-five a month, almost twice what Bunk Peck pays, and I’m goin a save ever nickel. And if she can’t come down, you better go up there, be around womenfolk. Maybe I can git Tom to bring you up, say in July or August? Or sooner?” He was fidgety, as though he wanted to leave that minute. “He been around? His place was closed up when I stopped there before. I’ll stop again on my way.” Rose said that if she had to go to the station, early September was soon enough. She did not want to be where she would have to tend her sick mother and put up with her drunk father, to see the telegraph man’s face like an eroded cliff, to suffer Mrs. Dorgan’s supercilious comments about “some people” directed at Queeda but meant for Rose to hear. She did not want to show up rough and distended and abandoned, without the husband they had prophesied would skedaddle. September was five months away, and she would worry about it when it came. Together they added up what a year’s pay might come to, working for Karok. “If you save everthing it will be six hundred fifty dollars. We’ll be rich, won’t we?” she asked in a mournful tone he chose not to notice. He spoke enthusiastically. “And that’s not countin what I maybe can pick up in wolf bounties. Possible another hunderd. Enough to git us started. I’ll quit this feller’s ranch after a year an git back here.” “How do I get news to you—about the baby?” “I don’t know yet. But I’ll work somethin out. You know what? I feel like I need my hair combed some. You want a comb my hair?” “Yes,” she said, and laughed just when he’d thought she was going to cry. But for the first time she recognized that they were not two cleaving halves of one person but two separate people, and that because he was a man he could leave any time he wanted, and because she was a woman she could not. The cabin reeked of desertion and betrayal. ARCHIE AND SINK Men raised from infancy with horses could identify salient differences with a glance, but some had a keener talent for understanding equine temperament than others. Sink Gartrell was one of those, the polar opposite of Montana bronc-buster Wally Finch, who used a secret ghost cord and made unrideable outlaws of the horses he was breaking. Sink gave off a hard air of competence. Sink thought the new kid might make a top hand with horses if he got over being a showoff. The second or third morning after he joined the roundup, Archie had woken early, sat up in his bedroll, and let loose a getting-up holler decorated with some rattlesnake yodels, startling old cookie Hel, who dropped the coffeepot in the fire, earning curses from the scattered bedrolls. The black smell of scorched coffee knocked the day over on the wrong side. The foreman, Alonzo Lago, who had barely noticed him before, stared hard at the curly-haired new hand who’d made all the noise. Sink saw him looking. Later, Sink took the kid aside and put the boo on him, told him the facts of life, said that the leathery old foreman was well known for bareback riding of new young hires. Archie, who’d seen it all at Peck’s bunkhouse, gave him a look as though he suspected Sink of the same base design, said that he could take care of himself and that if anyone tried anything on him he’d clean his plow good. He moved off. When Sink came in from watch at the past-midnight hour, he walked past the foreman’s bedroll but there was only a solitary head sticking out from under the tarpaulin; the kid was somewhere far away in the sage with the coyotes. For Archie the work was the usual ranch hand’s luck—hard, dirty, long, and dull. There was no time for anything but saddle up, ride, rope, cut, herd, unsaddle, eat, sleep, and do it again. On clear, dry nights, coyote voices seemed to emanate each from a single point in a straight line, the calls crisscrossing like taut wires. When cloud cover moved in, the howls spread out in a different geometry, overlapping like concentric circles from a handful of pebbles thrown into water. But most often the wind surging over the plain sanded the cries into a kind of coyote dust, fractioned into particles of sound. He longed to be back on his own sweet place, fencing his horse pastures, happy with Rose. He thought about the coming child, imagined a boy half grown and helping him build wild-horse traps in the desert, capturing the mustangs. He could not quite conjure up a baby. As the late summer folded, Sink saw that Archie sat straight up in the saddle, was quiet and even-tempered, good with horses. The kid was one of the kind horses liked, calm and steady. No more morning hollers, and the only songs he sang were after supper when somebody else started one, where his voice was appreciated but never mentioned. He kept to himself pretty much, often staring into the distance, but every man had something of value beyond the horizon. Despite his ease with horses, the kid had been bucked off an oily bronc that had been ruined beyond redemption by Wally Finch, and, instinctively putting out one hand to break his fall, had snapped his wrist. He spent weeks with his arm strapped to his body, rode and did everything else one-handed. Alonzo Lago fired Wally Finch, refused to pay him for ruined horses, even if they were mustangs from the wild herds, and sent him walking north to Montana. “Kid, there’s a way you fall so’s you don’t get hurt,” Sink said. “Fold your arms, see, git one shoulder up and your head down. You give a little twist while you’re fallin so’s you hit the ground with your shoulder and you just roll right on over and onto your feet.” He didn’t know why he was telling Archie this and grouched up. “Hell, figure it out yourself.” ROSE AND THE COYOTES July was hot, the air vibrating, the dry land like a scraped sheep hoof. The sun drew the color from everything and the Little Weed trickled through dull stones. In a month, even that trickle would be dried by the hot river rocks, the grass parched white, and preachers praying for rain. Rose could not sleep in the cabin, which was as hot as the inside of a black hatbox. Once she carried her pillow to the big stone doorstep and lay on its chill until mosquitoes drove her back inside. She woke one morning exhausted and sweaty, and went down to the Little Weed hoping for night-cooled water. There was a dark cloud to the south, and she was glad to hear the distant rumble of thunder. In anticipation, she set out the big kettle and two buckets to catch rainwater. The advance wind came in, thrashing tree branches and ripping leaves. The grass went sidewise. Lightning danced on the crest of Barrel Mountain, and then a burst of hail swallowed up the landscape in a chattering, roaring sweep. She ran inside and watched the ice pellets flail the river rocks and slowly give way to thrumming rain. The rocks disappeared in the foam of rising water. Almost as quickly as it had started the rain stopped, a few last hailstones fell, and against the moving cloud the arc of a double rainbow promised everything. Her buckets were full of sweet water and floating hailstones. She stripped and poured dippers of goose-bump water over her head again and again until one bucket was nearly empty and she was shaking. The air was as cool and fresh as September, the heat broken. Around midnight the rain began again, slow and steady. Half awake, she could hear it dripping on the stone doorstep. The next morning, it was cold and sleety and her back ached; she wished for the heat of summer to return. She staggered when she walked, and making coffee didn’t seem worth it. She drank water and stared at the icy spicules sliding down the window glass. Around midmorning the backache increased, working itself into a slow rhythm. It dawned on her very slowly that the baby was not waiting for September. By afternoon the backache was an encircling python and she could do nothing but pant and whimper, the steady rattle of rain dampening her moaning call for succor. She wriggled out of her heavy dress and put on her oldest nightgown. The pain increased to waves of cramping agony that left her gasping for breath, on and on, the day fading into night, the rain torn away by wind, the dark choking hours eternal. Another dawn came, sticky with the return of heat, and still her raw loins could not deliver the child. On the fourth day, when Rose was voiceless from calling for Archie, her mother, Tom Ackler, Tom Ackler’s cat, from screaming imprecations at all of them, at God, any god, then at the river ducks and the weasel, to any entity that might hear, the python relaxed its grip and slid off the bloody bed, leaving her spiralling down in plum-colored mist. It seemed to be late afternoon. She was glued to the bed, and at the slightest movement felt a hot surge that she knew was blood. She got up on her elbows and saw the clotted child, stiff and gray, the barley-rope cord, and the afterbirth. She did not weep, but, filled with an ancient rage, knelt on the floor, ignoring the hot blood seeping from her, and rolled the infant up in the rough sheet. It was a bulky mass, and she felt the loss of the sheet as another tragedy. When she tried to stand, the blood poured, but she was driven to bury the child, to end the horror of the event. She crept to the cupboard, got a dishtowel, and rewrapped the baby in a smaller bundle. Her hand closed on the silver spoon, her mother’s wedding present, and she thrust it into the placket neck of her nightgown, the cool metal like balm. Clenching the knot of the dishtowel in her teeth, she crawled out the door and toward the sandy soil near the river, where, still on hands and knees, she dug a shallow hole with the silver spoon and laid the child in it, heaping it with sand and piling on top whatever river stones were within reach. It took more than an hour to follow her blood trail back to the cabin, the twilight deep by the time she reached the doorstep. The bloody sheet lay bunched on the floor and the bare mattress showed a black stain like the map of South America. She lay on the floor, for the bed was miles away, a cliff only birds could reach. Everything seemed to swell and shrink, the twitching bed leg, a dank clout swooning over the edge of the dishpan, the wall itself bulging forward, the chair flying viciously—all pulsing with the rhythm of her hot, pumping blood. Barrel Mountain, bringing darkness, squashed its bulk against the window, and owls crashed through, wings like iron bars. Struggling through the syrup of subconsciousness in the last hour, she heard the coyotes outside and knew what they were doing. THE LINE SHACK As the September nights cooled, Ar chie got nervous, went into town as often as he could, called at the post office, but no one saw him come out with any letters or packages. Alonzo Lago sent Sink and Archie to check some distant draws, ostensibly for old renegade cows too wily or a few mavericks too young to be caught in any roundup. “What’s eatin you?” said Sink as they rode out, but the kid shook his head. Half an hour later he opened his mouth as if he were going to say something, looked away from Sink, and gave a half shrug. “Got somethin you want a say,” Sink said, “Chrissake say it. I got my head on backwards or what? You didn’t know we was goin a smudge brands? Goin a get all holy about it, are you?” Archie looked around. “I’m married,” he said. “She is havin a baby. Pretty soon.” “Well, I’m damned. How old are you?” “Seventeen. Old enough to do what’s got a be did. Anyway, how old are you?” “Thirty-two. Old enough a be your daddy.” There was a half-hour silence, then Sink started again. “You know old Karok don’t keep married fellers. Finds out, he’ll fire you.” “He ain’t goin a find out from me. And it’s more money than I can git on the Little Weed. But I got a find a way Rose can let me know. About things.” “Well, I ain’t no wet nurse.” “I know that.” “Long as you know it.” Damn fool kid, he thought, his life already too complicated to live. He said aloud, “Me, I wouldn’t never git hitched to no fell-on-a-hatchet female.” The next week, half the crew went into town and Archie spent an hour on the bench outside the post office writing on some brown wrapping paper, and addressed the tortured missive to Rose at the stage station where he believed her to be. What about the baby? he wrote. Is he born? But inside the post office the walleyed clerk with fingernails like yellow chisels told him the postage had gone up. “First time in a hunderd year. Cost you two cents a send a letter now.” He smirked with satisfaction. Archie, who had only one cent, tore up his letter and threw the pieces in the street. The wind dealt them to the prairie, its chill promising a tight-clenched winter. Rose’s parents moved to Omaha in November, seeking a cure for Mrs. Mealor’s declining health. “You think you can stay sober long enough to ride down and let Rosie and Archie know we are going?” the sick woman whispered to Sundown. “Why, I am goin right now soon as I find my other boot. Just you don’t worry, I got it covered.” A full bottle of whiskey took him as far as the river crossing. Dazedly drunk, he rode to the little cabin on the river but found the place silent, the door closed. Swaying, feeling the landscape slide around, he called out three or four times but was unable to get off his horse, and knew well enough that if he did he could never get back on. “They’re not there,” he reported to his wife. “Not there.” “Where could they be? Did you put a note on the table?” “Didn’t think of it. Anyway, not there.” “I’ll write her from Omaha,” she whispered. Within a week of their departure a replacement freighter arrived, Buck Roy, with his heavyset wife and a raft of children. The Mealors, who had failed even to be buried in the stage station’s cemetery, were forgotten. There were no cattle as bad as Karok’s to stray, and ranchers said it was a curious thing the way his cows turned up in distant locations. December was miserable, one storm after another bouncing in like a handful of hurled poker chips, and January turned cold enough to freeze flying birds dead. Alonzo Lago sent Archie out alone to gather any bovine wanderers he could find in a certain washout area, swampy in June but now made up of hundreds of deep holes and snaky little streams smoothly covered with snow. “Keep your eyes peeled for any Wing-Cross leather-pounders. Better take some sticks and a cinch ring.” So Archie knew he was looking for Wing-Cross cows, to doctor their brands. But the Wing-Cross had its own little ways with brand reworkings, so he guessed it was more or less an even exchange. The horse did not want to go into the swamp maze. It was one of the warm days between storms, and the snow was soft. Archie dismounted and led his horse, keeping to the edge of the bog, wading through wet snow for hours. The exercise sweated him up. Only two cows allowed themselves to be driven out into the open, the others scattering far back into the coyote willows behind the swamp. In the murky, half-frozen world of stream slop and trampled stems there was no way a man alone could fix brands. He watched the cows circle around to the backcountry. The wind dived, pulling cold air with it. The weather was changing. When he reached the bunkhouse, four hours after dark, the thermometer had fallen to zero. His boots were frozen, and, chilled to the liver, he fell asleep without eating or undressing beyond his boots. “Git back and git them cows,” hissed Alonzo Lago two hours later, leaning over his face. “Git up and on it. Rat now! Mr. Karok wants them cows.” “Goddam short nights on this goddam ranch,” Archie muttered, pulling on his wet boots. Back in the swamp it was just coming light, like gray polish on the cold world, the air so still that Archie could see the tiny breath cloud of a finch on a willow twig. Beneath the hardened crust the snow was wallowy. His fresh horse was Poco, who did not know any swamps. Poco blundered along, stumbled in an invisible sinkhole, and took Archie deep with him. The snow shot down his neck, up his sleeves, into his boots, filled eyes, ears, nose, matted his hair. Poco, in getting up, rammed Archie’s hat deep into the bog. The snow in contact with his body heat melted, and as he climbed back into the saddle the wind that accompanied the pale sunlight froze his clothes. Somehow he managed to push eight Wing-Cross strays out of the swamp and back toward the high ground, but his matches would not light, and while he struggled to make a fire the cows scattered. He could barely move, and when he got back to the bunkhouse he was frozen into the saddle and had to be pried off the horse by two men. He heard cloth rip. Sink thought the kid had plenty of sand and, muttering that he wasn’t no wet nurse, pulled off the icy boots, unbuttoned coat and shirt, half hauled him stumbling to his bunk, and brought two hot rocks from under the stove to warm him up. John Tank, a Texas drifter, said he had an extra pair of overalls Archie could have—old and mended but still with some wear in them. “Hell, better’n ridin around bare-ass in January.” But the next morning when Archie tried to get up he was overcome by dizziness. Boiling heat surged through him, his cheeks flamed red, his hands burned, and he had a dry, constant cough. The bunkhouse slopped back and forth as if on rockers. Sink looked at him and thought, Pneumonia. “You look pretty bad. I’ll go see what Karok says.” When he came back half an hour later, Archie was on fire. “Karok says to git you out a here, but the bastard won’t let me take the wagon. He says he’s got a cancer in his leg and he needs that wagon for hisself to have the doc at the fort cut it out. Lon’s fixin up a kind a travois. His ma had some Indan kin so he knows how to fix it. Sometimes he ain’t so bad. We’ll git you down to Cheyenne and you can ride the train a where your mother is, your folks, Rawlins, whatever. Karok says. And he says you are fired. I had a tell him you was married so he would let you loose. He was all set a have you die in the bunkhouse. We’ll get a doc, beat this down. It’s only pneumony. I had it twice.” Archie tried to say his mother was long gone and that he needed to get to Rose down on the Little Weed, tried to say that it was sixty-odd miles from Rawlins to their cabin, but he couldn’t get out a word because of the wheezing, breath-sucking cough. Sink shook his head, and got some biscuits and bacon from the cook. Alonzo Lago had trimmed out two long poles and laced a steer hide to them. Sink wrapped the legs of a horse named Preacher in burlap to keep the crust from cutting them and lashed the travois poles to his saddle, a tricky business to get the balance right. The small ends projected beyond the horse’s ears, but the foreman said that was to accommodate wear on the drag ends. They rolled Archie and his bedroll in a buffalo robe, and Sink began to drag him to Cheyenne, a hundred miles south. With the wagon it would have been easy. Sink thought the travois was not as good a contraption as Indians claimed. The wind, which had dropped a little overnight, came up again, pushing a lofty bank of cloud. After four hours they had covered nine miles. The snow began, increasing in intensity until they were travelling blind. “Kid, I can’t see nothin,” Sink called. He stopped and dismounted, went to Archie. The earlier snow had melted as fast as it touched that red, feverish face, but gradually, just a fraction of an inch above the surface of the hot flesh, a mask of ice now formed a gray glaze. “Better hole up. There’s a line shack somewheres around here could we find it. I was there all summer couple years back. Down a little from the top of a hogback.” The horse had also spent that summer at the line camp and he went straight to it now. It was on the lee side of the hogback, a little below the crest. The wind had dumped an immense amount of snow on the tiny cabin, but Sink found the door to the lean-to entryway, and that would do to shelter Preacher. A shovel with a broken handle leaned against the side of the stall. Inside the cabin there was a table and a backless chair and a plank bunk about twenty inches wide. The stove was heaped with snow and the stovepipe lay on the floor. Sink recognized the chipped enamel plate and cup on the table. He wrestled Archie inside and got him and the buffalo robe onto the plank bunk, then put the stovepipe together and jammed it up through the roof hole. Neither inside nor in the entryway could he see any chunk wood, but he remembered where the old chip pile had been and, using the broken shovel, scraped up enough snow-welded chips to get the fire going. While the chips were steaming and sizzling in the stove he unsaddled Preacher, removed the gunnysacks from his legs, and rubbed him down. He checked the lean-to’s shallow loft, hoping for hay, but there was nothing. “God damn,” he said, and tore some of the loft floorboards loose to burn in the stove. Back outside, he dug through the snow with the broken shovel until he hit ground, got out his knife, and sawed off the sun-cured grass until he had two or three hatfuls. “Best I can do, Preacher,” he said, tossing it down for the horse. It was almost warm inside the shack. From his saddlebag he took a small handful of the coffee beans he always carried. The old coffee grinder was still on the wall, but a mouse had built a nest in it, and unwilling to drink boiled mouse shit he crushed the beans on the table with the flat of his knife. He looked around for the coffeepot that belonged to the cabin but did not see it. There was a five-gallon coal-oil tin near the bunk. He sniffed at it, but could detect no noisome odors. It was while he was outside scraping up snow to melt on the stove that the edge of the coal-oil can hit the coffeepot, which, for some unfathomable reason, had been tossed into the front yard. That, too, he packed with snow. It looked to him as though the last occupant of the shack had been someone with a grudge, showing his hatred of Karok by throwing coffeepots and burning all the wood. Maybe a Wing-Cross rider. The coffee was hot and black but when he brought the cup to Archie the kid swallowed one mouthful, then coughed, and finally puked it up. Sink drank the rest himself and ate one of the biscuits. It was a bad night. The bunk was too narrow and the kid so hot and twitchy that Sink, swooning in and out of forty-wink snaps of sleep, finally got up and slept in the chair with his head on the table. A serious blizzard and fatal cold began to slide down from the Canadian plains that night, and when it broke twelve days later the herds were decimated, cows packed ten deep against barbwire fences, pronghorn congealed into statues, trains stalled for three weeks by forty-foot drifts, and two cowpunchers in a line shack frozen together in a buffalo robe. THE STAGE STATION It was May before Tom Ackler rode up from Taos, where he had spent the fall and winter. Despite the beating sunshine, the snow was still deep around his cabin. Patches of bare ground showed bright green with a host of thrusting thistles. He wondered if Gold Dust had made it through. He could see no cat tracks. He lit a fire using an old newspaper on the table, and, just before the flame swallowed it, glimpsed a few pencilled words and the signature “Archie.” “Lost whatever it was. I’ll go down tomorrow and see how they are doin.” And he unpacked his saddlebags and pulled his blankets out of the sack hanging from a rafter where they were safe from mice. In the morning, Gold Dust pranced out of the trees, her coat thick. Tom let her in, threw her a choice piece of bacon. “Look like you kept pretty good,” Tom said. But the cat sniffed at the bacon, went to the door, and, when Tom opened it, returned to the woods. “Probly shacked up with a bobcat,” he said. “Got the taste for wild meat.” Around noon he saddled the horse and headed for the McLaverty cabin. No smoke rose from the chimney. A slope of snow lay against the woodpile. He noticed that very little wood had been burned. The weasel’s tracks were everywhere, right up into the eaves. Clear enough the weasel had gotten inside. “Damn sight more comfortable than a woodpile.” As Tom squinted at the tracks, the weasel suddenly squirted out of a hole in the eaves and looked at him. It was whiter than the rotting snow, and its black-tipped tail twitched. It was the largest, handsomest weasel he had ever seen, with shining eyes and a lustrous coat. He thought of his cat and it came to him that wild creatures managed well through the winter. He wondered if Gold Dust could breed with a bobcat, and recalled then that Rose had been expecting. “Must be they went to the station.” But he opened the door and looked inside, calling, “Rose? Archie?” What he found sent him galloping for the stage station. At the station everything was in an uproar, all of them standing in the dusty road in front of the Dorgans’ house, Mrs. Dorgan crying, Queeda with her mouth agape, and Robert F. Dorgan shouting at his wife, accusing her of betraying him with a human wreck. They paid little attention to Tom Ackler when he slid in on his lathered horse calling that Rose McLaverty was raped and murdered and mutilated by Utes, sometime in the winter, God knew when. Only Mrs. Buck Roy, the new freighter’s wife, who was terrified of Indians, paid him much attention. The Dorgans continued to scream at each other. The more urgent event to them was the suicide that morning of the old bachelor telegraph operator, who had swallowed lye after weeks of scribbling a four-hundred-page letter addressed to Robert Dorgan and outlining his hopeless adoration of Mrs. Dorgan, the wadded pages fulsomely riddled with references to “ivory thighs,” “the Adam and Eve dance,” “her secret slit,” and the like. What Tom Ackler had thought was an old saddle and a pile of grain sacks on the station porch was the corpse. “Where there’s smoke there’s fire!” bellowed Robert F. Dorgan. “I took you out a that Omaha cathouse and made you a decent woman, give you everthing, and here’s how you reward me, you drippin bitch! How many times you snuck over there? How many times you took his warty old cock?” “I never! I didn’t! That filthy old brute,” sobbed Mrs. Dorgan, suffused with rage that the vile man had fastened his attentions on her, had dared to write down his lascivious thoughts as real events, putting in the details of her pink-threaded camisole, the red mole on her left buttock, and, finally, vomiting black blood all over the telegraph shack and the front porch of the Dorgans’ house, where he had dragged himself to die, the bundle of lies stuffed in his shirt. For years she had struggled to make herself into a genteel specimen of womanhood, grateful that Robert F. Dorgan had saved her from economic sexuality and determined to erase that past. Now, if Dorgan forced her away, she would have to go back on the game, for she could think of no other way to make a living. And maybe Queeda, too, whom she’d brought up as a lady! Her sense of personal worth faltered, then flared up as if doused with kerosene. “Why, you dirty old rum-neck,” she said in a hoarse voice, “what gives you the idea that you got a right to a beautiful wife and daughter? What gives you the idea we would stay with you? Look at you—you want a be the territory surveyor, but without me and Queeda to talk up the important political men you couldn’t catch a cold.” Dorgan knew it was true and gnawed at his untrimmed mustache. He turned and melodramatically strode into his house, slamming the door so hard the report killed mice. Mrs. Dorgan had won, and she followed him in for a reconciliation. Tom Ackler looked at Queeda, who was tracing an arc in the dirt with the toe of her kid-leather boot. They heard the rattle of a stove lid inside the house—Mrs. Dorgan making up a fire to warm the bedroom. “Rose McLaverty—” he said, but Queeda shrugged. A tongue of wind lapped the dust, creating a miniature whirl that caught up straws, horsehairs, minute mica fragments, and a feather. Queeda walked away around the shaded back of the Dorgan house. Tom Ackler stood holding the reins, then remounted and started back. On the way, he thought of the whiskey in his cupboard, then of Rose, and decided he would get drunk that night and bury her the next day. It was the best he could do for her. He thought, too, that perhaps it hadn’t been Utes who killed her but her young husband, berserk and raving, and now fled to distant ports. He remembered the burned newspaper with Archie’s message consumed before it could be read and thought it unlikely that if Archie had killed his young wife in a frenzy he would stop by a neighbor’s place and leave a signed note. Unless maybe it was a confession. There was no way to know what had happened. The more he thought about Archie, the more he remembered his clear, hard voice and his singing. He thought about Gold Dust’s rampant vigor and rich fur, about the sleek weasel at the McLaverty cabin. Some lived and some died, and that’s how it was. He buried Rose in front of the cabin and for a tombstone wrestled the sandstone doorstep upright. He wanted to chisel her name on it but put it off until the snows started. By then it was too late, time for him to head back to Taos. The following spring, as he rode past the cabin, he saw that frost heaves had tipped the stone over and that the ridgepole of the roof had broken under a heavy weight of snow. He rode on, singing, “When the green grass comes, and the wild rose blooms,” one of Archie’s songs, and wondering if Gold Dust had made it through again.
Bullfighting He couldn’t really remember life before the children. He couldn’t feel it as something he’d once lived. It was too far away, and buried. Something as simple as walking down the street—he was always a father. Or looking at a woman—he was a father. He had one child left. There’d been four, but three of them were up and running, more or less their own men. They were all boys, still teen-agers. But they weren’t his anymore. Except for the youngest. That was Peter. Peter still held Donal’s hand. Except when there were people coming toward them, boys or girls his own age or older. Then he’d let go, until they were around the corner. And Donal knew. One day soon he’d open his hand for Peter’s, and it would stay empty. And when that happened he’d die; he’d lie down on the ground. That was how he felt. After twenty years. Independence, time to himself—he didn’t want it. —You’ll have your own life, someone had told him. —I have my own life, he’d said back. I fuckin’ like it. He’d never felt hard done by—he didn’t think he had. He’d loved the life, even the stress of it. He’d be knackered tired sometimes, red-eyed and soggy, only vaguely aware that he had a name or even a gender, and still he’d think, I’m alive. Making a dinner he knew none of them would eat, or charging in to Temple Street hospital with a wheezing or a bleeding child, or standing at the side of a football pitch, in the pissing rain, twenty miles from home, watching one of the boys trying to make sure that the ball didn’t go anywhere near him. The boys had been the rhythm of every day, even when he was sleeping. He woke before they did, always. None of his lads had ever walked into an empty kitchen first thing in the morning. There was once, he was changing a nappy. Carl’s—Carl was the second. They were at Elaine’s mother’s place. It was a Sunday afternoon. He had Carl parked in front of him, on the edge of his changing mat, his arse in the air, right over Elaine’s ma’s white carpet. He pulled the nappy out from under Carl and the shite jumped free of the nappy, a half-solid ball. Without thinking, Donal caught it—his hand just went out. The nappy in one hand, the shite in the other, Carl’s arse hanging over the carpet. And he couldn’t wait to tell everyone. He knew he had his story. The stories—twenty years of them. They already seemed stale. They’d been overlived, dragged out too often. He’d start talking, even thinking, and he’d feel the camera lights, the heat. He’d imagine he was talking to a studio audience, selling something, trying to convince them. But there was nothing dishonest about how he felt. Empty. Finished. The stories, his memories, were wearing out and there was nothing new replacing them. His whole fuckin’ life was going. He watched telly now with Peter. A film on Sky Movies. “Little Man.” It was dreadful. This tiny little black guy was pretending he was a baby—Donal didn’t know why; they’d missed the start—staring at a woman’s tits, trying to grab at them. It was absolutely dreadful. But Peter was laughing, so he did, too. —Should we be even watching this, Pete? —It’s appropriate, said Peter. I checked. —But he wants to have sex with the woman. —So do you, said Peter. —O.K., said Donal. Fair enough. One last story for the file: So do you, he says. Peter was ten. Donal was forty-eight. So were his friends. He liked the precision of that—all his friends were forty-eight. It was the best thing about Ireland, about Dublin anyway: he could still see the men he’d grown up with. He’d gone to school with lads who’d moved to Canada, the States, even South Africa. But no one he knew had ever moved south of the Liffey. They’d either got out of the country or stayed put. And Donal had been lucky. He’d walked out of school, in 1977, and straight into a job in the civil service. A few years later, the jobs weren’t there. But Donal had never been out of work. And his friends were like him. They lived in houses a few miles from where they’d all grown up. They could walk to the pub. It wasn’t the same place where they’d had their first pints, but that place was only two miles away. They met up once a week. All four of them, or three of them, or even just the two. It was an open kind of arrangement, but a bit more organized since they’d started the texting a few years back. Pub? Ye. 9.30? Grnd. Donal never felt tired on Thursday nights. He’d be away on holidays—in France, say, or Portugal, or Orlando, in the States—having a great time. But on the Thursday, wherever, he wished he was at home, on his way up to the pub. It had always been like that. There was once, early on with Elaine, they’d been on the bed, in his flat. She’d just poured a melted Mars Bar into her navel. And she caught him looking at his watch. —Have you something more important to do? —God, no. Fuck, no. This is brilliant. The hot chocolate had burned his tongue a bit, and he’d felt a little bit sick. But it had been great. He could still remember her stomach under his tongue. —This is the first thing I’ve eaten since me breakfast, he told her, and she laughed and he could feel that, too, rippling her skin, lifting her. He’d held her—he told her this years later—he’d held her hips to keep her on her back, so that none of the melted chocolate would drop onto the sheet, because it was the only sheet he had and he didn’t want her to know that. He ate the chocolate, cleaned it all up, and then he didn’t care what way she ended up. It was up to her. His friends never talked about sex, or health. They never had. Or problems—they didn’t really talk about their problems. Other people didn’t really get it. Especially women. Grown men getting together like that, as if it was weird or unnatural. Or a bit silly. —Are you meeting the lads tonight? —I’m not answering, if you’re going to sneer like that. —Like what? —The lads. She’d even asked him once, when he was putting his shoes on. —What use are they? —What? —The lads, she’d said. Your friends. —What about them? —Why are they your friends? —I’m not answering that. —Don’t be so touchy, she said. I’m curious. —Well, stay curious. —I’m sorry. I didn’t mean anything. —Why do I have to defend myself? —You don’t. —I have to explain why my friends are my friends. Why the fuck should I? —Don’t, if you don’t want to. —I never ask you about your friends, he said. —I know, she said. You don’t even know their names. —I do. She smiled. —I do, he insisted. There’s Mary and . . . —Stop, she said. Listen. I suppose what I’m wondering is: What do you talk about? He looked at her. —Football, he said. He knew she’d hate the answer. —Is that all? —No. —What else? she said. Help me here. He didn’t know what else to give her. He didn’t know how to explain it. How what they talked about wasn’t important. How they could sit and say nothing much, for most of the night. And he’d still come home feeling great. Appreciated. —Jokes, he said. —You tell jokes. —Yeah, he said. If we’ve heard any new ones. —That’s nice. She wasn’t sneering. —Mind you, he said. You never hear jokes these days. It’s all e-mail stuff. No one makes up jokes anymore. Like stories, you know. She nodded. —Can I go now? he said. —Go on. He was the first in. Their usual table was free. He nodded at the barman, raised one finger. He always liked that. The fact that he could order a pint without talking. He’d been coming here for years. The barman was Polish. He’d only been working here for three months or so, but he knew what Donal’s order was, and Donal had never had to tell him. The Poles were great. He sat and looked at the snooker on the telly. He hadn’t a clue who was playing. He didn’t know either of the players. They looked younger than his older kids. Hair gel, and little rectangular ads stitched onto their waistcoats. They looked too young to be out in the world on their own, millionaires already, more than likely. He was out of touch. He knew it. The lounge girl came up with his pint in the center of her tray. —Thanks, said Donal. —Of course. She was Lithuanian, as far as Donal remembered. Or Latvian. A lovely young one, lovely attitude. He gave her a tenner. She gave him his change, and he gave her back some of it. —Thank you. —You’re grand. Donal felt the draft, and saw Gerry closing the door behind him. The lounge girl was waiting. —Will you like another pint of Guinness? —Great, yeah. Thanks. He felt a bit uncomfortable with her. She was a woman and a girl—that was the problem. And the attraction. And the problem. He’d have been happier with a lounge boy. —Fuckin’ cold out there, said Gerry. This was how it happened. They arrived in a clump, from one man to four inside a minute or two. As if they’d been hiding behind the bushes outside until one of them made the move and went in. Or something, an instinct, told the four of them to get up from the telly and go, at the same time every Thursday. Donal watched the other two, Ken and Seán, wrap the wires around their iPods and put them into their jacket pockets. He decided again: he’d get an iPod. —What were yis listening to? he asked. —Springsteen, said Ken. —The new album? —Yep. —Any good? —His best since the last one. The young one brought the pints. Donal paid her, and tipped her again. He’d given her four euros, for one round. It made him feel seedy, and generous. They’d have four pints. They might go to five. Four was automatic. The fifth was always a decision. It used to be more. They used to drink all day, days in a row, weekends drunk, into work on Monday, drunk. Donal and Gerry had gone twenty-four hours once, in Majorca. They’d found a bar that would let them drink till daylight. They’d had breakfast—Traditional English Breakfast—on the way back to the apartment. He remembered being surprised that he could hold the knife and fork. Seán looked around. —How many in here would you say have snorted cocaine? —None, said Gerry. He was probably right. —Not according to the news, said Seán. We’re all fuckin’ snorting. —I’ve never even seen cocaine, said Gerry. Have any of youse? They shook their heads. Some young one, a model, had died, and two other kids in Wexford or Waterford—they’d eaten damp cocaine. The radio was full of it, and the television. Middle-class men, their faces fuzzy and their voices disguised, describing their cocaine hells. “It’s on the cheese board. Every dinner party I’ve been to.” And hidden cameras, in pub toilets. More fuzzy faces, leaning over cisterns, with rolled-up euros. —What about your kids? said Ken. They all had kids, teen-agers and older. Donal shrugged. —Don’t know, he said. Don’t think so. —How do you know? —I don’t, said Donal. But I think I would. Gerry nodded. —How would we know? he said. Unless they went crazy, or something. —A swab, said Seán. —What? —A swab. Of the cistern, or a shelf. For traces of cocaine. They laughed. Three of them laughed. —You couldn’t do that in my house, said Gerry. The jacks is never empty. —I did, said Seán. They looked at him. They stared at him. —You did a—what?—a test? A fuckin’ swab? —Yep, said Seán. —Did you get a kit or something? Gerry asked him. Do you not have to be a fuckin’ forensics expert or something? —Not at all, said Seán. All you need is a cotton bud. I ran one across the top of the jacks. The cistern, like. —And? —It was filthy. They laughed again. —White particles, said Seán. —Dust, said Donal. Talc. The jacks would be full of it. Any room. The air’s full of dust. —Did you have them tested? The white particles. —No, said Seán. —So? said Gerry. What did you prove? —I sniffed the bud, said Seán. Snorted it, like. So to speak. —And? —I was high as a fuckin’ kite. He was joking. —Dancing with the fridge. Seriously, though, he said. I’ve been watching my girls since it got into the news. And they’re the same as they’ve ever been. So they either aren’t using cocaine or they’ve always been using cocaine. He shrugged. —They’re grand, he said. The only one that might be snorting is Maeve. Maeve was his wife. —D’you reckon? —It would explain quite a lot, said Seán. He left it at that. They didn’t talk about the wives. They drifted from cocaine to football, and on to the film that Gerry had seen at the weekend and the others wanted to see. —How was Denzel? —Brilliant. And on to international affairs. —Poor oul’ Benazir. —What a place. —Mad. Would you have given her one? —Oh, yeah. Absolutely. —Too late now, an’anyway. —She was a fine thing. I liked her head scarf. —That’s the thing, though, said Donal. Women don’t wear them here anymore. —Not even at Mass. —They’ll make a comeback, said Ken. Wait and see. Abercrombie & Fitch or somebody will bring back the head scarf. —Benazir but, said Gerry. She was a lot better-looking than any of the women politicians in this country. —That’s for sure. —What about Hillary Clinton? —No. —A few years back, maybe. Not now, though. —She’d be saying the same thing about us. —She hasn’t a clue. —Would you ride Obama? —Not unless he was a woman. —I have a dream. That was the night the idea was planted. They’d go away together, to Spain. —The four of us? —Why not? said Gerry. —Sounds good. Gerry’s brother had a place down there. —Where? —Valencia. Near there. A half hour or so. Inland. No sand or shite. It’s great. There was no decision that night, nothing firm. Donal said nothing to Elaine about it. He waited for Gerry to bring it up the next Thursday. —Did yis give any more thought to that? —What? said Ken. —Spain. —Your brother’s gaff? —Yeah. They looked at one another, and shrugged, and smiled. —Well, I’m going, said Gerry. —Grand. They went a few weeks after Easter. A Ryanair flight to Valencia, then a hired car. Donal had driven in France, but in his own car; they’d always got the ferry. They’d been to France four times. Always the same place, camping. The last time was five years ago. The year after that, the eldest, Matthew, said he wouldn’t go. They couldn’t make him—he was fifteen—and he was too young to leave behind. They drove into the town. It seemed deserted, and a bit ugly. —Is this the siesta? —Suppose so. It was early afternoon. Gerry parked outside a bar. —There’s people in there, so they’re not all asleep. They sat outside, with four bottles of beer that cost the same as one bottle at home. Seán took off his jumper. —That’s it, lads. I’m on me holidays. —Good man. —How far is the house? —Three minutes. —Grand. —This is fuckin’ great, said Donal. But he was disappointed. It was great, a week away from everything. But the town itself was shite. It was dead. Their table was on a street, but it didn’t matter because the street was empty. He sat up and looked properly. —What’s that? —What? —The wall down there. The curved wall. —The bullring, said Gerry. —For bullfighting? —Yeah. —Serious? —Yeah. —Great. —No, said Gerry. It’s a pain in the hole. Boring. —Still, though, said Donal. —Do they kill the bulls? —Yeah. —Cool. —They, like, release them first, said Gerry. Let them run through the streets. —And that’s fuckin’ boring, is it? said Seán. —It is, said Gerry. Believe me. —Still, though, said Donal. —It’s the fiesta, said Gerry. The annual festival. Saint something. Or the Virgin Mary. —They slaughter bulls for the Virgin Mary? —Wait’ll you see it later, said Gerry. It’s good. The fiesta bit. He stood up. They got back in the car. Gerry took them out of the town, past a field full of solar panels, and behind a small industrial estate. In Dublin, this was where you dumped the body or the fridge. Here it was a row of flat-roofed houses, under palm trees. —Here we are. It was the last house in the row. Gerry got out and unlocked the gate. They got out and followed him. They saw the pool but kept behind Gerry as he got the front door open and walked into hot dead air. —Fuckin’ hell. They hoisted the shutters and opened all the windows. There weren’t many; it wasn’t a big house. They threw bags on the beds and then they went out to the pool. —It’s nice and clean. —There’s a chap keeps an eye on it for Declan. Declan was Gerry’s brother. —He throws in the chlorine and scoops out the flies and that. —What’s that? There was a white machine, like a fat pup with a trunk, moving very slowly along the bottom. —It’s a hoover, said Gerry. —For fuck sake. Is it on all the time? —Think so, yeah. —Clever. —It’s useless, said Gerry. If it’s the same one. It just moves into a corner and stays there. So the corner’s spotless and the rest of it gets covered in fuckin’ goo. They got into the togs and sat looking at the water and, one at a time, they got in, because there wasn’t really room for more than one man, the way they swam. They sat with their backs to the industrial estate and let themselves get hungry. They chatted and kept an eye on the sun. The watches were off, thrown onto the beds. They had one more swim, then showered and put on the shorts and T-shirts. The shorts were new. They never wore shorts at home. —Is that a bruise? —Varicose vein. —Lovely. —You can show it to whatever young one you pick up tonight in town. —I’ll tell yeh. Show a bird your varicose veins and she’ll be on you like a fuckin’ barnacle. They waited till Gerry locked the gate. —Dogs, he said. Have to keep them out. —What? said Donal. Wild? —Kind of. —Jaysis. —It’s the one bad thing, said Gerry. The way they treat the dogs. And now they could hear them. Dogs howling, baying—whatever it was. —Are they all wild? —No, said Gerry. Just fuckin’ miserable. Gerry showed them the lane that would get them to town. They walked, all four men in a row. The sandals slapped the dust. They went past the industrial estate and the tied-up dogs. —What gets made in there? —Nothing. As far as I know. —Distribution? —Maybe. But I’ve never seen a truck. —Who feeds the dogs? —There’s an automatic feeder. It releases enough food every day. And water. They all have them. Most of the houses are empty during the week. —That’s terrible. —Talkin’ about feeders, said Donal, I’m fuckin’ starving. They all were. —A few scoops, a game of pool, and the nose bag. How’s that for a plan? They ignored the bullfighting. It was on the telly, a local channel, in the bar. And it was outside. There were people running down the street, and back up the street. And a marching band, somewhere. Donal wanted to have a look, but Gerry was the local and he didn’t even look out the window. And, fair enough, it all looked shite on the telly. There was a bull standing still, outside a church—it looked like. And young lads, all young lads, were walking carefully up to it, and touching it and dashing back. It looked like something anyone could do. The young lads all wore red T-shirts. Trying to provoke the bull, he supposed. But the bull wasn’t having any of it. He just stood there, still. Then he was gone, off the screen, in the time it took Donal to bend down at the table and pretend he was sizing up his shot—he hadn’t a clue, really. The commentator was going mad, but all Donal could see was the door of the church. They finished the game and went walking. The excitement was still in the street. The young lads, bashing against one another, thumping their chests. There was no sign of the bull, although there was dung in the air and—Donal saw it now—blood on the street. A topic for the phone call home in the morning. The marching band was still marching, but they still hadn’t seen it. There were stalls down both sides of the main street, and Donal saw some of the stuff he’d bring home, the small presents the kids used to charge down the hall for when they heard him coming in the door, after he’d been away for a day or two because of work. They found a place and ate well. Good, big steaks. —Straight off the fuckin’ bull. The waiter recognized Gerry, smiled at him. —Irish, yes? —Yeah, good man. —How are you? said the waiter. —Good, said Gerry. Yeah. How’s business? —You are my business. He clapped his hands. —Business is good. They stopped at another bar. Another few drinks, at a table outside. The loud young lads were gone. There were families strolling, proud men pushing buggies. —It’s after one. —A different world. —It’s very civilized. —If this was Dublin, we’d be watching the fight. —We’d be at home. They walked back to the house at about three. —A swim? —Don’t be fuckin’ stupid. They slept through the dogs. The room was still dark when Donal woke. But there was a day outside; he could feel it pressing against the shutter. He got out of the bed, and he was grand. No bother. He went out to the hall and looked at his phone. One o’clock. He’d woken up in the afternoon. He couldn’t remember the last time that had happened. Long before kids, before marriage. He went out to the pool, and Gerry was there, listening to his iPod. Donal sat beside him. —What’re you listening to? —The Cure. —The Cure? Are they still good? —They’re great. Hang on. I can link this up to the speakers inside. It’ll wake the other pair up. He went inside and, a minute later, Donal was listening to “The Love Cats.” Gerry came back with a pot of good, solid coffee. The other two got up. They chatted. They swam. They read. They ate some bread and cheese. They got bored with the Cure, so Gerry changed it to Echo and the Bunnymen. Donal was definitely getting an iPod. He’d forgotten these bands had existed. —D’you remember Japan? —They haven’t aged well. —Have they not? What about Madness? —Kids love Madness. —I love Madness. Talking Heads? —They’re next. The sun started dipping, and Seán came out with four bottles of Stella. That was their week in Spain. Their routine. Like heaven, in the Talking Heads song. Where nothing ever happened. The songs were queuing up. He rang home every day, walked around the pool while he talked to Elaine and Peter, and the older boys if they were at home. He texted them, too. Hw’r things? They usually got back to him. Gnd, or Gud, or Fin. U? But he didn’t really miss them. He didn’t think about them. He didn’t ache to hold them as they used to be, their weight in his arms, their smells under his nose. He didn’t mind being alone in the bed when he woke. He liked it, just himself, nothing to remember or catch up on. He stopped hearing the dogs. The three lads were up before him one of the mornings. Gerry was walking around the pool, worrying the hoover with the butt of a brush, pushing it out toward the center. Ken had his BlackBerry, was poking away at it with the little plastic stick. He put it on the table. —There now, he said. That should keep the economy afloat. —Day’s work done? —And no one even knows I’m here. This is the world we live in, men. Ken had rigged his life so that where he actually was rarely mattered. And Gerry was the same. Gerry and Ken had slid into self-employment, about fifteen years before. Donal hadn’t noticed—too busy changing nappies. And he was happy enough where he was, in the Revenue. He still liked it, going after the farmers. He’d found bogus accounts and all sorts of hidden accounts. Hairy men with shite on their boots, with millions stashed away in the Caymans and Bermuda, or in biscuit tins under their beds. A few years back, he’d been asked into an office, for a chat. Had he ever thought of the C.A.B.? He must have looked a bit slack-jawed, because the man in a better suit than Donal’s provided a word for each of the letters. —Criminal Assets Bureau. Would you be up for it? —Are they not the Guards? said Donal. Cops. Going after gangsters? —It’s liquid, said his boss’s boss. You’d be on secondment. And, now, you wouldn’t be breaking down doors or anything like that. It wouldn’t be “The Untouchables.” Will you think about it, anyway? We wouldn’t be asking if we didn’t think you were the man they needed. —Thanks. —You’ll think about it? —Yeah, he said. I will. —I’ll leave it with you. He didn’t tell Elaine; he told no one. He was flattered, thrilled. He actually saw himself in the part; he felt the door give way against his shoulder. Felt the weight of the shotgun. Felt—saw—his eyes match the look coming at him from the drug baron across the room. They never came back to him about it, but that didn’t matter. He couldn’t have gone to work knowing that Elaine or the kids were worried about him. He didn’t think it was just an excuse, or a lie. He didn’t think it then—he wasn’t sure. It was six or seven years ago. Six. And, actually, he was sure. He’d wanted nothing to do with gangland warlords or major drug dealers. He was happier with the farmers. Gerry had always been a bit more daring, or mad. Donal could see him now. He rolled—he multitasked. He scooped the dead stuff out of the pool with a net while he sold a guy in Dublin an insurance policy, or something. An update, Gerry called it. —You’re what? said Gerry, to the phone. Fifty-two? Now he was shoving the hoover back to the middle of the pool. —It’s not about the years you’ve left, Mick, he said. He was wearing a Red Hot Chili Peppers T-shirt, nearly faded to nothing. One of his kids’, Donal guessed. —It’s about the years you’ve already lived, he said. What you have to show for them, what there is to protect. Are you with me? He sat down and picked up one of the bottles. —It’s not going to get cheaper because you’ve less years to live. It’s insurance I’m selling, not milk. And look, I’m not even selling it. You’re already well covered. I’m just telling you about it. I have to. It’s the law. He took a swig from the bottle. —Spain, he said. Yeah, it’s great. Just me and a few lads. No. No golf. Fuck golf. You know about me and golf. So, anyway, grand, there’s no hurry. You phone me, Mick. Either way, yeah. I will, yeah. Good luck. He put the phone on the table. He said nothing. It was just work, the way he did it now—what he used to do at a desk, or in a pub or a restaurant, five years ago. He’d adjusted. He could work beside a swimming pool in Spain, with his best friends. —The world, said Ken, one of the nights they were out. —What about it? —It’s grand, said Ken. But I worry a bit sometimes. —Why? —Not about global warming or that, said Ken. That’ll sort itself out. There’ll be good and bad there. They nodded. They all kind of agreed, and none of them wanted to talk about global warming. They were wearing shorts and sandals. It was boring. —Just, said Ken. The future. Like, I’ve complete faith in us. Our age group. And the very young. Kids, like. Donal knew what he meant. —It’s the ones in between, he said. And Ken nodded. —Exactly, he said. D’you know many people in their thirties? —One or two, said Seán. —Fuckin’ eejits, said Ken. Every one of them. I’m right, amn’t I? —Yeah, said Donal. But you’re right about kids as well. They’re brilliant. They were talking shite, enjoying themselves. But, still and all, Donal nearly cried. He was talking about his own kids. Moving away from him, setting off on their own. He loved it and hated it. He’d never get over it. But he’d have to. Gerry looked at him. —Are you all right? he said, quietly. —I’m grand, said Donal. And he was. They’d never talk about it. Except agree, and move on. The day before they left for home, they went into Valencia. They got up in time to catch the bus. Past half-built apartment blocks and wasteland—no real countryside, and no sea. They yawned and chatted till Gerry stood up, and they followed him off the bus. They wandered around for a couple of hours. They went into the cathedral. Donal put fifty cents in a slot and watched the electric candles come on. He walked away before they went off again. They went to an old market, the Plaza Redonda, and decided not to buy any bootleg DVDs because they didn’t want to carry them around all day and lose them. They went into a tapas place and ate about fifty euros’ worth of the little things along the counter. They went to a bar with a big screen, to watch the English football. They had their first beers, slowly, and a few more, slowly, till the match was over, and they went for a stroll. They found a small corner bar with a very good-looking waitress, and they stayed there till it was dark. They talked more than they had all week. Got pissed slowly, enjoyed the fact that they knew they were getting pissed. They couldn’t come back from the jacks without slapping a back. The talk got a bit mad. The first ride, the best ride, the weirdest, the longest. —Four minutes. —Four and a half. —Good man. Ever with another man. —No. —No way. Ever curious. —No. Not really. Ever with a relation. —Does it have to be blood relation? —Yeah. —Then no. —Who, but? —Her ma. —Your mother-in-law? —Yeah. —You’re jesting. —I’m not. —You are. —Yeah. I am. But it was touch and go. At her da’s funeral, you know. Back at the house. They were the only ones laughing in the bar. They left, and moved on to another one. David Bowie and another good-looking waitress. Donal told them about the job in the C.A.B. They told him he’d been right not to take it. They all told him that. They had more tapas in another place. Seán told Donal that his marriage was on the rocks. Gerry told Donal that his marriage was on the rocks. Donal told Gerry that his own had been rocky for a while, but that things were grand now, much better. Then he told Seán. And Ken. Then they were in a taxi, heading back to the town. Laughing. Three of them squashed into the back. Gerry in the front beside the driver. It was three in the morning. There was still a bar open, the one just down from the bullring. Ken went in, came back out with four bottles. They sat. They heard the marching band. It might have been a different band. They still hadn’t seen it. —At this time? said Seán. —The town that never sleeps. Donal stood up. He left his bottle on the table. He’d had enough. He wanted the bed. He walked. There was some sort of action going on at the bullring. The exit gates were open. It was lit, inside. He could see people, lots of young lads, standing in the ring. There was a barrier between him and the ring, like the metal bars of a jail. The bars were wide enough apart for people to get through, but—he supposed—solid enough to stop a bull. He went in, sideways, between two of the bars. He walked into the ring. It was quiet—he couldn’t hear the band—but the seats all around seemed full. A double gate at the other side was wide open, but he couldn’t see anything beyond it. The young lads were just standing there. He heard an engine. A truck, a big one, reversed slowly through the double gates. Lads got out of the way. A man in a black T-shirt jumped out of the cab and went to the back of the truck. There was another man there with him. They lowered the tailgate—Donal heard chains and a rumble—and they stood back. The crowd roared, and he saw the bull charge down the ramp, then stop. Dead still. Like the bull on a wine bottle. Black and huge, and still. The young lads didn’t move any nearer, but no one ran. Donal moved a step closer. The truck was leaving, slowly. He watched till it was gone, and the double gates were shut behind it. The bull had moved. Not much—he didn’t think—the angle was different, turned more toward Donal. Then the strange thing happened. A man with a burning torch—Donal hadn’t seen him arrive—walked right up to the bull and set fire to it. The two horns were on fire. Red flames roared over its head. There was a hand on Donal’s shoulder. —You might want to step back a bit. It was Gerry. —Yeah, said Donal. —Behind the barrier. —Yeah. He looked behind him. He’d gone farther than he’d thought—he hadn’t thought at all. He was turning away when the bull moved. —Fuckin’ Jesus. It ran, dashed, in a broken stop-start—fast. Every move covered distance. They wouldn’t have had a hope. But it didn’t come at them. It went across the ring, then away and out a different gate that Donal hadn’t seen. The horns three times higher, because of the flames. It was gone just as Donal realized he was falling. His chest hit the ground, his chin. He felt grit in his hands. But he was fine, standing up again, grand. He felt his chin. The ring was empty. —Where’s he gone? There was no blood in his mouth. He rubbed his hands clean. They went out to the street. There was no sign of the bull. Or anything, really. It was over. —That was great, said Donal. Fuckin’ great. What he’d just seen. What he’d just done. —I didn’t know they set fire to the poor fuckers as well, said Seán. —Why do they? —Fuck knows, said Gerry. It’s mad. They walked to the house. One more beer, out at the pool. Gerry stuck on the music. Donal held the bottle against his chin. The way the bull had stood absolutely still. He put the bottle on the table. Then the movement. Across the ring. The speed. The flames. He went over to the pool. The feeling he’d had, before the bull moved. Not caring. But knowing he was safe—it hadn’t felt stupid. He puked into the pool. On his knees. Straight in. Echo and the Bunnymen. The dogs howling. There was no more. He lay down. He could hear the hoover under the water. Gerry was beside him. —Feeling better? —Sorry. —No bother. —How do you get vomit out of water? —Don’t worry about it. We’ll throw in a bucket of chlorine. That should fix it. It’ll eat it or something. Gerry was sitting beside him. —All right? —Grand, said Donal. Thanks. —No bother. —A great day, said Donal. Wasn’t it? —Yeah, said Gerry. Brilliant. —Brilliant. He lay there for a while longer, his face on his arm. He felt good—clear. He’d get up in a minute. He might finish the bottle. He was fine. —Fuckin’ brilliant. This was living, he thought. This was happiness.
The Repatriates The last days of Grisha and Lera Arsenyev’s marriage might have been a story fashioned out of commonplace warnings. Retold, it was no longer about the Arsenyevs at all but about the ambushes that befall the most gleefully naïve of us, still laboring under illusions of security. The Arsenyevs were a different sort of immigrant from those who’d washed up with the tides of asylum-seekers in the seventies and eighties. In 1994, Grisha Arsenyev’s visa had been processed not by the staffs of refugee committees but by a covey of lawyers working for Hewlett-Packard, assigned to skim the cream of Eastern brainpower. After his indentured servitude at HP—which lasted the five years it took the company to come through with the promised green card—Grisha quit and promptly got himself hired for twice as much, as a quant at Morgan Stanley, building market models for mortgage traders. Whatever envy his fast climb had stirred in the hearts of others, to hear Grisha Arsenyev talk one might guess that immigrating had turned out to be the great anticlimax of his life. At the get-togethers that Lera and Grisha attended, Lera would often see her husband off in a corner, rattling his drink and talking with someone about the moribund state of American culture, the absence of any real spirituality here. It had been known to happen to such late arrivers—the ones who’d risked nothing, forsaken little, and had not even been required by the Russian government to annul their red passports. Once, in somebody’s kitchen, Lera had heard a man refer to her husband as “Lenin in exile” and had recognized the allusion to Grisha’s beard and his huge forehead heightened by baldness, and to the provokable mind that liked to assign every problem its proper place in a political chain of events. The enthusiasm with which Grisha spoke of the “opportunities” in Russia would begin to remind his listener of the sort of miscalculation made by those who marry for money and then invariably realize they didn’t marry for enough. In the economic upheavals he had avoided, his old colleagues who’d stayed in Moscow had started making serious money, while he was still shackled to a salary on Wall Street, of all places. So it surprised only a few when Grisha started travelling back, seeing old friends and making new ones, looking for his own golden formula. And when one of his weeklong trips stretched out to two months Lera found her husband’s absence something to be endured. On the phone, he told her he had no plans to return to Morgan Stanley, where he had been disregarded, he said, passed over for men whose only qualifications beyond his were that they could quote from “Star Wars” and recall Yankees scores from the Nixon era. He no longer wished to be tyrannized by bogus performance evaluations in which he was called “judgmental” and told that he “imposed his opinion on others,” before being asked to sign that filth like a forced confession. Fate, he said, had chosen a better path for him in his homeland. He was staying in Moscow to look for financiers for a business idea that would do for the Russian market what mortgage traders had done on Wall Street since the eighties: pool and repackage loans for investors in one massive turbine of debt and capital. He would build not only wealth for himself but a better life for the doctors and schoolteachers in distant provinces, still living in run-down, vermin-infested apartments and dreaming of raising their kids in solid houses, if only Russia could grow a robust mortgage industry. Within three months, Lera had sold the Dobbs Ferry house with its view of the Hudson. Dekabristka, her daughter called her, joking that her devotion was like that of the Decembrist wives who’d followed their men to Siberia after their uprising against the monarchy. She wasn’t sure if Masha meant this kindly, but when the first clouds appeared through the airplane’s windows Lera pretended they were vales of snow she was crossing by sleigh and carriage. She’d be too far away now to send Masha packages at college—scented soaps and soup mixes, magazine clippings and dried flowers from her garden. The garden itself would probably be neglected by the house’s new owners, a busy professional couple with infant twins who wouldn’t necessarily appreciate that Lera had spent several seasons selecting plants for full and partial shade, dragging limestone from a quarry, digging a hole for the dogwood tree to replace the diseased elm that the town had cut down. Then again none of that mattered much now. It was Grisha who needed her, not a garden. There was effete, uneven applause in the cabin when the plane touched down on the runway in Sheremetyevo. At the gate, Lera looked for Grisha among the people holding bouquets and spied his head. His hair had turned the color of a battleship a while ago, but his skin was still as ruddy as a country boy’s. “Couldn’t leave anything behind?” he said, smiling at her suitcases. He slid an arm around her shoulder and gave her a quick kiss before leading her out into Moscow’s pale November evening. Through the vibrating raindrops on the car window, she could see the jagged monument marking the limit of the German advance in ’41 and, just beyond it, the cobalt blue of an Ikea superstore. “I wish you would convince Masha to fly here for New Year’s,” Lera said. “She says she’s going to stay in the dorms all winter.” “If she wants to stay, it’s her business. She needs a ticket, I’ll send her money.” Her husband and her daughter were exactly alike. Both liked to take a misanthropic posture, but against what, Lera could never guess. “I just want to make plans, Grisha. So everything isn’t done at the last minute. If we’re going to start renovating, Masha won’t have a place to sleep. You said it took Olya and Kirill eight months to redo their apartment.” “Kirill wanted all his closets wired. So when he opens the doors they light up like refrigerators,” Grisha said. “I’m a simple man.” When they’d left, Grisha’s cousin had been eking out a living fixing furniture. That he had since made a fortune buying and selling upholstery hadn’t changed Grisha’s view that Kirill was fundamentally an idiot. “You didn’t forget the suit?” Grisha asked. “I’m going to Tver next week.” “It’s still in its plastic. I don’t know why you need an Armani jacket to talk to a bunch of bureaucrats.” She had gone into the city to buy it for him before she left, because he insisted it was twice as expensive on Tverskaya. “They aren’t bureaucrats. There are going to be people from SberBank, AIGK. And Stanislav Mitin, too.” On the phone, Grisha had told her about Mitin, the real-estate developer who’d offered to guarantee the first issue of loans, to put up his own money if a housing market in some province collapsed. She didn’t like the sound of Mitin; his interest in Grisha’s proposed company seemed predicated not on its profit potential but on his sharing Grisha’s somewhat sanctimonious vision of a glorious and holy Russia. Mitin had had an Orthodox priest bless each of his businesses, Grisha had told her, which made her think the man had more than enough to atone for. “Should I tell you about my flight?” she asked. “They sat me next to one of those Russian candy bars in pink sweatpants. She tapped my shoulder whenever she had to get up and pee. No ‘excuse me.’ No ‘thank you.’ Tap tap. The stewardess told her to put away her giant white leather bag, and she pointed to my purse and said, ‘What about her? Why don’t you tell her to put hers away?’ ” “What blue bloods we have these days.” “And her husband had a spade tattooed on one of his fingers.” A silver chain glinted from under Grisha’s collar. Lera reached over and fished it out with her nail. “What’s this?” She rubbed her thumb over the small cross. Grisha gave her a dark look, like that of a teen-ager whose privacy has been intruded on. “It was my mother’s.” She let the cross drop and reclined in her seat. In what drawer, she wondered, between what set of ironed sheets, would Grisha’s dead mother, with her Komsomol and Party allegiances, have kept this silver cross? Along the main drag of Bolshaya Cherkizovskaya, the trees had lost their leaves, revealing sparse playgrounds with wooden seesaws and painted steel climbing bars between the buildings. Soon they were turning onto their old block of Khrushchev-era low-rises just past the Preobrazhenskoye metro, a neighborhood of durable, identical blocks where they’d spent the first years of their marriage. Little had changed inside. The living room had the same massive lacquered wall unit and textured wallpaper, damaged now by the pencil scrawlings of tenants’ children, the same double curtains of polyester lace and cretonne. Year after year, they had intended to sell the place, waiting first for the market to pick up, then worrying about dishonest agents. Finally, Grisha had simply left it empty for his visits. She could see he hadn’t done anything to the place, that he had probably been waiting for her to arrive and start renovating. The next morning, Lera made phone calls. She called her aunt in Krasnodar, promising to visit before New Year’s, and her old friend Lidochka, who cried from joy that Lera was only three metro stops away. She called Olya, Grisha’s cousin’s wife, who was rushing off to Mamontovka, where she and Kirill were building a kottedzh. Olya apologized that she couldn’t stay on the phone longer, but she needed to get to the suburbs before her work crew took their eighty-proof eyeopener. A few days later, Lera called in her own crew to replace the windows in the apartment. The two men who showed up asked if they could change into their work clothes in the living room. They were still in their underwear when she returned ten minutes later with a plate of cheese and glasses of juice. “We’ll forgive you this time,” one of them said, smiling crudely when she looked at his work boots and bare chest. The other one sniffed the juice and said, “Anything a little stronger, Madam?” “My husband wants the windowsills replaced as well,” she said, leading them through the rooms. “And please take away the old glass when you’re done. I don’t want to give my husband more work to do.” The words “my husband” were like an incantation, filling the rooms with Grisha’s spirit, a Grisha who defended his wife’s honor and did not tolerate grown men stripping in his home. The husband she invoked was master of his domain, a more solid presence than the one who actually lived here. The one who lived here left early and came home late, just as he’d done in Dobbs Ferry. In the mornings now he took the metro to Kitai-Gorod, where he rented the corner space from a computer company. A real office would come later, he told Lera, when he found more investors for his securities firm. He was going to Tver, a regional center two hours north, in a few days to pitch his idea to some forward-thinking mini-garchs. At night he worked at the computer desk in the bedroom, before getting into bed and reading a few pages of the book on his nightstand. “Who is that?” Lera asked one night, looking at the bulldoglike face on the jacket. “Pavel Ryabushinsky.” He had his chin tucked into his chest as he read. She wedged her pelvis against the side of his hip. “A writer?” “He was an industrialist at the turn of the century.” “Like Rockefeller?” she said. Her fingers played with the hair on his stomach. The warm world below the blanket had its own rules. Grisha didn’t answer. He turned another page. Traffic sounds floated in through their casement window. “Rockefeller was like him,” he said, nearly a minute later. “Russia was more industrialized than America back then. The ruble was more stable than the dollar.” She felt Grisha’s soft belly tighten under her stroking hand. She didn’t remember when they had developed this pattern of him not responding to her until the last possible moment. Seductively, she traced her finger along the elastic band of his shorts. He hadn’t made love to her since she’d arrived. Now he removed her hand, patted it, and placed it beside him on the sheet. “I have to get up early,” he said, shutting the book and curling up toward the wall. She tried not to feel insulted. He was exhausted by his work. She was here now, to take care of him. She would make Grisha a special dinner before he went on his overnight trip to Tver on Thursday. The next morning, she walked to the Preobrazhensky market to get groceries and fresh fish, following the crowds rolling their handcarts down a footpath lined with pensioners holding up hand-knitted shawls and strings of dried mushrooms. A battery of grandmothers stood along the chain-link fence peddling old shoes they’d set out on newspapers. Books, dull knives, outmoded cameras—useless things. How conspicuous the elderly were here, she thought, how openly old. She made her way through the acre of stone counters piled with carrots and potatoes, tubs of sour cabbage. Sharp gusts of wind burned her cheeks. At a table covered with egg cartons, a frizzy-haired blonde in fingerless gloves rubbed her hands together and lit a cigarette. “Right out of the henhouse,” Lera said, and grinned. She pointed to the largest of the eggs, which had a downy feather stuck to it. “How much?” The woman exhaled smoke through the side of her mouth. “You can’t read?” She glanced down just enough for Lera to notice the prices taped to the edge of the table. Lera picked up a carton and started to fill it with eggs. “Take a look at her,” the woman said. “Self-service.” “You didn’t want to be bothered.” The blonde shook her head. “Give me that,” she said, grabbing the egg carton. “At this speed, you’ll take all day. Can’t you see you’re driving away my customers?” “Excuse me?” “Excuse me. Excuse me,” the woman said, loading eggs. “Don’t be a dandelion,” Grisha told her when she complained to him in the evening. “You like to let everything raise your blood pressure.” He’d finished the mushroom soup she had made for him and was cutting into the trout she’d served. “You know how these people live,” he said, washing down the fish with white wine. “This egg lady probably has to get up before the roosters, use an outhouse, drive here from some huyevo-tutuyevo. O.K., so she has light bulbs, thanks to Lenin’s faith in electricity. You want her to tell you to have a nice day?” “And she’s just waiting for you to make her life better,” she said, finishing her wine. He let her remark pass, apparently deeming it too foolish to acknowledge. “Someone looks at you wrong, Lera, and you need a sedative. What do you think I have to put up with? The last time I gave this talk that I’m giving tomorrow, some V.I.P. picked his nose through my entire presentation. And not just digging—I mean doing an investigation.” “I don’t want to argue,” she said. “I only wanted to tell you about my day.” She got up and set her dishes in the small sink. She would need to look for a job here, to channel her mind toward something more useful than complaining. For the past two years, since the drug laboratory where she’d worked had closed its Westchester branch, she had manned the reception desk at her gym three days a week. She’d taken an exit package from the lab, learned to garden, started reading novels again. She missed the gym now, missed the women telling her about the nannies they’d hired or the ones they’d fired because they’d caught them stealing money or seen photographs of nephews in Hungary playing with toys that had disappeared from the house. She missed being told in confidence about the cycling instructor who’d remarried his first wife right after divorcing his third. At the gym, people involved her in the theatre of their daily lives as though she were a bartender, handing them not towels but glasses of gin. In the evening, when she’d tried to interest Grisha in these stories, he’d listened with a face of painful submission. When she was with him, the life that gave her pleasure seemed frivolous; it was like describing a sitcom—the plots unravelled, the jokes were no longer funny. Grisha would listen until he had finished eating and then go upstairs to start his graveyard shift, working late into the night on articles about “social mortgages” and “securitization” that he submitted to Russian economic journals. She watched him consume his dinner now, get through the trout bite by bite, gulp down his wine. His pale-blue eyes looked watery from exhaustion, the skin of his nose polished as if by a sunburn. His sideburns had been trimmed in preparation for the presentation of his idea for a private loan-backing firm, a Russian Fannie Mae, as he called it. She knew she would have been too frightened to start all over the way he was doing, at forty-six. “You’ll do fine,” she said. “You’ll see.” He smirked, though not meanly this time. Lera sat down and slid her hand across the table, touching his arm. She wanted to be a supportive wife, to do whatever fate required, though at times it seemed that the best she could do was not interfere. She went to meet her friend Lidochka on Thursday afternoon, after Grisha had boarded his train. Her friend had been going by Lidochka, not Lida, all her life—a little girl’s name that had followed her into her forties because of her gentleness and her reputation for being short on common sense. She covered her mouth when she saw Lera on the platform of the Ohotny Ryad metro. “Oh, my soul!” she said, embracing her. Lidochka had once looked like a fairy, but now her small features puckered out of a face that had become as puffy as a flaky pastry. They went to a café on the ground floor of the Tchaikovsky Conservatory, unadorned and nearly empty, which was what Lidochka must have liked about it, Lera thought, living as she did with almost no privacy. When Lera carried éclairs and coffee to their table, she saw tears in Lidochka’s eyes. “How I’ve waited for you,” Lidochka said, touching Lera’s thin jacket lovingly. “Don’t spend your money. I’ll have Natasha pick you up a good coat on her next trip.” Lidochka looked out the window at the dry, tiny snowflakes and added, “It’s going to be a bad winter for orphans.” Natasha, her daughter, travelled to China every few months, buying merchandise that she and her new lover, whom she’d moved in with, sold to the kiosks in the markets. Meanwhile, Natasha’s husband and her five-year-old son still lived with Lidochka in a two-room apartment, a domestic situation now in its second year. “He’s like a son to me,” she said of Natasha’s husband. “It breaks my heart to watch him on the couch in the evenings, changing the channels without saying a word. Sometimes he goes days without speaking. Every morning, I wake up and think I’m going crazy. Then I fold my cot in the kitchen, get a grip on myself, and tell my son-in-law to eat breakfast.” “How do you stay afloat?” Lera said. “Oh, my dear, I still have my students. At a time like this, though, I wish I tutored English instead of French.” “I forgot! Tell me about your trip to Paris this summer.” She wanted to switch to a less desperate topic. It was clear that Lidochka, after eleven years, did not want to bother with small talk. To her, friendship still meant coming face to face with another’s unmediated existence. It was exhilarating, Lera thought, but also exhausting. “What is there to say? They put us up in some dirty hotel outside the city. We rode into Paris in the mornings and had to stand in line on the bus for hot water. And we weren’t fed—I had to carry around tins of sardines in my purse.” She wiped a tear from the corner of her eye with a napkin. “I didn’t want to tell you before, but now I will: I answered a classified ad in the paper for a receptionist job at a travel agency. You don’t know how hard it is to find work after forty. These ads are all the same—they ask for twenty-year-olds ‘without complexes.’ But this one seemed reasonable. I told them I’d been a French teacher, and they hired me right away. They said the bus tour was a requirement for the job, so I’d be able to tell the clients about the trips the agency sold. I’d be reimbursed as soon as I started working. But when I got back from Paris it turned out they’d already filled my job with a girl Natasha’s age. I’m so ashamed. To be such a fool.” “That’s awful.” Lera didn’t know what else to say. If it weren’t for the weakness of Lidochka’s voice and her smudged makeup, it might have been a joke someone told at a party. “You need to go and ask for your money back,” Lera added firmly. “I did go back, and you can only guess what kinds of names they called me. There’s no decency anymore, Lera.” Her eyes were dry with conviction now. “No decency and no fair play.” She was glad to be alone in the metro again, in the splendor of its vaulted ceilings and mosaics, away from the sickly touch of misfortune. She took the red line to the Library of Lenin and transferred through its maze of halls and escalators to the Arbat line, emerging out of the templelike station and crossing the Boulevard Ring until she was on the bright, populated strip of the Noviy Arbat. She was looking for the Citibank office, to pick up more cash, since the window job had cost more than she’d expected. The quick pace of pedestrians on the street carried her along. Being part of the purposeful, business-day life of the city was lifting her spirits. You needed a certain kind of desperation, she thought, to wander into the type of trap Lidochka had entered. It wasn’t enough simply to be foolish. It came from living too long in a fantasyland of your own hopefulness. She felt grateful for Grisha, whom she’d trusted to make sensible choices for both of them. She found the glassed-in office of the Citibank on the corner of the main plaza, across from a café whose greasy shish-kebab smells now clogged her nose. It was a nice feeling to open those heavy glass doors, to slide your bank card into an A.T.M. and watch the crisply ironed bills come out. She stuck the bills in her purse and then, to restore her spirits a little more, touched the glass monitor to bring up her and Grisha’s current savings. She saw now that the various accounts added up to less than two hundred thousand dollars, not even half of what she remembered depositing after the house was sold. In the past week alone, there had been three large transfers. Grisha must have decided to keep some of their money at a local bank, she thought, on her way home. Inside the shuddering, speeding subway car, she made a mental note to ask him. She watched two adolescents engaged in heavy kissing on the seat across from hers, pressing themselves up against the large circle of the Moscow metro map. The girl looked like a rag doll, with her striped stockings and limp bangs. She was gnawing on her dense-looking boyfriend’s lip, and every few minutes her eyes flickered around the subway car with calculated satisfaction. They’d probably met only a day before, these teen-agers, but already they knew it wasn’t love unless it could be shown off to the whole world. The lovers in this city made such an elaborate production of their affections, especially considering that the natural expression of everyone else was either dour or resentful. But then again making elaborate productions was a specialty here. Lera thought of Lidochka again. To put an ad in the paper and to interview a desperate, hopeful woman for a job that didn’t exist, in order to fill some third-rate bus tour—they went to such lengths here to fool you. The kissing was still going on when the doors opened at Lera’s stop. At the turnstiles, she glimpsed a young man with a cardboard sign on his chest that read “Money for Prosthesis.” His sleeves were tucked in on themselves, flaccid flaps over which he wore a long hunting vest, probably to keep his real arms well hidden. It seemed that fraud was everywhere, once you paid attention. It was like the stray dogs Lera had suddenly noticed all over the city, trotting around the market, lying curled up beside the heating vents in the metro underpasses. Fraud took up a good deal of the local-news coverage, she realized in her kitchen that evening, watching the TV atop the refrigerator as she ate the mushroom soup she’d reheated. On the news, a woman was being led away from a hospital in handcuffs. She had checked herself into eight clinics with phantom illnesses and persuaded the other female patients to lend her money for a child (also phantom) who was going hungry at home. For a con, it certainly seemed like a full-time job, Lera thought. On the small screen, the woman was raving that she hadn’t stuck her hand in anyone’s pocket. Lera turned off the television, unable to watch anymore. They justified their deceit by convincing themselves that the truth—if you took a close enough look at it—was no different from the lie, that even the principles of morality and lawfulness were themselves only lies by which the clever outsmarted the dumb. She walked into the bedroom and undressed. She missed Grisha; he hadn’t called to tell her about his presentation, and his cell phone seemed to have been turned off. Outside the window an arrow-shaped sign pointing to a jeweller’s shop flickered erratically. Snow had started falling again, in tiny flakes at first and then in thicker chunks slanting down from a dark, milky sky. She crawled into bed and reached for the book on Grisha’s nightstand. It was part of a series on the lives of “The Great and the Famous,” the sort of book he liked to read. When he’d quit Hewlett-Packard, he’d brought home books about moguls, biographies of C.E.O.s, and read them in the basement, then he’d repackaged his applied-math background as a boon for Wall Street, where the winds had started blowing in the direction of quantitative analysis. She thumbed through the first pages, about Pavel Ryabushinsky’s ancestors, merchants descended from the peasants of the Ryabushinsky community, old believers who’d launched a sackcloth business that had survived Moscow’s fire of 1812 and left them well positioned to buy up looms and weaving mills. Later, the Ryabushinskys would import machinery from Manchester, send their sons to study abroad, enter the mortgage-banking business. All was well until the October Revolution, when Pavel Ryabushinsky and the rest of the clan fled to France. Lera turned the page. Like some of his Western counterparts, Ryabushinsky considered charity his sacred responsibility, held progressive views, and wanted to improve the lot of his countrymen. Until his last days, living in France, he’d hoped to be useful and come back to his beloved Russia after the Revolution was toppled. But, alas, he was not destined to return. This line was underscored faintly in pencil. Next to it was a handwritten note in the margin: “He wasn’t fated, my rabbit, but you are.” Lera looked at the message curiously. It was unmistakably a woman’s hand. Its author had signed it simply “T.” Lera touched the cavity of her neck. Her heart was galloping. She tried to steady her pulse with a deep breath, but the walls of her throat were closing up. “T.” Her mind was drawing a blank. “My rabbit” sounded like the endearment of some sentimental tart. Had the book been a gift? A souvenir of a casual dalliance that might be over by now? Was it possible that Grisha had skipped that page and not seen the inscription? Or had he left the book here in order to savor the inscription, certain that Lera would never open it? She remembered the saying (was it her mother’s?) that on such occasions there were only two options: to leave or not to know. Nothing in between. Well, where was she to leave to? The house in Dobbs Ferry had been sold, the bank check deposited, the furniture taken to consignment shops. And not to know—wasn’t that always the intelligent option? It seemed that so much of marriage—hers, at least—was made up of these negative spaces, the words she’d kept herself from saying, all in the service of not polluting daily conversations with unnecessary poison. And what good had it done her? She threw the bedcover off, her feet, her underarms clammy with sweat. She opened the window and breathed in the frost-laden air. The cold was like a remorseless living presence descending on her and gripping her under her nightgown. She stared at the snow until she felt herself floating up, out of her numb skin. It sickened Lera to have to call Olya in the morning. She could think of no one else who could tell her what was going on with Grisha. “He hasn’t called us in a month,” Olya said. It was hard to tell if she really felt snubbed or was only feigning insult. “Must be a busy season for him.” “Let’s not be so delicate. If he had someone else, you would tell me, I hope.” “You know me, Lera. I don’t stand over anyone’s business holding a candle.” The hesitation in her voice suggested that she didn’t want to say more on the phone. “I need to drive to Mamontovka today,” Olya said. “Why don’t you come along?” Olya steered her Acura with one hand resting atop the wheel. The gold tooth Lera remembered in the corner of her smile was gone. She’d cropped her hair, which played up her Tatar features, the wide cheeks and profile that looked as if it had been pounded flat by a small hammer. The Mamontovka that Lera remembered had changed as well. Some of the wooden dachas had been rebuilt as year-round residences. A cottage town was what Olya called it now, though the “cottages” had nothing in common with the cozy, quaint ones of Westchester. These were more like fortresses you’d have to take by tank—three-story ski lodges rising from behind two-story fences. “I think a woman lives alone in that one,” Olya said. It had gables and turrets like a little medieval castle. “They shot off the husband last year.” “Shot off?” Lera said. “What is that, like too many elks? Population control?” Olya turned onto a residential street with high fences on either side. “It’s tacky to put up a fence if you live on less than four acres of land,” Lera said, more to the window than to Olya, and then felt a kind of shame at her own snobbery. She wasn’t in Westchester anymore. Olya drove down to the point at which the road forked. An austere brick church stood in the middle of what might have been a small athletic field, the earth around it overturned by excavation. She parked the car and walked around to the side of the building. Boot prints had frozen in the hardened sludge. In the stillness, Lera could hear the guttural cawing of a crow. She craned her neck to look up at the vaulted roof, which was helmeted by two blue cupolas. There was space for one more. The sign on the brick wall read “Church of the Icon of the Holy Mother of Unexpected Joy.” “They started restoring it two years ago,” Olya said. “And by restore I mean tore it down and built it up again. You can imagine the cost.” Olya hunted in her pocket for a handkerchief to wipe her nose, damp like a puppy’s from the cold. “When Grisha was visiting us in June, he said he wanted to meet some people who could help him. People with money. So we brought him here. First we introduced him to Father Alexander, who introduced him to that developer Mitin and his wife, the ballerina. Too old to stick her leg up in the air now, so she gives away her husband’s money. Well, didn’t they love Grisha! Blessing his soul, saying it was God who’d brought him back. We thought Grisha was playing along at first. You won’t get far in business nowadays being an atheist. First everyone attended Party meetings—now it’s church.” The modest attack of sympathy on Olya’s face couldn’t disguise the pleasure of finally delivering this information. “But you have to show you’re serious. You have to . . . make a gesture.” “And how much does a gesture cost these days?” Lera asked. “Thirty thousand dollars won’t get you canonized, but it’ll get your name whispered.” “Hah!” Lera’s laugh entered the air with a cloud of breath. “What other good news do you have for me?” “I suspect he doesn’t call us because he knows the talk has reached us. She works at a gallery, one of those avant-garde places that sell things you can find in a dumpster. She used to talk about energetics and U.F.O.s. Now she crosses herself whenever a bus passes.” Olya walked up the steps of the church and tested the brass handle. The door was so low that to go through it one had to bend to a posture of humility. Lera tightened her coat and followed Olya inside. Two old women nodded kindly as they entered. The church smelled of candle wax and wet plaster, and most of the space had been sectioned off with scaffolds, leaving a high-ceilinged room the size of a small cellar. A makeshift altar and brass gate had been set up, with wooden icons to the left and right. Unlike everything else inside, the icons looked old, their wood battered and gouged. Lera approached one, an image of the Holy Mother, silent pain in her flat painted eyes. The icon was behind a protective sheet of Plexiglas, already covered with waxy pink marks, left behind by some passionate believer who hadn’t bothered to wipe off her lipstick. Lera touched her hand to the Virgin’s and brought two fingers to her lips. Her grandmother had taught her this: the proper way to kiss the Lord or the Holy Mother was on the hand, never on the face, the way you’d kiss your drinking buddies. Lera closed her eyes and tried to pray. Even here, under the domes into which a good portion of their savings had gone, she wanted to ask God for justice. She prayed that Grisha would remember himself. On Saturday, Grisha returned. She heard the squeal of the hinge and smelled his damp jacket in the corridor. He walked into the bathroom first, and locked the door. From the kitchen she could hear him washing his hands and taking a long powerful piss, then washing his hands again. “They know how to do everything here,” he said, coming in to where she sat in the kitchen. “Win gold medals, send rockets into space. Only thing they don’t know how to do is wipe their own asses.” Lera stared out at the activity on Bolshaya Cherkizovskaya, where the traffic never ended. She turned to look at him. His hair was matted down on his high, bald forehead. He reeked of smoke and sour sweat from the train. “Champions in everything,” he said, finding a bottle of cognac in one of the cabinets. He poured three fingers of it into a narrow juice glass and drained it in one gulp. Then he poured another. “I offer them a guaranteed revenue. The problem is they can’t hide the profit. If they can’t see a way to steal, they’re not interested. Try to show them how to build an industry from the bottom up—it’s like explaining bronze to cavemen.” He finished off the second glass and sat down. “It isn’t an earthquake, Grisha,” she said. “We can always go back. You had a good job. You can find something similar.” She tried not to think about how she looked right now, about the loose skin under her eyes from a night of no sleep. She hated herself for the way she was speaking to him, the voice of a lifetime of appeasement. He squinted at her. “Have you been listening? Are you saying you want me to return to where some imbecile who’s attended two management seminars can tell me, ‘You can do better’?” “A lot of people would wish for a start like yours, Grisha.” “Start?” He laughed. “Eleven years later and that start was nothing but my finish line.” She got up and went to the windowsill, where she’d left his book. She opened it on the table and laid her finger on the margin. “After you told me to sell our house, told me to join you—I find this!” He studied the inscription with a contorted, inscrutable expression on his face. “Now I learn I don’t know you. And what’s more I don’t want to know you.” He flinched a little when the book hit his chest, then edged his chair back to pick it up off the floor. “The house,” he corrected, “was mine. I paid for it while you slept till noon.” He got up, the book tucked under his arm, and walked out. It took her a moment to understand what he was saying, as though her mind were awakening out of a spell. She gazed around wearily, her eyes alighting on the wilted plants on the windowsill. She followed after him into the corridor, where he was putting on his shoes. “Where are you going? To this bliad?” The words didn’t sound as if they were coming out of her mouth. The shrillness in them seemed forced. “Don’t talk about what you don’t know. Whatever obscene ideas you have are only in your own godless head. She’s been celibate for two years,” he said. “She’s a zatvornitsa.” Now, here was a word she hadn’t heard in thirty years—a sexual hermit! And he didn’t seem to care that she knew. He couldn’t possibly be making this up. Celibacy! Well, these sluts had really gotten sophisticated. Grisha plucked his jacket off the line of hooks by the door. She reached for his arm. “Whatever happened before I arrived, I’ve forgiven already.” Her voice had gone needy, as soft as a rotting fruit. “We don’t have to talk about it. Just stay.” His face was a soundless picture of loathing. “Let’s not humiliate ourselves tonight,” he said. She placed herself between him and the door handle. “If you leave now, I promise you I will have the locks changed.” “This apartment doesn’t belong to you,” he said. He walked back to the bedroom. Lera followed him in. “It’s ours,” she said, her voice breaking. “I inherited it. I know the law.” He found a squashed duffelbag at the bottom of the closet. In another few minutes, she sensed, she would be on her own. She felt it in the way she knew people felt their mortality, very suddenly, a knowledge deeper than shame or anticipation. “Is it one of those midlife things?” she said. “You want to grow your hair long? You want to buy a motorcycle? I’m not stopping you. But to give our money away like that, to a church!” “You expect me to give it all to you? I’m done slaving away. You didn’t even like to drive me to the station in the mornings. I had to run to catch the train and then sit there sweating.” “Don’t you dare throw that at me. I didn’t make your meals or clean your house? Or raise your child?” “I forgot, you bought a guest book for the bathroom. So everyone could sign their names when they shat, as if they were at Buckingham Palace. You even hired someone to clean. The chemicals gave you headaches! I would have been here years ago,” he said. “If what?” He didn’t answer. He was dumping the folders and books on his desk into the duffel. “Did you plan this?” She pictured herself making phone calls, tonight or tomorrow morning, to freeze their accounts. How much of their money was already gone? “Did you bring me here for a quick and cheap divorce? To cheat me out of everything?” “What, exactly, I’d like to know, would I cheat you out of? Explain to me where you got that stupid entitled idea? At the divorcée colony you call a gym?” “And Masha?” “I’ve always taken care of her. She’ll understand me.” “You think I won’t hire a lawyer?” “Do what you wish,” he said. “You’re not among your americaners. Here they don’t eviscerate a man for the crime of having a job.” “I don’t know what that woman made you drink, Grisha.” It was difficult to keep the tremor out of her voice. He avoided brushing against her in the doorway on his way out with the duffel. “Where do you expect me to go?” “You’ll get along,” he said. When she returned to New York, her friends met her with open arms. They competed to help her, appropriately outraged by what Grisha had done. They praised her for having enough sense to freeze whatever money was left in the joint accounts. They were compassionate and practical and let her stay in their houses until she found an apartment. They drove her everywhere until she bought a car. But their eyes did not fool her. Their gratitude for the normalcy of their own marriages was almost like an awkward lust. At first, they told her that she shouldn’t blame herself for what had happened. Then, in their living rooms, as she voiced her suffering they listened closely to the parts of her story that confirmed that her common sense had gone slack: that she hadn’t looked at her accounts for months, that she’d let Grisha go alone to a city where someone would steal your husband if you so much as got up to take a piss. After a while, they seemed to have no reaction at all to her story, which was what made her stop telling it. When she was working again, in a lab at a medical-research park in Eastview, surrounded by test tubes and electrophoresis trays, she had a lot of time to think about Grisha. She imagined failures and disappointments for him in proportion to his smug magnanimous “principles,” in proportion to his pietistic love of his soil, his secret belief that he deserved to be a national hero. She imagined him bankrupt, drinking at eleven in the morning. She imagined him in a coffin surrounded by strangers and none of his old friends. But sometimes this hatred broke like a wave, collapsing under its own weight, and before it would begin to well up again she suddenly felt nothing but pure compassion for him, a kindness and forgiveness that almost broke her heart.
The Lie I’d used up all my sick days and the two personal days they allowed us, but when the alarm went off and the baby started squalling and my wife threw back the covers to totter off to the bathroom in a hobbled two-legged trot, I knew I wasn’t going in to work. It was as if a black shroud had been pulled over my face: my eyes were open but I couldn’t see. Or no, I could see—the pulsing L.E.D. display on the clock radio, the mounds of laundry and discarded clothes humped round the room like the tumuli of the dead, a hard-driving rain drooling down the dark vacancy of the window—but everything seemed to have a film over it, a world coated in Vaseline. The baby let out a series of scaled-back cries. The toilet flushed. The overhead light flicked on. Clover was back in the room, the baby flung over one shoulder. She was wearing an old Cramps T-shirt she liked to sleep in and nothing else. I might have found this sexy to one degree or another but for the fact that I wasn’t at my best in the morning and I’d seen her naked save for one rock-and-roll memento T-shirt for something like a thousand consecutive mornings now. “It’s six-fifteen,” she said. I said nothing. My eyes eased shut. I heard her at the closet, and in the dream that crashed down on me in that instant she metamorphosed from a rippling human female with a baby slung over her shoulder to a great shining bird springing from the brink of a precipice and sailing on great shining wings into the void. I woke to the baby. On the bed. Beside me. “You change her,” my wife said. “You feed her. I’m late as it is.” We’d had some people over the night before, friends from the pre-baby days, and we’d made margaritas in the blender, watched a movie and stayed up late talking about nothing and everything. Clover had shown off the baby, Xana—we’d named her Xana after a character in one of the movies I’d edited, or, actually, logged—and I’d felt a rush of pride. Here was this baby, perfect in every way, beautiful because her parents were beautiful, and that was all right. Tank—he’d been in my band, co-leader, co-founder, and we’d written songs together till that went sour—had said she was fat enough to eat and I’d said, “Yeah, just let me fire up the barbie,” and Clover had given me her little drawn-down pout of disgust because I was being juvenile. We stayed up till the rain started. I poured one more round of margaritas, and then Tank’s girlfriend opened her maw in a yawn that could have sucked in the whole condo and the street out front, too, and the party broke up. Now I was in bed and the baby was crawling up my right leg, giving off a powerful reek of shit. The clock inched forward. Clover got dressed, put on her makeup, and took her coffee mug out to the car and was gone. There was nothing heroic in what I did next, dealing with the baby and my own car and the stalled nose-to-tail traffic that made the three miles to the babysitter’s seem like a trek across the wastelands of the earth—it was just life, that was all. But as soon as I’d handed Xana over to Violeta at the door of her apartment, which threw up a miasma of cooking smells, tearful Telemundo dialogue, and the diachronic yapping of her four chihuahuas, I slammed myself into the car and called in sick. Or no: not sick. My sick days were gone, I reminded myself. And my personal days, too. My boss picked up the phone. “Iron House Productions,” he said, his voice digging out from under the “r”s. He had trouble with “r”s. He had trouble with English, for that matter. “Hello, Radko?” “Yes, it is he—who is it now?” “It’s me, Lonnie.” “Let me guess—you are sick.” Radko was one of that select group of hard chargers in the production business who kept morning hours, and that was good for me because with Clover working days and going to law school at night—and the baby, the baby, of course—my own availability was restricted to the daylight hours when Violeta’s own children were at school and her husband at work operating one of the cranes that lifted the beams to build the city out till there was nothing green left for fifty miles around. Radko had promised me career advancement, moving up from logging footage to actual editing, but that hadn’t happened yet. And on this particular morning, as on too many mornings in the past, I felt I just couldn’t face the editing bay, the computer screen, the eternal idiocy of the dialogue repeated over and over through take after take, frame after frame, “No, Jim, stop / No—Jim, stop! / No! Jim, Jim: stop!!” I used to be in a band. I had a college degree. I was no drudge. Before I could think, it was out: “It’s the baby,” I said. There was a silence I might have read too much into. Then Radko, dicing the interrogative, said, “What baby?” “Mine. My baby. Remember the pictures Clover e-mailed everybody?” My brain was doing cartwheels. “Nine months ago? When she was born?” Another long pause. Finally, he said, “Yes?” “She’s sick. Very sick. With a fever and all that. We don’t know what’s wrong with her.” The wheel of internal calculus spun one more time and I made another leap, the one that would prove to be fatal: “I’m at the hospital now.” As soon as I hung up, I felt as if I’d been pumped full of helium, giddy with it, rising right out of my seat, but then the slow seepage of guilt, dread, and fear started in, drip by drip, like bile leaking out of a liver gone bad. A delivery truck pulled up next to me. Rain beat at the windshield. Two cholos rolled out of the apartment next to Violeta’s, the green block tattoos they wore like collars glistening in the light trapped beneath the clouds. I had the whole day in front of me. I could do anything. Go anywhere. An hour ago it was sleep I wanted. Now it was something else. A pulse of excitement, the promise of illicit thrills, started up in my stomach. I drove down Ventura Boulevard in the opposite direction from the bulk of the commuters. They were stalled at the lights, a single driver in every car, the cars themselves like steel shells they’d extruded to contain their resentments. They were going to work. I wasn’t. After a mile or so, I came to a diner where I sometimes took Clover for breakfast on Sundays, especially if we’d been out the night before, and I pulled into the lot. I bought a newspaper from the machine out front and then I took a copy of the free paper, too, and went on in and settled into a seat by the window. The smell of fresh coffee and home fries made me realize how hungry I was, and I ordered the kind of breakfast I used to have in college after a night of excess—salt, sugar, and grease, in quantity—just to open my pores. While I ate, I made my way through both newspapers, item by item, because this was luxurious, kingly, the tables clean, the place brightly lit and warm to the point of steaming with the bustle of the waitresses and the rain at the windows like a plague. Nobody said a word to me. Nobody even looked at me, except for my waitress. She was middle-aged, wedded to her uniform, her hair dyed shoe-polish black. “More coffee?” she asked for the third or fourth time, no hurry, no rush, just an invitation. I glanced at my watch and couldn’t believe it was only nine-thirty. That was the thing about taking a day off, the way the time reconfigured itself and how you couldn’t help comparing any given moment with what you’d be doing at work. At work, I wouldn’t have eaten yet, wouldn’t even have reached the coffee break—Jim, stop! No, no!—and my eyelids would have weighed a hundred tons each. I thought about driving down to the ocean to see what the surf looked like under the pressure of the storm. Not that I was thinking about surfing; I hadn’t been surfing more than a handful of times since the baby was born. It was just that the day was mine and I wanted to fill it. I wound my way down through Topanga Canyon, the commuter traffic dissipated by now, and I saw how the creek was tearing at the banks and there were two or three places where there was water on the road and the soft red dough of the mud was like something that had come out of a mold. There was nobody on the beach but me. I walked along the shore till the brim of my baseball cap was sodden and the legs of my jeans as heavy as if they’d just come out of the washing machine. I drove back up the canyon, the rain a little worse, the flooding more obvious and intense, but it wasn’t anything, really, not like when the road washes out and you could be driving one minute and the next flailing for your life in a chute full of piss-yellow water. There was a movie at two I was interested in, but since it was only just past twelve and I couldn’t even think about lunch after the Lumberjack’s Special I’d had for breakfast, I went back to the condo, parked the car, and walked down the street, getting wetter and wetter and enjoying every minute of it, to a bar I knew. The door swung in on a denseness of purpose, eight or nine losers lined up on their barstools, the smell of cut lime and the sunshine of rum, a straight shot of Lysol from the toilet in back. It was warm. Dark. A college basketball game hovered on the screen over the cash register. “A beer,” I said, and then clarified by specifying the brand. I didn’t get drunk. That would have been usual, and I didn’t want to be usual. But I did have three beers before I went to the movie and after the movie I felt a vacancy in my lower reaches where lunch should have been and so I stopped at a fast-food place on my way to pick up the baby. They got my order wrong. The employees were glassy-eyed. The manager was nowhere to be seen. And I was thirty-five minutes late for the baby. Still, I’d had my day, and when I got home I fed her her Cream of Wheat, opened a beer, put on some music, and began chopping garlic and dicing onions with the notion of concocting a marinara sauce for my wife when she got home. Thoughts of the following morning, of Radko and what he might think or expect, never entered my mind. Not yet. All was well, the baby in her crib batting at the little figurines in the mobile over her head (the figurines personally welded to the wires by Clover’s hippie mother so that there wasn’t the faintest possibility the baby could get them lodged in her throat), the sauce bubbling on the stove, the rain tapping at the windows. I heard Clover’s key in the door. And then she was there with her hair kinked from the rain and smelling like everything I’d ever wanted and she was asking me how my day had gone and I said, “Fine, just fine.” Then it was morning again and the same scene played itself out—Clover stutter-stepping to the bathroom, the baby mewling, rain whispering under the soundtrack—and I began to calculate all over again. It was Thursday. Two more days to the weekend. If I could make it to the weekend, I was sure that by Monday, Monday at the latest, whatever was wrong with me, this feeling of anger, hopelessness, turmoil, whatever it was, would be gone. Just a break. I just needed a break, that was all. And Radko. The thought of facing him, of the way he would mold the drooping doglike folds of his Slavic flesh around the suspicion in his eyes while he told me he was docking me a day’s pay and expected me to work overtime to make up for yesterday, was too much to hold on to. Not in bed. Not now. But then the toilet flushed, the baby squalled and the overhead light went on. “It’s six-fifteen,” my wife informed me. The evening before, after we’d dined on my marinara sauce with porcini mushrooms and Italian-style turkey sausage over penne pasta, in the interval before she put the baby down for the night, while the dishwasher murmured from the kitchen and we lingered over a second glass of Chianti, she’d told me she was thinking of changing her name. “What do you mean?” I was more surprised than angry, but I felt the anger come up in me all the same. “My name’s not good enough for you? Like it was my idea to get married in the first place?” She had the baby in her lap. The baby was in high spirits, grinning her toothless baby grin and snatching for the wineglass my wife held just out of reach. “You don’t have to get nasty about it. It’s not your name that’s the problem—it’s mine. My first name.” “What’s wrong with Clover?” I said and even as I said it I knew how stupid I sounded. She was Clover. I could close my eyes and she was Clover, go to Africa and bury myself in mud and she’d still be Clover. Fine. But the name was a hippie affectation of her hippie parents—they were glassblowers, with their own gallery—and it was insipid, I knew that, down deep. They might as well have named her Dandelion or Fescue. “I was thinking of changing it to Cloris.” She was watching me, her eyes defiant and insecure at the same time. “Legally.” I saw her point—she was a legal secretary, studying to be a lawyer, and Clover just wouldn’t fly on a masthead—but I hated the name, hated the idea. “Sounds like something you clean the toilet with,” I said. She shot me a look of hate. “With bleach in it,” I said. “With real scrubbing power.” But now, though I felt as if I’d been crucified and wanted only to sleep for a week, till Monday, just till Monday, I sat up before she could lift the baby from the crib and drop her on the bed, and in the next moment I was in the bathroom myself, staring into the mirror. As soon as she left I was going to call Radko. I would tell him the baby was worse, that we’d been in the hospital all night. And if he asked what was wrong with her I wasn’t going to equivocate because equivocation—any kind of uncertainty, a tremor in the voice, a tonal shift, playacting—is the surest lie detector. Leukemia, that was what I was going to tell him. “The baby has leukemia.” This time, I waited till I was settled into the booth at the diner and the waitress with the shoe-polish hair had got done fussing over me, the light of recognition in her eyes and a maternal smile creasing her lips—I was a regular, two days in a row—before I called in. And when Radko answered, the deepest consonant-battering pall of suspicion lodged somewhere between his glottis and adenoids, I couldn’t help myself. “The baby,” I said, holding it a beat, “the baby . . . passed.” Another beat. The waitress poured. Radko breathed fumes through the receiver. “Last night. At—at 4 A.M. There was nothing they could do.” “Past?” his voice came back at me. “What is this past?” “The baby’s dead,” I said. “She died.” And then, in my grief, I broke the connection. I spent the entire day at the movies. The first show was at eleven, and I killed time pacing round the parking lot at the mall till they opened the doors, and then I was inside, in the anonymous dark. Images flashed by on the screen. The sound was amplified to a killing roar. The smell of melted butter hung over everything. When the lights came up, I ducked into the men’s room and then slipped into the next theatre and the next one after that. I emerged at quarter of four, feeling shaky. I told myself I was hungry, that was all, but when I wandered into the food court and saw what they had arrayed there, from chapatis to corn dogs to twice-cooked machaca, pretzels and Szechuan eggplant in a sauce of liquid fire, I pushed through the door of a bar instead. It was one of those oversanitized, too bright, echoing spaces the mall designers, in their wisdom, stuck in the back of their plastic restaurants so that the average moron, accompanying his wife on a shopping expedition, wouldn’t have to kill himself. There was a basketball game on the three TVs encircling the bar. The waitresses were teen-agers, the bartender had acne. I was the only customer and I knew I had to pick up the baby, that was a given, that was a fact of life, but I ordered a Captain-and-Coke, just for the smell of it. I was on my second, or maybe my third, when the place began to fill up and I realized, with a stab of happiness, that this must be an after-work hangout, with a prescribed happy hour and some sort of comestibles served up gratis on a heated tray. I’d been wrapped up in my grief, a grief that was all for myself, for the fact that I was twenty-six years old and going nowhere, with a baby to take care of and a wife in the process of flogging a law degree and changing her name because she wasn’t who she used to be, and now suddenly I’d come awake. There were women everywhere, women my age and older, leaning into the bar with their earrings swaying, lined up at the door, sitting at tables, legs crossed, feet tapping rhythmically to the canned music. Me? I had to pick up the baby. I checked my watch and saw that I was already late, late for the second day running, but I was hungry all of a sudden and I thought I’d just maybe have a couple of the taquitos everybody else was shoving into their mouths while I finished my drink, and then I’d get in the car, take the back streets to Violeta’s and be home just before my wife and see if we could get another meal out of the marinara sauce. With porcini mushrooms. And turkey sausage. That was when I felt a pressure on my arm, my left arm, and I lifted my chin to glance over my shoulder into the face of Joel Chinowski, who occupied the bay next to mine at Iron House Productions. At first, I didn’t recognize him—one of those tricks of the mind, the inebriated mind, especially, in which you can’t place people out of context, though you know them absolutely. “Joel,” I said. He was shaking his head, very slowly, as if he were tolling a bell, as if his eyes were the clappers and his skull the ringing shell of it. He had a big head, huge—he was big all around, one of those people who aren’t obese, or not exactly, but just overgrown to the extent that his clothes seemed inflated, his pants, his jacket, even his socks. He was wearing a tie—the only one of the seventy-six employees at Iron House to dress in shirt and tie—and it looked like a toy trailing away from his supersized collar. “Shit, man,” he said, squeezing tighter. “Shit.” “Yeah,” I said, and my head was tolling, too. I felt caught out. Felt like the very essence he was naming—like shit, that is. “We all heard,” he said. He removed his hand from my arm, and peered into his palm as if trying to divine what to say next. “It sucks,” he said. “It really sucks.” “Yeah,” I said. And then, though his expression never changed, he seemed to brighten around the eyes for just an instant. “Hey,” he said, “can I buy you a drink? I mean, to drown the sorrow—I mean, that’s what you’re doing, right? And I don’t blame you. Not at all. If it was me . . .” He let the thought trail off. There was a girl two stools down from me, her hair pulled up in a long trailing ponytail, and she was wearing a jumper over a little black skirt and red leggings. She glanced up at me, two green swimming eyes above a pair of lips pursed at the straw of her drink. “Or maybe,” Joel said, “you’d rather be alone?” I dragged my eyes away from the girl. “The truth is,” I said, “I mean, I really appreciate it, but like, I’m meeting Clover at the—well, the funeral parlor. You know, to make the arrangements? And it’s—I just stopped in for a drink, that’s all.” “Oh, man”—Joel was practically erupting from his shoes, his face drawn down like a curtain and every blood vessel in his eyes gone to waste—“I understand. I understand completely.” On the way out the door, I flipped open my cell and dialled Violeta to tell her my wife would be picking up the baby tonight because I was working late, and then I left a message to the same effect at my wife’s law office. Then I went looking for a bar where I could find something to eat and maybe one last drink before I went home to lie some more. The next day—Friday—I didn’t even bother to call in, but I was feeling marginally better. I had a mild hangover, my head still clanging dully and my stomach shrivelled up around a little nugget of nothing, so that after I dropped the baby off I wasn’t able to take anything more than dry toast and black coffee at the diner that was fast becoming my second home, and yet the force of the lie, the enormity of it, was behind me, and here, outside the windows, the sun was shining for the first time in days. I’d been listening to the surf report in the car on the way over—we were getting six-foot swells as a result of the storm—and after breakfast I dug out my wetsuit and my board and let the Pacific roll on under me until I forgot everything in the world but the taste of salt and the smell of the breeze and the weird, strangled cries of the gulls. I was home by three and I vacuumed, washed the dishes, scrubbed the counters. I was twenty minutes early to pick up Xana and while dinner was cooking—meat loaf with baked potatoes and asparagus vinaigrette—I took her to the park and listened to her screech with baby joy as I held her in my lap and rocked higher and higher on the swings. When Clover came home she was too tired to fight and she accepted the meat loaf and the wine I’d picked out as the peace offerings they were and after the baby was asleep we listened to music, smoked a joint, and made love in a slow deep plunge that was like paddling out on a wave of flesh for what seemed like hours. We took a drive up the coast on Saturday, and on Sunday afternoon we went over to Tank’s for lunch and saw how sad his apartment was with its brick-and-board bookcases, the faded band posters curling away from the walls, and the deep-pile rug that was once off-white and was now just plain dirty. In the car on the way home, Clover said she never could understand people who treated their dogs as if they’d given birth to them, and I shook my head—tolling it, but easily now, thankfully—and said I couldn’t agree more. I woke on Monday before the alarm went off and I was showered and shaved and in the car before my wife left for work, and when I pulled up in front of the long windowless gray stucco edifice that was home to Iron House Productions I was so early that Radko himself hadn’t shown up yet. I took off my watch and stuffed it deep in my pocket, letting the monotony of work drag me down till I was conscious of nothing, not my fingers at the keyboard or the image on the screen or the dialogue I was capturing frame by frozen frame. Log and capture, that was what I was doing, hour, minute, second, frame, transcribing everything that had been shot so the film’s editor could locate what he wanted without going through the soul-crushing drudgery of transcribing it himself. At some point—it might have been an hour in, two hours, I don’t know—I became aware of the intense gland-clenching aroma of vanilla chai, hot, spiced, blended, the very thing I wanted, caffeine to drive a stake into the boredom. Vanilla chai, available at the coffeehouse down the street, but a real indulgence because of the cost—usually I made do with the acidic black coffee and artificial creamer Radko provided on a stained cart set up against the back wall. I lifted my head to search out the aroma and there was Jeannie, the secretary from the front office, holding a paperboard Venti in one hand and a platter of what turned out to be homemade cannoli in the other. “What?” I said, thinking Radko had sent her to tell me he wanted to see me in his office. But she didn’t say anything for a long excruciating moment, her eyes full, her face white as a mask, and then she shoved the chai into my hand and set the tray down on the desk beside me. “I’m so sorry for your loss,” she said, and then I felt her hand on my shoulder and she was dipping forward in a typhoon of perfume to plant a kind of sobbing kiss just beneath my left ear. What can I say? I felt bad about the whole business, felt low and despicable, but I cracked the plastic lid and sipped the chai, and, as if I weren’t even conscious of what my fingers were doing, I started in on the cannoli, one by one, till the platter was bare. I was just sucking the last of the sugar from my fingertips when Steve Bartholomew, a guy of thirty or so who worked in special effects, a guy I barely knew, came up to me and without a word pressed a tin of butter cookies into my hand. “Hey,” I said, addressing his retreating shoulders, “thanks, man, thanks. It means a lot.” By noon, my desk was piled high with foodstuffs—sandwiches, sweets, a dry salami as long as my forearm—and at least a dozen gray-jacketed sympathy cards inscribed by one co-worker or another. Just before quitting time, Radko appeared, his face like an old paper bag left out in the rain. Joel Chinowski stood beside him. I glanced up at them out of wary eyes and in a flash of intuition I realized how much I hated them both, how much I wanted to jump to my feet like a cornered animal and punch them out, both of them. Radko said nothing. He just stood there gazing down at me and then, after a moment, he pressed one hand to my shoulder in Slavic commiseration, turned and walked away. “Listen, man,” Joel said, shifting his eyes away from mine, “we all wanted to . . . Well, we got together, me and some of the others, and I know it isn’t much, but—” I saw now that he was holding a plastic grocery sack in one hand. I knew what was in the sack. I tried to wave it away, but he thrust it at me and I had no choice but to take it. Later, when I got home and the baby was in her high chair smearing her face with Cream of Wheat and I’d slipped the microwave pizza out of its box, I sat down and emptied the contents of the bag on the kitchen table. It was mainly cash, but there were maybe half a dozen checks, too. I saw one for twenty-five dollars, another for fifty. The baby made one of those expressions of baby joy, sharp and sudden, as if the impulse had seized her before she could process it. It was five-thirty and the sinking sun was pasted over the windows. I sifted the bills through my hands, tens and twenties, fives—a lot of fives—and surprisingly few singles, thinking how generous my co-workers were, how good and real and giving, but I was grieving all the same, grieving beyond any measure I could ever have imagined or contained. I was in the process of counting the money, thinking I’d give it back—or donate it to some charity—when I heard Clover’s key in the lock and I swept it all into the bag and tucked that bag in the deep recess under the sink where the water persistently dripped from the crusted-over pipe and an old sponge smelled of mold. The minute my wife left the next morning, I called Radko and told him I wasn’t coming in. He didn’t ask for an excuse, but I gave him one anyway. “The funeral,” I said. “It’s at 11 A.M., just family, very private. My wife’s taking it hard.” He made some sort of noise on the other end of the line—a sigh, a belch, the faintest cracking of his knuckles. “Tomorrow,” I said. “I’ll be in tomorrow without fail.” And then the day began, but it wasn’t like that first day, not at all. I didn’t feel giddy, didn’t feel liberated or even relieved—all I felt was regret and the cold drop of doom. I deposited the baby at Violeta’s and went straight home to bed, wanting only to clear some space for myself and think things out. There was no way I could return the money—I wasn’t that good an actor—and I couldn’t spend it either, even to make up for the loss of pay. That would have been low, lower than anything I’d ever done in my life. I thought of Clover then, how furious she’d be when she found out my pay had been docked. If it had been docked. There was still a chance Radko would let it slide, given the magnitude of my tragedy, a chance that he was human after all. A good chance. No, the only thing to do was bury the money someplace. I’d burn the checks first—I couldn’t run the risk of anybody uncovering them; that would really be a disaster, magnitude 10. Nobody could explain that, though various scenarios were already suggesting themselves: a thief had stolen the bag from the glove box of my car; it had blown out the window on the freeway while I was on my way to the mortuary; the neighbor’s pet macaque had come in through the open bathroom window and made off with it, wadding the checks and chewing up the money till it was just monkey feces now. Monkey feces. I found myself repeating the phrase over and over, as if it were a prayer. It was a little past nine when I had my first beer. And for the rest of the day, till I had to pick up the baby, I never moved from the couch. I tried to gauge Clover’s mood when she came in the door, dressed like a lawyer in her gray herringbone jacket and matching skirt, her hair pinned up and her eyes in traffic mode. The place was a mess. I hadn’t picked up. Hadn’t put on anything for dinner. The baby, asleep in her molded-plastic carrier, gave off a stink you could smell all the way across the room. I looked up from my beer. “I thought we’d go out tonight,” I told her. “My treat.” And then, because I couldn’t help myself, I added, “I’m just trashed from work.” She wasn’t happy about it, I could see that, lawyerly calculations transfiguring her face as she weighed the hassle of running up the boulevard with her husband and baby in tow before leaving for her eight-o’clock class. I watched her reach back to remove the clip from her hair and shake it loose. “I guess,” she said. “But no Italian.” She’d set down her briefcase in the entry hall, where the phone was, and she put a thumb in her mouth a moment—a habit of hers; she was a fingernail chewer—before she said, “What about Chinese?” She shrugged before I could. “As long as it’s quick, I don’t really care.” I was about to agree with her, about to rise up out of the grip of the couch and do my best to minister to the baby and get us out the door, en famille, when the phone rang. Clover answered. “Hello? Uh-huh, this is she.” My right knee cracked as I stood, a reminder of the torn A.C.L. I’d suffered in high school when I’d made the slightest miscalculation regarding the drop off the back side of a boulder while snowboarding at Mammoth. “Jeannie?” my wife said, her eyebrows lifting in two perfect arches. “Yes,” she said. “Yes, Jeannie—how are you?” There was a long pause as Jeannie said what she was going to say and then my wife said, “Oh, no, there must be some mistake. The baby’s fine. She’s right here in her carrier, fast asleep.” And her voice grew heartier, surprise and confusion riding the cusp of the joke: “She could use a fresh diaper judging from the smell of her, but that’s her daddy’s job, or it’s going to be if we ever expect to—” And then there was another pause, longer this time, and I watched my wife’s gaze shift from the form of the sleeping baby in her terry-cloth jumpsuit to where I was standing, beside the couch. Her eyes, in soft focus for the baby, hardened as they climbed from my shoetops to my face, where they rested like two balls of granite. Anybody would have melted under that kind of scrutiny. My wife, the lawyer. It would be a long night, I could see that. There would be no Chinese, no food of any kind. I found myself denying everything, telling her how scattered Jeannie was and how she must have mixed us up with the Lovetts—she remembered Tony Lovett, worked in SFX? Yeah, they’d just lost their baby, a little girl, yeah. No, it was awful. I told her we’d all chipped in—“Me, too, I put in a fifty, and that was excessive, I know it, but I felt I had to, you know? Because of the baby. Because what if it happened to us?” I went on in that vein till I ran out of breath, and when I tried to be nonchalant about it and go to the refrigerator for another beer she blocked my way. “Where’s the money?” she said. We were two feet apart. I didn’t like the look she was giving me because it spared nothing. I could have kept it up, could have said, “What money?,” injecting all the trampled innocence I could summon into my voice, but I didn’t. I merely bent to the cabinet under the sink, extracted the white plastic bag and handed it to her. She took it as if it were the bleeding corpse of our daughter—or no, of our relationship that went back three years, to the time when I was up onstage, gilded in light, my message elided under the hammer of the guitar and the thump of the bass. She didn’t look inside. She just held my eyes. “You know this is fraud, don’t you?” she said. “A felony offense. They can lock you up for this. You know that.” She wasn’t asking a question, she was making a demand. And I wasn’t about to answer her because the baby was dead and she was dead, too. Radko was dead, Jeannie the secretary whose last name I didn’t even know, and Joel Chinowski, and all the rest of them. Very slowly, button by button, I did up my shirt. Then I set my empty beer bottle down on the counter as carefully as if it were full to the lip and went on out the door and into the night, looking for somebody I could tell all about it.
The House Behind a Weeping Cherry When my roommate moved out, I was worried that Mrs. Chen might increase the rent. I had been paying three hundred dollars a month for half a room. If my landlady demanded more, I would have to look for another place. I liked this Colonial house, before which stood an immense weeping cherry tree that attracted birds and gave a bucolic impression, though it was already early summer and the blossoming season had passed. In spite of its peaceful aura, the house was close to downtown Flushing, and you could hear the burr of traffic on Main Street. It was also near where I worked, convenient for everything. Mrs. Chen took up the first floor; my room was upstairs, where three young women also lived. My former roommate, an apprentice to a carpenter, had left because the three female tenants were prostitutes and often received clients in the house. To be honest, I didn’t feel comfortable about that, either, but I had grown used to the women, and especially liked Huong, a twiggy Vietnamese in her early twenties, whose parents had migrated to Cholon from China three decades ago, when Saigon fell and the real-estate market there became affordable. Also, I was new to New York, and at times it was miserable to be alone. As I expected, Mrs. Chen, a stocky woman with a big mole beside her nose, came up that evening. She sat down, patted her dyed hair, and said, “Wanren, now that you’re using this room for yourself we should talk about the rent.” “I’m afraid I can’t pay more than I’m paying. You can get another tenant.” I waved at the empty bed behind her. “Well, I could put out an ad for that, but I have something else in mind.” She leaned toward me. I did not respond. I disliked this Fujianese woman and felt that she was too smooth. She went on, “Do you have a driver’s license?” “I have one from North Carolina, but I’m not sure if I can drive here.” I had spent some time delivering produce for a vegetable farm outside Charlotte. “That shouldn’t be a problem. You can change it to a New York license—easy to do. The motor-registration office is very close.” She smiled, revealing her gappy teeth. “What do you want me to do?” I asked. “I won’t charge you extra rent. You can have this room to yourself, but I hope you can drive the girls around in the evenings when they have outcalls.” I tried to stay calm and answered, “Is that legal?” She chuckled. “Don’t be scared. The girls go to hotels and private homes. No cops will burst in on them—it’s very safe.” “How many times a week am I supposed to drive?” “Not very often—four or five times, tops.” “Do you pay for the girls’ meals, too?” “Yes, everything but long-distance phone calls.” At last I understood why my female housemates always ate together. “All right, I can drive them around in the evenings, but only in Queens and Brooklyn. Manhattan’s too scary.” She gave a short laugh. “No problem. I don’t let them go that far.” “By the way, can I eat with them when I work?” “Sure thing. I’ll tell them.” “Thank you.” I paused. “You know, sometimes it can be lonely here.” A sly smile crossed her face. “You can spend time with the girls—they might give you a discount.” I didn’t know how to respond to that. Before leaving, she made it clear that I must keep everything confidential, and that she had asked me to help mainly because she wanted the women to feel safe when they went out. Johns would treat a prostitute better if they knew she had a chauffeur at her disposal. I had seen the black Audi in the garage. I hadn’t driven for months and really missed the feeling of freedom that an automobile used to give me, as though I could soar in the air if there weren’t cars in front of me on the highway. So to some degree I looked forward to driving the women around. After my landlady left, I stood before the only window in my room, which faced the street. The crown of the weeping cherry, motionless and more than forty feet high, was a feathery mass against a sky strewn with stars. In the distance, a plane, a cluster of lights, was sailing noiselessly east through a few rags of clouds. I knew Mrs. Chen’s offer would implicate me in something illicit, but I wasn’t worried. By now I was accustomed to living among the prostitutes. When I first figured out what they did for a living, I wanted to move out right away, like my former roommate, but I couldn’t find a place close to my job—I was a presser at a garment factory downtown. Also, having come to know the women a little better, I realized that they were not “bloodsuckers,” as people assumed. Like everyone else, they had to work to survive. I, too, was selling myself. Every weekday I stood at the table ironing the joining lines of cut pieces, the waists of pants, the collars and cuffs of shirts. It was sultry in the basement, where the air-conditioner was at least ten years old, inefficient, and whined loudly. We were making quality clothes for stores in Manhattan, and every item had to be neatly ironed before being wrapped up for shipment. Who would have thought I’d land in a sweatshop! My parents’ last letter again urged me to go to college. Try as I might, I couldn’t pass the TOEFL. My younger brother had just been admitted to a veterinary school, and I’d sent back three thousand dollars for his tuition. If only I had learned a trade before coming to the United States, like plumbing, or home renovation, or Qigong. Any job would have been better than ironing clothes. The brothel had no name. I had once come across a newspaper ad in our kitchen that read, “Angels of Your Dream—Asian Girls from Various Countries with Gorgeous Figures and Tender Hearts.” It gave no contact information other than a phone number, which was the one shared by the women. I almost laughed out loud at the ad, because the three of them were all Chinese. Of course, Huong could pass for Vietnamese, speaking the language as her native tongue, and Nana could pretend to be Malaysian or Singaporean, since she came from Hong Kong and spoke accented Mandarin. But Lili, a tall college student from Shanghai, looked Chinese through and through, even though she spoke English well. She was the one who handled the phone calls. Unlike most underground brothels, this one didn’t change its women regularly. I guessed Lili would return to school when the summer was over, and then Mrs. Chen might hire another twenty-something who was fluent in English. I wasn’t sure if my landlady was the real boss, however. The women mentioned someone called the Croc. I had never met the man, but I learned from them that he owned some shady businesses in the area and was also a coyote. I liked having dinner with my housemates, usually around 8 P.M. Quite late, but that was fine with me, since most days I didn’t leave the factory until seven. Often, I was not the only man dining with them; they offered free dinner to their clients as well. The meals were homely fare—plain rice and two or three dishes, one of which was meat while the others were vegetables. Occasionally, the women prepared seafood in place of a vegetable dish. There would also be a soup, usually made of spinach or watercress or bamboo shoots mixed with dried shrimp, tofu, or egg drops, or even rice crust. The women would take turns cooking, one person each day, unless that person was occupied with a john and another had to fill in for her in the kitchen. Some of their clients enjoyed the atmosphere at the table and stayed for hours chatting. Whenever there was another man at dinner, I would remain quiet. I’d finish eating quickly and return to my room, where I’d watch TV or play solitaire or leaf through a magazine. But when I was the only man I’d stay as long as I could. The women seemed to like having me around and would even tease me. Huong was not only the prettiest but also the best cook, depending less on sauces, whereas Lili used too much sugar and Nana deep-fried almost everything. One day, Huong braised a large pomfret and stir-fried slivers of potato and celery, both favorites of mine, though I hadn’t told her so. None of them had a client that evening, so dinner started at seven-thirty and we ate slowly. Nana told us, “I had a guy this afternoon who said his girlfriend had just jilted him. He cried in my room—it was awful. I didn’t know how to comfort him. I just said, ‘You have to let it go.’ ” “Did he pay you?” Lili asked. “Uh-huh, he gave me eighty dollars without doing anything with me.” “Well, I wonder why he came here,” I said. “Maybe just to have someone to talk to,” Huong said. “I don’t know,” Lili pitched in. “Maybe to find out if he could still do it with another girl. Men are weak creatures and cannot survive without having a woman around.” I had never liked Lili, who always spoke to me with her eyes half closed, as if reluctant to pay me more mind. I said, “There’re a lot of bachelors out there. Most of them are getting on all right.” “Like yourself,” Nana broke in, giggling. “I’m single because I’m too poor to get married,” I confessed. “Do you have a girlfriend?” Huong asked. “Not yet.” “So would you go with me if I wasn’t a sex worker?” Nana asked, her oval face expressionless. “Your taste is too expensive for me,” I said, laughing, though it was only partly a joke. They all laughed. Nana continued, “Come on, I’ll give you a big discount.” “I can’t take advantage of you like that,” I said. That cracked them up again. I meant what I said, though. If I slept with one of them, I might have to do the same with the other two, spending a fortune. Then it would be hard to keep a balanced relationship with all of them. Besides, I wasn’t sure if they were all clean and healthy. Even if they were, I disliked Lili. It was better to remain unattached. Then the phone rang, and Lili picked it up. “Hello, honey, how may I help you?” she intoned in a sugary voice. I resumed eating as if uninterested, but listened carefully. Lili told the caller, “We have many Asian girls here. What kind of girl are you interested in, sir? . . . Yes, we do. . . . Of course pretty, every one of them is pretty. . . . At least one-twenty. . . . Well, that’ll be between you and the girl, sir. . . . Wait, let me write it down.” She grabbed a pen and began jotting down the address. Meanwhile, Huong and Nana finished their dinner, knowing that one of them would have business to take care of. Lili said into the phone, “Got it. She’ll be there within half an hour. . . . Absolutely, sir. Thank you, bye-bye.” Hanging up, Lili turned around and said, “Huong, you should go. The man’s name is Mr. Han. He wants a Thai girl.” “I can’t speak Thai!” “Speak some Vietnamese to show him that you’re not from China. He won’t be able to tell the difference anyway, as long as you know how to charm him.” Huong went to her room to brush her teeth and put on some makeup, and Lili handed me a scrap of paper with our destination—a room at the Double Luck Hotel. I knew how to get there, having driven the women there several times. I clapped on my brown duckbill cap, which kept my eyes hidden. A few minutes later, Huong came out, ready to go. “Wow, you’re beautiful!” I said, quite amazed. “Am I?” She lifted her arms while turning a little to let me view her from the side. Her waist was concave at the small of her back. “Like a little fox,” I said. She slapped me on the arm. She was wearing a beige miniskirt and had applied lipstick, but she seemed more like a teen-ager who had messed up her makeup, so that her face appeared older than her petite body, which was curvaceous but tight. As she walked with her denim purse hanging from her thin shoulder, her legs and hips swayed a little, as if she were about to leap. Together, we went down to the garage. The hotel was on a busy street, and two buses stood at the front entrance, one still puffing exhaust out of the rear. Flocks of tourists were collecting their baggage while a guide shouted to gather them for check-in. I found a quiet spot around the corner and let Huong out. “Call if you need me to come up,” I told her. “I’ll be waiting for you here.” “Thanks.” She closed the door and strolled away, her gait as casual as if she were a guest at the hotel. My heart sagged as I lay back in the seat to take a nap. She was young and beautiful and shouldn’t have been selling herself like this. For just a hundred and twenty dollars, she would lie with any man in there. For sure she had to send her parents money regularly, but there were other ways of making a living. She wasn’t stupid, and she could have learned a respectable trade. She had finished high school in Vietnam and could speak some English by now. But, from what I had gathered at the dining table, she was an illegal alien, whereas Nana had a Canadian green card and Lili held a student visa. They could make some money, definitely, but nothing like what the newspaper ads promised for the “massage” profession—“more than $20,000 a month.” Usually, the women charged a john a hundred at the house, but they had to give Mrs. Chen forty of that. Sometimes a client would give them a tip, between twenty and sixty dollars. Nana was rawboned and on the homely side, with a slightly hollowed mouth, so her price for incalls was eighty dollars, unless the men were older and had more cash to throw around. On a good day, they could each make more than two hundred after paying our landlady. Now and then, an obnoxious client would not only refuse to tip them but also walk off with their belongings. Lili had once lost a pair of silver bracelets, stolen by a man who claimed to be from Shanghai, like her. I had asked Huong about visiting hotels and private homes. She said she could make thirty or forty dollars more per client than she did at the house, though there were more risks involved. One night, I had driven her to see a john at the International Inn, but on arrival she had found two men in the suite. They dragged her in before she could back out, and worked her so hard that she felt as if her legs no longer belonged to her. She had to take off her high heels to walk back to the car. She wept all the way home. She was sick the next day, but she wouldn’t go to a clinic, as she had no health insurance. I suggested she see Dr. Liang at Sun Garden Herbs. She paid ten dollars for a diagnosis fee. The old man put his fingers on her wrists to feel her pulse and said her kidneys were weak. Also, there was too much angry fire in her liver. He prescribed a bunch of herbs, which helped her recover. After that, I offered to accompany her into hotels and wait in the hallway, but she wouldn’t let me, saying it would be too conspicuous. I couldn’t drift off to sleep in the car, thinking about Huong. What kind of man was she in there with? Was she all right? Did she like it if the john was young and handsome? Was she acting like a slut? Sometimes at night I couldn’t sleep, and would fantasize about her, but when I was fully awake I’d keep my distance. I knew I was just a presser in a sweatshop, gangly and nondescript, and might never be able to date a nice chick, but it would be shameful to have an easy woman as a girlfriend. At most, I could be a good friend to Huong. Tonight she returned in less than fifty minutes, which was unusual. I was pleased to see her back, though her eyes were watery and shed a hard light. She slid into the passenger seat, and I pulled away from the curb. “How was it? No trouble?” I asked, afraid that the client might have discovered she wasn’t Thai. “Rotten luck again,” she said. “What happened?” “The man’s an official from Beijing. He wanted me to write him a receipt, like I’d sold him medicines or something. Where could I get a receipt for him? Nuts!” “Did he haggle with you?” “No, but he bit my nipple so hard it must be bleeding. I’ll have to put iodine on it once we’re home. And now my clients will think I’m diseased.” I sighed, not knowing how to respond. As we were crossing Thirtyseventh Avenue, I said, “Can’t you do something less dangerous for a living?” “You find a me a job and I’ll take it.” That silenced me. She slipped a ten into my hand, which was the unspoken rule worked out by the women—every time I drove them, they tipped the same amount. Actually, only Huong and Nana did, because Lili didn’t take outcalls, since she dealt with the phone calls and the johns who came to the house. I thanked Huong and put the money in my shirt pocket. The three women often compared notes on their clients. The best type, they all agreed, was old men. Older johns were usually less aggressive and easier to entertain. Many of them couldn’t get hard and spent more time cracking dirty jokes than doing real business. Another strong point those old goats shared was that they could be more generous, having more spare cash in their “little coffers,” unbeknownst to their wives. The older ones seldom ate dinner at the house. Some of them were friends of Mrs. Chen’s, in which case the women would treat them like special guests, and even give them Viagra. I was surprised when I heard that. “Viagra?” I asked Lili about Mr. Tong, a bent man in his mid-sixties. “Aren’t you afraid he might have a heart attack?” “Only half a pill, no big deal. Mrs. Chen said he always needs extra help.” “He pays you well besides,” Nana said. “Lili, did he give you two hundred today?” “One-eighty,” Lili replied. “Doesn’t he have a wife?” I asked. “Not anymore. She died long ago,” Huong said, cracking a spiced peanut. “Why wouldn’t he marry again?” I went on. “At least he should find someone who can take care of him.” Nana let out a sigh. “Money’s the root of the trouble. He’s so rich he can’t find a trustworthy wife.” Huong added, “I’ve heard he owns a couple of restaurants.” “Also your sweatshop, Wanren.” Nana looked me straight in the face, as if forcing down a laugh. “No, he doesn’t,” I shot back. “My factory is owned by a girl from Hong Kong named Nini.” That had them in stitches. Actually, the owner of my garment shop was a Taiwanese man who taught college before coming to America. Many of the johns were married men who were reluctant to spend time and money on a mistress for fear of scandals and complications that might destroy their marriage. So they tried to keep up appearances while indulging in a sensual life on the sly. But there were always exceptions. One day, Huong said a middle-aged client told her that he hadn’t had sex for almost two years because his wife was too ill. Huong advised him to come more often, at least twice a month, so that he could recover his sex life. As he was now, he was totally inadequate. “He’s a good man,” Huong told us. “He couldn’t do anything with me at all, saying he felt guilty about his wife, but he paid me anyway.” “Then he shouldn’t have come to a whorehouse in the first place,” Lili said. I could tell that Huong and Nana didn’t really like Lili, either. She often bitched about misplaced things, and once accused Nana of using her cell phone to call someone in San Francisco. They had a row and didn’t speak to each other for days afterward. The story about the man with a bedridden wife made me think. If I were a policeman, knowing his family situation, would I have arrested him for visiting a prostitute? Probably not. I used to believe that all johns were bad and loose men, but now I could see that some of them were nothing but wrecks with serious personal problems that they didn’t know how to handle. They came here, hoping that a prostitute might help. I was in bed one night when a cry came from Nana’s room. At first, I thought it was just an orgasmic groan she had faked to please a client. Sometimes I was unsettled by the noises the women and the men made, noises that kept me awake and fantasizing. Then Nana screamed, “Get out of here!” I pulled on my pants and ran out of my room. The door of Nana’s room was ajar, and through the gap I saw a paunchy man of around sixty standing by the bed, madly gesticulating at Nana. This was the first time I had seen an older john make trouble. I moved closer but didn’t go in. Mrs. Chen had told me to give the women a hand whenever they needed it. She hadn’t made it explicit, but I’d guessed that she wanted me to provide some protection for them. “I paid you, so I’m staying,” the man barked, and flung up his hand. “You can’t make a night of it. Please go away,” Nana said, her face stamped with annoyance. I went in and asked him, “What’s your problem? Didn’t you already get your time with her?” He squinted at me. His face, red like a monkey’s ass, showed that he was drunk. In fact, the entire room reeked of alcohol. “Who are you?” he grunted. “This is none of your business. I wanna stay here tonight, and nobody can make me change my mind.” I could tell that he thought this was like China, where it’s common for a john to spend the night with a girl if he pays enough. “I’m just a tenant,” I said. “You’ve been kicking up such a racket that I can’t sleep.” “So? Deal with it. I want my money’s worth.” As he was speaking, I glanced at Nana’s bed. Two wet spots stained a pink sheet, and a pair of pillows had been cast aside. On the floor was an overturned cane chair. By now, both Huong and Lili were up, too, but they stayed outside the door, watching. I told the man, “It’s the rule here: you fire your gun and you leave. No girl is supposed to be your bed warmer.” “I paid her for what I want.” “All right, this is not my problem. I’m going to call the police. We simply cannot sleep while you’re rocking the house.” “Oh yeah? Call the cops and see who they’ll haul away first.” He seemed more awake now, his eyes glittering. I pressed on, “All the tenants here will say that you broke in to assault this woman.” I was surprised by what I said, and I saw Huong and Lili avert their eyes. “Cut that shit out! I paid this ho.” He pointed at Nana. “She’s not a whore. Nana, you didn’t invite him here, did you?” “Uh-uh.” She shook her head. I told him, “See, we’re all her witnesses. You’d better get out of here, now.” “I can’t believe this. There’s no good faith in this world anymore—it’s worse than China.” He grabbed his walking stick and lumbered out of the room. The three women laughed and told me that the old goat was a first-time visitor and that they felt lucky to have me living on the same floor. We were in the kitchen now, all wide awake. Nana put on a kettle to boil some water for an herbal tea called Sweet Dreams. I wasn’t pleased by what I had done. “I acted like a pimp, didn’t I?” “No, you did well,” Huong replied. “Thank God we have a man among us,” Lili added. Lili’s words made me uneasy. I’m not one of you, I thought. But afterward I felt they were friendlier than before, and even Lili started speaking to me more often and with her eyes fully open. They’d ask me what I would like for dinner, and cooked fish three or four times a week because I was fond of seafood. My factory provided steamed rice for its workers at lunch, so I just needed to bring something to go with that. Whenever it was Huong’s turn to cook, she would set aside the leftovers in a plastic container for me to take to work the next day. Nana and Lili often joked that Huong treated me as if I were her boyfriend. At first, I felt embarrassed, but little by little I got used to their teasing. One morning in late July, I woke up feeling as if my lungs were on fire. I must have caught the flu, but I had to go to the factory, where a stack of cut pieces was waiting to be ironed. Unlike the sewing women, I couldn’t sit down at the ironing table. The shop provided tea in a samovar, which tasted a little fishy, but I drank one mug after another to soothe my throat and keep my eyes open. As a result, I went to the bathroom more frequently. Some of the floorboards were crooked, and I had to be careful when walking around. By midafternoon, I was sweating all over and my pulse was racing, so I decided to rest on a long bench by the wall, but I tripped and fell before I could reach it. The moment I picked myself up, my foreman, Jimmy Choi, a broad-shouldered fellow of about forty-five, came over and said, “Are you all right, Wanren?” “I’m O.K.,” I mumbled, brushing the dust off my pants. “You look terrible.” “I might be running a fever.” He felt my forehead with a thick, rough hand. “You’d better go home. We’re not busy today, and Danny and Marc can manage without you.” Jimmy drove me back to Mrs. Chen’s in his pickup and told me not to worry about coming to work the next day if I didn’t feel up to it. I said I would try my best to show up. I felt too awful to join my housemates for dinner. Instead, I stayed in bed with my eyes closed, forcing myself not to moan. Still, I couldn’t help moaning through my nose occasionally, which made me feel better. Before dark, Huong came in and put a carton of orange juice and a cup on the nightstand, saying I must drink a lot of liquids to excrete the poison from my body. “What would you like for dinner?” she asked. “I don’t want to eat.” “Come on, you have to eat something to fight the illness.” “I’ll be all right.” I knew she would be busy that evening, because it was Friday. After she left, I drank some orange juice and then lay back and tried to fall asleep. My throat felt slightly better, but the fever was still raging. I regretted not having gone to the herb store earlier to get some ready-made boluses. The room was quiet except for the faint drone of a mosquito. The instant it landed on my cheek, I killed it with a slap. I was miserable and couldn’t help but miss home. Such a feeling hadn’t visited me for a long time—I had always managed to suppress my homesickness so that I could make it through my daily routine. A busy man cannot afford to be nostalgic. But that evening the image of my mother kept coming to mind. She knew a lot of folk remedies and could easily have helped me recover in a day or two, but she would have kept me in bed for a few days longer to insure that I recuperated fully. When I was little, I used to enjoy being sick so that she could fuss over me. I hadn’t seen her for two years now. Oh, how I missed her! As I was dozing off, someone knocked on the door. “Come in,” I said. Huong came in again, this time holding a steaming bowl. “Sit up and eat some noodles,” she told me. “You cooked this for me?” I was amazed that it was wheaten noodles, made from scratch, not the rice noodles we usually ate. She must have guessed that, as a Northerner, I would prefer wheat. “Yes, for you,” she said. “Eat it while it’s hot. It will make you feel better.” I sat up and began eating with chopsticks and a spoon. There were slivers of chives and Napa cabbage in the soup, along with some dried shrimp and three poached eggs. I was touched, and turned my head away so that she wouldn’t see my wet eyes. This was genuine homey food from my province, and I hadn’t tasted anything like it for two years. I wanted to ask her how she had learned to cook noodles like this, but I didn’t say a word; I just kept eating ravenously. Meanwhile, seated on a chair beside my bed, she watched me intently, her eyes shimmering. “Huong, where are you?” Lili cried from the living room. “Here, I’m here.” She got up and left, leaving the door ajar. I strained my ears to listen. Lili said, “A man at the Rainbow Inn wants a girl.” “Wanren’s ill and can’t drive today,” Huong replied. “The place is on Thirty-seventh Avenue, just a few steps away. You’ve been there.” “I don’t want to go tonight.” “What do you mean, you don’t want to go?” “I should stay and take care of Wanren. Can’t Nana go?” “She’s busy with someone.” “Can you do it for me?” “Well,” Lili sighed, “O.K., only this once.” “Thank you.” When Huong came back, I told her, “You shouldn’t spend so much time with me. You have things to do.” “Don’t be silly. Here is some vitamin C and aspirin. Take two of each after the meal.” That night, she checked on me from time to time to make sure I took the pills and drank enough liquids and was fully covered with a thick comforter of hers, so that I could sweat out my flu. Around midnight, I fell asleep, but I had to keep getting up to pee. Huong had left an aluminum cuspidor in my room and told me to use it instead of going to the bathroom, so that I wouldn’t catch cold again. The next morning, my fever had subsided, though I still felt weak, not as steady on my feet as before. I called Jimmy and said I would definitely come to work that day, but I didn’t get there until after ten. Even so, some of my fellow-workers were amazed that I had reappeared so quickly. They must have thought I had caught something more serious, like pneumonia or a venereal disease, and would remain in bed for a week or so. I was glad there was not a lot of work piled up on my ironing table. A week later, some sewers left the factory and we all got busier. There were twenty women at the garment shop, and, with two or three exceptions, they were all married and had children. Most of them were Chinese, though four were Mexican. They could come and go according to their own schedules. That was the main reason they kept their jobs, which paid by the piece, and not very much. Most of them, working full time, made about three hundred dollars a week. Like them, I could keep a flexible schedule as long as I didn’t let work accumulate on my ironing table or miss deadlines. I must admit that our boss, Mr. Fuh, was a decent man, proficient in English and knowledgeable about business management; he even provided health-care benefits for us, which was another reason some of the women worked here. Their husbands were menial workers or small-business owners and couldn’t possibly get health insurance for their families. Like the other two young pressers, Marc and Danny, I didn’t bother about insurance. I was strong and healthy, not yet thirty, and wouldn’t spend three hundred a month on that. We had been getting more orders for women’s garments lately, so I went to work earlier, around seven. But I took long breaks during the day so that I could sit or lie down somewhere to rest my back and legs. Our factory advertised for some sewers to replace the ones we’d lost, and one evening I brought a flyer back to the house. Lili was busy with a client in her room, but at dinner I showed it to Huong and Nana and said I would try to help them get the jobs if they were interested. “How much can a sewer make?” Nana asked. “About three hundred a week,” I said. “My, so little—not for me.” Huong broke in, “Does your boss use people without a work permit?” “There are some illegal workers at the factory. I can put in a word for you.” “If only I could sew!” Her words made my heart leap. I went on, “It’s not that hard to learn. There’re sewing classes downtown. It takes three weeks to graduate.” “And lots of tuition, too,” added Nana. “Not really—three or four hundred dollars,” I said. “I still owe the Croc a big debt, or I would’ve quit selling my flesh long ago,” Huong muttered. Besides smuggling people, the man also operated gambling dens in Queens, one of which had recently got busted. I said no more. For sure, a sewer made much less than a prostitute, but a sewer could live a respectable life. However, I could see Nana’s logic—her work here was more lucrative. Sometimes she made three hundred dollars in a single day. My housemates spent a lot of time watching TV and listening to music when they had no clients, but how long could they continue living like that? Their youth would fade someday. Then what would they do? I remained silent, unsure if I should tell Huong what I thought in Nana’s presence. A slightly overweight white man with wavy hair came out of Lili’s room. He looked angry and muttered to himself, “Cheap Chinese stuff, fucking cheap!” Throwing a fierce glance at us, he turned and left. The women’s clients were mostly Asian, and occasionally one or two Hispanics or blacks. It was rare to see a white john here. Lili came out of her room, sobbing. She collapsed on a chair and covered her face with her long-fingered hands. Huong put a bowl of wontons in front of her, but Lili fell back in her chair, saying, “I can’t eat now.” “What happened?” Nana asked. “Another condom break,” Lili said, gulping. “He got furious and said he might’ve caught some disease from me. He paid me only sixty dollars, saying I used a substandard rubber made in China.” “Was it really Chinese?” I asked her. “I have no clue.” “It might be,” Huong said. “Mrs. Chen always gets stuff from Silver City.” “But that’s a Korean store,” I said. “I feel so awful to be Chinese here, because China always makes cheap products,” Lili said. “China has degraded its people and let me down.” I didn’t know what to say. How could an individual blame a country for her personal trouble? That night, I asked Huong to come outside, and together we talked under the weeping cherry. The stringy branches floated in a cool breeze, while the leaves, like a swarm of arrowheads, flickered in the soft rays cast by the street lights. Fireworks were exploding in the west, at Shea Stadium—the Mets must have won a game. I nerved myself up and said to Huong, “Why can’t you quit this sex work so we can be together?” Her eyes gleamed, fastened on me. “You mean you want to be my boyfriend?” “Yes, but I also want you to stop selling yourself.” She sighed. “I have to pay the Croc two thousand dollars a month. There’s no other way I can make that kind of money.” “How much of your smuggling fee do you still owe him?” “My parents paid up their fifteen per cent in Vietnam, but I still have eighteen thousand to pay.” I paused, figuring out some numbers in my head. That was a big sum, but not impossible. “I can make more than fourteen hundred a month. After the rent and everything, I’ll have about a thousand left. I can help you pay the debt if you quit your work.” “Where can I get the other thousand every month? I’d love to be a sewer, but that doesn’t pay enough. I’ve been thinking about the job ever since you mentioned it. It would take a long time for me to get enough experience to make even three hundred a week. Meanwhile, how can I pay the Croc?” She swallowed, then continued, “I often dream of going back, but my parents won’t let me. They say that my little brother will join me here eventually. They only want me to send them more money. If only I could jump ship.” We talked for more than an hour, trying to figure out a way. She seemed elated by my offer to help. But at moments her excitement unnerved me a little and made me wonder whether I was being rash. What if we didn’t get along? How could we conceal her past from others? Despite my uneasiness, in my mind’s eye I kept seeing her in a white cottage stirring a pot with a large ladle while humming a song—outside, children’s voices were rising and falling. I suggested that we speak to the Croc in person and see if there was another way of paying him. Before she went back to the house, she kissed me on the cheek and said, “Wanren, I would do anything for you. You are a good man.” Great joy welled up in my heart, and I stayed outside in the damp air for a long time, dreaming of how we could start our life anew someday. If only I had more cash. I thought of asking Huong to share my bed, but decided not to, for fear that the other two women might inform Mrs. Chen of our relationship. A full moon was shining on the sleeping street, the walls and roofs bathed in the whitish light. Insects were chirring timidly, as if short of breath. Two days later, I left work early, and Huong and I set out to meet with the Croc, who had sounded Cantonese on the phone. We crossed Northern Boulevard and headed for the area near I-678. His headquarters was on Thirty-second Avenue, in a large warehouse. Two prostitutes, one white and the other Hispanic, were loitering in front, wearing nothing but bras and frayed jean shorts. Both of them seemed high on something, and the white woman, who had tousled hair and a missing tooth, shouted at me, “Hey, can you spare a smoke?” I shook my head. Huong and I hurried into the warehouse, whose interior was filled with large boxes of textiles and shoes. We found the office in a corner. A strapping man was sprawled in a leather chair, smoking a cigar. He sat up at the sight of us and smirked. “Take a seat,” he said, pointing at a sofa. The moment we sat down, Huong said, “This is my boyfriend, Wanren. We came to ask you a favor.” The Croc nodded at me, then turned back to Huong. “O.K., what can I do for you?” “I need some extra time. Can I pay you thirteen hundred a month?” “No way.” He smirked again, his ratty eyes darting right and left. “How about fifteen hundred?” “I said no.” “You see, I have a medical condition and have to take a different job that doesn’t pay as much.” “That’s not my problem.” He wagged his wispy mustache. I stepped in. “I will help her pay you, but we simply cannot come up with two thousand a month for now. Please give us an extra half year.” “A rule is a rule. If someone breaks it with impunity, the rule will have no force anymore. We’ve never given anyone such an extension. So don’t even try to get clever with me. If you don’t pay the full amount in time, you know what we’ll do.” He jerked his thumb at Huong. She looked at me, tears forming in her eyes. I patted her arm, signalling that we should leave. We got up and left the warehouse after saying we appreciated his meeting with us. On the way back, we talked about what the consequences would be if we failed to make the monthly payment. I was mindful, knowing it was dangerous to deal with a thug like the Croc. I had heard horrifying stories of how members of the Asian Mafia punished people, especially new arrivals who had offended them. They had shoved a man into a van and shipped him to a cannery in New Jersey to make pet food of him; they had cut off a little girl’s nose because her father hadn’t paid them the protection fee; they had tied a middle-aged woman’s hands, plugged her mouth, stuffed her into a burlap sack, and then dropped her into the ocean. The Chinese gangs spread the Mafia stories to intimidate people. Some of those tales might just be rumors, and, granted, the Croc might not belong to the Mafia at all, but he could do Huong and me in easily. He had to be a gangster, if not the leader of a gang. Also, he likely had networks in China and Vietnam that could hurt our families. After dinner, I went into Huong’s room, which was clean and smelled of pineapple. On the windowsill was a vase of marigolds. I said to her, “What if we just leave New York?” “And go where?” She sounded calm, as if she, too, had been toying with this idea. “Anywhere. America is a big country, and we can live in a remote town under different names, or move around, working on farms like Mexican workers. There must be some way for us to survive. First, we can go to North Carolina, and from there we’ll move on.” “What about my family? The Croc will hold my parents accountable.” “You shouldn’t worry so much. You have to take care of yourself first.” “My parents would never forgive me if I just disappeared.” “But haven’t they just been using you? You’ve been their cash cow.” That seemed to be sinking in. A moment later, she said, “You’re right. Let’s get out of here.” So we decided to leave as soon as possible. She had some cash on hand, about two thousand dollars, while I still had fourteen hundred in my savings account. The next morning on the way to work, I stopped at Cathay Bank and took out all the money. I felt kind of low, knowing that from now on I couldn’t write to my parents, or the Croc’s men might hunt us down. To my family, I would be as good as dead. In this place, we had no choice but to take loss as necessity. That afternoon, Huong secretly packed a suitcase and stuffed some of my clothes into a duffelbag. I wished that I could have said goodbye to my boss and some fellow-workers, and got my three-hundred-dollar deposit back from Mrs. Chen. At dinner, both Nana and Lili teased Huong, saying she had begun working for me, as a cleaning lady. We two tried to appear normal, and I even cracked a few jokes. Fortunately, there was no outcall that night. When the other two women had gone to bed, Huong and I slipped out of the house. I carried her suitcase while she lugged my bag. The weeping cherry blurred in the haze, its crown edgeless, like a small hill. A truck was rumbling down Main Street as we strode away, arm in arm, without looking back.
Great Experiment “If you’re so smart, how come you’re not rich?” It was the city that wanted to know. Chicago, refulgent in early-evening, late-capitalist light. Kendall was in a penthouse apartment (not his) of an all-cash building on Lake Shore Drive. The view straight ahead was of water, eighteen floors below. But if you pressed your face to the glass, as Kendall was doing, you could see the biscuit-colored beach running down to Navy Pier, where they were just now lighting the Ferris wheel. The gray Gothic stone of the Tribune Tower, the black steel of the Mies building just next door—these weren’t the colors of the new Chicago. Developers were listening to Danish architects who were listening to nature, and so the latest condominium towers were all going organic. They had light-green façades and undulating rooflines, like blades of grass bending in the wind. There had been a prairie here once. The condos told you so. Kendall was gazing at the luxury buildings and thinking about the people who lived in them (not him) and wondering what they knew that he didn’t. He shifted his forehead against the glass and heard paper crinkling. A yellow Post-it was stuck to his forehead. Piasecki must have come in while Kendall was napping at his desk and left it there. The Post-it said: “Think about it.” Kendall crumpled it up and threw it in the wastebasket. Then he went back to staring out the window at the glittering Gold Coast. For sixteen years now, Chicago had given Kendall the benefit of the doubt. It had welcomed him when he arrived with his “song cycle” of poems composed at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop. It had been impressed with his medley of high-I.Q. jobs the first years out: proofreader for The Baffler; Latin instructor at the Latin School. For someone in his early twenties to have graduated summa cum laude from Amherst, to have been given a Michener grant, and to have published, one year out of Iowa City, an unremittingly bleak villanelle in the T.L.S., all these things were marks of promise, back then. If Chicago had begun to doubt Kendall’s intelligence when he turned thirty, he hadn’t noticed. He worked as an editor at a small publishing house, Great Experiment, which published five titles per year. The house was owned by Jimmy Dimon, now eighty-two. In Chicago, people remembered Jimmy Dimon more from his days as a State Street pornographer back in the sixties and seventies and less from his much longer life as a free-speech advocate and publisher of libertarian books. It was Jimmy’s penthouse that Kendall worked out of, Jimmy’s high-priced view he was taking in. He was still mentally acute, Jimmy was. He was hard of hearing but if you shouted in his ear the old man’s blue eyes gleamed with mischief and undying rebellion. Kendall pulled himself away from the window and walked back to his desk, where he picked up the book that was lying there. The book was Alexis de Tocqueville’s “Democracy in America.” Tocqueville, from whom Jimmy had got the name for Great Experiment Books, was one of Jimmy’s passions. One evening six months ago, after his nightly Martini, Jimmy had decided that what the country needed was a super-abridged version of Tocqueville’s seminal work, culling all of the predictions the Frenchman had made about America, but especially those that showed the Bush Administration in its worst light. So that was what Kendall had been doing for the past week, reading through “Democracy in America” and picking out particularly tasty selections. Like the opening, for instance: “Among the novel objects that attracted my attention during my stay in the United States, nothing struck me more forcibly than the general equality of condition among the people.” “How damning is that?” Jimmy had shouted, when Kendall read the passage to him over the phone. “What could be less in supply, in Bush’s America, than equality of condition!” Jimmy wanted to call the little book “The Pocket Democracy.” After his initial inspiration, he’d handed off the project to Kendall. At first, Kendall had tried to read the book straight through, but now he skipped around in Volumes I and II. Lots of parts were unspeakably boring: methodologies of American jurisprudence, examinations of the American system of townships. Jimmy was interested only in the prescient bits. “Democracy in America” was like the stories parents told their grown children about their toddler days, recalling early signs of business acumen or religious inclination, describing speech impediments that had long ago disappeared. It was curious to read a Frenchman writing about America when America was small, unthreatening, and admirable, when it was still something underappreciated that the French could claim as their own and champion, like serial music or the novels of John Fante. In these, as in the forests of the Old World, destruction was perpetually going on. The ruins of vegetation were heaped upon one another; but there was no laboring hand to remove them, and their decay was not rapid enough to make room for the continual work of reproduction. Climbing plants, grasses, and other herbs forced their way through the mass of dying trees; they crept along their bending trunks, found nourishment in their dusty cavities and a passage beneath the lifeless bark. Thus decay gave its assistance to life. How beautiful that was! How wonderful to imagine what America had been like in 1831, before the strip malls and the highways, before the suburbs and the exurbs, back when the lake shores were “embosomed in forests coeval with the world.” What had the country been like in its infancy? Most important, where had things gone wrong and how could we find our way back? How did decay give its assistance to life? A lot of what Tocqueville described sounded nothing like the America Kendall knew. Other judgments seemed to part a curtain, revealing American qualities too intrinsic for him to have noticed before. The growing unease Kendall felt at being an American, his sense that his formative years, during the Cold War, had led him to unthinkingly accept various national pieties, that he’d been propagandized as efficiently as a kid growing up in Moscow at the time, made him want, now, to get a mental grip on this experiment called America. Yet the more he read about the America of 1831, the more Kendall became aware of how little he knew about the America of today, 2005, what its citizens believed, and how they operated. Piasecki was a perfect example. At the Coq d’Or the other night, he had said, “If you and I weren’t so honest we could make a lot of money.” “What do you mean?” Piasecki was Dimon’s accountant. He came on Fridays, to pay bills and handle Dimon’s books. He was pale, perspirey, with limp blond hair combed straight back from his oblong forehead. “He doesn’t check anything, O.K.?” Piasecki said. “He doesn’t even know how much money he has.” “How much does he have?” “That’s confidential information,” Piasecki said. “First thing they teach you at accounting school. Zip your lips.” Kendall didn’t press. He was leery of getting Piasecki going on the subject of accounting. When Arthur Andersen had imploded, in 2002, Piasecki, along with eighty-five thousand other employees, had lost his job. The blow had left him slightly unhinged. His weight fluctuated, he chewed diet pills and Nicorette. He drank a lot. Now in the shadowy, red-leather bar, crowded with happy-hour patrons, Piasecki ordered a Scotch. So Kendall did, too. “Would you like the executive pour?” the waiter asked. Kendall would never be an executive. But he could have the executive pour. “Yes,” he said. For a moment they were silent, staring at the television screen, tuned to a late-season baseball game. Two newfangled Western Division teams were playing. Kendall didn’t recognize the uniforms. Even baseball had been adulterated. “I don’t know,” Piasecki said. “It’s just that, once you’ve been screwed like I’ve been, you start to see things different. I grew up thinking that most people played by the rules. But after everything went down with Andersen the way it did––I mean, to scapegoat an entire company for what a few bad apples did on behalf of Ken Lay and Enron . . .” He didn’t finish the thought. His eyes grew bright with fresh anguish. The tumblers, the mini-barrels of Scotch, arrived at their table. They finished the first round and ordered another. Piasecki helped himself to the complimentary hors d’oeuvres. “Nine people out of ten, in our position, they’d at least think about it,” he said. “I mean, this fucking guy! How’d he make his money in the first place? On twats. That was his angle. Jimmy pioneered the beaver shot. He knew tits and ass were over. Didn’t even bother with them. And now he’s some kind of saint? Some kind of political activist? You don’t buy that horseshit, do you?” “Actually,” Kendall said, “I do.” “Because of those books you publish? I see the numbers on those, O.K.? You lose money every year. Nobody reads that stuff.” “We sold five thousand copies of ‘The Federalist Papers,’ ” Kendall said in defense. “Mostly in Wyoming,” Piasecki countered. “Jimmy puts his money to good use. What about all the contributions he makes to the A.C.L.U.?” Kendall felt inclined to add, “The publishing house is only one facet of what he does.” “O.K., forget Jimmy for a minute,” Piasecki said. “I’m just saying, look at this country. Bush–Clinton–Bush–maybe Clinton. That’s not a democracy, O.K.? That’s a dynastic monarchy. What are people like us supposed to do? What would be so bad if we just skimmed a little cream off the top? Just a little skimming. I’m telling you I think about it sometimes. I fucking hate my life. Do I think about it? Yeah. I’m already convicted. They convicted all of us and took away our livelihood, whether we were honest or not. So I’m thinking, if I’m guilty already, then who gives a shit?” When Kendall was drunk, when he was in odd surroundings like the Coq d’Or, when someone’s misery was on display in front of him, in moments like this, Kendall still felt like a poet. He could feel the words rumbling somewhere in the back of his mind, as though he still had the diligence to write them down. He took in the bruise-colored bags under Piasecki’s eyes, the addict-like clenching of his jaw muscles, his bad suit, his corn-silk hair, and the blue Tour de France sunglasses pushed up on his head. “Let me ask you something,” Piasecki said. “How old are you?” “Forty-five,” Kendall said. “You want to be an editor at a small-time place like Great Experiment the rest of your life?” “I don’t want to do anything for the rest of my life,” Kendall said, smiling. “Jimmy doesn’t give you health care, does he?” “No,” Kendall allowed. “All the money he’s got and you and me are both freelance. And you think he’s some kind of social crusader.” “My wife thinks that’s terrible, too.” “Your wife is smart,” Piasecki said, nodding with approval. “Maybe I should be talking to her.” The train out to Oak Park was stuffy, grim, almost penal in its deprivation. It rattled on the tracks, its lights flickering. During moments of illumination Kendall read his Tocqueville. “The ruin of these tribes began from the day when Europeans landed on their shores; it has proceeded ever since, and we are now witnessing its completion.” With a jolt, the train reached the bridge and began crossing the river. On the opposite shore, glass-and-steel structures of breathtaking design were cantilevered over the water, all aglow. “Those coasts, so admirably adapted for commerce and industry; those wide and deep rivers; that inexhaustible valley of the Mississippi; the whole continent, in short, seemed prepared to be the abode of a great nation yet unborn.” His cell phone rang and he answered it. It was Piasecki, calling from the street on his way home. “You know what we were just talking about?” Piasecki said. “Well, I’m drunk.” “So am I,” Kendall said. “Don’t worry about it.” “I’m drunk,” Piasecki repeated, “but I’m serious.” Kendall had never expected to be as rich as his parents, but he’d never imagined that he would earn so little or that it would bother him so much. After five years working for Great Experiment, he and his wife, Stephanie, had saved just enough money to buy a big fixer-upper in Oak Park, without being able to fix it up. Shabby living conditions wouldn’t have bothered Kendall in the old days. He’d liked the converted barns and under-heated garage apartments Stephanie and he had lived in before they were married, and he liked the just appreciably nicer apartments in questionable neighborhoods they lived in after they were married. His sense of their marriage as countercultural, an artistic alliance committed to the support of vinyl records and Midwestern literary quarterlies, had persisted even after Max and Eleanor were born. Hadn’t the Brazilian hammock as diaper table been an inspired idea? And the poster of Beck gazing down over the crib, covering the hole in the wall? Kendall had never wanted to live like his parents. That had been the whole idea, the lofty rationale behind the snow-globe collection and the flea-market eyewear. But as the children got older, Kendall began to compare their childhood unfavorably with his own, and to feel guilty. From the street, as he approached under the dark, dripping trees, his house looked impressive enough. The lawn was ample. Two stone urns flanked the front steps, leading up to a wide porch. Except for paint peeling under the eaves, the exterior looked fine. It was with the interior that the trouble began. In fact, the trouble began with the word itself: interior. Stephanie liked to use it. The design magazines she consulted were full of it. One was even called it: Interiors. But Kendall had his doubts as to whether their home achieved an authentic state of interiority. For instance, the outside was always breaking in. Rain leaked through the master-bathroom ceiling. The sewers flooded up through the basement drain. Across the street, a Range Rover was double-parked, its tailpipe fuming. As he passed, Kendall gave the person at the wheel a dirty look. He expected a businessman or a stylish suburban wife. But sitting in the front seat was a frumpy, middle-aged woman, wearing a Wisconsin sweatshirt, talking on her cell phone. Kendall’s hatred of S.U.V.s didn’t keep him from knowing the base price of a Range Rover: seventy-five thousand dollars. From the official Range Rover Web site, where a husband up late at night could build his own vehicle, Kendall also knew that choosing the “Luxury Package” (preferably cashmere upholstery with navy piping and burled-walnut dash) brought the price tag up to eighty-two thousand dollars. This was an unthinkable, a testicle-withering sum. And yet, pulling into the driveway next to Kendall’s was another Range Rover, this belonging to his neighbor Bill Ferret. Bill did something relating to software; he devised it, or marketed it. At a back-yard barbecue the previous summer, Kendall had listened with a serious face as Bill explained his profession. Kendall specialized in a serious face. This was the face he’d trained on his high-school and college teachers from his seat in the first row: the ever-alert, A-student face. Still, despite his apparent attentiveness, Kendall didn’t remember what Bill had told him about his job. There was a software company in Canada named Waxman, and Bill had shares in Waxman, or Waxman had shares in Bill’s company, Duplicate, and either Waxman or Duplicate was thinking of “going public,” which apparently was a good thing to do, except that Bill had just started a third software company, Triplicate, and so Waxman, or Duplicate, or maybe both, had forced him to sign a “non-compete,” which would last a year. Munching his hamburger, Kendall had understood that this was how people spoke, out in the world––in the real world he himself lived in, though, paradoxically, had yet to enter. In this real world, there were things like custom software and ownership percentages and Machiavellian corporate struggles, all of which resulted in the ability to drive a heartbreakingly beautiful forest-green Range Rover up your own paved drive. Maybe Kendall wasn’t so smart. He went up his front walk and into the house, where he found Stephanie in the kitchen, next to the open, glowing stove. “Don’t get mad,” she said. “It’s only been on a few minutes.” Stephanie wore her hair in the same comp-lit pageboy she’d had the day they met, twenty-two years earlier, in an H.D. seminar. In college, Kendall had had a troubling habit of falling in love with lesbians. So imagine his relief, his utter joy, when he learned that Stephanie wasn’t a lesbian but only looked like one. She’d dumped the day’s mail on the kitchen table and was flipping through an architecture magazine. “How’s this for our kitchen?” Stephanie said. Kendall bent to look. It didn’t cost anything to look. An old house, like theirs, had been expanded by ripping off the rear wall and replacing it with a Bauhaus extension. Kendall asked, “Where are the kids?” “Max is at Sam’s,” Stephanie said. “Eleanor says it’s too cold here. So she’s sleeping over at Olivia’s.” “Sixty-five isn’t that cold,” Kendall said emphatically. “If you’re here all day, it is.” Instead of replying, Kendall opened the refrigerator and stared in. There were bottles and cartons, most nearly empty. There was something greenish black in a produce bag. “Piasecki said something interesting to me today,” Kendall said. “Piasecki who?” “Piasecki the accountant. From work.” Kendall poked the greenish-black thing with his forefinger. “Piasecki said it’s unbelievable that Jimmy doesn’t give me any health insurance.” “I’ve told you that,” Stephanie said. “Piasecki agrees with you.” Stephanie raised her eyes. “What are you looking for in there?” “All we have are sauces,” Kendall said. “What are all these sauces for? They wouldn’t be to put on food, would they? Because we have no food.” Stephanie had gone back to flipping through her magazine. “If we didn’t have to pay for our own health insurance,” she said, “we might have some money for renovations.” “Or we could waste heat,” Kendall said. “Eleanor would like that. What temperature do Olivia’s parents keep their house at?” “Not sixty-five,” Stephanie said. “I’ve got my head in the refrigerator and it’s not even that cold,” Kendall said. Abruptly, he straightened up and slammed the refrigerator door. He sighed once, satisfyingly, and headed out of the room and up the front stairs. He came down the hall into the master bedroom. And here he stopped again. He wondered if Alexis de Tocqueville had ever envisaged a scene like this. An American bedroom quite like this. It wasn’t the only master bedroom of its kind in Chicago. Across the country, the master bedrooms of more and more two-salaried, stressed-out couples were taking on the bear-den atmosphere of Kendall and Stephanie’s bedroom. In this suburban cave, this commuter-town hollow, two large, hirsute mammals had recently hibernated. Or were hibernating still. That twisted mass of bedsheet was where they slept. The saliva stains on the denuded pillows were evidence of a long winter spent drooling and dreaming. The socks and underpants scattered on the floor resembled the skins of rodents recently consumed. In the far corner of the room was a hillock rising three feet in the air. This was the family wash. They’d used a hamper for a while and, for a while, the kids had dutifully tossed their dirty clothes in. But the hamper soon overflowed and the family had begun tossing their dirty clothes in its general direction. The hamper could still be there, for all Kendall knew, buried beneath the pyramid of laundry. How had it happened in one generation? His parents’ bedroom had never looked like this. Kendall’s father had a dresser full of folded laundry, a closet full of tailored suits, and, every night, a neat, clean bed to climb into. Nowadays, if Kendall wanted to live as his own father had lived, he was going to have to hire a cleaning lady and a seamstress and a social secretary. He was going to have to hire a wife. Wouldn’t that be great? Stephanie could use one, too. Everybody needed a wife, and no one had one anymore. But to hire a wife Kendall needed to make more money. The alternative was to live as he did, in middle-class squalor, in married bachelorhood. Like most honest people, Kendall sometimes fantasized about committing a crime. In the following days, however, he found himself indulging in criminal fantasies to a criminal extent. How did one embezzle if one wanted to embezzle well? What kind of mistakes did the rank amateurs make? How could you get caught and what were the penalties? Quite amazing, to an embezzler-fantasist, was how instructive the daily newspapers were. Not only the lurid Chicago Sun-Times, with its stories of gambling-addicted accountants and Irish “minority” trucking companies. Much more instructive were the business pages of the Tribune or the Times. Here you found the pension-fund manager who’d siphoned off five million, or the Korean-American hedge-fund genius who vanished with a quarter billion of Palm Beach retiree money and who turned out to be a Mexican guy named Lopez. Turn the page to read about the Boeing executive sentenced to four months in jail for rigging contracts with the Air Force. The malfeasance of Bernie Ebbers and Dennis Kozlowski claimed the front page, but it was the short articles on A21 or C15 detailing the quieter frauds, the scam artists working in subtler pigments, in found objects, that showed Kendall the extent of the national deceit. At the Coq d’Or the next Friday, Piasecki said, “You know the mistake most people make?” “What?” “They buy a beach house. Or a Porsche. They red-flag themselves. They can’t resist.” “They lack discipline,” Kendall said. “Right.” “No moral fibre.” “Exactly.” Wasn’t scheming the way America worked? The real America that Kendall, with his nose stuck in “Rhyme’s Reason,” had failed to notice? How far apart were the doings of these minor corporate embezzlers from the accounting fraud at Enron? And what about all the business people who were clever enough not to get caught, who wriggled free from blame? The example set on high wasn’t one of probity and full disclosure. It was anything but. When Kendall was growing up, American politicians denied that the United States was an empire. But they weren’t doing that anymore. They’d given up. Everyone knew about the empire now. Everyone was pleased. And in the streets of Chicago, as in the streets of L.A., New York, Houston, and Oakland, the message was making itself known. A few weeks back, Kendall had seen the movie “Patton” on TV. He’d been reminded that the general had been severely punished for slapping a soldier. Whereas now Rumsfeld ran free from responsibility for Abu Ghraib. Even the President, who’d lied about W.M.D., had been reëlected. In the streets, people took the point. Victory was what counted, power, muscularity, doublespeak if necessary. You saw it in the way people drove, in the way they cut you off, gave you the finger, cursed. Women and men alike, showing rage and toughness. Everyone knew what he wanted and how to get it. Everybody you met was nobody’s fool. One’s country was like one’s self. The more you learned about it, the more you were ashamed of. Then again, it wasn’t pure torture, living in the plutocracy. Jimmy was still out in Montecito, and every weekday Kendall had the run of his place. There were serf-like doormen, invisible porters who hauled out the trash, a squad of Polish maids who came Wednesday and Friday mornings to pick up after Kendall and scrub the toilet in the Moorish bathroom and tidy up the sunny kitchen where he ate his lunch. The co-op was a duplex. Kendall worked on the second floor. Downstairs was Jimmy’s “Jade Room,” where he kept his collection of Chinese jade in museum-quality display cases. The carvings were made from single pieces of jade and were usually of horses’ heads, enfolded upon themselves. Jimmy kept what he couldn’t show off in specially built, curatorial drawers. (If you had criminality in mind, a good place to start would be the Jade Room.) In his office, when Kendall looked up from his Tocqueville, he could see the opalescent lake spreading out in all directions. The surround of water at this altitude made for a fish-tank sensation. Water, water, everywhere. The curious emptiness Chicago confronted, the way it just dropped off into nothing, especially at sunset or in the fog, this void was responsible for all the activity. The land had been waiting to be exploited. These shores so suited to industry and commerce had raised a thousand factories. The factories had sent vehicles of steel throughout the world, and now these vehicles, in armored form, were clashing for control of the petroleum that powered the whole operation. The phone rang. It was Jimmy, calling from Montecito. “Hello, Jimmy, how are you?” “Not bad,” Jimmy said. “It’s only three in the afternoon and I’ve already had my cock out three times.” One nice thing about being obscenely rich was the liberty it afforded you to utter sentences such as this. But Jimmy’s impropriety predated his money. It was the reason for his money. “Sounds like retirement agrees with you,” Kendall said. “What are you talking about?” Jimmy said, laughing. “I’m not retired. I’ve got more going on now than when I was thirty. Speaking of which, I’m returning your call. What’s up, kiddo?” “Right,” Kendall said, gearing up. “I’ve been running the house for six years now and I think you’ve been happy with my work.” “I have been,” Jimmy said. “No complaints.” “So I was wondering, given my tenure here, and my performance, if it might be possible to work out some kind of health-insurance coverage.” “Can’t do it,” Jimmy answered abruptly. The suddenness with which he spoke suggested he was defending himself against his feelings. “That was never part of your package. I’m running a nonprofit here, kiddo. Piasecki just sent me the statements. We’re in the red this year. We’re in the red every year. All these books we publish, important, foundational, patriotic books––truly patriotic books––and nobody buys them! The people in this country are asleep! We’ve got an entire nation on Ambien. Sandman Rove is blowing dust in everybody’s eyes.” He went off on a tear, anathematizing Bush and Wolfowitz and Perle, but then he must have felt bad about avoiding the subject at hand because he came back to it, softening his tone. “Listen, I know you’ve got a family. You’ve got to do what’s best for you. If you wanted to test your value out in the marketplace, I’d understand. I’d hate to lose you, Kendall, but I’d understand if you have to move on.” There was silence on the line. Jimmy said, “You think about it.” He cleared his throat. “So, tell me. How’s ‘The Pocket Democracy’ coming?” Kendall wished he could remain businesslike, professional. He tried his best to keep bitterness out of his voice. He’d been a pouter as a kid, however, and the pleasures of pouting were still enticing. He said nothing. “When do you think you’ll have something to show me?” Jimmy asked. “No idea.” “What was that?” “I’ve got no answer at the moment,” Kendall said. “I’m running a business, Kendall,” Jimmy said before hanging up. “I’m sorry.” The sun was setting. The water reflected the gray-blue of the darkening sky, and the lights of the water-pumping stations had come on, making them look like a line of floating gazebos. Kendall’s mood had dimmed, too. He slumped in his office chair, the Xeroxed pages of “Democracy in America” spread out around him. His left temple throbbed. He winced and, rubbing his forehead, looked down at the page in front of him: I do not mean that there is any lack of wealthy individuals in the United States; I know of no country, indeed, where the love of money has taken stronger hold on the affections of men and where a profounder contempt is expressed for the theory of the permanent equality of property. But wealth circulates with inconceivable rapidity, and experience shows that it is rare to find two succeeding generations in the full enjoyment of it. He swivelled in his chair and violently grabbed the phone off its hook. He stabbed out the number and after a single ring Piasecki answered. Kendall told Piasecki to meet him at the Coq d’Or. This was how you did it. This was taking action. In an instant, everything could change. At the Coq d’Or, they sat in their usual booth in the back room. Kendall stared across the table at Piasecki and said, “About that idea you had the other day.” Piasecki gave Kendall a sideways look, suspicious. “You serious or you just playing around?” “I’m curious,” Kendall said. “Don’t fuck with me,” Piasecki cautioned. “I’m not.” Kendall was blinking rapidly. “I was just wondering how it would work. Technically speaking.” Piasecki leaned closer to Kendall and lowered his voice. “I never said what I’m about to say, O.K.?” “O.K.” “If you do something like this, what you do is you set up a dummy company. You create invoices from this company, O.K.? Great Experiment pays these invoices. After a few years, you close the account and liquidate the company.” Kendall didn’t understand exactly. It couldn’t be that complicated, but he was unclear on a few points. “But the invoices won’t be for anything. Won’t that be obvious?” “When’s the last time Jimmy checked the invoices? He’s eighty-two, for Christ sake. He’s out in California taking Viagra so he can bang some hooker. He’s not thinking about the invoices. His mind is occupied.” “What if we get audited?” Here Piasecki smiled. “I like how you say ‘we.’ That’s where I come in. If we get audited, who handles that? I do. I show the I.R.S. the bills and the payments. Since our payments into the dummy company match the bills, everything looks fine. If we pay the right taxes on income, how is the I.R.S. going to complain?” It wasn’t all that complicated. Kendall wasn’t used to thinking this way, not just criminally but financially, but as his executive pour went down, he saw how it could work. He looked around the bar, at the businessmen boozing, making deals. “I’m not talking about that much,” Piasecki was saying. “Jimmy’s worth, like, eighty million. I’m talking maybe half a million for you, half for me. Maybe, if things go smooth, a million each. Then we shut it down, cover our tracks, and move to Bermuda.” Piasecki leaned forward and with burning, needy eyes, said, “Jimmy makes more than a million in the markets every four months. It’s nothing to him.” “What if something goes wrong? I’ve got a family.” “And I don’t? It’s my family I’m thinking of. It’s not like things are fair in this country. Things are unfair. Why should a smart guy like you not get a little piece of the pie? Are you scared?” “Yes,” Kendall said. “Listen to me. I’ll be honest. If we do this, you should be a little scared. Just a little. But, statistically, I’d put the chances at our getting caught at about one per cent. Maybe less.” For Kendall it was exciting, somehow, just to be having this conversation. Everything about the Coq d’Or, from the fatty appetizers to the Tin Pan Alley entertainment to the faux-Napoleonic décor, suggested it was 1926. Under the influence of the atmosphere, it seemed to Kendall that he and Piasecki were leaning conspiratorially together, foreheads almost touching. They’d seen the Mafia movies, so they knew how to do it. Kendall wanted to laugh. He’d thought this kind of thing was over. He thought that because of the rise of postmodern irony the durable street rackets and shady back-room dealing had gone out of style. But he was wrong. Kendall was so smart he was stupid. He’d figured criminality was like academia, progressive, built on one movement succeeding another. But the same scheming that had gone on eighty years ago was going on now. This was especially true in Chicago, where even the bar décor colluded to promote an underworld effect. “I’m telling you, we could be in and out in two years,” Piasecki was saying. “We do it nice and easy and leave no trail. Then we invest our money and do our part for the G.D.P.” What was an intellectual but a guy who thought? Who thought instead of did. What would it be like to do? To apply his brain to the small universe of money instead of the battle between Jefferson and the Federalists? This made Kendall contemplate how Stephanie would view all this. He would never be able to tell her about it. He’d have to say he’d been given a raise. Simultaneous with this thought was another: renovating your kitchen wasn’t a red flag. They could do the whole house without attracting attention. In his mind he saw his fixer-upper all fixed up, a gleaming, wood-polished house, a stop on the Oak Park landmark tour, and, sliding down the bannister, into his providing, fatherly arms, Eleanor. Wealth circulates with inconceivable rapidity . . . The full enjoyment of it . . . “O.K., I’m in,” Kendall said. “You’re in?” “Let me think about it,” Kendall said. That was sufficient for Piasecki for now. He lifted his glass. “To Ken Lay,” he said. “My hero.” “What sort of business is this you’re opening?” “It’s a storage facility.” “And you’re?” “The president. Co-president.” “With Mr.”—the lawyer, a squat woman with thatchlike hair, searched on the incorporation form—“with Mr. Piasecki.” “That’s right,” Kendall said. It was a Saturday afternoon. Kendall was in downtown Oak Park, in the lawyer’s meagre, diploma-showy office. Max was outside on the sidewalk, catching autumn leaves, staring up at the sky with hands outstretched. “I could use some storage,” the lawyer joked. “We’ve got three kids and our house is stuffed.” “We mainly do commercial storage,” Kendall said. “We don’t have a lot of little storage lockers but just a few big ones. Sorry.” He hadn’t even seen the place, which was up in the sticks, outside Kewanee. Piasecki had driven up and leased the land. There was nothing on it but an old, weed-choked Esso station. But it had a legal address, and soon, as Midwestern Storage, a steady income. Great Experiment, since it sold few books, had a lot of books on hand. In addition to storing them in their usual warehouse, in Schaumburg, Kendall would now send a phantom number of books up to the facility in Kewanee. Midwestern Storage would charge Great Experiment for this service, and Piasecki would send the company checks. As soon as the incorporation forms were filed, Piasecki planned to open a bank account in Midwestern Storage’s name. Signatories to this account: Michael J. Piasecki and Kendall Wallis. It was all quite elegant. Kendall and Piasecki owned a legal company. The company earned money legally, paid its taxes; the two of them split the profit and claimed it as business income on their tax returns. That the warehouse was a broken-down gas station, that it housed no books––who was ever to know? “I just hope the old guy doesn’t kick,” Piasecki had said. “We’ve got to pray for the health of Jimmy’s prostate.” When Kendall had signed the required forms, the lawyer said, “O.K., I’ll file these papers for you Monday. And that’s all there is to it. Congratulations, you’re the proud new owner of a corporation in the state of Illinois.” Outside, Max was still whirling beneath the falling leaves. “How many did you catch, buddy?” Kendall asked his son. “Sixty-two!” Max shouted. Kendall, copies of the papers tucked under his arm, looked up at the sky to watch the leaves, red and gold, spinning down toward the earth. The air smelled of autumn, of leaf raking, of the dependable and virtuous Midwest. And now it was a Monday morning in January, start of a new week, and Kendall was on the train again, reading about America: “There is one country in the world where the great social revolution that I am speaking of seems to have nearly reached its natural limits.” Kendall had a new pair of shoes on, two-tone cordovans from the Allen Edmonds store on Michigan Avenue. Otherwise, he looked the way he always did, same chinos, same shiny-elbowed corduroy jacket. Nobody on the train would have guessed that he wasn’t the mild, bookish figure he appeared to be. No one would have imagined Kendall making his weekly drop-off at the mailbox outside the all-cash building (to keep the doormen from noticing the deposit envelopes addressed to the Kewanee bank). Seeing Kendall jotting figures in his newspaper, most riders assumed he was working out a Sudoku puzzle instead of estimating potential earnings from a five-year C.D. Kendall in his editor-wear had the perfect disguise. He was like Poe’s purloined letter, hiding in plain sight. Who said he wasn’t smart? The fear had been greatest the first few weeks. Kendall would awaken at 3 A.M. with what felt like a battery cable hooked to his navel. The current surged through him, as he sweated and twitched. What if Jimmy noticed the printing, shipping, and warehouse costs for the phantom books? What if Piasecki drunkenly confessed to a Ukrainian barmaid whose brother was a cop? Kendall’s mind whirled with potential mishaps and dangers. How had he got into something like this with someone like that? In their transforming bedroom, with Stephanie sleeping beside him, unaware that she was bedding down with a criminal, Kendall lay awake for hours, jittery with visions of jail time and perp walks and the loss of his children. It got easier after a while. Fear was like any other emotion. From an initial passionate stage, it slowly ebbed until it became routine and then barely noticeable. Plus, things had gone so well. Kendall drew up separate checks, one for the books they actually printed and another for the books he and Piasecki pretended to. On Friday, Piasecki entered these debits in his accounts against weekly income. “It looks like a profit-loss,” he told Kendall. “We’re actually saving Jimmy taxes. He should thank us.” “Why don’t we let him in on it then?” Kendall said. Piasecki only laughed. “Even if we did, he’s so out of it he wouldn’t remember.” Kendall kept to his low-profile plan, too. As the bank account of Midwestern Storage slowly grew, the same beaten-up old Volvo remained in his driveway. The money stayed away from prying eyes. It showed only inside. In the interior. Kendall said the word now. He said it every night, inspecting the work of the plasterers and carpenters and carpet installers. He was looking into additional interiors as well: the walled gardens of college-savings funds (the garden of Max, the garden of Eleanor); the inner sanctum of a SEP-I.R.A. And there was something else hidden away in the interior: a wife. Her name was Arabella. She was from Venezuela and spoke no English. She’d cried with true alarm upon seeing the mountain of laundry in the master bedroom for the first time. But she’d hauled it away to the basement, load by load. Kendall and Stephanie were thrilled. At the all-cash building, Kendall did something he hadn’t done in a long time: he did his job. He finished abridging “Democracy in America” and Fed-Exed the color-coded manuscript to Jimmy in Montecito. He buried Jimmy under a flurry of new reprint proposals, writing one up every other day and shipping the nominated texts west. Instead of waiting for Jimmy to call the office, Kendall called Jimmy daily, sometimes twice a day, pestering him with questions. Just as Kendall had expected, Jimmy had at first taken his calls and then begun to complain about them and finally had told Kendall to stop bothering him with minutiae and to deal with things himself. Jimmy hardly called the office at all anymore. Swamping Jimmy with work had been a clever idea. You could learn a lot about human nature, it turned out, from reading books. The train deposited him at Union Station. Coming out onto Madison Street, Kendall could smell snow. There was a graininess to the air, which had itself warmed and grown windless, as it always did before a storm. Kendall took a cab (paying with untraceable cash) and had the driver let him out a block from the all-cash building. From there he trudged around the corner, looking as though he’d come on foot. With Mike, the doorman on duty, Kendall exchanged a proletarian greeting (they both worked here, after all) on his way to the gilded elevator. The penthouse was empty. Not even a maid around. Passing the Jade Room, Kendall stepped in to admire the lighted display cases. He pulled open a custom drawer and found a horse’s head. He’d thought jade was meant to be dark green. But that wasn’t so. Jimmy had told him the best jade, the most rare, was light green in color, almost white. As was this equine example. For a moment, the beauty of the thing hit Kendall with full force. A thousand years ago, an artisan had carved this horse from a single piece of jade, rendering the animal in sinuous, pythonic form. Being able to appreciate an object of this kind was what Kendall had always appreciated about himself. What had counted as true riches. The windows of his office showed the storm moving in across the lake. In front of the building, the sky was still blue. On Kendall’s desk sat “The Pocket Democracy,” just back from the (real) printer. It was as small and sleek as an iPod, easily slipped into a pocket: a concealed weapon of a book. Kendall was staring at it for the hundredth time, with disquiet, when the telephone rang. “How’s the weather up there?” It was Jimmy. “Tolstoyan,” Kendall said. “Snowstorm coming in.” “You like that sort of thing, right? Invigorating.” Soon Jimmy got around to business. “The ‘Pocket Democracy,’ ” Jimmy said. “Just got it. I love it. Nice job.” “Thank you,” Kendall said. “What do the orders look like?” “Good, actually.” “I think it’s priced right. What about getting some reviews?” “It’s difficult getting reviews for a two-hundred-year-old book.” “Well, we should do some advertising then,” Jimmy said. “Send me a list of places you think would be best. Not the fucking New York Review of Books. That’s preaching to the converted. I want this book to get out there.” “Let me think a little,” Kendall said. “What else was there? Oh yeah! The bookmark! That’s a great idea. Let’s print bookmarks with the Great Experiment quote on them. Put one in every book. Maybe we can do posters, too. We might sell some books for once.” “That’s the idea,” Kendall said. “If this book does as well as I hope it will, I tell you what,” Jimmy said. “I’ll give you health insurance.” Kendall hesitated only an instant. “That would be great.” “I don’t want to lose you, kiddo. Plus, I’ll be honest. It’s a headache finding someone else.” The light in the room changed, dimmed. Kendall turned to see the wall of cloud approaching the shoreline. Snow flurries swirled against the windows. This late generosity wasn’t grounds for reappraisal and regret. Jimmy had taken his sweet time, hadn’t he? And the promise was phrased in the conditional. No, let’s wait and see how things turn out. If Kendall got insurance and a nice raise, then maybe he’d think about shutting Midwestern Storage down. “Oh,” Jimmy said. “One more thing.” Kendall waited, looking at the snow. It was like being in a submarine passing through a school of fish. “Piasecki sent me the accounts. The numbers look funny.” “What do you mean?” “What are we doing printing thirty thousand copies of Thomas Paine?” Jimmy said. “And why are we using two printers?” At congressional hearings, in courtrooms, the accused C.E.O.s and C.F.O.s followed one of two strategies: either they said they didn’t know, or they said they didn’t remember. “I don’t remember why we printed thirty thousand,” Kendall said. “I’ll have to check the orders. I don’t know anything about the printers. Piasecki handles that. Maybe someone offered us a better deal.” “The new printer is charging us a higher rate.” Piasecki hadn’t told Kendall that. Piasecki had become greedy and kept it to himself. “Listen,” Jimmy said, “send me the contact info for the new printer. And for that storage place. I’m going to have my guy out here look into this.” The smart thing was to act nonchalant. But Kendall said, “What guy?” “My accountant. You think I’d let Piasecki operate without oversight? No way! Everything he does gets double-checked out here. If he’s pulling anything, we’ll find out. And then Mr. Piasecki’s up shit’s creek.” Kendall sat up straighter in his desk chair, making the springs cry out. “Listen, kiddo, I’m going to London next week,” Jimmy said. “The house’ll be empty. Why don’t you bring your family out here for a long weekend? Get out of that cold weather.” When Kendall didn’t reply, Jimmy said, “Don’t worry. It’s a nice house. I’ll hide the porn.” Kendall’s laugh sounded false to him. He wondered if it sounded false to Jimmy. Far below, in the storm’s wash cycle, a faint glimmer revealed rush-hour headlights along the Drive. “Anyway, you did good, kiddo. You boiled Tocqueville down to his essence. I remember when I first read this book. Blew me away.” In his vibrant, scratchy voice, Jimmy began to recite a passage of “Democracy in America.” It was the passage they were putting on the bookmarks. Out in Montecito, bald, liver-spotted, in a tank top and shorts probably, the old libertine and libertarian crowed out his favorite lines: “In that land the great experiment of the attempt to construct society upon a new basis was to be made by civilized man,” Jimmy read, “and it was there, for the first time, that theories hitherto unknown, or deemed impracticable, were to exhibit a spectacle for which the world had not been prepared by the history of the past.” Snow pummelled the glass. The lakefront was obscured, the water too. Kendall was enclosed in a dark space high above a city rising from a coast engulfed in darkness. “That fucking kills me,” Jimmy said. “Every time.”
The Region of Unlikeness Some people would consider Jacob a physicist, some would consider him a philosopher or simply a “time expert,” though I tend to think of him in less reverent terms. But not terms of hatred. Ilan used to call Jacob “my cousin from Outer Swabia.” That obscure little joke, which I heard Ilan make a number of times, probably without realizing how many times he’d made it before, always seemed to me to imply a distant blood relation between the two of them. I guess I had the sense (back then) that Jacob and Ilan were shirttail cousins of some kind. But later I came to believe, at least intermittently, that actually Ilan’s little phrase was both a misdirection and a sort of clue, one that hinted at an enormous secret that they’d never let me in on. Not a dully personal secret, like an affair or a small crime or, say, a missing testicle—but a scientific secret, that rare kind of secret that, in our current age, still manages to bend our knee. I met Ilan and Jacob by chance. Sitting at the table next to mine in a small Moroccan coffee shop on the Upper West Side, they were discussing “Wuthering Heights,” too loudly, having the kind of reference-laden conversation that unfortunately never fails to attract me. Jacob looked about forty-five; he was overweight, he was munching obsessively on these unappetizing green leaf-shaped cookies, and he kept saying “obviously.” Ilan was good-looking, and he said that the tragedy of Heathcliff was that he was essentially, on account of his lack of property rights, a woman. Jacob then extolled Catherine’s proclaiming, “I am Heathcliff.” Something about passion was said. And about digging up graves. And a bearded young man next to them moved to a more distant table. Jacob and Ilan talked on, unoffended, praising Brontë, and at some point Ilan added, “But since Jane Austen’s usually the token woman on university syllabi, it’s understandable if your average undergraduate has a hard time shaking the idea that women are half-wits, moved only by the terror that a man might not be as rich as he seems.” Not necessarily warmly, I chimed in with something. Ilan laughed. Jacob refined Ilan’s statement to “straight women.” Then to straight women “in the Western tradition.” Then the three of us spoke for a long time. That hadn’t been my intention. But there was something about Ilan—manic, fragile, fidgety, womanizing (I imagined) Ilan—that was all at once like fancy coffee and bright-colored smutty flyers. He had a great deal to say, with a steady gaze into my eyes, about my reading the New York Post, which he interpreted as a sign of a highly satiric yet demotically moral intelligence. Jacob nodded. I let the flattery go straight to my heart, despite the fact that I didn’t read the Post—it had simply been left on my table by a previous customer. Ilan called Post writers naïve Nabokovs. Yes, I said. The headline, I remember, read “AXIS OF WEASEL. Somehow this led to Jacob’s saying something vague about Proust, and violence, and perception. “Jacob’s a boor, isn’t he?” Ilan said. Or maybe he said “bore” and I heard “boor” because Ilan’s way of talking seemed so antiquated to me. I had so few operating sources of pride at that time. I was tutoring and making my lonely way through graduate school in civil engineering, where my main sense of joy came from trying to silently outdo the boys—they still played video games—in my courses. I started going to that coffee shop every day. Everyone I knew seemed to find my new companions arrogant and pathetic, but whenever they called me I ran to join them. Ilan and Jacob were both at least twenty years older than me, and they called themselves philosophers, although only Jacob seemed to have an actual academic position, and maybe a tenuous one, I couldn’t quite tell. I was happy not to care about those things. Jacob had a wife and daughter, too, though I never met them. It was always just the three of us. We would get together and Ilan would go on about Heidegger and “thrownness,” or about Will Ferrell, and Jacob would come up with some way to disagree, and I would mostly just listen, and eat baklava and drink lots of coffee. Then we’d go for a long walk, and Ilan might have some argument in defense of, say, Fascist architecture, and Jacob would say something about the striated and the smooth, and then a pretty girl would walk by and they would talk about her outfit for a long time. Jacob and Ilan always had something to say, which gave me the mistaken impression that I did, too. Evenings, we’d go to the movies, or eat at an overpriced restaurant, or lie around Ilan’s spacious and oddly neglected apartment. He had no bed frame, nothing hung on the walls, and in his bathroom there was just a single white towel and a T.W.A. mini-toothbrush. But he had a two-hundred-dollar pair of leather gloves. One day, when I went shopping with the two of them, I found myself buying a simple striped sweater so expensive that I couldn’t get to sleep that night. None of this behavior—the laziness, the happiness, the subservience, even the pretentiousness—was “like me.” I was accustomed to using a day planner and eating my lunch alone, in fifteen minutes; I bought my socks at street fairs. But when I was with them I felt like, well, a girl. Or “the girl.” I would see us from the outside and recognize that I was, in an old-fashioned and maybe even demeaning way, the sidekick, the mascot, the decoration; it was thrilling. And it didn’t hurt that Ilan was so generous with his praise. I fixed his leaking shower and he declared me a genius. Same when I roasted a chicken with lemons. When I wore orange socks with jeans, he kissed my feet. Jacob told Ilan to behave with more dignity; he was just jealous of Ilan’s easy pleasures. It’s not as if Jacob wasn’t lovable in his own abstruse and awkward way. I admired how much he read—probably more than Ilan, certainly more than me (he made this as clear as he could)—but Jacob struck me as pedantic, and I thought he would do well to button his shirts a couple buttons higher. Once, we were all at the movies—I had bought a soda for four dollars—and Jacob and I were waiting wordlessly for Ilan to return from the men’s room. It felt like a very long wait. Several times I had to switch the hand I was holding the soda in because the waxy cup was so cold. “He’s taking such a long time,” I said, and shrugged my shoulders, just to throw a ripple into the strange quiet between us. “You know what they say about time,” Jacob said idly. “It’s what happens even when nothing else does.” “O.K.,” I said. The only thing that came to my mind was the old joke that time flies like an arrow and fruit flies like a banana. I couldn’t bear to say it, so I remained silent. It was as if, without Ilan, we couldn’t even pretend to have a conversation. There were, I should admit, things about Ilan (in particular) that didn’t make me feel so good about myself. For example, once I thought he was pointing a gun at me, but it turned out to be a remarkably good fake. Occasionally when he poured me a drink he would claim he was trying to poison me. One night I even became very sick, and wondered. Another evening—maybe the only time Jacob wasn’t with us; he said his daughter had appendicitis—Ilan and I lay on his mattress watching TV. For years, watching TV had made me sick with a sense of dissoluteness, but now suddenly it seemed great. That night, Ilan took hold of one of my hands and started idly to kiss my fingers, and I felt—well, I felt I’d give up the rest of my life just for that. Then Ilan got up and turned off the television. Then he fell asleep, and the hand-kissing never came up again. Ilan frequently called me his “dusty librarian.” And once he called me his “Inner Swabian,” and this struck him as very funny, and even Jacob didn’t seem to understand why. Ilan made a lot of jokes that I didn’t understand—he was a big fan of Poe, so I chalked his occasionally morbid humor up to that. But he had that handsome face, and his pants fit him just so, and he liked to lecture Jacob about how smart I was after I’d, say, nervously folded up my napkin in a way he found charming. I got absolutely no work done while I was friends with them. And hardly any reading, either. What I mean to say is that those were the happiest days of my entire life. Then we fell apart. I just stopped hearing from them. Ilan didn’t return my calls. I waited and waited, but I was remarkably poised about the whole thing. I assumed that Ilan had simply found a replacement mascot. And I imagined that Jacob—in love with Ilan, in his way—hardly registered the swapping out of one girl for another. Suddenly it seemed a mystery to me that I had ever wanted to be with them. Ilan was just a charming parrot. And Jacob the parrot’s parrot. And if Jacob was married and had a child wasn’t it time for him to grow up and spend his days like a responsible adult? That, anyway, was the disorganized crowd of my thoughts. Several months passed, and I almost convinced myself that I was glad to be alone again. I took on more tutoring work. Then one day I ran randomly (O.K., not so randomly—I was haunting our old spots like the most unredeemed of ghosts) into Jacob. For the duration of two iced teas, Jacob sat with me, repeatedly noting that, sadly, he really had no time at all, he really would have to be going. We chatted about this and that and about the tasteless yet uncanny ad campaign for a B movie called “Silent Hill” (the poster image was of a child normal in all respects except for the absence of a mouth), and Jacob went on and on about how much some prominent philosopher adored him, and about how deeply unmutual the feeling was, and about the burden of unsolicited love, until finally, my heart a hummingbird, I asked, “And how is Ilan?” Jacob’s face went the proverbial white. I don’t think I’d ever actually seen that happen to anyone. “I’m not supposed to tell you,” he said. Not saying anything seemed my best hope for remaining composed; I sipped at my tea. “I don’t want your feelings to be hurt,” Jacob went on. “I’m sure Ilan wouldn’t have wanted them hurt, either.” After a long pause, I said, “Jacob, I really am just a dusty librarian, not some disastrous heroine.” It was a bad imitation of something Ilan might have said with grace. “Just tell me.” “Well, let’s see. He died.” “What?” “He had, well, so it is, well, he had stomach cancer. Inoperable, obviously. He kept it a secret. Told only family.” I recalled the cousin from Outer Swabia line. Also, I felt certain—somehow really certain—that I was being lied to. That Ilan was actually still alive. Just tired of me. Or something. “He isn’t dead,” I said, trying to deny the creeping sense of humiliation gathering at my liver’s portal vein. “Well, this is very awkward,” Jacob said flatly. “I feel suddenly that my whole purpose on earth is to tell you the news of Ilan—that this is my most singular and fervent mission. Here I am, failing, and yet still I feel as though this job were, somehow, my deepest essence, who I really—” “Why do you talk like that?” I interrupted. I had never, in all our time together, asked Jacob (or Ilan) such a thing. “You’re in shock—” “What does Ilan even do?” I asked, ashamed of this kind of ignorance above all. “Does he come from money? What was he working on? I never understood. He always seemed to me like some kind of stranded time traveller, from an era when you really could get away with just being good at conversation—” “Time traveller. Funny that you say that.” Jacob shook extra sugar onto the dregs of his iced tea and then slurped at it. “Ilan may have been right about you. Though honestly I could never see it myself. Well, I need to get going.” “Why do you have to be so obscure?” I asked. “Why can’t you just be sincere?” “Oh, let’s not take such a genial view of social circumstances so as to uphold sincerity as a primary value,” Jacob said, with affected distraction, stirring his remaining ice with his straw. “Who you really are—very bourgeois myth, that, obviously an anxiety about social mobility.” I could have cried, trying to control that conversation. Maybe Jacob could see that. Finally, looking at me directly, and with his tone of voice softened, he said, “I really am very sorry for you to have heard like this.” He patted my hand in what seemed like a genuine attempt at tenderness. “I imagine I’ll make this up to you, in time. But listen, sweetheart, I really do have to head off. I have to pick my wife up from the dentist and my kid from school, and there you go, that’s what life is like. I would advise you to seriously consider avoiding it—life, I mean—altogether. I’ll call you. Later this week. I promise.” He left without paying. He had never called me “sweetheart” before. And he’d never so openly expressed the opinion that I had no life. He didn’t phone me that week, or the next, or the one after that. Which was O.K. Maybe, in truth, Jacob and I had always disliked each other. I found no obituary for Ilan. If I’d been able to find any official trace of him at all, I think I might have been comforted. But he had vanished so completely that it seemed like a trick. As if for clues, I took to reading the New York Post. I learned that pro wrestlers were dying mysteriously young, that baseball players and politicians tend to have mistresses, and that a local archbishop who’d suffered a ski injury was now doing, all told, basically fine. I was fine, too, in the sense that every day I would get out of bed in the morning, walk for an hour, go to the library and work on problem sets, drink tea, eat yogurt and bananas and falafel, avoid seeing people, rent a movie, and then fall asleep watching it. But I couldn’t recover the private joy I’d once taken in the march of such orderly, productive days. One afternoon—it was February—a letter showed up in my mailbox, addressed to Ilan. It wasn’t the first time this had happened; Ilan had often, with no explanation, directed mail to my apartment, a habit I’d always assumed had something to do with evading collection agencies. But this envelope had been addressed by hand. Inside, I found a single sheet of paper with an elaborate diagram in Ilan’s handwriting: billiard balls and tunnels and equations heavy with Greek. At the bottom it said, straightforwardly enough, “Jacob will know.” This struck me as a silly, false clue—one that I figured Jacob himself had sent. I believed it signified nothing. But. My face flushed, and my heart fluttered, and I felt as if a morning-glory vine were snaking through all my body’s cavities. I set aside my dignity and called Jacob. Without telling him why, assuming that he knew, I asked him to meet me for lunch. He excused himself with my-wife-this, my-daughter-that; I insisted that I wanted to thank him for how kind he’d always been to me, and I suggested an expensive and tastelessly fashionable restaurant downtown and said it would be my treat. Still he turned me down. I hadn’t thought this would be the game he’d play. “I have something of Ilan’s,” I finally admitted. “Good for you,” he said, his voice betraying nothing but a cold. “I mean work. Equations. And what look like billiard-ball diagrams. I really don’t know what it is. But, well, I had a feeling that you might.” I didn’t know what I should conceal, but it seemed like I should conceal something. “Maybe it will be important.” “Does it smell like Ilan?” “It’s just a piece of paper,” I answered, not in the mood for a subtext I couldn’t quite make out. “But I think you should see it.” “Listen, I’ll have lunch with you, if that’s going to make you happy, but don’t be so pathetic as to start thinking you’ve found some scrap of genius. You should know that Ilan found your interest in him laughable, and that his real talent was for convincing people that he was smarter than he was. Which is quite a talent, I won’t deny it, but other than that the only smart ideas that came out of his mouth he stole from other people, usually from me, which is why most everyone, although obviously not you, preferred me—” Having a “real” life seemed to have worn on Jacob. At the appointed time and place, Ilan’s scrawl in hand, I waited and waited for Jacob. I ordered several courses and ate almost nothing, except for a little side of salty cucumbers. Jacob never showed. Maybe he hadn’t been the source of the letter. Or maybe he’d lost the spirit to follow through on his joke, whatever it was. A little detective work on my part revealed that Ilan’s diagrams had something to do with an idea often played with in science fiction, a problem of causality and time travel known as the grandfather paradox. Simply stated, the paradox is this: if travel to the past is possible—and much in physics suggests that it is—then what happens if you travel back in time and set out to murder your grandfather? If you succeed, then you will never be born, and therefore your grandfather won’t be murdered by you, and therefore you will be born, and will be able to murder him, et cetera, ad paradox. Ilan’s billiard-ball diagrams were part of a tradition (the seminal work is Feynman and Wheeler’s 1949 Advanced Absorber Theory) of mathematically analyzing a simplified version of the paradox: imagine a billiard ball enters a wormhole, and then emerges five minutes in the past, on track to hit its past self out of the path that sent it into the wormhole in the first place. The surprise is that, just as real circles can’t be squared, and real moving matter doesn’t cross the barrier of the speed of light, the mathematical solutions to the billiard-ball–wormhole scenario seem to bear out the notion that real solutions don’t generate grandfather paradoxes. The rub is that some of the real solutions are very strange, and involve the balls behaving in extraordinarily unlikely, but not impossible, ways. The ball may disintegrate into a powder, or break in half, or hit up against its earlier self at just such an angle so as to enter the wormhole in just such a way that even more peculiar events occur. But the ball won’t, and can’t, hit up against its past self in any way that would conflict with its present self’s trajectory. The mathematics simply don’t allow it. Thus no paradox. Science-fiction writers have arrived at analogous solutions to the grandfather paradox: murderous grandchildren are inevitably stopped by something—faulty pistols, slippery banana peels, flying squirrels, consciences—before the impossible deed can be carried out. Frankly, I was surprised that Ilan—if it was Ilan—was any good at math. He hadn’t seemed the type. Maybe I was also surprised that I spent so many days trying to understand that note. I had other things to do. Laundry. Work. I was auditing an extra course in Materials. But I can’t pretend I didn’t harbor the hope that eventually—on my own—I’d prove that page some sort of important discovery. I don’t know how literally I thought this would bring Ilan back to me. But the oversimplified image that came to me was, yes, that of digging up a grave. I kind of wanted to call Jacob just to say that he hadn’t hurt my feelings by standing me up, that I didn’t need his help, or his company, or anything. Time passed. I made no further progress. Then, one Thursday—it was August—I came across two (searingly dismissive) reviews of a book Jacob had written called “Times and Misdemeanors.” I was amazed that he had completed anything at all. And frustrated that “grandfather paradox” didn’t appear in the index. It seemed to me implied by the title, even though that meant reading the title wrongly, as literature. Though obviously the title invited that kind of “wrongness.” Which I thought was annoying and ambiguous in precisely a Jacob kind of way. I bought the book, but, in some small attempt at dignity, I didn’t read it. The following Monday, for the first time in his life, Jacob called me up. He said he was hoping to discuss something rather delicate with me, something he’d rather not mention over the phone. “What is it?” I asked. “Can you meet me?” he asked. “But what is it?” “What time should we meet?” I refused the first three meeting times he proposed, because I could. Eventually, Jacob suggested we meet at the Moroccan place at whatever time I wanted, that day or the next, but urgently, not farther in the future, please. “You mean the place where I first met Ilan?” This just slipped out. “And me. Yes. There.” In preparation for our meeting, I reread the negative reviews of Jacob’s book. And I felt so happy; the why of it was opaque to me. Predictably, the coffee shop was the same but somehow not quite the same. Someone, not me, was reading the New York Post. Someone, not Ilan, was reading Deleuze. The fashion had made for shorter shorts on many of the women, and my lemonade came with slushy, rather than cubed, ice. But the chairs were still trimmed with chipping red paint, and the floor tile seemed, as ever, to fall just short of exhibiting a regular pattern. Jacob walked in only a few minutes late, his gaze beckoned in every direction by all manner of bare legs. With an expression like someone sucking on an unpleasant cough drop, he made his way over to me. I offered my sincerest consolations on the poor reviews of his work. “Oh, time will tell,” he said. He looked uncomfortable; he didn’t even touch the green leaf cookies I’d ordered for him. Sighing, wrapping his hand tightly around the edge of the table and looking away, he said, “You know what Augustine says about time? Augustine describes time as a symptom of the world’s flaw, a symptom of things in the world not being themselves, having to make their way back to themselves, by moving through time—” Somehow I had already ceded control of the conversation. No billiard-ball diagrams. No Ilan. No reviews. Almost as if I weren’t there, Jacob went on with his unencouraged ruminations: “There’s a paradox there, of course, since what can things be but themselves? In Augustine’s view, we live in what he calls the region of unlikeness, and what we’re unlike is God. We are apart from God, who is pure being, who is himself, who is outside of time. And time is our tragedy, the substance we have to wade through as we try to move closer to God. Rivers flowing to the sea, a flame reaching upward, a bird homing: these movements all represent objects yearning to be their true selves, to achieve their true state. For humans, the motion reflects the yearning for God, and everything we do through time comes from moving—or at least trying to move—toward God. So that we can be”—someone at a nearby table cleared his throat judgmentally, which made me think of Ilan also being there—“our true selves. So there’s a paradox there again, that we must submit to God—which feels deceptively like not being ourselves—in order to become ourselves. We might call this yearning love, and it’s just that we often mistake what we love. We think we love sensuality. Or admiration. Or, say, another person. But loving another person is just a confusion, an error. Even if it is the kind of error that a nice, reasonable person might make—” It struck me that Jacob might be manically depressed and that, in addition to his career, his marriage might not be going so well, either. “I mean,” Jacob amended, “it’s all bullshit, of course, but aren’t I a great guy? Isn’t talking to me great? I can tell you about time and you learn all about Western civilization. And Augustine’s ideas are beautiful, no? I love this thought that motion is about something, that things have a place to get to, and a person has something to become, and that thing she must become is herself. Isn’t that nice?” Jacob had never sounded more like Ilan. It was getting on my nerves. Maybe Jacob could read my very heart, and was trying to insult—or cure—me. “You’ve never called me before,” I said. “I have a lot of work to do, you know.” “Nonsense,” he said, without making it clear which statement of mine he was dismissing. “You said,” I reminded him, “that you wanted to discuss something ‘delicate.’ ” Jacob returned to the topic of Augustine; I returned to the question of why the two of us had come to sit together right then, right there. We ping-ponged in this way, until eventually Jacob said, “Well, it’s about Ilan, so you’ll like that.” “About the grandfather paradox?” I said, too quickly. “Or it could be called the father paradox. Or even the mother paradox.” “I guess I’ve never thought of it that way, but sure.” My happiness had dissipated; I felt angry, and manipulated. “Not only about Ilan but about my work as well.” Jacob actually began to whisper. “The thing is, I’m going to ask you to try to kill me. Don’t worry, I can assure you that you won’t succeed. But in attempting you’ll prove a glorious, shunned truth that touches on the nature of time, free will, causal loops, and quantum theory. You’ll also probably work out some aggression you feel toward me.” Truth be told, through the thin haze of my disdain, I had always been envious of Jacob’s intellect; I had privately believed—despite what those reviews said, or maybe partly because of what those reviews said—that Jacob was a rare genius. Now I realized that he was just crazy. “I know what you’re thinking,” Jacob said. “Unfortunately, I can’t explain everything to you right here, right now. It’s too psychologically trying. For you, I mean. Listen, come over to my apartment on Saturday. My family will be away for the weekend, and I’ll explain everything to you then. Don’t be alarmed. You probably know that I’ve lost my job”—I hadn’t known that, but I should have been able to guess it—“but those morons, trust me, their falseness will become obvious. They’ll be flies at the horse’s ass. My ideas will bestride the world like a colossus. And you, too—you’ll be essential.” I promised to attend, fully intending not to. “Please,” he said. “Of course,” I said, without meaning it. All the rest of that week I tried to think through my decision carefully, but the more I tried to organize my thoughts the more ludicrous I felt for thinking them at all. I thought: As a friend, isn’t it my responsibility to find out if Jacob has gone crazy? But really we’re not friends. And if I come to know too much about his madness he may destroy me in order to preserve his psychotic world view. But maybe I should take that risk, because, in drawing closer to Jacob—mad or no—I’ll learn something more of Ilan. But why do I need to know anything? And do my propositions really follow one from the other? Maybe my not going will entail Jacob’s having to destroy me in order to preserve his psychotic world view. Or maybe Jacob is utterly levelheaded, and just bored enough to play an elaborate joke on me. Or maybe, despite there never having been the least spark of sexual attraction between us, despite the fact that we could have been locked in a closet for seven hours and nothing would have happened, maybe, for some reason, Jacob is trying to seduce me. Out of nostalgia for Ilan. Or as consolation for the turn in his career. Was I really up for dealing with a desperate man? Or: Was I, in my dusty way, passing up the opportunity to be part of an idea that would, as Jacob had said, “bestride the world like a colossus”? Early Saturday morning, I found myself knocking on Jacob’s half-open door; this was when my world began to grow strange to me—strange, and yet also familiar, as if my destiny had once been known to me and I had forgotten it incompletely. Jacob’s voice invited me in. I’d never been to his apartment before. It was tiny, and smelled of orange rinds, and had—incongruously, behind a futon—a chalkboard; also so many piles of papers and books that the apartment seemed more like the movie set for an intellectual’s rooms than like the real McCoy. I had once visited a ninety-one-year-old great-uncle who was still conducting research on fruit flies, and his apartment was cluttered with countless hand-stoppered jars of cloned fruit flies and a few hot plates for preparing some sort of agar; that apartment is what Jacob’s brought to mind. I found myself doubting that Jacob truly had a wife and child, as he had so often claimed. “Thank God you’ve come,” Jacob said, emerging from what appeared to be a galley kitchen but may have been simply a closet. “I knew you’d be reliable, that at least.” And then, as if reading my mind, “Natasha sleeps in the loft we built. My wife and I sleep on the futon. Although, yes, it’s not much for entertaining. But can I get you something? I have this tea that one of my students gave me, exceptional stuff from Japan, harvested at high altitude—” “Tea, great, yes,” I said. To my surprise, I was relieved that Jacob’s ego seemed to weather his miserable surroundings just fine. Also to my surprise I felt tenderly toward him. And toward the scent of old citrus. On the main table I noticed what looked like the ragtag remains of some Physics 101 lab experiments: rusted silver balls on different inclines, distressed balloons, a stained funnel, a markered flask, a calcium-speckled Bunsen burner, iron filings and sandpaper, large magnets, and batteries that could have been bought from a Chinese immigrant on the subway. Did I have the vague feeling that “a strange traveller” might show up and tell “extravagant stories” over a meal of fresh rabbit? I did. I also considered that Jacob’s asking me to murder him had just been an old-fashioned suicidal plea for help. “Here, here.” Jacob brought me tea (in a cracked porcelain cup), and I thought—somewhat fondly—of Ilan’s old inscrutable poisoning jokes. “Thanks so much.” I moved away from that table of hodgepodge and sat on Jacob’s futon. “Well,” Jacob said gently, also sitting down. “Yes, well.” “Well, well,” he said. “Yes,” I said. “I’m not going to hit on you,” Jacob said. “Of course not,” I said. “You’re not going to kiss my hand.” “Of course not.” The tea tasted like damp cotton. Jacob rose and walked over to the table, spoke to me from across the compressed distance. “I presume that you learned what you could. From those scribblings of Ilan. Yes?” I conceded—both that I had learned something and that I had not learned everything, that much was still a mystery to me. “But you understand, at least, that in situations approaching grandfather paradoxes very strange things can become the norm. Just as, if someone running begins to approach the speed of light, he grows unfathomably heavy.” He paused. “Didn’t you find it odd that you found yourself lounging so much with me and Ilan? Didn’t it seem to beg explanation, how happy the three of us—” “It wasn’t strange,” I insisted, and surely I was right almost by definition. It wasn’t strange because it had already happened and so it was conceivable. Or maybe that was wrong. “I think he loved us both,” I said, confused for no reason. “And we both loved him.” Jacob sighed. “Yes, O.K. I hope you’ll appreciate the elaborate calculations I’ve done in order to set up these demonstrations of extraordinarily unlikely events. Come over here. Please. You’ll see that we’re in a region of, well, not exactly a region of unlikeness, that would be a cheap association—very Ilan-like, though, a fitting tribute—but we’ll enter a region where things seem not to behave as themselves. In other words, a zone where events, teetering toward interfering”—I briefly felt that I was a child again, falling asleep on our scratchy blue sofa while my coughing father watched reruns of “Twilight Zone”—“with a fixed future, are pressured into revealing their hidden essences.” I felt years or miles away. Then this happened, which is not the crux of the story, or even the center of what was strange to me: Jacob tapped one of the silver balls and it rolled up the inclined plane; he set a flask of water on the Bunsen burner and marked the rising level of the fluid; a balloon distended unevenly; a magnet under sandpaper moved iron filings so as to spell the word “egregious.” Jacob turned to me, raised his eyebrows. “Astonishing, no?’ I felt like I’d seen him wearing a dress or going to the bathroom. “I remember those science-magic shows from childhood,” I said gently, tentatively. “I always loved those spooky caves they advertised on highway billboards.” I wasn’t not afraid. Cousin or no cousin, Ilan had clearly run away from Jacob, not from me. “I can see you’re resistant,” Jacob said. “Which I understand, and even respect. Maybe I scared you, with that killing-me talk, which you weren’t ready for. We’ll return to it. I’ll order us in some food. We’ll eat, we’ll drink, we’ll talk, and I’ll let you absorb the news slowly. You’re an engineer, for God’s sake. You’ll put the pieces together. Sometimes sleep helps, sometimes spearmint—just little ways of sharpening a mind’s ability to synthesize. You take your time.” Jacob transferred greasy Chinese food into marginally clean bowls, “for a more homey feel.” There at the table, that shabby impromptu lab, I found myself eating slowly. Jacob seemed to need something from me, something more, even, than just a modicum of belief. And he had paid for the takeout. Halfway through a bowl of wide beef-flavored noodles—we had actually been comfortable in the quiet, at ease—Jacob said, “Didn’t you find Ilan’s ideas uncannily fashionable? Always a nose ahead? Even how he started wearing pink before everyone else?” “He was fashionable in all sorts of ways,” I agreed, surprised by my appetite for the slippery and unpleasant food. “Not that it ever got him very far, always running after the next new thing like that. Sometimes I’d copy what he said, and it would sound dumb coming out of my mouth, so maybe it was dumb in the first place. Just said with charm.” I shrugged. Never before had I spoken aloud anything unkind about Ilan. “You don’t understand. I guess I should tell you that Ilan is my as yet unborn son, who visited me—us—from the future.” He took a metal ball between two greasy fingers, dropped it twice, and then once again demonstrated it rolling up the inclined plane. “The two of us, Ilan and I, we collaborate.” Jacob explained that part of what Ilan had established in his travels—which were repeated, and varied—was that, contrary to popular movies, travel into the past didn’t alter the future, or, rather, that the future was already altered, or, rather, that it was all far more complicated than that. “I, too, was reluctant to believe,” Jacob insisted. “Extremely reluctant. And he’s my son. A pain in the ass, but also a dear.” Jacob ate a dumpling in one bite. “A bit too much of a moralist, though. Not a good business partner, in that sense.” Although I felt the dizziness of old heartbreak—had I really loved Ilan so much?—the fact that, in my first reaction to Jacob’s apartment, I had kind of foreseen this turn of events obscurely satisfied me. I played along: “If Ilan was from the future, that means he could tell you about your future.” I no longer felt intimidated by Jacob. How could I? “Sure, yes. A little.” Jacob blushed like a schoolgirl. “It’s not important. But certain things he did know. Being my son and all.” “Ah so.” I, too, ate a dumpling whole. Which isn’t the kind of thing I normally do. “What about my future? Did he know anything about my future?” Jacob shook his head. I couldn’t tell if he was responding to my question or just disapproving of it. He again nudged a ball up its inclined plane. “Right now we have my career to save,” he said. I saw that he was sweating, even along his exposed collarbone. “Can I tell you what I’m thinking? What I’m thinking is that we perform the impossibility of my dying before fathering Ilan. A little stunt show of sorts, but for real, with real guns and rope and poison and maybe some blindfolded throwing of knives. Real life. And this can drum up a bit of publicity for my work.” I felt myself getting sleepy during this speech of his, getting sleepy and thinking of circuses and of dumb pornography and of Ilan’s mattress and of the time a small binder clip landed on my head when I was walking outside. “I mean, it’s a bit lowbrow, but lowbrow is the new highbrow, of course, or maybe the old highbrow, but, regardless, it will be fantastic. Maybe we’ll be on Letterman. And we’ll probably make a good deal of money in addition to getting me my job back. We have to be careful, though. Just because I can’t die doesn’t mean I can’t be pretty seriously injured. But I’ve been doing some calculations and we’ve got some real showstoppers.” Jacob’s hazel eyes stared into mine. “I’m not much of a showgirl,” I said, suppressing a yawn. “You can find someone better than me for the job.” “We’re meant to have this future together. My wife—she really will want to kill me when she finds out the situation I’m in. She won’t coöperate.” “I know people who can help you, Jacob,” I said, in the monotone of the half-asleep. “But I can’t help you. I like you, though. I really, really do.” “What’s wrong with you? Have you ever seen a marble roll up like that? I mean, these are just little anomalies, I didn’t want to frighten you, but there are many others. Right here in this room, even. We have the symptoms of leaning up against time here.” I thought of Jacob’s blathering on about Augustine and meaningful motion and yearning. I also felt convinced I’d been drugged. Not just because of my fatigue but because I was beginning to find Jacob vaguely attractive. His sweaty collarbone was pretty. The room around me—the futon, the Chinese food, the porcelain teacup, the rusty laboratory, the piles of papers, Ilan’s note in my back pocket, Jacob’s cheap dress socks, the dust, Jacob’s ringed hand on his knee—these all seemed like players in a life of mine that had not yet become real, a life I was coursing toward, one for which I would be happy to waste every bit of myself. “Do you think,” I found myself asking, maybe because I’d had this feeling just once before in my life, “that Ilan was a rare and tragic genius?” Jacob laughed. I shrugged. I leaned my sleepy head against his shoulder. I put my hand to his collarbone. “I can tell you this about your future,” Jacob said quietly. “I didn’t not hear that question. So let me soothsay this. You’ll never get over Ilan. And that will one day horrify you. But soon enough you’ll settle on a replacement object for all that love of yours, which does you about as much good as a proverbial stick up the ass. Your present, if you’ll excuse my saying so, is a pretty sorry one. But your future looks pretty damn great. Your work will amount to nothing. But you’ll have a brilliant child. And a brilliant husband. And great love.” He was saying we would be together. He was saying we would be in love. I understood. I had solved the puzzle. I knew who I, who we, were meant to be. I fell asleep relieved. I woke up alone on Jacob’s futon. At first I couldn’t locate Jacob, but then I saw he was sleeping in his daughter’s loft. His mouth was open; he looked awful. The room smelled of MSG. I felt at once furious and small. I left the apartment, vowing never to go to the coffee shop—or anywhere else I might see Jacob—again. I spent my day grading student exams. That evening, I went to the video store and almost rented “Wuthering Heights,” then switched to “The Man Who Wasn’t There,” then, feeling haunted in a dumb way, ended up renting nothing at all. Did I, in the following weeks and months, think of Jacob often? Did I worry for or care about him? I couldn’t tell if I did or didn’t, as if my own feelings had become the biggest mystery to me of all. I can’t even say I’m absolutely sure that Jacob was delusional. When King Laius abandons baby Oedipus in the mountains on account of the prophecy that his son will murder him, Laius’s attempt to evade his fate simply serves as its unexpected engine. This is called a predestination paradox. It’s a variant of the grandfather paradox. At the heart of it is your inescapable fate. We know that the general theory of relativity is compatible with the existence of space-times in which travel to the past or remote future is possible. The logician Kurt Gödel proved this back in the late nineteen-forties, and it remains essentially undisputed. Whether or not humans (in our very particular space-time) can in fact travel to the past—we still don’t know. Maybe. Surely our world obeys rules still alien to our imaginations. Maybe Jacob is my destiny. Regardless, I continue to avoid him.
The Bell Ringer Half a mile beyond the sign for Lathockar mill, Eva Lowe turned off the main coastal road and took the back way through Kinaldy woods. It wasn’t the most direct route into the village, but her father had always liked that stretch of road, maybe because it reminded him of Slovakia, and they’d often come this way on their Sunday walks, when her mother was still alive. It was dark, out on the narrow lane that ran past the sawmills, dark and very green, the boundary wall a dim colony of moss and ferns, the shadows under the trees damp and still. To most people, it seemed gloomy, but for Eva it was as close to the landscape of home as she could imagine—especially now, with new snow settling on the pines and on the ridges of the drystone wall, so that the land resembled nothing so much as a children’s-book illustration, the snow steady and insistent in a kingdom that had succumbed to the bad fairy’s spell and slept for a hundred years in a viridian web of gossamer and thorns. Her father had always loved that story, and she still had the book he had read to her from, the one he’d bought because it reminded him of home. Those pictures were her one real memento of him, page after page of watercolors from a world that, even before she opened the book for the first time, was gone forever, leaf green and sky blue and damson, wiped out by a tide of cattle trucks and unmarked graves. Her father had been a long time dying, and Matt had lost patience with it all. He would never say what he was thinking, but it was clear that he resented the time she spent at the hospital, and Eva had started looking forward to the days or weeks when her husband was away, inspecting a rig in the North Sea or designing some mysterious installation in Egypt or Nigeria. During the last month of her father’s life, Matt had been away more often than not, and that had been fine with Eva. It had given her a space to come to terms with things, a silence in which to remember her father’s voice, singing to her in the language of his childhood or reciting those old folk stories that he loved. Later, when it was all over, she had found herself alone in the old farmhouse, with nowhere to go and nothing to do, and nobody to talk to but Matt’s sister, Martha, who had started coming to the house on Saturday mornings with cakes and baskets of apples. She never came when Matt was there, but when he was away she would invite herself over. It had become a routine: every Saturday, at around ten-thirty, Martha would arrive and they would sit by the Aga and have long conversations. Sometimes too long. It was Martha’s fault, in fact, that Eva was late now, though she didn’t mind that so much: her sister-in-law had been a good friend in those first days, when her grief was still raw. That was how Martha talked about such things, her language straight out of self-help books and women’s magazines, but it had worked, and Eva had looked forward to sitting for hours over a plate of biscuits, telling each other the stories people tell when they are trying to remember what it was they were doing before their lives were so rudely interrupted. Looking back, though, Eva could see that the real interruption had not been her father’s death. She had always known he would die, and she had tried to prepare herself for the loss. Of course, as Martha said, you can never be truly prepared for the death of a loved one, especially when it happens so slowly and painfully. Still, the fact was that in the aftermath of the funeral, when it had seemed as if the whole world had fallen silent, what had troubled Eva most was her marriage, not her father’s absence. Matt had come back for a few days to assist with the arrangements, and she couldn’t help noticing his relief that this phase of their existence was over, just as he seemed relieved to be going back to work once the business of the interment was over. Until then, she had thought it was her husband she was missing when she sat up at night staring out at the orchard and the fields beyond, fields that had once belonged to Matt’s people and were now rented out to neighbors. Sometimes, she remembered him as he had been when they first met: his charm, his quiet sense of humor, the little games he had played to amuse her. He would bring her flowers, or fruit from the orchard, and when it became clear that they were serious about each other he had created a long-running joke about their having identical tattoos: hearts, roses, Celtic knots, tiny bluebirds tucked away in the secret angles of their bodies, where only they could see. That romantic phase hadn’t lasted past the first year of marriage, but she still remembered it. When he’d started travelling, she had replayed it dutifully in her mind, because, she told herself, surely they had loved each other back then, and if they had loved each other once they could love each other again. Yet all the while she was aware of how deliberate that remembering was, and she knew, when she was alone, that it wasn’t really Matt she was missing. The truth was that she didn’t mind being on her own; it was just that she didn’t like being alone in that house. If they had lived somewhere else, if Matt had sold up and bought a property in the village—a notion he’d considered for a long time before abandoning the idea—she would have been fine. She could have got by, even when he was away for months, living his separate life, not bothering to phone for days on end and, when he did, making it clear that he had other things to think about, that this was some duty he felt he had to perform. Whenever she put down the phone, she would picture him in some bright room—a conference center, perhaps, or a restaurant—discussing weighty business with colleagues, talking about engineering or politics just loud enough so the waitress would hear. Maybe he would flirt a little, and maybe he would do more. She could see him telling his little jokes, she could see how charming he would seem to the girl, who would be young and bright and eager to please. At such times, the house would close in around her, dark, damp, utterly still, and yet busy with the echoes and memories of those who had gone before, generation upon generation of Lowes, all dark-eyed and stocky and taciturn, watching her from the shadows, listening when she spoke on the phone: listening, watching, judging. Sometimes she even imagined she saw them, though it was never final, never anything as conclusive as a haunting, just phantoms from the stories Matt had told her when they were courting: Old John Lowe with his hurricane lamp coming in from the orchard; the twins, Maybeth and Cathy, sitting on the cold flagstones in the scullery amid a litter of kittens; the stricken, defiantly cheerful Eleanor, lying in what was now the guest room, dying slowly in her mid-teens. Whenever Eva was alone in the house, they would make themselves known, not quite present but there all the same, and it always seemed to her that they were waiting for something. After a while, she’d find herself talking, not so much to herself as to them, pretending she was somebody else, trying to win them over, and she knew she had to get out. She hadn’t known what to do at first; then, one afternoon when she had finished the shopping, she had stayed on in the village, wandering about like a tourist, taking it all in. The church, the two pubs, the school. The large well-kept green, with its row of chestnut trees on the south side. This was her home, but she had never really felt like a local. Her father had come to the place as a young man; she had gone to the school, and her mother had stood in the queue at the butcher’s with all the other women, picking out cuts of meat at one counter, then going over to the kiosk at the back to pay. In those days, the people who prepared the meat didn’t handle money, and she had liked that, the way they kept it all separate. The butcher had been a good man, friendly to her mother, always offering a kind word and picking out the best cuts for her, but his wife had been mean and silent as she took the money, and sometimes she had kept it a little longer in her hand, staring at it, as if she thought it might be some kind of foreign currency. That was how they were, back then. They hadn’t liked having a stranger in their midst, and they liked it even less when one of their own took it into her head to marry him. Those people were gone now, and the man who served the chops and sausages took her credit card without a second glance. At four o’clock, the church clock chimed, and she was about to go back to the car when she thought of the community center. There was a café there, and she remembered that they had activities: flower arranging and Italian classes, Toc H, the Women’s Institute. She didn’t see herself as the W.I. type, and she wasn’t even sure what Toc H was, but she walked to the center anyway, and scrutinized the notice boards in the foyer, the timetables for events and classes neatly pinned out in rows among notices for Brownies and photographs of children in karate whites. She considered yoga, because she thought it would be relaxing, but she quickly dismissed the image of herself in a leotard. On Wednesday nights they had a beginners’ class in French, which she’d studied in school but completely forgotten, and she had more or less decided that this was the class for her when she saw a small white postcard, set apart from the rest, announcing that the bell-ringing club was looking for new members. Everyone welcome, it said; no experience needed. If someone had asked Eva Lowe to imagine a typical bell ringer, she would have pictured some churchy spinster in a hand-knitted cardigan and brogues, or maybe a man in a tweed hat and one of those army-navy-store sweaters that all the keen hikers wore when they climbed the Ben, but, reading that notice, she had a sudden notion of herself in a bell tower, standing in a circle of like-minded souls, the kindly faces touched with a warm, coppery lamplight, the bells ringing out over the stillness of the churchyard as the people of the village settled to their dinners or rose from their beds and made ready for Sunday service. She wasn’t a religious person, as such, but she had always liked the church for its own sake, especially when it was lit with candles on Christmas Eve or brimming with sheaves of barley and ripe fruit at harvest time. As a child, she had sometimes walked around the graveyard during lunch break, when the other kids were playing, and she had made a point of reading all the names on the stones. Her father had told her off for that: God was a lie, he said, and Heaven was a myth. Yet Eva thought the place had less to do with God and his angels than with an ordinary, and understandable, desire to have things continue as they had always done. Easter, Harvest, Christmas: it all went round, forever and ever, and nothing could change that. It was a pagan desire, she thought, and it was a pagan place: a dark garden of yews and straggling roses and, at its center, the stone church, with its altar and its font and, above it all, the bells, suspended in the chill air of the belfry, heavy and still, waiting to be brought to life. It surprised her, all these thoughts running through her head as she stood there, reading the postcard. She took out her shopping list and jotted down the relevant contact details. It turned out that the organizer was someone she had known in school, and though the woman seemed not to remember Eva, she had been very kind, and the other bell ringers gentle and considerate, always ready to help her out, never noticing when she got things wrong. Matt had laughed when she told him. He’d come home three weeks after she started, and after listening to her talk about it for a couple of minutes he’d just shaken his head. “Well, I’m glad you’ve found something you like,” he said. “To be honest, I think you’re crackers, but if it keeps you happy.” He’d noticed that she was annoyed then, and stopped talking, but he hadn’t tried to undo the damage. He wasn’t that interested. Whenever he was home, he would spend hours on the phone or go out to the pub with his old crowd; then he would be off again. Eva hadn’t expected him to understand, but she was still hurt that he could be so dismissive. Hurt, and then, when she talked to Martha about it, angry, because Martha had been angry and that had made Eva’s anger seem more justified. Martha had been supportive, not just understanding that Eva needed a hobby but getting it—getting, without having to be told, the whole thing about the lighted church and the belfry and that magical resonance of the bells ringing out over the fields and the village green. But, then, that was how Martha had been from the first. She had understood how Eva felt about the house and, even though she was just as proud of her family history as Matt was, she could see how all that Lowe mythology might make an outsider feel uncomfortable. Eva had been impressed by that, and later, as they had got to know each other, she had been gladdened by the idea that someone she knew, a friend, almost a sister, was on her side. So it had come as a shock, that morning, when Martha more or less announced that she was having an affair. She hadn’t intended the revelation to be shocking, of course; she’d even tried to make light of it as they sat in the kitchen over a glass of wine. Eva didn’t normally drink in the daytime, but, maybe because it was so close to Christmas, she had fetched a bottle of white wine out of the fridge, instead of doling out the usual coffee and biscuits, and Martha had opened up after her second glass, talking about how unhappy she was with James, and how tired she was of being taken for granted. “I’ll pretend to other people,” she had said. “But I won’t go on pretending to myself.” She wasn’t terribly upset; she wasn’t even that emotional. Most of the time, when people talked about their problems, Eva thought, they were working things out as they went along, looking for the reaction that would justify whatever decision they were hoping to reach—but Martha wasn’t like that. She had thought it all through beforehand, and was now simply confirming what she had decided. “A person can die from lack of . . .” She considered a moment. Eva was worried, afraid she was about to hear something embarrassing, but she didn’t say anything. She didn’t want to interrupt. “Contact,” Martha said at last, with grim satisfaction. She gave Eva a curious look, as if she wanted to ask her something, then she let it go. “I’m not talking about sex here,” she said. “Or not just sex. I’m talking about contact. A hug, a touch—that’s all.” She thought for a moment, and gave a soft laugh. “All right,” she said. “I am talking about sex.” Eva laughed, though she wasn’t amused. “But what about James?” she said. Martha waved her hand. “To hell with James,” she said. When she was annoyed, she looked older, and not so attractive—something she obviously knew, because she bowed her head. Then, after a moment of quiet, she spoke, her head still bowed. “It’s not as if it’s going anywhere,” she said. She looked up, and her face was calm again, composed. “It’s just one of those things. I didn’t plan on it. It just happened.” Eva didn’t know what to say. She remembered Martha telling her once that James was constitutionally mean, and she wondered whether he suspected anything. He was a big man, with large hands and a cruel mouth, a man used to getting his own way, at any price—a man like Matt, in fact. Casual and charming, but careless of others, steeped in quiet judgment and long-term calculation, his life a fixed agenda that, no matter what happened, would continue on its set course, to whatever end he had decided he deserved. If James found out about the affair, he wouldn’t go out with a kitchen knife looking for Martha and her lover; he would find much finer ways—legal ways—to make their lives miserable. Martha smiled, but she was far away, lost in her own thoughts. “It’s not as if it’s going to change anything,” she said, more to herself than to anyone else. It was a minute or so before she looked back at Eva. “You only live once, right?” she said. Eva shook her head and stood up. Suddenly, she had to do something. She knew Martha would take it badly, but she needed to be out of the house, away from the ancestors in the walls, listening in on Martha’s confession, away from the thought of Matt and of what he would think if he knew what his sister was up to. Worse, what he would do if he discovered that Eva had known about it from the start. She picked up her glass and carried it over to the sink. “My God, look at the time,” she said, aware of how awkward this diversion was, of how inconsiderate she was being. She turned and gave Martha a quick glance. She felt guilty, but she was annoyed, too, because she didn’t want to be in on this secret—or maybe it was because she didn’t want to have to think about all this, about contact and affairs and things that just happen. Martha looked more surprised than upset. “Is there somewhere you have to be?” she asked. “I’m sorry,” Eva said. “I just . . . I’m going to be late for bell ringing.” She looked away quickly, blinking back tears that she hadn’t expected—and the fact that she was about to cry was somehow the worst of it all, a self-imposed humiliation. Martha’s expression didn’t change; if anything, she appeared to be more concerned for Eva than with her own problems. “I’m sorry,” she said. “I shouldn’t have told you about it. It’s not fair.” She looked at her glass and saw that it was nearly empty. She sat back, and smiled ruefully. “Some secrets are better kept secret,” she said. Eva shook her head. “It’s not that,” she said. “I hope you’ll be . . . happy.” Martha laughed. “Well, I doubt that,” she said, with just a hint of a hard edge in her voice. She gave Eva a long look, then she shook her head and laughed again. “I doubt anybody will come out of this happy,” she said. Before Eva could think better of it, she had spoken, and though she didn’t mean it to sound dismissive, she wasn’t sorry when it did. “Well, there you go,” she said. Martha froze for a moment and stared at her. Then she laughed again and raised her glass. “There you go,” she said, without a trace of mockery or dismissal. “There you go, indeed.” She tossed back the wine and poured herself another glass. “And God bless us, every one,” she said, as she rose, fetched her coat from the hat stand, and made herself ready to go. When Eva arrived at the church, the others were already there, though she wasn’t as late as she feared, and they had not begun without her. Nobody said much, but then they never did. Nobody inquired about family or work. She knew these people only as they were in this place, a group of like-minded souls, equals in discretion, united by a common tact. The world outside and what they did there was another matter altogether. Richard, Catherine, Grace, Simon, John: as soon as they put on their coats and scarves and—yes, it so happened that some of them, at least, fitted the image she’d had of them that first day—their tweed caps and bicycle clips, they seemed to dwindle away, the light going out of their faces, their secret selves discarded for their return to the outside world. It had come as a surprise to her, those first few weeks: the reason she had joined the group had been to make new friends, but now she was grateful that nobody here wanted to do anything but gather at the appointed time, ring the bells, and go home. The one exception was Harley. He was the newest member of the group, and he was nothing like the others. He’d been a welcome addition to the company: young, casually dressed, and very good-looking, he was an American student from Illinois, or Iowa, or some such place. No doubt, he had come along the first time out of curiosity, because bell ringing struck him as quaint and Olde Worlde, like warm beer or clootie dumpling, and thus one of the experiences it would be a shame to miss while he was over here. He’d taken to it, though, and the group had accommodated him easily, in spite of his youth and his accent and his fondness for sweatshirts with oddly unsettling slogans printed across the front. Catherine was particularly considerate of him, bringing in brown paper bags full of apples from her garden and Tupperware containers of mince pies to share with his housemates. She was old enough to be his mother, but Eva wasn’t so sure her attentions were wholly maternal. Harley was always polite with her, in the way that Americans are: doggedly courteous and, at the same time, utterly remote, like the landing party in an old episode of “Star Trek,” curious and well-meaning and occasionally bewildered, but sworn not to interfere in the everyday life of their hosts. For her own part, Eva was as scrupulously polite with Harley as he was with her—and just as distant. Yet there were times when she imagined—not sex, of course, nothing so vivid, but a shared moment of some kind. A picnic, say, on Balcomie Law, or a long walk in the woods by Lathockar. In these imaginings, they never touched—not because Harley didn’t excite her but because she’d suddenly discovered that she was superstitious, and she was afraid to imagine what she most desired, afraid even to wonder what it might be. As soon as she did, it would fall away into the realm of the impossible. That afternoon, however, she couldn’t help thinking about what Martha had said, and as Harley moved back and forth in the dim space of the bell tower she noticed how beautiful his hands were: fine, almost delicate, not large and heavy, like other men’s hands, but strong nevertheless, like a pianist’s or a dancer’s. Of course, as soon as the notion entered her mind she did everything she could to extinguish it, because she didn’t want to think about him in that way. Yet she kept coming back to him: to his dark eyes, to the way he carried himself, and, time and again, before she could stop herself, to the beauty of his hands. Hands she wanted to feel on her skin, light and slow and graceful; not heavy, never heavy, but gentle the way a bird is when it alights on a branch or a stone, resting for a moment but never entirely settled, always light, always about to take off. And all this time, as she thought about Harley, the bells rang out over the snowy land. The bell ringers were continuing a tradition that had once been central to the life of the community, and she liked to think that only a generation ago, whenever these bells had rung out over the fields and the streets, everyone had known what they were saying. A call to worship; a royal wedding; an armistice; an enemy attack. Everyone would have understood those signals, because those were the public events, those were the facts. Yet surely there had been something else, another music inside the public proclamations, and there must have been those who could hear more than the facts, gifted listeners who could pick out the subtleties in the way one bell worked against the others, say, or in the pauses when one ringer stopped, weary or undecided, or touched with the knowledge of imminent mortality. Now the bells were nothing but background—pure atmosphere, a little local color—but perhaps there were still souls in this very parish who could decipher the inner workings of a bell ringer’s mind, just by listening. If such souls existed, they might know everything about her: the lie of her marriage, her secret thoughts about Harley, her half-formed plans to get away. With every pull on the bell rope, she might be confiding everything to some old man in the almshouses at the far end of the village, or to some dying woman in one of the cottages out by the woods; some seasoned listener who would set aside a book or a pile of darning and listen awhile, wondering who it was that was giving herself away. It frightened her, that notion, but it pleased her, too, because she wanted to proclaim the truth, she wanted to reveal who she really was: not the good and faithful wife she pretended to be but someone else, someone interrupted. That was what she wanted to say—not to confess but to proclaim to all the land. It was snowing again as she left the church. Over the green, the lights had come on in the shops, the usual gold and white mixed with the Christmas decorations, red and green and a pale, otherworldly blue around the doors and windows of the butcher’s and the greengrocer’s. Eva was dreading Christmas now: James and Martha would come over, as usual, and she would have to sit in that house with them, pretending everything was normal, drinking sherry while the men talked, passing round the mince pies and trying not to be offended by Matt’s jokes about her baking. This year, she decided, she would buy mince pies from the new delicatessen, the one that sold Polish sausage and French cheese, just to see if anybody noticed the difference. Better still, she would just disappear, maybe go out for a walk in the woods by herself. She would leave a trail of footprints in the snow, and when she got to the end of the track she would look back, the way her father had always done on their winter walks when she was a girl—and it struck her that she’d never really allowed herself time to go back to the woods, or out to the meadows where her father had sometimes led her, in the dusk of a summer’s evening, to look at moths, naming them, first in the language he had been obliged to learn as a young man, the only language Eva knew, and then in his mother’s tongue, being careful to match the two, even though the moths they found, ash gray and soft on the barks of the trees and the stones, were local to this place and only distantly related to those he had known as a boy. “You O.K.?” Eva turned and saw Harley in the shelter of the porch behind her, his coat buttoned up to the neck, a thick woollen crew cap pulled down over his ears. She remembered that he’d told her once that he was accustomed to cold weather, where he was from. She wished she knew what kind of region it was, whether it was prairie or forest, or just mile after mile of suburb or strip mall, like the America on television crime shows. She nodded. “I was just thinking we’d get a white Christmas this year,” she said. “But then I suppose you’re used to that, where you live.” He grinned. “Oh, we get plenty of snow, all right,” he said. “Masses of it.” He paused for a moment, and Eva thought she saw something in his face: a memory, or maybe a trace of homesickness. It made him seem preoccupied, like someone who knows he has lost something and can’t remember what it is. Maybe it was a girl. There would be a girl, of course; a pretty girl in Illinois, or Iowa, a girl with long dark hair and reading glasses that she wore only when she wanted to look serious. Pretty and smart, and funny. A smart, funny girl who talked more than he did, which was why he loved her, or maybe why she loved him. “Will you be going home for Christmas?” she asked. He looked puzzled, as if her question were terribly personal and inappropriate, then his face brightened. “Oh, no,” he said. “I’m planning to travel around, maybe go to Paris.” “Paris?” For some reason, the idea shocked her. She had wanted to think of him at home, with his family and his girl, not alone in some foreign city, among strangers. “Really?” He laughed. “I don’t know,” he said. “Maybe Paris, maybe somewhere else.” He poked his head out from under the shelter of the porch and looked up into the falling snow. “Maybe I’ll just stay here,” he said. Eva shook her head. “Oh, don’t do that,” she said. “Go to Paris. Go skiing or something, but don’t stay here.” Harley laughed again, then he saw how serious she looked and he nodded. Eva tried to smile then, because she knew she had given something away, but she couldn’t, because she suddenly felt sorry for him, and for the pretty, smart girl in Iowa, with her books and her reading glasses. She knew how ridiculous that was, and she wanted to shrug it off, to stop being such a fool—and maybe Harley sensed that, because he touched her, his hand alighting on her coat sleeve and lingering for a moment before he took it away. “I have to go,” he said. “Have a nice evening, O.K.?” Eva nodded, and this time she did smile, but Harley was already moving away, loping off toward the gate in his winter coat, the snow clinging to his coat sleeves and the wool cap as he stepped out onto the pavement and headed across the green. Eva knew that she should go, too, but she couldn’t bring herself to drive home to her husband’s house, and she lingered in the porch awhile, watching the snow as it fell through the shop lights on the far side of the green. Harley was gone; he had vanished suddenly and she was surprised, because he’d just been there, crossing the green, heading to the row of shops opposite. She didn’t know where he lived, but she knew it was in a shared house somewhere outside the village, probably on the west side, out by the woods. It would be a half mile or so, maybe more, and it struck her that she should have offered him a lift. But he was used to the cold and, besides, it would have been dangerous to get into a car with him and drive up through the Kinaldy woods in the snow. Out there alone with him, in the dark, with snow falling all around them, she might have said something she would have regretted. But then he didn’t appear on the far side of the green, and she wondered where he’d gone—not because she wanted to give in to the temptation to catch up with him and drive him home to his warm house but out of simple curiosity. That was what made her step out into the snow and walk to the gate. It was like watching a conjurer perform a magic trick, when you shouldn’t really care, because you know it’s an illusion, but you just have to figure out how it’s done. Only she couldn’t figure it out, because Harley wasn’t there. He was gone. The others were gone, too, all but Catherine, who was putting something into the boot of her car twenty yards farther along, and there was nobody in the shops opposite but the people who worked there—the girl in the greengrocer’s, come round from behind the counter to stare out at the falling snow, the butcher in his white coat, clearing away the slabs of beef and lamb after a busy day. Eva felt cheated, as if Harley had tricked her on purpose—and the thought scared her, because, if he had, what reason could there be except that he knew how she felt about him and was mocking her? Or maybe he’d wanted her to look for him, maybe he’d wanted that lift, but couldn’t ask, because she was a married woman and he was an outsider. That was ridiculous, of course. The sad truth, surely, was that he’d already forgotten she existed and was on his way home, trudging happily through the snow: a young man, used to the cold, heading for home in a place he would never see again. Surely that was it, Eva told herself—yet she looked for him still, expected him to come back and resume the conversation because he had seen something in her face, something he’d looked for all along. She stood at the gate, the snow lining the creases in her coat, her face and hands already numb with cold, and she waited to see what would happen, because something would happen—she knew it would. And just as that thought came to her, as if on cue, a familiar car appeared on the far side of the green. It was moving slowly, and the driver’s-side window was wound down, so Eva could see that it was Martha, her hair damp from the drifting snow, her face attentive as she gazed across the green toward the trees by the church. For a moment, Eva was annoyed. She assumed that Martha had come for her, and even though it made no sense, even though she didn’t want to be drawn back into that morning’s conversation, she lifted her hand, lifted it without thinking, and waved. She waved, and then she waved again—but Martha didn’t see her, and at that same moment, a few yards off to the left, a dark figure detached itself from the shadow of the big chestnut tree and hurried across, a dark figure that Eva knew from somewhere, though at first she couldn’t place it, because it didn’t make any sense: a dark figure who became Harley, running around the car and getting in on the passenger side with an air of having done this before. As soon as he was in, the car pulled away, heading out of the village and west, toward the lower woods, where the snow would be thick all night, thick and heavy and, even on the road that ran up to Kinaldy and Lathockar, completely unmarked, except for a line of tire tracks that would soon vanish into whiteness.
Raj, Bohemian We liked to do things casually. We called at the last minute. We messaged one another from our hand-held devices. Sometimes our names were on exclusive guest lists (though we were poor, we were beautiful, and people liked to have us around), but often we preferred to do something else—attend a friend’s opening, drink in after-hours clubs or the room above a pub, trek off to remote suburbs to see a band play in a warehouse. We went dancing whenever we felt like it (none of us had regular jobs), and when we didn’t we stayed in, watching movies and getting high. Someone always had something new or special—illegal pre-releases of Hollywood blockbusters, dubs of 8-mm. shorts from the nineteen-seventies. We watched next summer’s exploding airplanes, Viennese Actionists masturbating onto operating tables. Raw meat and Nick Cage. Whatever we watched was, by definition, good, because we’d watched it, because it had belonged—at least, temporarily—to us. By the time the wider world caught up—which always happened, sooner or later—we’d usually got bored and moved on. We had long since given up mourning the loss of our various enthusiasms. We’d learned to discard them lightly. It was the same with clubs and bars. Wherever we went would be written about in magazines three or four months later. A single mention on a blog, and a place that had been spangled with beautiful, interesting faces would be swamped by young bankers in button-down shirts, nervously analyzing the room to see if they were having fun. I must make it clear that we didn’t plan for our lives to be this way. We despised trendies—fashion kids who tried too hard, perennially hoping to get hosed down by the paps or interviewed about their hair. With us, it wasn’t a neurotic thing. We put on public events—salons, gigs, parties, shows. But once in a while, in the midst of our hectic social gyrations, we liked to do something for one another, something that didn’t drain our energy, that made us feel private again. My friend Sunita had a sense of theatre. She loved formality, intrigue. She had a certain archaic style, which would have been pompous or tediously ironic if it hadn’t been for her cracked sense of humor, her painful, charming earnestness. For Sunita, the world was a kind of tragic game. When she threw one of her dinner parties, there were hand-made invitations, a dress code. Once, she held a surrealist dinner, all diving suits and lobsters, over which she presided in a sheer green dress that was almost completely transparent. Another time, her theme was war. You might think it bad taste to hold a war-themed dinner party—now, of all times—but Sunita pulled it off. We arrived carrying toy guns, wearing helmets daubed with bloodthirsty slogans. Some of us sniggered; others muttered about our hostess’s poor taste. Yet somehow the evening, which should have been ludicrous, took on an unexpected aura of profundity. How? Sunita turned it into a wake. We raised our glasses to the millions of dead, to all the people who had had to endure what we merely watched on television. We had escaped, and we felt very guilty about it. Our childish carnival costumes were a sign of our shame. Donkeys’ ears, dunces’ caps. When word got around that Sunita was holding another dinner, people immediately started angling for invitations. Everyone knew that she and I were close. Friends called, more or less begging me to get them in. I had to apologize and say that there was nothing I could do. It was a rule, an unofficial rule: no liggers and no hangers-on. Sunita lived in an old textile warehouse, a big, echoing building that was due to be converted into apartments. It had pools of water in the basement and a goods lift that clanked its way up to the third floor, where she’d set up home, plumbing in a kitchen and partitioning off a bedroom and a bathroom. The main space was a studio where she made her drawings, ramified patterns of abstract nested lines that had grown, in the time I’d known her, from tiny quadrants smaller than a paperback into huge things that rambled over sheets of paper in uncertain arcs. The landlord, a Greek named Constantine who had a dozen other properties in the area, was waiting for the market to improve before he redeveloped. In the meantime, Sunita lived rent-free. She and Constantine had some kind of deal; I never knew the details. I would occasionally find him there when I went to visit, a portly man in a cashmere coat, sitting at her huge pine table shelling pistachios. He often brought nuts, sometimes cherries or boxes of gluey sweets. Sunita seemed able to handle him well enough. The card for Sunita’s latest dinner was minimal: a thick piece of cream-colored paper, with the words “Eating Is Honest” printed in an old-fashioned cursive font. Date and time, address, the cryptic instruction “Dress sincerely.” I spent a long time debating what to wear. Sunita was typically tight-lipped about how her theme should be interpreted. “No, I won’t help you,” she said. “You know it would ruin everything.” So I phoned around. No one had a clue. Vikram was his usual scatological self. “Toilets,” he said. “She’s going to do the thing out of the Buñuel film with the toilets. She’s going to make all of us take a shit around a dining table and then eat in little locked cubicles.” I ended up adopting a sort of ironic nerd look, with thick, plastic-framed glasses and a clip-on tie. I wasn’t very satisfied with it. I considered wearing my “own” clothes, on the ground that it would have been the most sincere response—to dress as if there were no dress code—but I couldn’t work out what the most neutral choice would be. How to let everyone know that not only was I myself, I was expressing myself? Damn Sunita, I thought. Damn her clever ideas. When I arrived at the warehouse, I found that she’d transformed the place into a kind of kitsch Christian heaven. White sheets were draped over the walls. A long table was arrayed with flowers and candelabra and lavish silver platters of food. When you got up close, you saw that it was all aluminum foil and spray paint, but by candlelight the scene looked sumptuous, romantic. Next to each place setting was a little hand mirror. Evidently, self-examination was part of the rubric. A number of old–fashioned medical illustrations were tacked incongruously on the wall, demonstrating the digestive system. Sunita was dressed in a white linen shift, and welcomed us with a short speech that, as far as I could tell, was composed of cut-up extracts from diet books. The food was simple and plain—fruit, cheeses, loaves of crusty bread—and while we ate it there was a program of entertainment. Michel read several of his poems. Hengist and Horsa played folk songs. A woman called Kevin did some kind of improvised dance, a flurry of arm-swirling that made me feel embarrassed and slightly uncomfortable. I took that as a good sign. If a piece of art makes me uncomfortable or, better still, angry, that seems to be a reason to pay attention to it. It was all very pure and calming, an atmosphere that Faye de Way (when we finally managed to steer her away from the perennial topic of her operation) labelled “Baroque detox.” If that was the effect our hostess was shooting for, it was slightly spoiled by her guests, who were all smoking like chimneys. “Chew twenty times!” Sunita admonished. “Once for each person at the table.” I was seated next to Thanh, who’d cut her hair into a fringe. She looked like a Vietnamese Nico. I told her she was an inscrutable Oriental, and she told me I was a round-eyed pervert who would cry like a little baby when she cut my cock off. How we laughed! I was in a beautiful place, surrounded by talented people. No one was showing off, no one was being pushy, but somehow everyone shone. For one night, we were glorious. Gradually, we all swapped chairs, clustering in groups to chat. Vikram stood by the record player, putting on seven-inch singles. The table, which had looked so pristine, was strewn with a wreckage of empty bottles and ashtrays and plastic cups. Sunita sat down beside me and asked if I was enjoying myself. I told her I was. She hugged me and I kissed her on the lips. “You should save that for Thanh,” she warned. “If you’re not careful, Raj will get hold of her.” Raj was one of the few people at the party that I didn’t know. He was good-looking, in that conventional way which seems to sabotage any chance of depth or credibility in a person. Are handsome men doomed to become skin-care-obsessed dullards simply because no one talks to them about serious things? Or are looks linked in some genetic way to intelligence? Raj’s hair was gelled and teased into spikes. He wore a fussy beard, shaved into a fine line around the contours of his jaw. He was flirting with Thanh, which annoyed me, since I’d weighed things up and decided that I definitely wanted to go home with her. Still, I swallowed my distaste—after all, the guy was a friend of Sunita’s—and was gratified to find that when I moved over to sit beside Thanh he ceded possession graciously enough. As we chatted, I decided that he was actually rather charming. He even ventured an occasional shot at self-deprecation, which I certainly hadn’t expected from someone like him. He’d brought along several bottles of vodka, an unfamiliar brand. He poured a shot for each of us, telling us that he’d just discovered it and rhapsodizing about how fragrant it was, how smooth. We talked about a number of other things—I can’t remember what—and he took a few pictures with his phone, which I thought was lame. I mean, if you’re too busy recording the experience, are you actually having it in the first place? I came away thinking that he was all right. A little suburban, a little bland, but sweet enough. As I’d hoped, I went home with Thanh, and for a few weeks my memories of Sunita’s party were filtered through my new relationship with her. We’d lie for hours on a rug on her studio floor, fucking and listening to music. One evening, while she got dressed to go back to the boyfriend with whom she had a complex but live-in relationship, I was idly typing our names into a search engine—sort of the digital equivalent of scratching initials into the trunk of a tree—when I came across a picture of the two of us, arms around each other, our cheeks mashed together as we blew kisses at the camera. In the foreground was a vodka bottle. For a moment, I couldn’t work out where the photograph had been taken. Then, to my surprise, I realized that it was from Sunita’s party. The site it was on was a corporate advertorial affair called something like Get-the-Taste, or Feel-the-Refreshment. There was a competition and an unpopulated “community.” Across the screen scrolled similar photos of sexy young things in social situations, always with the vodka bottle in the shot. None of the pictures seemed posed. It took me a minute or two to put it together, and when I did I wasn’t happy. The bastard. The two-faced little fucker. Raj had been getting paid to take those pictures. He’d come to our party, and not just any party, to Sunita’s party, the most beautiful gathering imaginable, and he’d shamelessly used it to sell us—to sell me—a product. The more I thought about it, the more angry I became. All that trash about the vodka being smooth: his whole conversation had been a sales pitch. It was creepy. More than creepy. It was sinister. Furious, I told Thanh to come over and have a look. She peered at the monitor, doing up her blouse. “You came out pretty well,” she said. “I like your glam-rock pout.” “But look at it. That bastard made us into an advert.” “Are we credited?” “Only our first names.” “Shame. And I look so drunk.” “I suppose you—no, no, no! That’s not the point. I mean, don’t you feel used?” “What are you so upset about? You don’t look nearly as wasted as me. It’s hardly fair. You were downing those shots all night.” “But what about Raj? He never asked us whether we wanted to be on his damn vodka Web site. And all that patter about how smooth it tasted!” “It was smooth.” “But to talk to people and secretly be trying to sell them something—isn’t that, I don’t know, unethical? Surely you agree that it’s completely out of order.” “He didn’t ask us to buy anything. He gave us free drinks.” “I know, but the point was to get us to buy something later on. That particular brand. We generate buzz. We recommend it to our friends, it becomes hip, blah-blah-blah.” “He should have given me image approval. Look at my chin! I’m going to have words next time I see him.” “For fuck’s sake, Thanh! He was just using us. He wanted to make us into—into early adopters.” “But we are early adopters. I got a free phone a few months ago. All I had to do was watch a film and say how it made me feel.” “Jesus, you really are a shallow bitch.” Thanh and I more or less stopped seeing each other after that. I couldn’t understand why she didn’t feel more angry. Something precious to me had been violated, something I’d been holding on to. A secret pleasure that I hadn’t wanted to throw into the big commercial vat with all the rest of the stuff—all the other moments and memories that get recycled into processed trends, like so many cheese triangles. Sunita’s party had been private. That is the only way I can put it. The party had been private and he’d made it public. I went to tell Sunita. “That’s so Raj,” she said. I was confused. What did she mean, “so Raj”? Didn’t she think that he’d betrayed her trust? Wasn’t his behavior sleazy and underhanded? “He was just being himself.” She laughed. “He’s a hustler. That’s something you’ll learn about Raj when you get to know him better.” One thing I must admit here: I find anger tricky. Anger is a very sincere emotion. We live under the rule of cool, and we are expected to encounter the vicissitudes of the world with a certain degree of irony. Sincerity, as any hipster will tell you, is for awkward teens and people on SSRIs. Think about it—sincerity is gauche, gauche is boring, and boring is rude, so it’s only a matter of ordinary politeness not to take things too seriously. But I really couldn’t deal with Sunita laughing at me. When you’re truly vexed, so vexed that it makes you incoherent and frustrated, there’s nothing worse than being laughed at. You cunt, I thought. You fucking cunt. You’re not who I thought you were. Just as I was making up my mind to say something, I was saved by the intercom. Sunita buzzed up fat Constantine, who was hefting a box of mangoes in his meaty hands. He nodded to me, installed himself at the table, and started to peel and slice them. Sunita sat down beside him. I stood by the sink, my fists balled, so consumed with irritation that I couldn’t think of anything to say. Constantine fed Sunita slices of mango, spearing them on the tip of his knife. She took them between her teeth, making eyes at him. Eventually, he looked up at me. “Don’t let me interrupt,” he said. “He was talking about my friend Raj,” Sunita explained, wiping her mouth with a napkin. “He’s a bit of a wheeler-dealer.” “My kind of guy,” Constantine said. Sunita smiled at me. “Raj has the greatest car. Have you seen it?” No, I hadn’t. “It’s a big metallic purple thing, with under-floor lighting and ‘Rude Mercs’ written on the back window. It’s hilarious.” “How did you and Raj meet?” “Oh, around.” That was her standard euphemism for sleeping with someone. There had never been anything serious between Sunita and me, but all the same I felt a pang. “I can’t believe it, Sunny. He’s an idiot.” “What’s the problem?” Constantine asked. “Who is this Raj?” “No one,” Sunita said. “Just a guy who’s been treading on someone’s little tootsies.” Constantine gestured to his plate. “Try a mango,” he said. “They’re Alfonsos. Very sweet.” That night, I couldn’t get to sleep. Round and round it went in my mind: Raj, vodka. Of course, it wasn’t about the vodka. I’d enjoyed the damn vodka. And surely there was nothing intrinsically wrong with accepting a free drink. But there must come a time when you’re allowed to stop being a consumer. There has to be some respite from all that choosing, a time, well, just to be. Sunita’s party had been cool. Add as many quotation marks around the word as you like, but it was true. Most people never get the chance to attend a party like that. And, yes, there had been an element of performance to it. But I’d thought that we were just being cool for one another, to stave off boredom for a few hours, not to make some poor shell-suited kid on a housing estate feel jealous. I mean, jealousy just breeds resentment, right? Violence. People could get mugged because of Raj and his pictures. People could get raped. I started to look at my life style in a new, fearful light. What did I have that people might want to take? Did people get burgled for their cultural capital? I’d assumed that Raj’s betrayal of trust would be obvious to everyone, but, to my shock, none of my friends seemed to see anything wrong. Otto was a long-haired German who shot music promos. “I need information, man,” he said, shrugging. We were sitting in a sushi bar, drinking green tea. “I don’t care how it gets to me.” “It’s not information,” I argued, waving my cup around. “The speed of light, the date of the moon landing. That’s information.” “Uh, they recently invented this thing called the Internet.” “Piss off, Otto. You know what I mean.” “Get over yourself, man. You’re acting so old-fashioned, like some kind of Communist. I have the right to perform acts of rational consumer choice: our ancestors fought wars for it. And I think I’m clever enough to filter a little bit of spin, don’t you? Look, why don’t you check out this band I’m working with?” He handed me a sleek little music player. I listened for a while, out of politeness. “They’re the final wave of New Wave,” he explained. “After this, there will never be another reason to wear a Blondie T-shirt.” I nodded listlessly. I felt too despondent to argue anymore. Otto, smiling at me as he bounced his head to the beat of the music he couldn’t hear, seemed not to notice. “I knew you’d like them. Aren’t those headphones great, though? Optional noise cancellation. Amazing dynamic range. Particularly the bass—really rich, considering how small they are.” A sudden suspicion crossed my mind. But, no, this wasn’t some suburban wide-boy. This was Otto. And yet . . . Over the next few days, I started to notice something odd. Every time I met a friend, he or she would immediately make a recommendation, urge me to try something new. Lucas had been to a club on the other side of town and insisted that it was the best night out he’d had in ages. Janine almost forced me to take home a bottle of her “new favorite nutritional supplement.” At first, I shrugged it off. But, deep down, I knew that it had something to do with Raj and his vodka. Every night, I’d turn the incident over in my mind. I swallowed Ativan and Valium and Paxil (I had a compliant doctor), hoping that my anxiety would pass. It didn’t. There was Joe and his new running shoes. Razia’s bike. All my friends seemed to be dropping snippets of advertising copy into their conversation, short messages from their sponsors. They were constantly stating preferences for particular brands, dishing out free samples. Perhaps nothing had changed. We’d always shared new music with one another or recommended places to eat. But now there was something different. A tone? It was hard to say. I found myself wondering if Sasha was telling me that the sushi at Bar Fugu was “to die for” because he meant it or because it was a snappy slogan. Vikram started talking to me at nauseating length about tires. Steel radials, depth of tread. I hadn’t even known that Vikram had a car. When Wei Lin began rhapsodizing about the streaming capabilities of his new video projector, I snapped. “Don’t start this shit on me, Wei. I’m sick of it.” “What?” “This sales patter. I can’t take it anymore. Frankly, you disgust me.” “I what?” “It’s not even as if you need the money. You’re loaded.” “I don’t understand why you’re being so hostile.” “Your daddy in Shanghai owns a fucking construction company. We all know, Wei. It’s not a secret. So why do you need to do this? There’s no reason! Is it fun? Does it get you laid?” Afterward, he told everyone that I’d physically threatened him. He said to Thanh that he thought I might be on crack. I was shaken up. I tried to get on with my life, working on my designs, speaking to people—even going out, just as if things were normal. But they weren’t. I felt I was under immense mental pressure, in constant danger of some unforeseen catastrophic event, a psychological bridge collapse. I found parties increasingly traumatic: the bombardment of messages, the pitches coming at me from every side. It was impossible to untangle what was being said because the speaker felt or believed it from what was merely repetition. When were people being themselves and when were they acting? I began, ever so slightly, to doubt the reality of other minds. People seemed to zone in and out of existence. Sometimes they were fully present, animated by something original and real. But mostly they were just zombies, empty vessels operated by corporate remote control. I tell you, I was afraid. Becoming a hermit was looking like a good option. A cave in the Hebrides. The lonely sea and the sky. I was ready to batten down the hatches and crawl into the submarine of my own paranoia when I met Zoe. She understood me immediately, saw that my life had been stripped of all humor, all scope and playfulness, that it was irising down to the enforced sincerity of the locked ward. Zoe didn’t like being in physical proximity to too many people, because she thought it made her sick, though as far as I could tell she was a perfectly healthy person. She didn’t go outside much, and always went to the shops with a tub of antiseptic wipes in her bag. On bad days, she wore a face mask. Despite her eccentricities, she was no introvert, was a lively presence on various online sites and game worlds. We spent a lot of time indoors, smoking and talking. She wasn’t physically beautiful, but I didn’t want someone beautiful; I wanted someone who made me feel safe, which Zoe did—until the night I mentioned her ring. It was a large copper band with a number of tiny stones set into it, a trashy-looking thing with a vaguely “Lord of the Rings” aesthetic. I asked her what it was. “This?” she said absent-mindedly, sticking one hand out as she manipulated a joystick with the other, careering through some virtual maze. “It’s an appetite-reduction ring. See the tiny gems? There are nine of them. It helps correct biochemical imbalances in the body by reverse-actuating the ionic flow in my bloodstream. You should get one.” Zombie-speech. She had reeled it off without a pause. “Oh, no, Zoe.” She paused her game. “What?” “Not you, too.” “I don’t understand. Are you all right?” “Zoe, I’m going to ask you something, and you’d better tell me the truth.” “What are you talking about? You look pale.” “Is someone paying you to say that stuff?” She giggled. “Sorry, babe, it just pops out sometimes. I didn’t mean to pitch you. I’m supposed only to do it to my girlfriends.” “What?” “Ignore me. You know how hard it is to keep track of one’s placements.” “Placements?” “Placements. Why are you making that face? You’re looking at me like I’m some kind of freak.” “You have a lot of—placements?” “Oh, don’t get on your high horse. You don’t work, either. What do you do for cash? If a girl doesn’t want a straight job, she has to monetize her social network.” I’m not proud of what I did then. I just couldn’t control myself. I slapped her. I told her that she was a fake, a zombie. Before I walked out, I took a last look at her, pathetically scrubbing at her cheek with a cloth. At my flat, I looked at the presents she’d bought me during our short relationship—a pair of shoes, a scarf. I decided to give them to charity. I found a cardboard box, but it was big and the shoes and scarf didn’t take up much space, so I added a few more things. The experience was oddly pleasurable. Once I’d started, it was hard to stop. Soon I’d filled several boxes, then several more. They were too heavy to carry to the charity shop, so I just left them on the street outside my building. For the rest of the day, I watched from the balcony as people stopped to rummage and carry things away. That night, I put the rest of my stuff out. All of it—clothes, books and records, furniture, even the cans of food from my kitchen cupboards. Everything I owned. By the following afternoon, it was all gone. I spent the next couple of days squatting on my haunches in a corner of my empty flat. Something in me had snapped, was broken beyond repair. My taste had been central to my identity. I’d cultivated it, kept it fed and watered like an exotic flowering plant. Now I realized that what I thought had been an expression of my innermost humanity was nothing but a cloud of life-style signals, available to anyone at the click of a mouse. How had this happened? I couldn’t understand. There had to be something else. What was a personality if it wasn’t a drop-down menu, a collection of likes and dislikes? And now that my possessions were gone, what would I put in their place? Who was I without my private pressings, my limited editions, my vintage one-offs? How could I signal to potential allies across the vast black reaches of interpersonal space? It was then that I realized I’d been robbed. I’d been forcibly expropriated from myself. And who had done this to me? Who was the cause of all my loss and pain? I stormed around to Sunita’s to ask for Raj’s address. The door was opened by Constantine, wearing a quilted paisley dressing gown. “She’s out,” he said, tightening the cord around his paunch. “She says don’t come around no more.” He burped. “Sunita doesn’t want to see me?” “That’s right. She says you have a bad energy.” I didn’t know quite how to process that information. “Whatever. For now, I just need a number for Raj.” “Raj is it? He’s a nice guy.” “So you know him?” “Sure. Everyone knows Raj.” “So how do I get hold of him?” “I’ve got his card somewhere.” He disappeared and came back holding a business card. On it was written, in a cheesy futuristic font, “Raj, Bohemian.” I couldn’t tell if it was a company name or a job description. The office address was close by. “Thanks.” Constantine looked at me solicitously. “You know your problem?” “Tell me my problem.” “Stress. You should get a massage. I’ll give you another number. It’s local. The girls are very attentive.” I turned my back on him and pressed the call button on the lift. The trip to Raj’s office passed in a dream. I was a ghost, floating through a world of moving signage, people carrying shopping bags, immigrants handing out flyers for bars and language schools. I went into a department store, dazzled by chrome and glass and brushed steel. It was a palace of mirrors, zombie heaven. Girls at the makeup counter, dressed like slutty pharmacists. Rich men with ski tans fingering cashmere sweaters. In the housewares department was a display cabinet of knives, gleaming with surgical allure. I bought the largest and headed back up the escalator to the teeming street. Raj’s office wasn’t what I’d expected. I was imagining—I don’t know what I was imagining. A flashy loft. A life-style statement. It turned out to be a shared suite, a dreary place with grubby tube lights and contract carpeting, where freelancers rented desks, huddling together to make themselves feel less alone. One or two people looked up from their work as I walked in. I felt dizzy, disoriented, carrying the knife wrapped in a yellow plastic bag. “Hey, man! Good to see you!” Raj was standing up behind a desk piled high with paper and promotional knickknacks. Across the top of his computer monitor paraded a little line of toys. He looked tired and drab, his eyes rimmed with dark circles, a reddish stain disfiguring his crisp white polo shirt. Raj, my nemesis. So ordinary. I had gone there to kill him, to make him into nothing for having made me into nothing. But now that he stood in front of me he was just a guy with a greasy forehead and a pimple on his top lip. Now that I saw the reality of his life, the plastic bags full of free samples, the half-eaten sandwich balanced on a teetering stack of magazines, I knew that any confrontation would be absurd. I sank down onto a swivel chair and spun in little half circles, while he hovered over me, this person who’d polluted my whole life without even realizing it. Someone else was there. A woman. I think he was trying to introduce her to me. I shook my head mutely. What was I? A sorting device. A filter. A human bivalve, culture accreting in me like a mercury deposit. I looked around the office at the young workers wearing headphones, typing, talking into phones with their feet on their desks. This was the world, just the same indoors and out, a place of total nullity. How could anything make any difference? Unless you managed to keep your head underwater, to immerse yourself in the endless metonymic shuffling of objects, it would be intolerable. “You look awful,” Raj said. “Are you feeling O.K.?” I stared up at him. He was holding out a glass of water. “Is it good?” I asked. He shook his head, not understanding. “Is it better than other brands of water?” “It’s just water. From the tap.” I took a sip. “Are you sick?” he asked gently. “No.” “What is it, then?” I closed my eyes. “I’m not sure. I think I might be bored.” “Ah.” “Is there anything going on tonight?” He smiled and started to tell me about a party, a guest list, a secret venue. I took out my phone to punch in the contact number.
Leaving for Kenosha It was the anniversary of the disaster. Walter Hobbes was on his way uptown to pick up his daughter, Louise, at Trinity. She had the dentist at four. Then the two of them were going for a hilariously early dinner at the place Louise liked—Papa Andre’s—out on the Chef Highway, a roadhouse on stilts that the flood had missed. Then they were going back to his condo for her homework and a Bill Murray movie. This was New Orleans. It was their day. Betsy, Louise’s mother, was driving out to appraise some subdivision plats in Mississippi, then was staying at Mitch Daigle’s, across the lake. Which meant double whiskey sours and maybe a joint and some boiled shrimp. Walter and Betsy had been divorced for a year. Betsy had fallen in love with Mitch while she was showing him a house—a present he had planned for his wife for their twentieth anniversary. An anniversary that didn’t quite come off. Now and then Walter saw Mitch’s ex-wife, Hasty, at the Whole Foods. Hasty was once a great, auburn-haired stunner, from someplace in north Alabama—a former Miss Something at U.A.B. Now she’d grown a little sturdy in the middle. In the Whole Foods she always glared at Walter, as if he’d dispatched Betsy into her life to commit espionage on her perfect marriage. Once he’d caught her staring at him down the aisle of lettuces and artichokes. He’d just turned, and there she was. Instantly he’d smiled at her. And a silly implicating smile had begun on her face, too. Only her shoulders had dropped then. She’d shaken her head in frustration, and her mouth had turned down. She’d put both palms out toward him, as if to drive him away. Then she’d pushed her basket out of sight, leaving Walter looking at where she’d been, and on out the front window onto Magazine Street. Louise said, “We observed a moment of silence today for the poor flood victims.” They were driving up Prytania, past the French consul’s residence, with the faded French flag out front and a big Citroën in the circular drive. Outside it was ninety-eight, but the A.C. was going in the car. Kids with their uniform shirttails out and carrying book satchels were walking along the sidewalk from another private school in the neighborhood. The dentist was close by. “Did any of your classmates lose someone?” Walter asked. “I suppose so,” Louise said. Louise was in the seventh grade and knew everything about everything now. “Ginny Baxter, who’s black and has a scholarship. She and I both opened our eyes at the same time and almost laughed. It was like everybody was praying, but they weren’t, of course. It wasn’t cool.” “Did you remember your device?” Louise’s “device” was her night guard, which she was having adjusted at Dr. De Patria’s office. She’d begun grinding her teeth at night and sometimes in the daytime, when night guards weren’t thinkable. Dr. De Patria said this was a consequence of her parents’ divorcing when she was twelve years and two months old. To Walter the fact that his daughter ground her teeth seemed a small, bitter tragedy. “I’ve got it,” Louise said and sighed a profound sigh, placing her two small hands in her lap and twiddling all her fingers at the same time on her knee. “I have two requests,” she said, riding along. “The court’ll entertain two requests,” Walter said. He was of course a lawyer. “As long as one of them’s not skipping the dentist.” “It’s not.” Louise liked the dentist, who was a joke-meister who went on Catholic retreats in the woods, where he sat alone and thought for days on end. Louise considered this bizarre but interesting. He always complimented her on her beautiful teeth, which she liked to hear. “Ginny’s family’s taking her out of school—after one week—and moving away. It’s today. I want to take her a sympathy card or whatever, and say goodbye. She’ll be gone tomorrow.” “That’s very considerate of you,” Walter said. School had, in fact, been going for only a week, and already this was happening. Louise said nothing about his saying her being considerate was a nice feature. She had her hands deep in her knapsack, digging out the green plastic case that held her night guard. They were on the dentist’s street. Aline Street, off St. Charles. “Why’re they leaving now?” Walter said, angling the big Tahoe to the curb. He intended to wait in the waiting room, read Time magazines, then chat with De Patria about fishing and politics when Louise was finished. Louise had her green case. “Her father works for U.P.S. He got this transfer. To Kenosha. Where’s that?” “It’s in Wisconsin. If it’s the same one.” “Ginny said that. It is.” “It’s on Lake Michigan.” He’d gone there once when he was in law school in Chicago. “It gets cold there.” “Do you think there’re a lot of black people there?” “There’re a lot of black people everywhere up there.” This seemed to satisfy her. Walter was getting out of the car, or starting to. “Would you go buy a card for me? Please?” Louise said. “While I’m being adjusted? Then can we go out to her house and I can give it to her?” “Where does Ginny live?” Walter said. “I have the address. I wrote it down. It was on her knapsack like mine is.” Louise said the name of the street, which was east, out St. Claude, almost to the parish line, in the part of town where many houses had been destroyed by the hurricane, two years ago. “They’re leaving today,” she said. Louise had long straight honey-brown hair and wore tortoiseshell glasses that made her look older than thirteen, made her look businesslike, which in a way she was. She was wearing her blue gingham Trinity skirt and her uniform white blouse and her white kneesocks. She looked perfect. “We can certainly do that,” Walter said. “They have gobs of cards at Wal-Mart,” Louise said. “I bought one for you there this year.” “What would you like a card to say?” Louise looked at him seriously. This was something she’d been thinking about. “ ‘Have fun in Kenosha,’ ” she said. “ ‘We’d love to have you come back. Love, Louise Hobbes.’ ” “I doubt if I’ll find one that says exactly that,” Walter said. “You’ll have to write that yourself. I’ll get you a plain one.” “But get a pretty one.” Hot, gasping late-afternoon air swarmed the cavity of the car. Louise was standing outside the open door, holding it, looking in at her father. “Maybe get one with a New Orleans theme. So she’ll remember everything down here when she’s gone and be miserable to come back.” Louise had her green night-guard container in her hand. Her nails were painted a similar green but were chipping. Green was her color. Nothing really frightened her or seemed impossible yet. Often, at night, Walter Hobbes would lie awake in his apartment high above the broad curved sweep of the river, where container ships and tankers hung at anchor, their white running lights illuminating bits of the dense breezy darkness, and wonder what had caused Betsy to suddenly need to be divorced from him. It hadn’t seemed necessary, even if Mitch Daigle had come onto the horizon, as he unfortunately had. Mitch Daigle wasn’t even all that bad a fellow. He and Walter had known each other at the Bar Association, and been friendly doubles opponents for one summer at City Park. Mitch was from Ville Platte, a good coon-ass boy who’d come down to the city the way Walter had from Mississippi, to ride the oil-and-gas boom, now long over with. There had been a slew of them, young lawyers who’d arrived for a single reason and then made a stand. There wasn’t a need to be long-established if you had money, and everybody did. The town welcomed that. They had both gone into private practice afterward and drifted away from their old firms. Then Betsy helped Mitch find a house on Palmer Avenue and made love to him right on the client’s tester bed, and everything got wrong. Betsy explained to him during the divorce that she’d read a book in college at Hollins, about some children who were caught in a cyclone on a South Sea island. All the animals on the island—birds and lizards and furry creatures—went crazy before the storm came. Which didn’t explain anything. It had become fashionable to blame bad things on the hurricane—things that would’ve certainly happened anyway—failures, misdeeds, infirmities of character that the hurricane could’ve had nothing to do with. As if life weren’t its own personalized storm. Because he was a lawyer, Walter knew you didn’t expect to know why most things happened. You made the reasons up. It was difficult enough just to admit that things did happen. Life was lived mostly in your head—even for sweet Louise. Who knew what went on in that teeming brain? He didn’t. The fact was—a fact that had to be accepted—that Betsy Hobbes had now thrown herself more into her work, was living alone in a condo just like he was, was being a part-time parent, and would be spending this evening on some hot screened-in porch, drinking whiskey and staring out toward the distant lights of the city and becoming bored with life again, only in some entirely new way. That had to pass for living in the moment if you were Betsy. The Wal-Mart lot looked and felt hotter than any place he’d been all day, the mostly empty asphalt windy and buttery with petroleum fumes from the river. The Wal-Mart had been damaged, then looted, and hadn’t been reopened long. A few souls, all black people—large women in too tight, bright-colored shorts trailing tiny kids, and muscular young men in football jerseys and baggy jeans—were trading in and out of the RETAIL entrance, navigating immense shopping carts. Indoors, though, was instant cool relief from the outside. Walter was dressed for the office in a suit and tie, and no one here looked like him, which made him eager to get his business over with and leave. The general feeling inside the great merchandise biosphere, stretching in hazy light almost, but not quite, farther than you could see, was of people—citizens, families, shoppers, people in wheelchairs, people in motorized carts, children wandering on their own—all staying on, making an afternoon of Wal-Mart, taking their leisure as if this were home, letting Wal-Mart be what their day offered them. He asked the merchandise checker at the entrance where the greeting cards could be found and went straight there—to a long single aisle between the party supplies and the discount luggage. There was no reason to make a difficult assignment of this. The one he chose wouldn’t please Louise anyway. Left to herself, she would spend an hour scrutinizing everything, and then would find the exactly perfect card. Whereas he would never even see the correct one if he stayed here in the frigid, chlorinated air till midnight—which was possible to do. Most of the cards in the tiers were for regular, identifiable occasions—graduation, birthday, anniversary, confirmation, sympathy over a mother’s death, illness, events requiring humor. There were a lot of these occasions. But there were no blank cards except two with sex themes—one that somebody had already written on and drawn a picture of a large, smiling penis with a mustache. Everything else required adaptation and compromise. You fitted your need for human expression into a category somebody else had thought up in advance and found words for, and then you bought the card, signed it, sealed it up, and tried to think it was just right. There were lots of cards on which the people depicted were black people, although they were mostly tan-colored, clean-cut black people, men wearing chinos and oxford-cloth shirts, women smiling out at fields of dazzling spring flowers, wearing Peter Pan blouses and gold wedding bands, and children looking like they’d done very well on their science projects and were ready for Harvard a year early. They weren’t much like the people in Wal-Mart today. Walter wondered if Ginny Baxter might appreciate a card semi-personalized to her race. It was tempting to ask one of the blue-smocked sales associates if she or he would be offended if a white child gave their black child a friendship card in which the human beings portrayed were more or less black, too. There was one, however, that said, “Have a Wonderful Trip!” A bright-red minivan full of waving, smiling, vaguely non-Caucasian children was depicted pulling out of the driveway of a big suburban house with a spreading leafy oak on a grassy green yard. Inside, the card showed lots of bright festive balloons rising in the clean air, and a message that said, “We won’t be happy ’til you’re back!” This was inappropriate. Louise would loathe the black characters and undoubtedly conclude it was racist. She would also hate the minivan and the house and the tree and the smiles and the balloons. Plus, these black people were obviously headed to Orlando, not Kenosha. There was simply nothing he could do that was right here, he realized. The task was beyond his abilities. Louise should’ve made her own card out of construction paper and put her own words on it. Only there hadn’t been time. Ginny was leaving right away. There wasn’t a chance to make a proper observance. He had to choose one, though. That’s why he was here in this freezing Wal-Mart with his suit on. Louise never asked for much. He had to come through. When he first knew Betsy Montjoy, when he was new in New Orleans and fresh from law school, he used to give her cards that he’d “customized.” Walter Hobbes specials, she’d called them. “Sorry to hear you’ve been in the hospital.” Onto which he would Magic Marker “mental” in front of hospital. “It’s your birthday.” Onto which he would carefully print “60th.” Betsy loved to anticipate something funny, and would already be smiling as she sat in the car or across the table in Galatoire’s, awaiting him. These occasions usually prompted her to say he was “a nut,” or sometimes that he was “pretty wild and most likely dangerous,” or that he was “the cleverest man in the world.” None of which, he knew, was true. He was only Walter D. Hobbes from Yazoo City, a skinny, good-natured oil-and-gas lawyer who read the Wall Street Journal, voted Democrat, liked seersucker suits with black penny loafers and loud bow ties, and hoped that all this meant she would marry him. From the rack, he plucked out a card that featured a big cartoon goose with its beak taped shut and its big goose eyes bulging in excitement. Inside, it said, “It goose without saying that I love you.” Little red hearts were floating all around, and the goose was again pictured, this time smiling without his beak taped. Louise could customize this one, Walter thought. In her knapsack she kept a box of colored pens. She could write in something clever on the drive out. Ginny would forget all about a card in two days, anyway. In all probability a goodbye card would never make it to Kenosha. But the gesture would. Louise would understand how true this was. There were really no words for what was happening to Ginny. Tony De Patria, the dentist, was standing outside his little office—a Mediterranean-looking house where his parents had been young marrieds in the thirties, and which Tony had bought and converted into a single dentist’s practice. He was wearing his white dentist’s smock and was talking to Louise on the front steps. She was the last patient for the day. He didn’t want her waiting outside by herself. Tony was Walter’s dentist, too, and he was Betsy’s dentist. He might’ve been Mitch Daigle’s dentist for the difference it made. Tony De Patria was a tall, Adam’s-apple Yat who’d gone to L.S.U., practiced Catholic mysticism, read Kant, and liked to tell randy jokes when your mouth was full of metal stuff in the dentist’s chair. He didn’t tell these jokes to Louise, of course. “I was just explaining the concept of phantom limbs to your young medical student here,” De Patria was saying. Louise had obviously explained to him that she intended to become a doctor, which was something she’d just made up. De Patria was holding open the car door for Louise to climb in with her night-guard container and a plastic bag containing new dental supplies. He smiled toward Louise a smile meant to indicate that there was a rich secret between them. He had daughters of his own he was crazy about. De Patria loved being a dentist and saw intricate connections between dentistry and the priestly vocation. He had a long schnoz and big Groucho eyebrows he could make caper and cavort to humorous effect. “So are phantom limbs part of the general discussion of night guards and teeth grinding?” Walter ducked to see De Patria, the opened car door funnelling in more steaming tropical air. “More toward the general discussion of loss,” De Patria said, and his eyebrows in fact darted up. He had an unexpected high-pitched voice and black silky hair on the back of his clever hands. Loss, divorce, disaster had obviously been part of their secret discussion. Louise frowned at Walter from behind her tortoiseshell spectacles, in case he was about to say something dreadful. Louise had constructed her “look” herself: studious, possibly stern, loyal, and, in a way that only she understood, sexy. De Patria talked in this stilted, mocking, pseudo-philosophical way at the end of every appointment, as if there were an important spiritual dimension to amalgam replacements or partial bridgework that couldn’t properly be entered upon employing normal dental lingo. De Patria, Walter felt, was the most fully engaged man he knew. “Apropos of the season,” Walter said to the issue of loss. “Apropos of the season,” De Patria agreed. “A loss becomes its own elemental presence.” “How’re her teeth?” Walter said. De Patria smiled. “Beautiful. She knows what to do.” “I know what to do,” Louise said. She smiled garishly at her father and revealed the yellowed acrylic night guard snapped into place over her perfect incisors. “I have to wear this all my life now,” she said. “Or at least until the tension subsides,” De Patria said with a grin of comprehension. “We’re working on that,” Walter said. “If we knew what went on between women and men we wouldn’t need dentists, would we?” De Patria said and closed the car door. “He’s a creep,” Louise said immediately. De Patria was six inches away behind the window glass, still talking on about women and men. “No, he’s not,” Walter said. “He’s a smart man, and he likes you.” “Everybody’s smart,” Louise said, her night guard still bulging in her mouth, as Walter eased them away from the curb. This is so queer!” Louise said menacingly. She had the Wal-Mart card open and was now appraising it from the passenger’s seat. “Why’s this stupid bird or whatever have tape on its stupid mouth? And what goes without saying? ‘I love you’? That’s revolting.” They were driving out St. Claude Avenue, a wide parched boulevard through an old, mostly black section of shut-down schools, closed appliance stores with their wrecked appliances set out on the sidewalk, closed and boarded Burger Kings and Hardee’s, distressed gas stations and shabby bars. Many of the passing ruined houses were still marked in the cruciform code of the National Guard from two years back. Few people were on the streets, and only every other traffic light seemed to be working. Louise was officially mortified by his faulty card selection, which made Walter disheartened, since it meant she’d be resentful and irritable the rest of the night. The one night of the week that was theirs, and when he’d made nice plans. “I thought you could use your Sharpies,” he said, “and customize it into something funny. Or sweet.” “Like what? It’s stupid.” Louise promptly tore the goose card in half and then in fourths and then in eighths, and threw the pieces on the car floor. “Now I don’t have anything to give.” “I think you still have your winning personality,” Walter said. “I’m sure that’ll make Ginny change her mind about leaving. Plus I risked my life going to Wal-Mart.” “Fuck Wal-Mart. And you didn’t risk your life. That’s racist.” Louise turned away and crossed her legs tightly. “How old are you?” Walter said, steering with caution through another lightless intersection. St. Claude was no place to have a wreck. People were in a bad mood here. And there were no police around to save you. “Old enough to say ‘Fuck Wal-Mart,’ ” Louise said. “And a lot more.” “You could try to think of something affectionate to say to Ginny.” Louise had already announced the address on Charbonnet Street before she saw the offending card. Otherwise she’d be balking. But they were going, card or no card. “I’m not going without a gift. That goes without saying.” Louise had anger at her disposal now. It was a relatively new asset. “Well, you’d better think of one fast. You might conclude this isn’t about a card. It’s a gesture.” “What am I supposed to say?” Louise sniffed, as if she might possibly cry a little, or at least try to cry. This was not one of her assets—crying. Or her mother’s. “O.K.,” Walter said. “Let’s see. How about ‘Dear Ginny, I’ll miss you when you’re gone.’ Or, ‘Dear Ginny, I hope your new life in Kenosha is wonderful.’ Or, ‘I hope I see you again.’ Those are pretty serviceable ones.” “And they’re pathetic.” Louise was grinding her teeth hard and did not have her device in. “No, they’re not pathetic. They’re the things that shouldn’t go without saying. This is a part of your education.” “Why did you get divorced?” Louise said blazingly. It had been a subject on other occasions. “I don’t know,” Walter said, seeing a Charbonnet Street sign up ahead. It was a paper placard someone had nailed to a telephone pole in place of the regular sign, which had disappeared. Up and down the creosote pole were other placards advertising “Demolición de su Casa.” “Yes, you do. Was it your fault?” Louise said angrily. “I’m sure it was.” “Why did you do it, then? You were bad.” “Nature never likes to be observed,” Walter said. “Though some things’d be better if it did. At least a little. Sometimes.” Louise looked at him contemptuously, blinking behind her glasses, her fists clinched around her green night-guard case, her sack of dental supplies in her lap. Louise had gained some weight in the last month, and she had a pimple in the middle of her forehead that she was leaving unattended out of spite. The little torn-apart goose-card pieces were on her black school shoes. “I don’t understand you,” she said, as though she was thirty and he was her boyfriend and they’d just broken up for the sixth time over some piece of silliness. “I know,” Walter said, slowing for the careful turn to the left. “But that’ll have to do for now. It can be an interesting subject for you to think about.” Charbonnet Street was a long street of wreckages. Where the floodwater had hurtled through, houses had been flattened, others moved off their foundations, others had their roofs floated away. Though others—the compact, sturdy brick ones—had simply been ruined in a way that left them seeming almost whole. Weeds flourished in lots with concrete slabs that once had supported houses. Two years ago, when he’d first come to see it all out here, a red fibreglass fishing boat had been preposterously hoisted and left on top of one house, and at another an ancient green Studebaker had been forced through the front door and into the living room by the passing water. Most of the houses still bore a gray dirt stain of the high-water line—some above the windows—and many retained the same crossed axes left by the rescuers. One house had “No Pig Found/9-1” scrawled on its front door. Another house simply said, “One dead here.” Farther down the street, which stretched out toward the faraway lake and the hot white sky, a crew of young shirtless black men was gutting a house and loading the usable timbers and shingles onto a sagging pickup. But almost no one was living in any house now, or in the acres of streets in either direction, streets that looked like open fields. It was the Lower Nine. It was the land far below sea level, the submersible land that had always been poor and black but had been a place to live. Now that seemed finished. Louise’s school had made field trips to here, and written poems and essays all about it, painted desolate pictures, written letters to kids who were now in other cities, and in which the letter writers had predicted that everything would soon be restored and become even better. So far that hadn’t happened. Louise was now sunk in silence. Possibly, Walter thought, she was trying out phrases she might want to say to Ginny when they got to where Ginny lived. Or, possibly the dread weight of destruction—mute, grammarless, still—had struck her speechless. Ahead, some white electric-utility men in white helmets were gathered around a light pole, connecting or disconnecting power to someplace. A couple of wrecked houses had white trailers in their front yards. But no one else was in sight. A brown-and-black spotted dog stood in the crumbled street and stared at Walter’s car and didn’t move as they eased past. “This is horrible,” Louise said, as if she’d never seen any of it before. She put her nose to the window and ticked her glasses frames against the pane. There was nothing Walter felt that needed to be said. They had a reason to be here. Everything else did go without saying. The street numbers that remained on the few standing houses were leading them toward the place they were going, which wasn’t much farther. “Ginny lives with her grandmother,” Louise said without inflection and breathed a small, soft cloud onto the window glass. She had become resolute again. Ahead, in the next emptied-out block, Walter could see a collection of vehicles that none of the other houses or vacant lots had in front of them. Someone was visible there—a man hefting articles of some kind into a shiny black minivan. Not so different from the card at Wal-Mart. “There’s Ginny,” Louise said, instantly buoyant. She knew everything she would say now. A girl dressed in a uniform exactly like Louise’s waited on the opposite side of the street from where the man was loading cardboard boxes into the minivan, and where two more cars were parked at the curb. She was in front of what had once been a house but was now a weed-encircled concrete slab with a relic chain-link fence across what would’ve been a back yard, where an old-fashioned mangle iron sat marooned on its side. Everything around Ginny was open ground, though farther down Charbonnet Street three houses still stood in a row, and a steepled white church rose from two streets over. Gulls soared above everything, occasionally singing out. The square husk of a tan school building sat in the middle distance, surrounded by nothing. It was striking, Walter Hobbes thought. The character of this particular destruction was in fact quite diverse. Louise was out of the car before it got properly stopped. Ginny, on the curb, saw her, knew her, but didn’t move or motion. Louise went straight up to her and started talking as if something official was going on. She took Ginny’s hand and waggled her arm until Ginny said something and smiled. Louise and Ginny looked alike in their school uniforms and tortoiseshell glasses and long straight hair. Across the street from where the girls were, there was a remarkably new house, raised on clean wooden pillars to a man’s height above the ground, everything freshly painted hot blue with white trim. A smooth white concrete driveway had been laid, new azalea plantings were set in between the pillars, bright plastic geraniums in window boxes. A small elderly black woman stood on the elevated front porch, watching the man loading boxes and some suitcases into the minivan—all things he’d brought from inside the house. The van had Louisiana license plates. For a moment, the man loading the van didn’t seem to see that anyone had arrived. But then he did and stopped loading and looked first at the two girls and then at the Tahoe and at Walter. He was a moderately sized, beige-skinned man with short, well-tended hair, wearing a tank top he’d sweated through in the heat, and Bermuda shorts he’d also sweated through, and black basketball sneakers with athletic socks. The man, who must’ve been Ginny’s father (though the skin was wrong), came across Charbonnet Street, rubbing his two hands together, as Walter climbed out into the radiant heat. “Louise wanted to come say goodbye,” Walter said. Everything was permissible here, though no one but the girls knew each other. “All right,” the man said. He was conceivably thirty-two and looked like he might, indeed, be a U.P.S. man—mild, helpful, honest, dependable, yet fierce in some way a brown uniform could conceal. “I guess they know each other,” the man said. “Louise is my daughter,” Walter said. “They’re in the same class.” “O.K.,” the man said and looked at his own daughter. She and Louise were now locked in their own fast privacy. “Ginny,” he said, interrupting them. “This is Louise’s father.” Louise and Ginny stopped talking and looked at Walter. He smiled, and effected a small wave. A second woman had come out onto the front porch of the new blue house and was standing beside the tiny, elderly woman, looking across the newly sodded St. Augustine at Walter and Ginny’s father in the street. She was very dark-skinned and statuesque, with her hair in cornrows. “I’m Walter Hobbes.” Walter extended his hand to be shaken. “It’s Jerry,” Ginny’s father said and shook Walter’s hand with a not especially firm grip. He was softly muscular and fit in a way Walter realized he himself probably wasn’t. He had a smooth, almost featurelessly handsome face and a tiny gold stud in his left earlobe, something he didn’t wear to work. On his left biceps was a tattoo that said “Sheri” in curving green script. The two of them, Walter and Ginny’s father, stood then and looked down the street of ruined houses and empty lots in the direction of the bayou levee and the soaring opal sky. This was the girls’ visit, and the girls were conducting it. Nothing came into Walter’s mind to say. Nothing on the subject of what it was like to be a U.P.S. man, or the subject of being black, or about children or moving to Kenosha in the heat of an August day. “What do you do?” Jerry said, as if something had just surprised him. “Lawyer,” Walter said. “O.K.,” Jerry said. “That’s good.” “Is that your house?” Walter surveyed the bright-blue shotgun house with the two women on the porch watching him as if he might be someone who could cause trouble. Louise suddenly laughed and said, “Oh, you. You’re so funny.” The skinny spotted dog that had been in the street was now trotting past, headed out into what had become open fields. Jerry glanced at the house, waved at the women, and smiled. “It’s my mother-in-law’s.” “It’s nice,” Walter said. “Oh yeah. Some people came along and just built it. Volunteers from someplace. Said it was a model house. It’s where her old house was ’til the storm took it. She just moved right in like nothing ever happened. She’s from way in the country. Nothing surprises her.” “It must be odd to live out here in a new house with all this around you.” Jerry looked at the house again, as if he hadn’t considered that. “We thought we’d move in with her, since our house got ruint. But they gave me a transfer up north, and I ain’t turning that down. My wife wants to stay on down here. But . . .” He didn’t finish. “How does Ginny feel?” “She’s ready to go.” Jerry ran his hand down his sweaty arm—the one with the tattoo. It was impossibly hot, and the sun felt as if it was shining straight down onto them. Walter’s suit jacket was wet through. “Kids don’t care,” Jerry said. “It’s a game to them.” “That might be true,” Walter said. “You know anything good about Wisconsin?” “It’s on a lake,” Walter said. “It gets cold. The Packers are from there.” Jerry said, “I’m starting to be worried about all that cold.” “They have seasons up there, though,” Walter said. “That’s a plus. We don’t really have those down here. You might learn to like it.” “O.K.,” Jerry said, and paused to think about that idea. “I went in the Navy in Chicago, but that was in the summertime.” And then they were silent and motionless again, while the girls conferred and walked a few yards farther down the street, their arms around each other’s waists. They had last things to impart, things even more private than before. “So, how’re you doin’?” Jerry said. The two women on the scorching porch turned and walked in through the front door of the bright-blue house. The newly hung door slammed with a sucking sound. The air-conditioner at the back hummed smoothly—a noise Walter hadn’t noticed. “How am I doing about what?” Walter said. “Well.” Jerry smiled at him amiably. “Whatever you’re all about. Whatever’s up. You know? You hangin’ in there?” Walter looked down the street at his daughter, in her blue uniform skirt and her kneesocks and her glasses. She had a lock of Ginny’s black hair in her hand—just the spidery tips—and was holding it, not pulling it, just holding it. “I’m hangin’ in,” Walter said. “I guess that’s what I’m doing.” “O.K., there you go,” Jerry said and kept smiling and then also looked down toward the girls—lost now in each other’s past and present. Walter saw Jerry’s hand extended, ready to be shaken, he guessed, with the same not quite firm grip. “Good to meet you,” Walter said, almost suddenly. “I gotta get to loadin’ my shit before it gets dark. We’re leaving quick as I’m done.” “Absolutely,” Walter said. “Have a safe trip.” Behind him his hand found the over-warm car door handle. He smiled at Jerry, whose last name he didn’t know. It might not be Baxter. There hadn’t been enough time for that. “I’ll make it to Memphis this evening,” Jerry said, starting to walk toward the shiny black van. “Be to Wisconsin tomorrow. Be to work for the next day.” “Great,” Walter said. “If it ain’t snowin’.” “It won’t be.” “O.K., then,” Jerry said, continuing on across the new driveway toward the raised house, going for more boxes to load. Walter looked up and down the street, as if he needed something new to capture his attention, something to occupy him for the time he would be here now. Far down Charbonnet, where the men in white helmets were working on the light pole, he saw a police car turn on to the street and begin slowly toward him. It would be best to get in the car, he thought, turn on the A.C., and wait for the children to finish their goodbyes. Better to attract less attention here. In the chilled car, Louise sat with her legs crossed again and her hands in her lap and seemed entirely pleased with herself. “Things worked out very well with Ginny,” she announced, watching the demolished neighborhood glide past her window. They were at a point where it was possible to see the city center, far away, as if across a desert floor or an ocean—the bank buildings, the new hotels, the office towers that had not been toppled by the hurricane. The city—the middle where Walter worked—always seemed to be where it shouldn’t when you saw it from a distance. The river deceived you. Once he had flown in from the west and the plane had banked so that for a moment he could see straight down the river’s sinuous course. And he’d thought, What a laughable mistake to put a city here. Nothing ever promised good for it. “Did you do O.K. without a card?” Walter said. They were heading for their hilariously early dinner now. They would see Bill Murray later. Louise’s mother was across the lake on Mitch Daigle’s screen porch. He would be at work tomorrow. Things were coming back to regular. “I did,” Louise said confidently. Hot sunlight sparkled through the windshield. “It might be a good lesson to learn,” Walter said wearily. “You can put things best in your own words. It’s harder, but it’s better.” “Whatever,” Louise said. “Or buy a better card. Or not go to Wal-Mart, which was my idea, which I’m sorry about. Or not have any friends.” “All those things are possible,” Walter said. “Do you think it’s also possible that I could move, too?” Louise said. “Pretty soon?” Life’s inevitable subtractions were ganging up, he understood. Loss becoming the presence they’d heard about. “Would you like to move to Wisconsin?” Walter said. “Where you could live on a glacial lake surrounded by conifer forests, and go to a country school and learn to canoe and memorize the legends of the Chippewa and all your classmates would say ‘Golly’ and ‘Jeez Louise’? Is that what you’re considering?” He looked at his daughter hopefully and reached across and touched her shoulder to indicate he wasn’t making fun of her, and that, indeed, many things were likely to become possible, and it wouldn’t hurt to think that way. “No,” Louise said. “I was thinking about going to Italy or maybe to China. And going alone. And not coming back. And never seeing anybody that I know today ever again.” “Would that include me?” Walter said. “And Mother, too, probably,” Louise said, and gave him a look of cold implacable certainty. A look that saw the future. And for an instant, then, Walter experienced a sensation of something being about to happen around him. It wasn’t clear what. But a sensation of impendment. Neither good nor bad. Though it also occurred to him that if he could just pause in his thinking now, not follow his thoughts any further, just breathe, then this sensation would in all likelihood develop into nothing bad. So that he went on with driving back toward the center of the city, rising in the steamy distance of the late afternoon. He would make no more efforts to answer Louise’s childish questions about Italy and China. No words were really the right words to answer with. In a day he’d forget all this. This was a smart child—Louise—but not smart beyond her years. She would forget many things, too.
The Shelter of the World At dawn the haunting sandstone palaces of the new “victory city” of Akbar the Great looked as if they were made of red smoke. Most cities start giving the impression of being eternal almost as soon as they are born, but Sikri would always look like a mirage. As the sun rose to its zenith, the great bludgeon of the day’s heat pounded the flagstones, deafening human ears to all sounds, making the air quiver like a frightened blackbuck, and weakening the border between sanity and delirium, between what was fanciful and what was real. Even the Emperor succumbed to fantasy. Queens floated within his palaces like ghosts, Rajput and Turkish sultanas playing catch-me-if-you-can. One of these royal personages did not really exist. She was an imaginary wife, dreamed up by Akbar in the way that lonely children dream up imaginary friends, and in spite of the presence of many living, if floating, consorts, the Emperor was of the opinion that it was the real queens who were the phantoms and the nonexistent beloved who was real. He gave her a name, Jodha, and no man dared gainsay him. Within the privacy of the women’s quarters, within the silken corridors of her palace, Jodha’s influence and power grew. The great musician Tansen wrote songs for her, and Master Abdus Samad the Persian portrayed her himself, painted her from the memory of a dream without ever looking upon her face, and when the Emperor saw his work he clapped his hands at the beauty shining up from the page. “You have captured her, to the life,” he cried, and Abdus Samad relaxed and stopped feeling as if his head were too loosely attached to his neck; and, after this visionary work by the master of the Emperor’s atelier had been exhibited, the whole court knew Jodha to be real, and the greatest courtiers, the Navratna, or Nine Jewels, all acknowledged not only her existence but also her beauty, her wisdom, the grace of her movements, and the softness of her voice. Akbar and Jodhabai! Ah, ah! It was the love story of the age. The city was finished at last, in time for the Emperor’s fortieth birthday. It had been twelve long, hot years in the making, but for a while he had been given the impression that it rose up effortlessly, year by year, as if by sorcery. The Emperor’s minister of works had not allowed any construction to go forward during the Emperor’s sojourns in the new imperial capital. When the Emperor was in residence, the stonemasons’ tools fell silent, the carpenters drove in no nails, the painters, the inlay workers, the hangers of fabrics, and the carvers of screens all disappeared from view. All then, it’s said, was cushioned pleasure. Only noises of delight were permitted to be heard. The bells on the ankles of dancers echoed sweetly, and fountains tinkled, and the soft music of the genius Tansen hung upon the breeze. There was whispered poetry in the Emperor’s ear, and in the pachisi courtyard on Thursdays there was much languid play, with slave girls being used as living pieces on the checkerboard floor. In the curtained afternoons, beneath the sliding punkahs, there was a quiet time for love. No city is all palaces. The real city, built of wood and mud and dung and brick as well as stone, huddled beneath the walls of the mighty red-stone plinth upon which the royal residences stood. Its neighborhoods were determined by race as well as by trade. Here was the silversmiths’ street, there the hot-gated, clanging armories, and there, down that third gully, the place of bangles and clothes. To the east was the Hindu colony, and beyond that, curling around the city walls, the Persian quarter, and beyond that the region of the Turanis, and beyond that, in the vicinity of the giant gate of the Friday Mosque, the homes of those Muslims who were Indian born. Dotted around the countryside were the villas of the nobles, the art-studio-and-scriptorium whose fame had already spread throughout the land, and a pavilion of music, and another for the performance of dances. In most of these lower Sikris, there was little time for indolence, and when the Emperor came home from the wars the command of silence felt, in the mud city, like a suffocation. Chickens had to be gagged at the moment of their slaughter for fear of disturbing the repose of the king of kings. A cart wheel that squeaked could earn the cart’s driver the lash, and if he cried out under the whip the penalty could be even more severe. Women giving birth withheld their cries, and the dumb show of the marketplace was a kind of madness. “When the King is here, we are all made mad,” the people said, adding, hastily, for there were spies and traitors everywhere, “for joy.” The mud city loved its Emperor, it insisted that it did, insisted without words, for words were made of that forbidden fabric, sound. When the Emperor set forth once more on his campaigns—his never-ending (though always victorious) battles against the armies of Gujarat and Rajasthan, of Kabul and Kashmir—then the prison of silence was unlocked, and trumpets burst out, and cheers, and people were finally able to tell one another everything they had been obliged to keep unsaid for months on end: I love you. My mother is dead. Your soup tastes good. If you do not pay me the money you owe me, I will break your arms at the elbows. My darling, I love you, too. Everything. Fortunately for the mud city, military matters often took Akbar away. In fact, he had been away most of the time, and in his absences the din of the clustered poor, as well as the racket of the unleashed construction workers, daily vexed the impotent queens. The queens lay together and moaned, and what they did to distract one another, what entertainment they found in one another in their veiled quarters, will not be described here. Only the imaginary queen remained pure, and it was she who told Akbar of the privations the people were suffering because of the desire of overzealous officials to ease his time at home. As soon as the Emperor learned this, he countermanded the order, replaced the minister of works with a less dour individual, and insisted on riding through the streets of his oppressed subjects crying out, “Make as much racket as you like, people! Noise is life, and an excess of noise is a sign that life is good. There will be time for us all to be quiet when we are safely dead.” The city burst into joyful clamor. That was the day on which it became clear that a new kind of king was on the throne, and that nothing in the world would remain the same. The country was at peace at last, but the King’s spirit was never calm. The King had just returned from his last campaign; he had slapped down the upstart in Surat, but through the long days of marching and war his mind wrestled with philosophical and linguistic conundrums as much as with military ones. The Emperor Abul-Fath Jalaluddin Muhammad, King of Kings, known since his childhood as Akbar, meaning “the great,” and latterly, in spite of the tautology of it, as Akbar the Great, the great great one, great in his greatness, doubly great, so great that the repetition in his title was not only appropriate but necessary in order to express the gloriousness of his glory—the Grand Mughal, the dusty, battle-weary, victorious, pensive, incipiently overweight, disenchanted, mustachioed, poetic, over-sexed, and absolute emperor, who seemed altogether too magnificent, too world-encompassing, and, in sum, too much to be a single human personage—this all-engulfing flood of a ruler, this swallower of worlds, this many-headed monster who referred to himself in the first-person plural—had begun to meditate, during his long, tedious journey home, on which he was accompanied by the heads of his defeated enemies bobbing in their sealed earthen pickle jars, about the disturbing possibilities of the first-person singular—the “I.” He, Akbar, had never referred to himself as “I,” not even in private, not even in anger or dreams. He was—what else could he be?—“we.” He was the definition, the incarnation of, the We. He had been born into plurality. When he said “we,” he naturally and truly meant himself as an incarnation of all his subjects, of all his cities and lands and rivers and mountains and lakes, as well as all the animals and plants and trees within his frontiers, and also the birds that flew overhead and the mordant twilight mosquitoes and the nameless monsters in their underworld lairs, gnawing slowly at the roots of things; he meant himself as the sum total of all his victories, himself as containing the characters, the abilities, the histories, perhaps even the souls of his decapitated or merely pacified opponents; and, in addition, he meant himself as the apogee of his people’s past and present, and the engine of their future. This “we” was what it meant to be a king—but commoners, he now allowed himself to consider, in the interest of fairness, and for the purposes of debate, no doubt occasionally thought of themselves as plural, too. Were they wrong? Or (O traitorous thought!) was he? Perhaps this idea of self-as-community was what it meant to be a being in the world, any being; such a being being, after all, inevitably a being among other beings, a part of the beingness of all things. Perhaps plurality was not exclusively a king’s prerogative, perhaps it was not, after all, his divine right. One might further argue that, since the reflections of a monarch were, in less exalted and refined form, doubtless mirrored in the cogitations of his subjects, it was accordingly inevitable that the men and women over whom he ruled should also conceive of themselves as “we”s. They saw themselves, perhaps, as plural entities made up of themselves plus their children, mothers, aunts, employers, co-worshippers, fellow-workers, clans, and friends. They, too, saw their selves as multiple, one self that was the father of their children, another that was their parents’ child; they knew themselves to be different with their employers than they were at home with their wives—in short, they were all bags of selves, bursting with plurality, just as he was. Was there then no essential difference between the ruler and the ruled? And now his original question reasserted itself in a new and startling form: if his many-selved subjects managed to think of themselves in the singular rather than the plural, could he, too, be an “I”? Could there be an “I” that was simply oneself? Were there such naked, solitary “I”s buried beneath the overcrowded “we”s of the earth? It was a question that frightened him as he rode his white horse home, fearless, unvanquished, and, it must be conceded, beginning to be fat; and when it popped into his head at night he did not easily sleep. What should he say when he saw his Jodha again? If he were to say simply, “I’m back,” or “It is I,” might she, in return, feel able to call him by that second-person singular, that tu which was reserved for children, lovers, and gods? And what would that mean? That he was like her child, or godlike, or simply the lover of whom she, too, had dreamed, whom she had dreamed into being as eagerly as he had dreamed her? Might that little word, that tu, turn out to be the most arousing word in the language? “I,” he practiced under his breath. Here “I” am. “I” love you. Come to “me.” One final military engagement disturbed his contemplation on the homeward road. One more upstart princeling to slap down. A diversion into the Kathiawar Peninsula to quell the obstinate Rana of Cooch Naheen, a young man with a big mouth and a bigger mustache (the Emperor was vain about his own mustache, and took unkindly to competitors), a feudal ruler absurdly fond of talking about freedom. Freedom for whom, and from what, the Emperor harrumphed inwardly. Freedom was a children’s fantasy, a game for women to play. No man was ever free. His army moved through the white trees of the Gir Forest like a silently approaching plague, and the pathetic little fortress of Cooch Naheen, seeing the advent of death in the rustling treetops, broke its own towers, ran up a flag of surrender, and begged abjectly for mercy. Often, instead of executing his vanquished opponents, the Emperor would marry one of their daughters and give his defeated father-in-law a job: better a new family member than a rotting corpse. This time, however, he had irritably torn the insolent Rana’s mustache off his handsome face, and chopped the weakling dreamer into garish pieces—had done so personally, with his own sword, just as his grandfather would have, and had then retreated to his quarters to tremble and mourn. The Emperor’s eyes were slanted and large and gazed upon infinity as a dreamy young lady might, or a sailor in search of land. His lips were full and pushed forward in a womanly pout. But in spite of these girlish accents he was a mighty specimen of a man, huge and strong. As a boy, he had killed a tigress with his bare hands and then, driven to distraction by his deed, had forever forsworn the eating of meat and become a vegetarian. A Muslim vegetarian, a warrior who wanted only peace, a philosopher-king: a contradiction in terms. Such was the greatest ruler the land had ever known. In the melancholy after battle, as evening fell upon the empty dead, below the broken fortress melting into blood, within earshot of a little waterfall’s nightingale song—bul-bul, bul-bul, it sang—the Emperor in his brocade tent sipped watered wine and lamented his gory genealogy. He did not want to be like his bloodthirsty ancestors, even though his ancestors were the greatest men in history. He felt burdened by the names of the marauder past, the names from which his name descended in cascades of human blood: his grandfather Babar, the warlord of Ferghana, who had conquered, but always loathed, this new dominion, this India of too much wealth and too many gods, Babar the battle machine, with an unexpected gift for felicitous words; and before Babar the murderous princes of Transoxiana and Mongolia, and mighty Temüjin above all—Genghis, Changez, Jenghis, or Chinggis Qan—thanks to whom he, Akbar, had to accept the name of Mughal, had to be the Mongol he was not, or did not feel himself to be. He felt . . . Hindustani. His horde was neither Golden, Blue, nor White. The very word “horde” struck his subtle ears as ugly, swinish, coarse. He did not want hordes. He did not want to pour molten silver into the eyes of his vanquished foes or crush them to death beneath the platform upon which he was eating his dinner. He was tired of war. He remembered the tutor of his childhood, a Persian Mir, telling him that for a man to be at peace with himself he must be at peace with all others. Sulh-i-kul, complete peace. No Khan could understand such an idea. He did not want a Khanate. He wanted a country. The Rana of Cooch Naheen, young, slender, and dark, had knelt at Akbar’s feet, his face hairless and bleeding, waiting for the blow to fall. “History repeats itself,” he said. “Your grandfather killed my grandfather seventy years ago.” “Our grandfather,” replied the Emperor, employing the royal plural according to custom, for this was not the time for his experiment with the singular—this wretch did not merit the privilege of witnessing it—“was a barbarian with a poet’s tongue. We, by contrast, are a poet with a barbarian’s history and a barbarian’s prowess in war, which we detest. Thus it is demonstrated that history does not repeat itself but moves forward, and that Man is capable of change.” “That is a strange remark for an executioner to make,” the young Rana said softly. “But it is futile to argue with Death.” “Your time has come,” the Emperor assented. “So tell us truthfully before you go, what sort of paradise do you expect to discover when you have passed through the veil?” The Rana raised his mutilated face and looked the Emperor in the eye. “In Paradise, the words ‘worship’ and ‘argument’ mean the same thing,” he declared. “The Almighty is not a tyrant. In the house of God, all voices are free to speak as they choose, and that is the form of their devotion.” He was an irritating, holier-than-thou type of youth, that was beyond question, but in spite of his annoyance Akbar was moved. “We promise you that we will build that house of adoration here on earth,” the Emperor said. Then, with a cry—Allahu Akbar, “God is great,” or, just possibly, “Akbar is God”—he chopped off the pompous little twerp’s cheeky, didactic, and therefore suddenly unnecessary head. In the hours after he killed the Rana, the Emperor was possessed by his familiar demon of loneliness. Whenever a man spoke to him as an equal, it drove him crazy, and this was a fault, he understood that. A king’s anger was always a fault; an angry king was like a god who made mistakes. And here was another contradiction in him. He was not only a barbarian philosopher and a crybaby killer but also an egotist addicted to obsequiousness and sycophancy who nevertheless longed for a different world, a world in which he could find exactly that man who was his equal, whom he could meet as his brother, with whom he could speak freely, teaching and learning, giving and receiving pleasure, a world in which he could forsake the gloating satisfactions of conquest for the gentler yet more taxing joys of discourse. Did such a world exist? By what road could it be reached? Was there such a man anywhere in the world, or had he just executed him? What if the Rana of the mustache had been the only one? Had he just slain the only man on earth whom he might have loved? The Emperor’s thoughts grew vinous and sentimental, his eyes blurring with drunken tears. How could he become the man he wanted to be? The akbar, the great one? How? There was nobody to talk to. He had ordered his stone-deaf body servant, Bhakti Ram Jain, away, out of his tent, so that he could drink in peace. A body servant who could not hear his master’s ramblings was a blessing, but Bhakti Ram Jain had learned to read his lips now, which undid much of his value, making him an eavesdropper like everyone else. The king is mad. They said that: everyone said that. His soldiers his people his wives. Probably Bhakti Ram Jain said so as well. They did not say it to his face, for he was a giant of a man and a puissant warrior, like a hero out of the ancient tales, and he was also the king of kings, and if such a one wished to be a little nutty then who were they to argue? The King, however, was not mad. The King was not content with being. He was striving to become. Very well. He would keep his promise to the dead Kathiawari princeling. In the heart of his victory city he would build a house of adoration, a place of disputation where everything could be said to everyone by anyone on any subject, including the nonexistence of God and the abolition of kings. He would teach himself humility in that house. No, now he was being unfair to himself. Not “teach.” Rather, he would remind himself of, and recover, the humility that was already lodged deep in his heart. This humble Akbar was perhaps his best self, created by the circumstances of his childhood in exile, clothed now in adult grandeur but still present nonetheless; a self born not in victory but in defeat. Nowadays, it was all victories, but the Emperor knew all about defeat. Defeat was his father. Its name was Humayun. He didn’t like thinking about his father. His father had smoked too much opium, lost his empire, got it back only after he pretended to become a Shiite (and gave away the Koh-i-noor diamond) so that the King of Persia would give him an army to fight with, and had then died by falling down a flight of library stairs almost immediately after regaining his throne. Akbar hadn’t known his father. He himself had been born in Sind, after Humayun was defeated at Chausa, and then scurried off to Persia, abandoning his son. His fourteen-month-old son. Who was found and raised by his father’s brother and enemy, Uncle Askari of Kandahar, wild man Uncle Askari, who would have killed Akbar himself if he could ever have got close enough, which he couldn’t, because his wife was always in the way. Akbar lived, because his aunt wanted him to. And in Kandahar he was taught about survival, about fighting and killing and hunting, and he learned much else without being taught, such as how to look out for himself and watch his tongue and not say the wrong thing, the thing that might get him killed. About the dignity of the lost, about losing, and how it cleansed the soul to accept defeat, and about letting go, avoiding the trap of holding on too tightly to what you wanted, and about abandonment in general, and in particular fatherlessness, the lessness of fathers, the lessness of the fatherless, and the best defenses of those who are less against those who are more: inwardness, forethought, cunning, humility, and good peripheral vision. The many lessons of lessness. The lessening from which growing could begin. There were things, however, that nobody thought to teach him, and that he would never learn. “We are the Emperor of India, Bhakti Ram Jain, but we can’t write our own damn name!” he shouted at his body servant at dawn, as the old man helped him with his ablutions. “Yes, O most blessed entity, father of many sons, husband of many wives, monarch of the world, encompasser of the earth,” said Bhakti Ram Jain, handing him a towel. This time, the hour of the King’s levee, was also the hour of imperial flattery. Bhakti Ram Jain proudly held the rank of Imperial Flatterer First Class, and was a master of the ornate, old-school style known as cumulative fawning. Only a man with an excellent memory for the baroque formulations of excessive encomiums could fawn cumulatively, on account of the repetitions required and the necessary precision of the sequencing. Bhakti Ram Jain’s memory was unerring. He could fawn for hours. The Emperor saw his own face scowling back at him from his basin of warm water like an augury of doom. “We are the king of kings, Bhakti Ram Jain, but we can’t read our own laws. What do you say to that?” “Yes, O most just of judges, father of many sons, husband of many wives, monarch of the world, encompasser of the earth, ruler of all that is, bringer together of all being,” said Bhakti Ram Jain, warming to his task. “We are the Sublime Radiance, the Star of India, and the Sun of Glory,” said the Emperor, who knew a thing or two about flattery himself. “Yet we were raised in that shithole dump of a town where men fuck women to make babies but fuck boys to make them men—raised watching out for the attacker who worked from behind as well as the warrior straight ahead.” “Yes, O dazzling light, father of many sons, husband of many wives, monarch of the world, encompasser of the earth, ruler of all that is, bringer together of all being, Sublime Radiance, Star of India, and Sun of Glory,” said Bhakti Ram Jain, who might have been deaf but who knew how to take a hint. “Is that how a king should be raised, Bhakti Ram Jain?” the Emperor roared, tipping over the basin in his wrath. “Illiterate, ass-guarding, savage—is that what a prince should be?” “Yes, O wiser than the Wise, father of many sons, husband of many wives, monarch of the world, encompasser of the earth, ruler of all that is, bringer together of all being, Sublime Radiance, Star of India, Sun of Glory, master of human souls, forger of thy people’s destiny,” said Bhakti Ram Jain. “You are pretending you can’t read the words on our lips!” the Emperor shouted. “Yes, O more insightful than the Seers, father of many—” “You are a goat who should have his throat slit so that we can eat his meat for lunch.” “Yes, O more merciful than the gods, father—” “Your mother fucked a pig to make you.” “Yes, O most articulate of all who articulate, f—” “Never mind,” said the Emperor. “We feel better now. Go away. You can live.” And here again with bright silks flying like banners from red palace windows was Sikri, shimmering in the heat like an opium vision. Here at last, with its strutting peacocks and dancing girls, was home. If the war-torn world was a harsh truth, then Sikri was a beautiful lie. The Emperor came home like a smoker returning to his pipe. He was the Enchanter. In this place he would conjure a new world, a world beyond religion, region, rank, and tribe. The most beautiful women in the world were here, and they were all his wives. The most brilliant talents in the land were assembled here, among them the Nine Jewels, the nine most brilliant of the most brilliant, and with their help there was nothing he could not accomplish. And then there was Birbal, the best of the nine, who were the best of the best. His first minister, and first friend. The first minister and greatest wit of the age greeted him at the Hiran Minar, the tower of elephants’ teeth. The Emperor’s sense of mischief was aroused. “Birbal,” Akbar said, dismounting from his horse, “will you answer me one question? We have been waiting a long time to ask it.” The first minister of legendary wit and wisdom bowed humbly. “As you wish, Jahanpanah, Shelter of the World.” “Well, then,” said Akbar, “which came first, the chicken or the egg?” Birbal replied at once, “The chicken.” Ak-bar was taken aback. “How can you be so sure?” he wanted to know. “Huzoor,” Birbal replied, “I promised to answer only one question.” The first minister and the Emperor were standing on the ramparts of the city, looking out at the wheeling crows. “Birbal,” Akbar mused, “how many crows do you imagine there are in my kingdom?” “Jahanpanah,” Birbal replied, “there are exactly nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine.” Akbar was puzzled. “Suppose we have them counted,” he said, “and there are more than that, what then?” “That would mean,” Birbal replied, “that their friends from the neighboring kingdom have come to visit them.” “And if there are fewer?” “Then some of ours will have gone abroad to see the wider world.” A great linguist was waiting at Akbar’s court, a visitor from a distant Western land: a Jesuit priest who could converse and dispute fluently in dozens of languages. He challenged the Emperor to discover his native language. While the Emperor was pondering the riddle, his first minister circled the priest and all of a sudden kicked him violently in the backside. The priest let out a series of oaths—not in Portuguese but in Italian. “You observe, Jahanpanah,” said Birbal, “that when it’s time to unleash a few insults a man will always choose his mother tongue.” “If you were an atheist, Birbal,” the Emperor challenged his first minister, “what would you say to the true believers of all the great religions of the world?” Birbal was a devout Brahmin from Trivikrampur, but he answered unhesitatingly, “I would say to them that in my opinion they were all atheists as well; I merely believe in one god less than each of them.” “How so?” the Emperor asked. “All true believers have good reasons for disbelieving in every god except their own,” said Birbal. “And so it is they who, between them, give me all the reasons for believing in none.” The first minister and the Emperor were standing at the Khwabgah, the Place of Dreams, looking out over the still surface of the Anup Talao, the monarch’s private, formal pool, the Pool Without Peer, the best of all possible pools, of which it was said that when the kingdom was in trouble its waters would send a warning. “Birbal,” said Akbar, “as you know, our favorite queen has the misfortune not to exist. Even though we love her best of all, admire her above all the others, and value her above even the lost Koh-i-noor, she is inconsolable. ‘Your ugliest, most sour-natured shrew of a wife is still made of flesh and blood,’ she says. ‘In the end, I will not be able to compete with her.’ ” The first minister advised the Emperor, ‘Jahanpanah, you must say to her that it is precisely in the end that her victory will be apparent to everyone, for in the end none of the queens will exist any more than she does, while she will have enjoyed a lifetime of your love, and her fame will echo down the ages. Thus, in reality, while it is true that she does not exist, it is also true to say that she is the one who lives. If she did not, then over there, behind that high window, there would be nobody waiting for your return.” Jodha’s sisters, her fellow-wives, resented her. How could the mighty Emperor prefer the company of a woman who did not exist? When he was gone, at least, she ought to absent herself as well; she had no business to hang around with the actually existing. She should disappear like the apparition she was, slide into a mirror or a shadow and be lost. That she did not, the living queens concluded, was the sort of solecism one had to expect from an imaginary being. How could she have been brought up to know her manners when she had not been brought up at all? She was an untutored figment, and deserved to be ignored. The Emperor had put her together, they fumed, by stealing bits of them all. He said she was the daughter of the Prince of Jodhpur. She was not! That was another queen, and she was not the daughter but the sister. The Emperor also believed his fictitious beloved was the mother of his firstborn son, his long-awaited firstborn son, conceived because of the blessing of a saint, that very saint beside whose hilltop hovel this victory city had been built. But she was not Prince Salim’s mother, as Prince Salim’s real mother, Rajkumar Hira Kunwari, known as Mariam-uz-Zamani, daughter of Raja Bihar Mal of Amer, of the Clan Kachhwaha, grievingly told anybody who would listen. So: the limitless beauty of the imaginary queen came from one consort, her Hindu religion from another, and her incalculable wealth from yet a third. Her temperament, however, was Akbar’s own creation. No real woman was ever like that, so perfectly attentive, so undemanding, so endlessly available. She was an impossibility, a fantasy of perfection. They feared her, knowing that, being impossible, she was irresistible, and that was why the King loved her best. They hated her for her theft of their histories. If they could have murdered her they would have done so, but until the Emperor tired of her, or died himself, she was immortal. The idea of the Emperor’s death was not beyond contemplation, but so far the queens were not contemplating it. So far, they bore their grievances in silence. “The Emperor is mad,” they grumbled inwardly, but sensibly forbore to utter the words. And when he was galloping around killing people they left the imaginary consort to her own devices. They never spoke her name. Jodha, Jodhabai. She wandered the palace quarters alone. She was a lonely shadow glimpsed through latticed stone screens. She was a cloth blown by the breeze. At night she stood under the little cupola on the top story of the Panch Mahal and scanned the horizon for the return of the King, who made her real. Jodha knew that her illustrious husband must have had witchcraft in his blood. Everyone had heard about Genghis Khan’s necromancy, his use of animal sacrifice and occult herbs, and how, by the use of the black arts, he managed to sire eight hundred thousand descendants. Everyone had heard the tale of how Timur the Lame after conquering the earth had tried to ascend to the stars and conquer the heavens, too. Everyone knew the story of how the Emperor Babar had saved the dying Humayun’s life by circling his sickbed and luring Death away from the boy to the father, sacrificing himself so that his son might live. These dark pacts with Death and the Devil were her husband’s heritage, and her own existence the proof of how strong the magic was in him. The creation of a real life from a dream was a superhuman act, usurping the prerogative of the gods. In those days, Sikri was swarming with poets and artists, those preening egotists who claimed for themselves the power of language and image to conjure beautiful somethings from empty nothings, and yet neither poet nor painter, musician nor sculptor had come close to what the Emperor, the Perfect Man, had achieved. The court was also full of foreigners, pomaded exotics, weather-beaten merchants, narrow-faced priests from the West, boasting in ugly, undesirable tongues about the majesty of their lands, their gods, their kings. When the Emperor showed her the pictures of their mountains and valleys they’d brought with them, she thought of the Himalayas and of Kashmir and laughed at the foreigners’ paltry approximations of natural beauty, their vaals and aalps, half-words to describe half-things. Their kings were savages, and they had nailed their god to a tree. What did she want with people as ridiculous as that? They came in search of—what, exactly? Nothing of use. If they had possessed any wisdom, the inutility of their journeying would have been obvious to them. Travel was pointless. It removed you from the place in which you had a meaning, and to which you gave meaning in return by dedicating your life to it, and spirited you away into fairylands where you were, and looked, frankly absurd. Yes: this place, Sikri, was a fairyland to them, just as their England and Portugal, their Holland and France, were beyond her ability to comprehend. The world was not all one thing. “We are their dream,” she had told the Emperor. “And they are ours.” She loved him because he never dismissed her opinions, never swatted them away with the majesty of his hand. “But imagine, Jodha, if we could awake in other men’s dreams and change them, and if we had the courage to invite them into ours,” he told her while they slapped down ganjifa playing cards one evening. “What if the whole world became a single waking dream?” She could not call him a fantasist when he spoke of waking dreams, for what else was she? She had never left the palaces in which she had been born a decade earlier, born an adult, to the man who was not only her creator but her lover. It was true: she was both his wife and his child. If she left the palaces, or so she had always suspected, the spell would be broken and she would cease to exist. Perhaps she could do it if he, the Emperor, were there to sustain her with the strength of his belief, but if she were alone she wouldn’t have a chance. Fortunately, she had no desire to leave. The labyrinth of walled and curtained corridors that connected the various buildings of the palace complex afforded her all the possibilities for travel she required. This was her little universe. She lacked a conqueror’s interest in elsewhere. Let the rest of the world be for others. This square of fortified stone was hers. She was a woman without a past, separate from history, or, rather, possessing only such history as he had been pleased to bestow upon her, and which the other queens bitterly contested. The question of her independent existence, of whether she had one, insisted on being asked, over and over, whether she willed it or not. If God turned his face away from his creation, Man, would Man simply cease to be? That was the large-scale version of the question, but it was the selfish, small-scale versions that bothered her. Was her will free of the man who had willed her into being? Did she exist only because of his suspension of disbelief in the possibility of her existence? If he died, could she go on living? She felt a quickening of her pulse. Something was about to happen. She felt herself strengthen, solidify. Doubts fled from her. He was coming. The Emperor had entered the palace complex, and she could feel the power of his approaching need. Yes. Something was about to happen. She felt his footfall in her blood, could see him in herself, growing larger as he walked toward her. She was his mirror, because he had created her that way, but she was herself as well. Yes. Now that the act of creation was complete, she was free to be the person he had created, free, as everyone was, within the bounds of what it was in their nature to be and to do. How strong she suddenly was, how full of blood and rage. His power over her was far from absolute. All she had to be was coherent. She had never felt more coherent. Her nature rushed into her like a flood. She was not subservient. He did not like subservient women. She would scold him first. How could he stay away so long? In his absence, she had had to combat many plots. All was untrustworthy here. The very walls were filled with whispers. She had fought them all and kept the palace safe against the day of his return, defeating the small, self-serving treacheries of the domestic staff, confounding the spying lizards hanging on the walls, stilling the scurry of conspiratorial mice. All this while she felt herself fading, while the mere struggle for survival required the exercise of almost the full force of her will. The other queens . . . no, she would not mention the other queens. The other queens did not exist. Only she existed. She, too, was a sorceress. She was the sorceress of herself. There was only one man she needed to enchant, and he was here. He was not going to the other queens. He was coming to what pleased him. She was full of him, of his desire for her, of the something that was about to happen. She was the scholar of his need. She knew everything. The door opened. She existed. She was immortal, because she had been created by love. He was wearing a cockaded golden turban and a coat of gold brocade. He was wearing the dust of his conquered land like a soldier’s badge of honor. He was wearing a sheepish grin. “ ‘I’ wanted to get home faster,” he said. “ ‘I’ was delayed.” There was something awkward and experimental about his speech. What was the matter with him? She decided to ignore his uncharacteristic hesitancy and proceed as she had planned. “Oh, you ‘wanted,’ ” she said, standing upright, in her ordinary day clothes, pulling a silken head scarf across the lower portion of her face. “A man doesn’t know what he wants. A man doesn’t want what he says he wants. A man wants only what he needs.” He was puzzled by her refusal to acknowledge his descent into the first person, which honored her, which was supposed to make her swoon with joy, which was his newest discovery and his declaration of love. Puzzled, and a little put out. “How many men have you known, that you are so knowledgeable?” he said, frowning, approaching her. “Did you dream up men for yourself while ‘I’ was away, or did you find men to pleasure you, men who were not dreams? Are there men that ‘I’ must kill?” Surely this time she would notice the revolutionary, erotic newness of the pronoun? Surely now she would understand what he was trying to say? She did not. She believed she knew what aroused him, and was thinking only of the words she had to say to make him hers. “Women think less about men in general than the generality of men can imagine. Women think about their own men less often than their men like to believe. All women need all men less than all men need them. This is why it is so important to keep a good woman down. If you do not keep her down, she will surely get away.” She hadn’t dressed up to receive him. “If you want dolls,” she said, “go over to the doll’s house, where they’re waiting for you, prettifying and squealing and pulling one another’s hair.” This was a mistake. She had mentioned the other queens. His brow furrowed and his eyes clouded over. She had made a false move. The spell had almost broken. She poured all the force of her eyes into his, and he came back to her. The magic held. She raised her voice and continued. She didn’t flatter him. “You already look like an old man,” she said. “Your sons will imagine you’re their grandfather.” She didn’t congratulate him on his victories. “If history had gone down a different path,” she said, “then the old gods would still rule, the gods you have defeated, the many-limbed many-headed gods, full of stories and deeds instead of punishments and laws, the gods of being standing beside the goddesses of doing, dancing gods, laughing gods, gods of thunderbolts and flutes, so many, many gods, and maybe that would have been an improvement.” She knew she was beautiful and now, dropping her thin silk veil, she unleashed that beauty, and he was lost. “When a boy dreams up a woman, he gives her big breasts and a small brain,” she murmured. “When a king imagines a wife, he dreams of me.” She was adept at the seven types of unguiculation, which is to say the art of using the nails to enhance the act of love. Before he left on his long journey, she had marked him with the Three Deep Marks, which were scratches made by the first three fingers of her right hand upon his back and his chest, and on his testicles as well: something to remember her by. Now that he was home, she could make him shudder, could actually make his hair stand on end, by placing her nails on his cheeks and lower lip and chest, without leaving any mark. Or she could mark him, leaving a half-moon shape upon his neck. She could push her nails slowly into his face. She could perform the Hopping of the Hare, marking the areolas around his nipples without touching him anywhere else on his body. And no living woman was as skilled as she at the Peacock’s Foot, that delicate maneuver: she placed her thumb on his left nipple and with her four other fingers she “walked” around his breast, digging in her long nails, her curved, clawlike nails, which she had guarded and sharpened in anticipation of this very moment, pushing them into the Emperor’s skin until they made marks resembling the trail left by a peacock as it walks through mud. She knew what he would say while she did these things. He would tell her how, in the loneliness of his Army tent, he would close his eyes and imitate her movements, imagine his nails moving on his body to be hers, and be aroused. She waited for him to say it, but he didn’t. Something was different. There was an impatience in him now, an irritation almost, an annoyance she did not understand. It was as if the many sophistications of the lover’s art had lost their charms and he wished simply to possess her and be done with it. She understood that he had changed. And now everything else would change as well. As for the Emperor, he never again referred to himself in the singular in the presence of another person. He was plural in the eyes of the world, plural even in the judgment of the woman who loved him, and plural he would remain. He had learned his lesson.
Free Radicals At first, people kept phoning, to make sure that Nita was not too depressed, not too lonely, not eating too little or drinking too much. (She had been such a diligent wine drinker that many forgot that she was now forbidden to drink at all.) She held them off, without sounding nobly grief-stricken or unnaturally cheerful or absent-minded or confused. She said that she didn’t need groceries; she was working through what she had on hand. She had enough of her prescription pills and enough stamps for her thank-you notes. Her closer friends probably suspected the truth—that she was not bothering to eat much and that she threw out any sympathy note she happened to get. She had not even informed the people who lived at a distance, to elicit such notes. Not Rich’s ex-wife in Arizona or his semi-estranged brother in Nova Scotia, though those two might have understood, perhaps better than the people near at hand, why she had proceeded with the non-funeral as she had done. Rich had told her that he was going to the village, to the hardware store. It was around ten o’clock in the morning, and he had just started to paint the railing of the deck. That is, he’d been scraping it to prepare for the painting, and the old scraper had come apart in his hand. She hadn’t had time to wonder about his being late. He’d died bent over the sidewalk sign that stood in front of the hardware store offering a discount on lawnmowers. He hadn’t even managed to get into the store. He’d been eighty-one years old and in fine health, aside from some deafness in his right ear. His doctor had checked him over only the week before. Nita was to learn that the recent checkup, the clean bill of health, cropped up in a surprising number of the sudden-death stories that she was now presented with. “You’d almost think that such visits ought to be avoided,” she’d said. She should have spoken like this only to her close and fellow bad-mouthing friends, Virgie and Carol, women around her own age, which was sixty-two. Her younger friends found this sort of talk unseemly and evasive. At first, they had crowded in on Nita. They had not actually spoken of the grieving process, but she had been afraid that at any moment they might start. As soon as she got on with the arrangements, of course, all but the tried and true had fallen away. The cheapest box, into the ground immediately, no ceremony of any kind. The undertaker had suggested that this might be against the law, but she and Rich had had their facts straight. They’d got their information almost a year before, when the diagnosis of her cancer became final. “How was I to know he’d steal my thunder?” she’d said. People had not expected a traditional service, but they had looked forward to some kind of contemporary affair. Celebrating the life. Playing his favorite music, holding hands together, telling stories that praised Rich while touching humorously on his quirks and forgivable faults. The sort of thing that Rich had said made him puke. So it was dealt with privately, and soon the stir, the widespread warmth that had surrounded Nita melted away, though some people, she supposed, were likely still saying that they were concerned about her. Virgie and Carol didn’t say that. They said only that she was a selfish bloody bitch if she was thinking of conking out now, any sooner than was necessary. They would come around, they said, and revive her with Grey Goose. She assured them that she wasn’t, though she could see a certain logic to the idea. Thanks to the radiation last spring, her cancer was at present in remission—whatever that actually meant. It did not mean gone. Not for good, anyway. Her liver was the main theatre of operations and as long as she stuck to nibbles it did not complain. It would only have depressed her friends to remind them that she couldn’t have wine, let alone vodka. Rich died in June. Now here it is midsummer. She gets out of bed early and washes herself and dresses in anything that comes to hand. But she does dress and wash, and she brushes her teeth and combs her hair, which has grown back decently, gray around her face and dark at the back, the way it was before. She puts on lipstick and pencils her eyebrows, which are now very scanty, and out of her lifelong respect for a narrow waist and moderate hips she checks on the achievements she has made in that direction, though she knows that the proper word for all parts of her now might be “scrawny.” She sits in her usual ample armchair, with piles of books and unopened magazines around her. She sips cautiously from the mug of weak herbal tea that is now her substitute for coffee. At one time, she thought that she could not live without coffee, but it turned out that it was really just the large warm mug she wanted in her hands, that was the aid to thought or whatever it was she practiced through the procession of hours, or of days. This was Rich’s house. He’d bought it when he was with his first wife, Bett. It had been intended as a weekend place, closed up in the winter. Two tiny bedrooms, a lean-to kitchen, half a mile from the village. But soon Rich had begun working on it, learning carpentry, building a wing for two new bedrooms and a bathroom and another wing for his study, turning the original house into an open-plan living room, dining room, kitchen. Bett had become interested; she’d claimed in the beginning not to understand why he’d bought such a dump, but practical improvements always engaged her, and she bought matching carpenter’s aprons. She’d needed something to become involved in, having finished and published the cookbook that had occupied her for several years. They’d had no children. And at the same time that Bett had been busy telling people that she’d found her role in life as a carpenter’s helper, and that it had brought her and Rich much closer, Rich had been falling in love with Nita. She’d worked in the registrar’s office of the university where he taught medieval literature. The first time they’d made love was amid the shavings and sawn wood of what was to become the house’s central room with its arched ceiling, on a weekend when Bett had stayed in the city. Nita had left her sunglasses behind—not on purpose, though Bett, who never forgot anything, could not believe that. The usual ruckus followed, trite and painful, and ended with Bett going off to California, then Arizona, Nita quitting her job at the suggestion of the registrar, and Rich missing out on becoming dean of arts. He took early retirement, sold the city house. Nita did not inherit the smaller carpenter’s apron, but she read her books cheerfully in the midst of construction and disorder, made rudimentary dinners on a hot plate, and went for long exploratory walks, coming back with ragged bouquets of tiger lilies and wild carrot, which she stuffed into empty paint cans. Later, when she and Rich had settled down, she felt somewhat embarrassed to think how readily she had played the younger woman, the happy home-wrecker, the lissome, laughing, tripping ingénue. She was really a rather serious, physically awkward, self-conscious woman, who could recite not just the kings but the queens of England, and knew the Thirty Years’ War backward, but was shy about dancing in front of people and would never learn, as Bett had, to get up on a stepladder. The house had a row of cedars on one side and a railway embankment on the other. The railway traffic had never amounted to much, and by now there were only a couple of trains a month. Weeds were lavish between the tracks. One time, when she was on the verge of menopause, Nita had teased Rich into making love up there—not on the ties, of course, but on the narrow grass verge beside them—and they had climbed down inordinately pleased with themselves. She thought carefully, every morning when she first took her seat, of the places where Rich was not. He was not in the smaller bathroom, where his shaving things still were, along with the prescription pills for various troublesome but not serious ailments which he’d refused to throw out. Nor was he in the bedroom, which she had just tidied and left. Not in the larger bathroom, which he had entered only to take tub baths. Or in the kitchen, which had become mostly his domain in the last year. He was of course not out on the half-scraped deck, ready to peer jokingly in the window—through which she might, in earlier days, have pretended to be alarmed at the sight of a peeping tom. Or in the study. That was where, of all places, his absence had to be most often verified. At first, she had found it necessary to go to the door and open it and stand there, surveying the piles of paper, the moribund computer, the overflowing files, the books lying open or face down, as well as crowded on the shelves. Now she could manage just by picturing these things. One of these days, she would have to enter the room. She thought of it as invading. She would have to invade her dead husband’s mind. This was one possibility that she had never considered. Rich had seemed to her such a tower of efficiency and competence, so vigorous and firm a presence that she had always believed, quite unreasonably, that he would survive her. Then, in the last year, this had become not a foolish belief at all but in both their minds, she thought, a certainty. She would deal with the cellar first. It really was a cellar, not a basement. Planks made walkways over the dirt floor, and the small high windows were hung with dirty cobwebs. There was nothing down there that she ever needed. Just Rich’s half-filled paint tins, boards of various lengths, tools that were either usable or ready to be discarded. She had opened the door and gone down the steps just once since Rich had died, to see that no lights had been left on, and to assure herself that the fuse switches were there, with labels written beside them to tell her which controlled what. When she came up, she had bolted the door as usual, on the kitchen side. Rich used to laugh about that habit of hers, asking what she thought might get in, through the stone walls and elf-size windows, to menace them. Nevertheless, the cellar would be easier to start on; it would be a hundred times easier than the study. She did make up the bed and tidy her own little messes in the kitchen or the bathroom, but in general the impulse to take on any wholesale sweep of housecleaning was beyond her. She could barely throw out a twisted paper clip or a fridge magnet that had lost its attraction, let alone the dish of Irish coins that she and Rich had brought home from a trip fifteen years ago. Everything seemed to have acquired its own peculiar heft and strangeness. Carol or Virgie phoned every day, usually toward supper-time, when they must have thought her solitude was least bearable. She told them that she was O.K.; she would come out of her lair soon. She just needed this time to think and read. And eat and sleep. It was true, too, except for the part about reading. She sat in her chair surrounded by her books without opening one of them. She had always been such a reader—that was one reason, Rich had said, that she was the right woman for him; she could sit and read and let him alone—but now she couldn’t stick to it for even half a page. She hadn’t been just a once-through reader, either. “The Brothers Karamazov,” “The Mill on the Floss,” “The Wings of the Dove,” “The Magic Mountain,” over and over. She would pick one up, planning to read that one special passage, and find herself unable to stop until the whole thing was redigested. She read modern fiction, too. Always fiction. She hated to hear the word “escape” used about fiction. She once might have argued, not just playfully, that it was real life that was the escape. But real life had become too important to argue about. And now, most strangely, all that was gone. Not just with Rich’s death but with her own immersion in illness. She had thought that the change was temporary and the magic of reading would reappear once she was off certain drugs and exhausting treatments. But apparently not. Sometimes she tried to explain why, to an imaginary inquisitor. “I got too busy.” “So everybody says. Doing what?” “Too busy paying attention.” “To what?” “I mean thinking.” “What about?” “Never mind.” One morning, after sitting for a while, she decided that it was a very hot day. She should get up and turn on the fans. Or she could, with more environmental responsibility, try opening the front and back doors and letting the breeze, if there was any, blow through the house. She unlocked the front door first. And even before she had allowed half an inch of morning light to show itself she was aware of a dark stripe cutting that light off. There was a young man standing outside the screen door, which was hooked. “Didn’t mean to startle you,” he said. “I was looking for a doorbell or something. I gave a little knock on the frame here, but I guess you didn’t hear me.” “Sorry,” she said. “I’m supposed to look at your fuse box. If you could tell me where it is.” She stepped aside to let him in. She took a moment to remember. “Yes. In the cellar,” she said. “I’ll turn the light on. You’ll see it.” He shut the door behind him and bent to take off his shoes. “That’s all right,” she said. “It’s not as if it’s raining.” “Might as well, though. I make it a habit. Could leave you dust tracks insteada mud.” She went into the kitchen, not able to sit down again until he left the house. She opened the cellar door for him as he came up the steps. “O.K.?” she said. “You found it O.K.?” “Fine.” She was leading him toward the front door, then realized that there were no footsteps behind her. She turned and saw him still standing in the kitchen. “You don’t happen to have anything you could fix up for me to eat, do you?” There was a change in his voice—a crack in it, a rising pitch that made her think of a television comedian doing a rural whine. Under the kitchen skylight, she saw that he wasn’t as young as she’d thought. When she’d opened the door, she had been aware only of a skinny body, the face dark against the morning glare. The body, as she saw it now, was certainly skinny but more wasted than boyish, affecting a genial slouch. His face was long and rubbery, with prominent light-blue eyes. A jokey look, but a persistence, too, as if he generally got his way. “See, I happen to be a diabetic,” he said. “I don’t know if you know any diabetics, but the fact is when you get hungry you got to eat. Otherwise your system goes all weird. I shoulda ate before I came in here, but I let myself get in a hurry. You mind if I sit down?” He was already sitting down at the kitchen table. “You got any coffee?” “I have tea. Herbal tea, if you’d like that.” “Sure. Sure.” She measured tea into a strainer, plugged in the kettle, and opened the refrigerator. “I don’t have much on hand,” she said. “I have some eggs. Sometimes I scramble an egg and put ketchup on it. Would you like that? I have some English muffins I could toast.” “English, Irish, Yukoranian, I don’t care.” She cracked a couple of eggs into the pan, broke up the yolks, and stirred them with a cooking fork, then sliced a muffin and put it into the toaster. She got a plate from the cupboard, set it down in front of him. Then a knife and fork from the cutlery drawer. “Pretty plate,” he said, holding it up as if to see his face in it. Just as she turned her attention back to the eggs she heard it smash on the floor. “Oh, mercy me,” he said in a new voice, a squeaky and definitely nasty voice. “Look what I gone and done.” “It’s all right,” she said, knowing now that nothing was. “Musta slipped through my fingers.” She got down another plate, set it on the counter until she was ready to put the toasted muffin halves and the eggs smeared with ketchup on top of it. He had stooped down, meanwhile, to gather up the pieces of broken china. He held up one piece that had broken so that it had a sharp point to it. As she set his meal down on the table, he scraped the point lightly down his bare forearm. Tiny beads of blood appeared, at first separate, then joining to form a string. “It’s O.K.,” he said. “It’s just a joke. I know how to do it for a joke. If I’d’ve wanted to be serious, we wouldn’t’ve needed no ketchup, eh?” There were still some pieces on the floor that he had missed. She turned away, thinking to get the broom, which was in a closet near the back door. He caught her arm in a flash. “You sit down. You sit right here while I’m eating,” he said. He lifted the bloodied arm to show it to her again. Then he made a sandwich out of the muffin and the eggs and ate it in a very few bites. He chewed with his mouth open. The kettle was boiling. “Tea bag in the cup?” he said. “Yes. It’s loose tea, actually.” “Don’t you move. I don’t want you near that kettle, do I?” He poured boiling water through the strainer into the cup. “Looks like hay. Is that all you got?” “I’m sorry. Yes.” “Don’t go on saying you’re sorry. If it’s all you got, it’s all you got. You never did think I come here to look at the fuse box, did you?” “Well, yes,” Nita said. “I did.” “You don’t now. You scared?” She chose to consider this not as a taunt but as a serious question. “I don’t know. I’m more startled than scared, I guess. I don’t know.” “One thing. One thing you don’t need to be scared of. I’m not going to rape you.” “I hardly thought so.” “You can’t never be too sure.” He took a sip of the tea and made a face. “Just because you’re an old lady. There’s all kinds out there—they’ll do it to anything. Babies or dogs and cats or old ladies. Old men. They’re not fussy. Well, I am. I’m not interested in getting it any way but normal and with some nice lady I like and what likes me. So rest assured.” Nita said, “Thank you for telling me.” He shrugged, but seemed pleased with himself. “That your car out front?” “My husband’s car.” “Husband? Where’s he?” “He’s dead. I don’t drive. I meant to sell it, but I haven’t yet.” What a fool, what a fool she was to tell him that. “2004?” “I think so. Yes.” “For a second I thought you were going to try and trick me with the husband stuff. Wouldn’t’ve worked, though. I can smell it if a woman’s on her own. I know it the minute I walk in a house. Minute she opens the door. Instinct. So it runs O.K.? You know the last time he drove it?” “The seventeenth of June. The day he died.” “Got any gas in it?” “I would think so.” “Nice if he filled it up right before. You got the keys?” “Not on me. I know where they are.” “O.K.” He pushed his chair back, hitting one of the pieces of china. He stood up, shook his head in some kind of surprise, sat down again. “I’m wiped. Gotta sit a minute. I thought it’d be better when I’d ate. I was just making that up about being a diabetic.” She shifted in her chair and he jumped. “You stay where you are. I’m not that wiped I couldn’t grab you. It’s just that I walked all night.” “I was only going to get the keys.” “You wait till I say. I walked the railway track. Never seen a train. I walked all the way to here and never seen a train.” “There’s hardly ever a train.” “Yeah. Good. I went down in the ditch going around some of them half-assed little towns. Then it come daylight and I was still O.K., except where it crossed the road and I took a run for it. Then I looked down here and seen the house and the car, and I said to myself, ‘That’s it.’ I coulda took my old man’s car, but I got some brains left in my head.” She knew that he wanted her to ask what he had done. She was also sure that the less she knew the better it would be for her. Then, for the first time since he had entered the house, she thought of her cancer. She thought of how it freed her, put her out of danger. “What are you smiling about?” “I don’t know. Was I smiling?” “I guess you like listening to stories. Want me to tell you a story?” “I’d rather you’d leave.” “I will leave. First, I’ll tell you a story.” He put his hand in a back pocket. “Here. Want to see a picture? Here.” It was a photograph of three people, taken in a living room with closed floral curtains as a backdrop. An old man—not really old, maybe in his sixties—and a woman of about the same age were sitting on a couch. A very large younger woman was sitting in a wheelchair drawn up close to one end of the couch and a little in front of it. The old man was heavy and gray-haired, with eyes narrowed and mouth slightly open, as if he were asthmatic, but he was smiling as well as he could. The old woman was much smaller, with dyed brown hair and lipstick. She was wearing what used to be called a peasant blouse, with little red bows at the wrists and neck. She smiled determinedly, even a bit frantically, her lips stretched over perhaps bad teeth. But it was the younger woman who monopolized the picture. Distinct and monstrous in a bright muumuu, her dark hair done up in a row of little curls along her forehead, cheeks sloping into her neck. And, in spite of all that bulge of flesh, an expression of some satisfaction and cunning. “That’s my mother and that’s my dad. And that’s my sister, Madelaine. In the wheelchair. She was born funny. Nothing no doctor or anybody could do for her. And ate like a pig. There was bad blood between her and me since ever I remember. She was five years older than me and she just set out to torment me. Throwing anything at me she could get her hands on and knocking me down and trying to run over me with her fuckin’ wheelchair. Pardon my French.” “It must have been hard for you. And for your parents.” “Huh. They just rolled over and took it. They went to this church, see, and this preacher told them she was a gift from God. They took her with them to church and she’d fuckin’ howl like a fuckin’ cat in the back yard and they’d say, ‘Oh, she’s tryin’ to make music, oh, God fuckin’ bless her.’ Excuse me again. “So I never bothered much with sticking around home, you know. I went and got my own life. That’s all right, I says, I’m not hanging around for this crap. I got my own life. I got work. I nearly always got work. I never sat around on my ass drunk on government money. On my rear end, I mean. I never asked my old man for a penny. I’d get up and tar a roof in the ninety-degree heat, or I’d mop the floors in some stinkin’ old restaurant or go grease-monkey for some rotten cheatin’ garage. I’d do it. But I wasn’t always up for taking their shit, so I wasn’t lasting too long. That shit that people are always handing people like me, and I couldn’t take it. I come from a decent home. My dad worked till he got too sick—he worked on the buses. I wasn’t brought up to take shit. O.K., though—never mind that. What my parents always told me was ‘The house is yours. The house is all paid up and it’s in good shape and it’s yours.’ That’s what they told me. ‘We know you had a hard time here when you were young, and if you hadn’t had such a hard time you coulda got an education, so we want to make it up to you how we can.’ Then not long ago I’m talking to my dad on the phone and he says, ‘Of course, you understand the deal.’ So I’m, ‘What deal?’ He says, ‘It’s only a deal if you sign the papers that you will take care of your sister as long as she lives. It’s only your home if it’s her home, too,’ he says. “Jesus. I never heard that before. I never heard that was the deal before. I always thought the deal was that when they died she’d go into a home. And it wasn’t going to be my home. “So I told my old man that wasn’t the way I understood it, and he says, ‘It’s all sewed up for you to sign, and if you don’t want to sign it you don’t have to. If you do sign it, your Aunt Rennie will be around to keep an eye on you, so when we’re gone you see you stick to the arrangements.’ Yeah, my Aunt Rennie. She’s my mom’s youngest sister and she is one prize bitch. Anyway, he says, ‘Your Aunt Rennie will be keeping an eye on you,’ and suddenly I just switched. I said, ‘Well, I guess that’s the way it is and I guess it is only fair. O.K. O.K. Is it all right if I come over and eat dinner with you this Sunday?’ ‘Sure,’ he says. ‘Glad you have come to look at it the right way. You always fire off too quick,’ he says. ‘At your age you ought to have some sense.’ ‘Funny you should say that,’ I says to myself. “So over I go, and Mom has cooked chicken. Nice smell when I first go into the house. Then I get the smell of Madelaine, just her same old awful smell. I don’t know what it is, but even if Mom washes her every day it’s there. But I acted very nice. I said, ‘This is an occasion. I should take a picture.’ I told them I had this wonderful new camera that developed right away and they could see the picture. ‘Right off the bat, you can see yourself—what do you think of that?’ And I got them all sitting in the front room just the way I showed you. Mom, she says, ‘Hurry up. I have to get back in my kitchen.’ ‘Do it in no time,’ I says. So I take their picture and she says, ‘Come on, now, let’s see how we look,’ and I say, ‘Hang on, just be patient, it’ll only take a minute.’ And while they’re waiting to see how they look I take out my nice little gun and bin-bang-barn I shoot the works of them. “Then I took another picture and I went out to the kitchen and ate up some of the chicken and didn’t look at them no more. I kind of had expected Aunt Rennie to be there, but Mom said she had some church thing. I would’ve shot her, too, just as easy. “So lookie here. Before and after.” The man’s head had fallen sideways, the woman’s backward. Their expressions were blown away. The sister had fallen forward, so there was no face to be seen, just her great flowery swathed knees and dark hair with its elaborate and outdated coiffure. “I coulda just sat there feelin’ good for a week. I felt so relaxed. But I didn’t stay past dark. I made sure I was all cleaned up and I finished off the chicken and I knew I better get out. I was prepared for Aunt Rennie walkin’ in, but I got out of the mood I’d been in and I knew I’d have to work myself up to do her. I just didn’t feel like it no more. One thing, my stomach was so full. It was a big chicken, and I ate it all instead of packin’ it with me, because I was scared the dogs would smell it and cut up a fuss when I went by the back lanes like I figured to do. I thought that chicken inside of me would do me for a week. Yet look how hungry I was when I got to you.” He glanced around the kitchen. “I don’t suppose you got anything to drink here, do you? That tea was awful.” “There might be some wine,” she said. “I don’t know—I don’t drink anymore.” “You A.A.?” “No. It just doesn’t agree with me.” She got up and found that her legs were shaking. Of course. “I fixed up the phone line before I come in here,” he said. “Just thought you ought to know.” Would he get careless and more easygoing as he drank, or meaner and wilder? How could she tell? She found the wine without having to leave the kitchen. She and Rich used to drink red wine every day in reasonable quantities because it was supposed to be good for your heart. Or bad for something that was not good for your heart. In her fright and confusion, she was not able to think what that was called. Because she was frightened. Certainly. Her cancer was not going to be any help to her at the present moment, none at all. The fact that she was going to die within a year refused to cancel out the fact that she might die now. He said, “Hey, this is the good stuff. No screwtop. Haven’t you got no corkscrew?” She moved toward a drawer, but he jumped up and put her aside, not too roughly. “Uh-uh, I get it. You stay away from this drawer. Oh my, lots of good stuff in here.” He put the knives on the seat of his chair, where she would never be able to grab them, and used the corkscrew. She did not fail to see what a wicked instrument it could be in his hands, but there was not the least possibility that she herself would ever be able to use it. “I’m just getting up for glasses,” she said, but he said no. “No glass,” he said. “You got any plastic?” “No.” “Cups, then. I can see you.” She set down two cups and said, “Just a very little for me.” “And me,” he said, businesslike. “I gotta drive.” But he filled his cup to the brim. “I don’t want no cop stickin’ his head in to see how I am.” “Free radicals,” she said. “What’s that supposed to mean?” “It’s something about red wine. It either destroys them because they’re bad or builds them up because they’re good—I can’t remember.” She drank a sip of the wine and it didn’t make her feel sick, as she had expected. He drank, still standing. She said, “Watch for those knives when you sit down.” “Don’t start kidding with me.” He gathered the knives and put them back in the drawer and sat. “You think I’m dumb? You think I’m nervous?” She took a big chance. She said, “I just think you haven’t ever done anything like this before.” “Course I haven’t. You think I’m a murderer? Yeah, I killed them, but I’m not a murderer.” “There’s a difference,” she said. “You bet.” “I know what it’s like. I know what it’s like to get rid of somebody who has injured you.” “Yeah?” “I have done the same thing you did.” “You never.” He pushed back his chair but did not stand. “Don’t believe me if you don’t want to,” she said. “But I did it.” “Hell, you did. How’d you do it, then?” “Poison.” “What are you talkin’ about? You make them drink some of that fuckin’ tea or what?” “It wasn’t a them—it was a her. There’s nothing wrong with the tea. It’s supposed to prolong your life.” “Don’t want my life prolonged if it means drinkin’ junk like that. They can find out poison in a body when it’s dead, anyway.” “I’m not sure that’s true of vegetable poisons. Anyway, nobody would have thought to look. She was one of those girls who had rheumatic fever as a child and coasted along on it, couldn’t play sports or do anything much, always having to sit down and have a rest. Her dying was not any big surprise.” “What she ever done to you?” “She was the girl my husband was in love with. He was going to leave me and marry her. He had told me. I’d done everything for him. He and I were working on this house together. He was everything I had. We hadn’t had any children, because he didn’t want them. I learned carpentry and I was frightened to get up on ladders, but I did it. He was my whole life. And he was going to kick me out for this useless whiner who worked in the registrar’s office. Everything we’d worked for was going to go to her. Was that fair?” “How would a person get poison?” “I didn’t have to get it. It was right in the back garden. Here. There was a rhubarb patch from years back. There’s a perfectly adequate poison in the veins of rhubarb leaves. Not the stalks—the stalks are what we eat, they’re fine—but the thin little red veins in the big rhubarb leaves, they’re poisonous. I knew about this, but I didn’t know exactly how much it would take to be effective, so what I did was more in the nature of an experiment. Various things were lucky for me. First, my husband was away at a symposium in Minneapolis. He might have taken her along, of course, but it was summer holidays and she had to keep the office going. Another thing, though—she might not have been absolutely on her own. There might have been another person around. And she might have been suspicious of me. I had to assume that she didn’t know I knew. She had come to dinner at my house; we were friendly. I had to count on my husband’s being the kind of person who puts everything off, who would tell me to see how I took it but not yet tell her that he had done so. So then you say, Why get rid of her? He might still have been thinking of staying with me? No. And he would have kept her on somehow. And even if he didn’t our life had been poisoned by her. She’d poisoned my life, so I had to poison hers. “I baked two tarts. One had the poison in it and one didn’t. I drove down to the university and got two cups of coffee and went to her office. There was nobody there but her. I told her I’d had to come into town, and as I was passing the campus I’d seen this nice little bakery that my husband was always talking about, so I dropped in and bought a couple of tarts and two cups of coffee. I’d been thinking of her all alone when the rest of them got to go on their holidays, and of me all alone with my husband in Minneapolis. She was sweet and grateful. She said that it was very boring for her at the office, and the cafeteria was closed, so she had to go over to the science building for coffee and they put hydrochloric acid in it. Ha-ha. So we had our little party.” “I hate rhubarb,” he said. “It wouldn’t have worked with me.” “It did with her. I had to take a chance that it would work fast, before she realized what was wrong and had her stomach pumped. But not so fast that she would associate it with me. I had to be out of the way and so I was. The building was deserted, and as far as I know to this day nobody saw me arrive or leave. Of course, I knew some back ways.” “You think you’re smart. You got away scot-free.” “But so have you.” “What I done wasn’t so underhanded as what you done.” “It was necessary to you.” “You bet it was.” “Mine was necessary to me. I kept my marriage. He came to see that she wouldn’t have been good for him, anyway. She’d have got sick on him, almost certainly. She was just the type. She’d have been nothing but a burden to him. He saw that.” “You better not have put nothing in them eggs,” he said. “You did, you’ll be sorry.” “Of course I didn’t. It’s not something you’d go around doing regularly. I don’t actually know anything about poison. It was just by chance that I had that one little piece of information.” He stood up so suddenly that he knocked over his chair. She noticed that there was not much wine left in the bottle. “I need the keys to the car.” She couldn’t think for a moment. “Keys to the car. Where’d you put them?” It could happen. As soon as she gave him the keys, it could happen. Would it help to tell him that she was dying of cancer? How stupid. It wouldn’t help at all. Death in the future would not keep her from talking today. “Nobody knows what I’ve told you,” she said. “You are the only person I’ve told.” A fat lot of good that might do. The whole advantage she had presented to him had probably gone right over his head. “Nobody knows yet,” he said, and she thought, Thank God. He’s on the right track. He does realize. Does he realize? Thank God, maybe. “The keys are in the blue teapot.” “Where? What the fuck blue teapot?” “At the end of the counter—the lid got broken, so we used it to just throw things in—” “Shut up. Shut up or I’ll shut you up for good.” He tried to stick his fist in the blue teapot, but it would not go in. “Fuck, fuck, fuck!” he cried, and he turned the teapot over and banged it on the counter, so that not only did the car keys and house keys and various coins and a wad of old Canadian Tire money fall out on the floor but pieces of blue pottery hit the boards. “With the red string on them,” she said faintly. He kicked things about for a moment before he picked up the proper keys. “So what are you going to say about the car?” he said. “You sold it to a stranger. Right?” The import of this did not come to her for a moment. When it did, the room quivered. Going to say. “Thank you,” she said, but her mouth was so dry that she was not sure any sound came out. It must have, though, for he said, “Don’t thank me yet. I got a good memory. Good long memory. You make that stranger look nothin’ like me. You don’t want them goin’ into graveyards diggin’ up dead bodies. You just remember, a word outta you and there’ll be a word outta me.” She kept looking down. Not stirring or speaking, just looking at the mess on the floor. Gone. The door closed. Still she didn’t move. She wanted to lock the door, but she couldn’t move. She heard the engine start, then die. What now? He was so jumpy, he’d do everything wrong. Then again, starting, starting, turning over. The tires on the gravel. She walked trembling to the phone and found that he had told the truth: it was dead. Beside the phone was one of their many bookcases. This one held mostly old books, books that had not been opened for years. There was “The Proud Tower.” Albert Speer. Rich’s books. “A Celebration of Familiar Fruits and Vegetables.” “Hearty and Elegant Dishes and Fresh Surprises,” assembled, tested, and created by Bett Underhill. Once Rich had got the kitchen finished, Nita had made the mistake for a while of trying to cook like Bett. For a rather short while, because it turned out that Rich hadn’t wanted to be reminded of all that fuss, and she herself hadn’t had enough patience for so much chopping and simmering. But she had learned a few things that surprised her. Such as the poisonous aspects of certain familiar and generally benign plants. She should write to Bett. Dear Bett, Rich is dead and I have saved my life by becoming you. But what would Bett care that her life had been saved? There was only one person really worth telling. Rich. Rich. Now she knew what it was to miss him. Like having the air sucked out of the sky. She told herself that she could walk down to the village. There was a police office in the back of the Township Hall. She should get a cell phone. But she was so shaken, so deeply tired that she could hardly stir a foot. She had first of all to rest. She was wakened by a knock on her still unlocked door. It was a policeman, not the one from the village but one of the provincial traffic police. He asked if she knew where her car was. She looked at the patch of gravel where it had been parked. “It’s gone,” she said. “It was over there.” “You didn’t know it was stolen? When did you last look out and see it?” “It must have been last night.” “The keys were left in it?” “I suppose they must have been.” “I have to tell you it’s been in a bad accident. A one-car accident just this side of Wallenstein. The driver rolled it down into the culvert and totalled it. And that’s not all. He’s wanted for a triple murder. That’s the latest we heard, anyway. Murder in Mitchellston. You were lucky you didn’t run into him.” “Was he hurt?” “Killed. Instantly. Serves him right.” There followed a kindly stern lecture. Leaving keys in the car. Woman living alone. These days you never know. Never know.
Friendly Fire Shelley was helping out her friend Pam. Pam had her own cleaning business, but her employees were so unreliable that she ended up doing half the work herself. She’d been hired to do a scrub-off, meaning a thorough cleaning, right down to basics, at an industrial warehouse somewhere at the edge of the city. Shelley had agreed to go along; it was a few weeks before Christmas, and she could do with the extra money. When she went outside to wait for Pam, it was still night, the stars in the sky showing like flecks of broken glass. Pam was late, as usual, but Shelley hadn’t wanted to wait inside in case the doorbell woke the others: her daughter and baby granddaughter were asleep upstairs. She felt herself growing heavy and thick with cold. You forgot about the cold—the house had central heating, and winters weren’t like they used to be. When Shelley was a child, she’d wrapped her scarf around her head and mouth on the way to school, trying to trap the warmth of her breath inside; these days, you hardly needed a scarf. The phase of life Shelley was in now, anyway, the heat of her body came and went in blasts, and she had a horror of being caught out in tight clothes. She could have stamped her feet or flung her arms around, but it was too early in the morning; instead, she let the cold creep into her as if she were made of stone. When the car pulled up at last, she could barely even move toward it, though she could see Pam lit up inside, peering out through the window, looking for her. Pam always drove with the interior light on. She treated her car like just another room in her house—while she was driving, she’d fiddle around with piles of paper and bits of crocheted blanket and boxes of tissues on the passenger seat, hanging on to the steering wheel with her other hand. She was a danger on the road, but Shelley didn’t drive. For a moment, before she headed over to the car, Shelley imagined herself as Pam was seeing her—just another pillar of dark, like the hedge and the phone box and the pebble-dashed end wall of the kitchen extension. She and her husband, Roy, lived on what had been a council estate, although they had been buying their house for years now. Pam was fat like a limp saggy cushion, very short, with permed yellow curls that were growing out gray; her face was crumpled, like an ancient baby’s. Roy always said that Pam and Shelley, side by side, looked like Little and Large, because Shelley was tall and thin. Shelley had never been one to eat too much. Her only weakness was tea with sugar; she drank a lot of that—she couldn’t give it up. Her daughter, Kerry, said that her insides must be black. “Hiya, Shell.” Pam leaned over to open the door, then began throwing stuff into the back seat. “I’ve had a letter off the hospital about my gallstones.” All Pam’s conversations began as if you hadn’t stopped talking since you last saw her; they were as cluttered as her car. The heater was on high, belting out a stinging warmth that smelled of the little cardboard pine-tree air freshener dangling from the rearview mirror. “What gallstones?” “Well, they may not be. I’ve got to go in on the fifteenth. Typical—that’s the day John wants the car to go and see his sister in Tamworth. I said to him, ‘You’ll have to fix another day.’ He says he doesn’t want to mess her around. Don’t get me wrong—I’ve got a lot of time for his sister.” Pam’s husband, John, was meant to do the books for the cleaning business, but as far as Shelley could see he sat in front of the telly and did nothing, while Pam went driving about all over the place like a mad thing, and the car was forever breaking down. John used to be a plasterer. He was supposed to have damaged his leg years ago, falling from a scaffold, but Shelley had seen him limp with a different leg on different days. Pam was a good worker, though. Once she got into a job, she stuck at it until the sweat was running off her; she wouldn’t give up. Shelley was like that, too. They didn’t make a bad team. They crossed the river. It was at low tide, sunk to a twisting channel between flanks of mud glinting with moonlight. A notice outside the red brick warehouse, which was not much more than a two-story shed, warned that it was patrolled by security dogs, but there was no sign of them. Pam parked in the empty lot, and they got out some of their kit from the boot; the employers were supposed to provide equipment, but sometimes they left out broken old mops or brooms so heavy you could hardly lift them. Shelley switched her mobile off before she started working; otherwise, she couldn’t concentrate. Her son, Anthony, was in Afghanistan. Roy said that statistically Anthony would be in more danger if he were still playing with his rugby club, but Shelley was always waiting for some dreadful kind of message. There was a big operation under way. Anthony had told them that he’d had his leave cancelled, but Roy was sure that he’d volunteered to stay. It wasn’t only that her son might be killed or injured—Shelley pushed those possibilities right down in her mind until they weren’t any more than shapes in the dark. She never watched the news; she only listened in from the kitchen while the others watched it. But when there was that fuss about the friendly-fire incident with the Danish soldiers, she fixated on the idea that Anthony had been involved in it, even though Roy insisted that he’d been nowhere near where it had happened. “Why d’you have to make up trouble,” he said, “as if there wasn’t enough of the real thing?” Inside, the warehouse was a big open hall, divided into metal cages piled high with different grades of insulating material. Yellow forklifts were parked, as if resting, in the aisles between them. Fibrous orange dust was everywhere, but Shelley and Pam weren’t contracted to clean the warehouse itself—the men were supposed to do that. The canteen and toilets were along one wall, the offices upstairs on a sort of mezzanine. You could see why they needed the scrub-off: the regular cleaners hadn’t been doing much of a job. All the pipes in the canteen were thick with dust. Under the plate rack on the draining board and at the bottom of the plastic pot for the cutlery was a murky gray sludge. The toilets stank; the cleaners had actually mopped around a roll of toilet paper that had fallen onto the floor, not bothering to pick it up. One of the sinks was blocked and full of scummy water. To be fair, Pam said, the boss had only been paying the regulars for two hours a day, which wasn’t enough: there was a kitchenette and a separate toilet upstairs with the offices, too. Two hours would be just enough time to wash the cups and plates and put them away, and give the toilets a quick once-over; to do the place properly you’d need four hours at least. Shelley knew what it was like if you had a job like this: you got your regular routine going, and then that was all you saw; you played your music and went into a kind of dream, wiping and sweeping, until you hardly knew what you were doing, just going through the motions. But she wasn’t the sort of person who took on this kind of work as a regular thing. She had a job at a school as a lunchtime supervisor. She wasn’t such a fool, either—she knew that, somewhere like this, if they saw that you were keeping it clean in two hours they’d cut you down to an hour and a half. Why should you care whether the place was as filthy as hell? By the time the men came in at eight, Shelley and Pam had finished the kitchen and Shelley had just got going on the toilets. One man barged in, despite the notice she’d put on the door, and then looked surprised to see her scrubbing on her knees with her backside in the air. “What d’you need to go for already?” she said, pulling out one earphone from her music player. “You only just got here!” He was sheepish. “Two cups of tea for breakfast. Bladder control’s not what it used to be.” “Use the one upstairs.” “Don’t tell me they piss the same stuff as we do?” “You’re not coming near my toilets until they’re spotless.” It was better when the men were in. There was always the opportunity for a bit of a joke. He probably liked the sight of my backside better than my face, she thought when she got up to refill her bucket and caught sight of herself in the mirror above one of the sinks, a square of polished tin screwed onto the wall. Once upon a time, the idea of the man enjoying looking at her would have started something, one of those games, looking out for him among the others, bantering with him. She used to make herself dizzy, imagining other men, though it hadn’t gone further in reality, or not very often. She could remember once, not all that long ago, when she would have fallen to the bedroom floor if Roy hadn’t held her up while they were kissing—she’d been dragged down so powerfully by her own sensations. If it wasn’t the thought of Roy that had started her off that night, he hadn’t known it—he’d got lucky anyway. In the last year or so, those dizzy fantasies and their sensations had stopped, cut off as abruptly as if someone had pulled a switch, only the memory of them left like markers on the surface above deep water. She supposed that it was her time of life, though it felt more as if she were holding herself apart from her own body, afraid to leave off being vigilant for a moment. There were worse things than going to fat like Pam, Shelley thought. In the mirror, she looked sharp enough to cut something, hard fixed lines beside her mouth, her eyes too big, her cheekbones jutting like knuckles under her skin, up to her elbows in dirty work, cleaning toilets. The wall behind the urinals was tiled to about halfway up: at first it didn’t look too bad, and she thought she wouldn’t need to wash it all. But once she began to scrub, the contrast between the cleaned area and the rest was just too obvious; she saw that she’d have to go over the whole lot. She squatted to get at the run of tiles between the urinals and a little gutter along the floor. The caustic fumes caught in her throat, and she pressed her nose into the sleeve of her old tracksuit top. Pam, meanwhile, was covering the rooms upstairs. The office workers were no cleaner: where they’d warmed up soup in the microwave, Pam reported, the dirty bowls were left out on the desks. There were nine or ten men at work on the warehouse floor, mostly middle-aged, all wearing blue overalls with the company logo; the forklifts trundled up and down with armfuls of the insulation wadding packed in plastic wrap for dispatch, beeping when they reversed. The younger men listened to music through headphones as they worked, which was what Shelley did, too. Her MP3 player had been a Christmas present from Kerry the year before. She’d wanted at the time to give it back; she’d never have an occasion to use it, she said, and Kerry shouldn’t have been spending her money on presents, anyway—she’d have enough to spend it on when the baby came. “You’re such an ungrateful cow,” Kerry had said cheerfully. “Just wait and see.” Roy hadn’t seemed to mind the sight of his seventeen-year-old daughter with her pregnant belly swollen out like a football. Like a bomb, Kerry put it. “She was so clever at school. I wanted her to do something better,” Shelley had said. “Not just what the rest of them around here do—shelling out more kids.” “Not so clever at biology,” Roy said. “I will do something better,” Kerry reassured her. “Later.” “Don’t think you’re going to be leaving it for me to look after. Just when I’ve got my own life back.” But the baby—Morgan—was so alert, twisting her head in her pushchair to follow where the conversation went, her eyes drinking everything in. She’d walked at only nine months, right from the kitchen into the living room the very first time; you had to watch her every minute. When Shelley went for a fag break in the parking lot, she switched her phone back on for a few minutes. There was only a text from Roy, who drove a courier van—something stupid. He was always on the lookout for the funny names they gave to hairdressers and fishmongers and so on: A Cut Above, The Plaice to Go, that sort of thing. She supposed it passed the time. “Anyway, I took my net curtains down,” Pam said, when Shelley went through the side door into the canteen. Tea bags were bobbing, leaking color, in two mugs of milky water. “I don’t know when I’ll get them back up again.” “Why’s that then?” “Didn’t I tell you my washing machine’s bust? The whole kitchen was flooded. John sent me a picture of it on my mobile while I was at the back of the queue in the post office—it was the last day for mail-order returns. Now I’ve got this pair of trousers I can’t get into.” “I can’t believe he just sent you the picture.” “He claimed he didn’t know where I kept the mop.” Roy said that Pam had to be getting something out of her relationship with John or else she wouldn’t keep on with it. Is that how it is? Shelley wondered. What we get is what we really want? Back in the bathroom, she started on the sinks. The fibrous wadding the men worked with got everywhere; it had stained the enamel orange-pink. She had to use a toothbrush to scrub where it had mixed with green soap from the dispenser, then caked in mineral crusts around the base of the taps, around the plughole and the overflow. One of the young ones hurrying in the door, hanging onto himself through his overalls, stopped short at the sight of her; she told him to use a cubicle. “Don’t get dripping on my floor,” she said, “or there’ll be trouble. I know what boys are like.” When Anthony was a teen-ager, he’d been as tense as a whiplash, swaggering around with his shirt half unbuttoned, his eyebrows pierced, stinking to heaven of Lynx aftershave, hanging out with all the worst types on the estate. Even when he was a tiny boy and really did look like an angel, he’d always given her trouble. She’d had to wrestle with him just to get his clothes on in the mornings. She’d been called in to school by his teacher time and again because he was fighting or disrespectful. But sometimes when Shelley had dropped him off in the junior playground he’d put his finger on his cheek to show her the exact spot where he wanted her to kiss him goodbye—their little joke from when he was a baby. She and Roy had split up for a while when Anthony was eighteen months, and after they’d got back together she’d had Kerry. Anthony was the one who looked like Shelley, not how she looked now but how she used to: skinny and fair, with big hungry eyes. She hadn’t been able to believe it when he’d got into the Army. She couldn’t understand why they’d want a boy like him. “They’ll soon have him sorted out,” she said, but actually she’d been so angry that she couldn’t forgive him—or anyone else, either. She’d blamed Roy for reading war books and leaving them lying round the house. Or it was Anthony’s girlfriend’s fault: Leanne only wanted the money for those two kids who weren’t Anthony’s. She didn’t care what he had to do to get it. “He’s going to make a proper career for himself,” Roy had said. “You ought to be proud of him, working so hard to pass his qualifications.” It wasn’t that she wasn’t proud of Anthony. The Army really had sorted him out: the first time he came home on leave, he was tanned from training outdoors, his neck had thickened and his shoulders bulked out. He’d had his hair cropped short, and he seemed calmer and more deliberate. “I didn’t do too bad,” he said, his glance slipping away from his mother, toward the others. He’d never done a day’s hard work in his life, and now suddenly he seemed weighed down with sense and responsibility. At first, whenever he was on leave he was keen to hang about with his old no-good friends, but eventually he lost interest in them. He said they were going nowhere, smoking themselves silly, which was just what Shelley had always told him. His officers thought he was dedicated, a good soldier. Since Anthony had been posted to Afghanistan, Roy had gone on the Internet and found out everything about what was going on there. He followed it on the blogs and on YouTube. He talked about “the lines” and “advance to contact” and “hearts and minds.” Shelley thought this talk made Anthony uncomfortable, because it was impossible for him to share with them what really happened out there. He’d told them once about clearing out Taliban compounds after an attack and finding the bloody clothes they’d left behind when they retreated with their dead and wounded; it had occurred to Shelley that he must have seen much worse than bloody clothes, and then she guessed that he was describing the clothes because he couldn’t talk about the other things. Whenever they parted now, he kissed her as if he were putting her aside, kindly but firmly. She felt around in the blocked sink with her rubber gloves, poking into the plughole with the toothbrush, pulling at the ends of the fibres caught in the trap, tugging and coaxing until she began to deliver up out of the drain a nasty mass, a thick rope of hair and soap and matted insulation, in a gulp of bad drain smell. Triumphant, she flopped it out onto the enamel, black-green and slimed. The foul water, released, went gurgling down the pipe, and at that moment Shelley was washed through with one of her hot flashes. She had to stop to tear her gloves off inside out, flap her T-shirt, lift her hair away from her blazing neck. She leaned forward over the sink, unexpectedly dizzy, taking her weight on her arms, and staring down into the dark passage of the drain, understanding it for a few seconds as if it opened a way out of the world, or into it. Then, hearing the boy flush the toilet in the cubicle behind her, she scooped up the nasty mess with some paper towels and dropped it into the black bag she had with her for rubbish, so that he would not have to see it. When the job was finished, they packed away their gear; the parking lot was full now, but there was no one about outside. Pam struggled to start the car: she always gave it too much choke, Roy said. Shelley, in the passenger seat, turned on her mobile. There was a bad moment every time, while the logo appeared and the music chimed. She expected the worst then; she seemed to be staring out for it greedily, her heart straining. “All right?” Pam asked her. The little car, after its hacking convulsions, rocked into silence, resigned. “All right,” Shelley said. “Nothing.” They sat there for a few minutes, too tired to move, giving the car time to recover, talking about their Christmas shopping, who they’d bought for, what they still had to get. More than half the short winter’s day had passed while they were in the warehouse. The sky was a blue so pale that it was almost no color; wooded bluffs loomed above them, beyond the industrial estate, marking the edge of the city. The sun had dropped behind the bluffs already, so that the tops of the bare trees showed up finely spiky, like hair or fur, against a yellow glow of light from somewhere out of sight. While they waited, their breath began to fog up the car windows.
The Reptile Garden In the fall of 1972, my parents drove me to the University of North Dakota for my freshman year. Everything I needed was packed in a brand-new royal-blue aluminum trunk: a crazy-quilt afghan that my mother had crocheted for my bed, thirty dollars’ worth of new clothes, my Berlitz French Self-Teacher, the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius (a gift from my father), a framed photograph of my grandfather Mooshum, and a beaded leather tobacco pouch that he had owned ever since I could remember, and which he had casually handed to me as I left, the way old men give presents. Other freshmen were already moving into their dormitory rooms when we arrived, with their parents helping haul. I saw boxes of paperbacks, stereo equipment, Dylan albums and varnished acoustic guitars, home-knitted afghans, none as brilliant as mine, Janis posters, Bowie posters, Day-Glo bedsheets, hacky sacks, stuffed bears. But as we carried my trunk up two flights of stairs terror invaded me. Although I was studying French because I dreamed of going to Paris, I actually dreaded leaving home, and in the end my parents did not want me to leave, either. But this is how children are sacrificed into their futures: I had to go, and here I was. We walked back down the stairs. I was too numb to cry, but I watched my mother and father as they stood beside the car and waved. That moment is a still image; I can call it up as if it were a photograph. My father, so thin and athletic, looked almost frail with shock, while my mother, whose beauty was still remarkable, and who was known on the reservation for her silence and reserve, had left off her characteristic gravity. Her face and my father’s were naked with love. It wasn’t something that we talked about—love. But they allowed me this one clear look at it. It blazed from them. And then they left. I think now that everything that was concentrated in that one look—the care they had taken in bringing me up, their patient lessons in every subject they knew how to teach, their wincing efforts to give me my freedom, the example they had set of fortitude in work—was what allowed me to survive. The trunk was quickly emptied; my room was barely filled. Then, books to my chest, I curled up beneath the afghan and looked out the window. I understood right then that I would be spending most of my first semester in this position. White girls at the time listened to Joni Mitchell, grew their hair long, smoked impatiently, frowned into their poetry notebooks, and pretended to fuck everything that moved. The other girls—Dakota, Chippewa, or mixed-blood like me—were less obvious on campus, and mainly very studious, although a couple of women swaggered around, furious in ribbon shirts, with American Indian Movement boyfriends. I didn’t really fit in with anybody. My roommate was a stocky blond girl from Wishek who was so dead set on becoming a nurse that she practiced bringing me things—a cup of water or, when I had a headache, aspirin. This was annoying, but we got along. I spent most of my time in the library, anyway. I hid out there and read my way through the poetry section until I hit on my favorites—all writers who had died young or gone crazy or disappeared into war. After Keats and Shelley and Byron, I skipped ahead to Lowell, Wright, Sexton, and Plath. Then I went back to the First World War, found Wilfred Owen, and wandered the campus dazed by “Strange Meeting,” thinking about his remarkable use of the verb “groined” and mumbling, “And by his smile I knew that sullen hall.” Next, I turned to Rimbaud, Baudelaire, Apollinaire. Searching for clues on how to make my way to Paris, I floundered toward the American expatriates. And then one drizzly afternoon I found her—my muse, my model, my everything. Anaïs Nin. My attraction was hard to explain—she was so artistically driven, so demure and yet so bold, and those swimming eyes! I was lost in soul-to-soul contact. I checked her out of the library again and again, but when the summer came I found I needed her more than ever. I had to take her home with me. Anaïs. I bought all her diaries—the boxed set—a huge investment. By the time I went back to college in the fall and moved into a beautiful old half-wrecked farmhouse off campus, I was soaked in the oils of my own manufactured delirium. Like Anaïs, I reviewed every thought I had. All trivia became momentous, my faintest desire a raving hunger. I, too, kept careful diaries now. Each notebook had a title taken from a diary entry by Anaïs. That fall’s diary was called “Sprouting in the Void.” I wrote long letters to my brother, Joseph, who was studying biology at the University of Minnesota. He wrote short ones back. My third or fourth cousin Corwin, with whom I had been madly in love in fifth grade, had driven me back to college, and I’d read aloud from Anaïs’s diary all the way. He’d liked it only when she was having sex; otherwise, he said, she was “way up in her head.” But now he visited me whenever his band was in town. He played the fiddle with a mad energy. Our childhood romance was a joke between us. He was a pot dealer and supplied my friends. I kept Anaïs with me at all times, but every now and then the differences in our lives bothered me. For instance, Anaïs had had servants to feed her and clean up after her. Even her debauched lovers had picked her clothing up off the floor; her dinner parties were full of social dangers and alarms, but when they were over she never had to do the dishes. As for me, I’d moved into a household of local poets and hippies, and everyone was dirty. I tried to be, too, but my standards of cleanliness kept me from truly entering into the spirit of the times. I had learned from my mother to keep my surroundings in order, my dishes washed, my towels laundered. The sagging clapboard house where we lived had one bathroom. Periodically, because nobody else ever did, I broke down and cleaned. It made me hate my friends to do this and resent them as I watched the filth build up again afterward, but I couldn’t help it. One night, I had grown so miserable about the bathroom that my fastidiousness overwhelmed my fury. It was past midnight, but I got a bucket, a scrubbing brush, and a box of something harsh-smelling called Soilax. I ripped an old towel into four pieces. I wet down the bathtub, the toilet, and the sink, and shook the Soilax evenly across every surface. With a putty knife, I began to scrape away the waxlike patches of grease, hair, soap, and scum, the petrified ropes of toothpaste, the shit, the common dirt. It took me a couple of hours and the light in the bathroom seemed glaring when I quit, because I’d emptied the fixture of dead flies. But as I contemplated my work a few lines of poetry occurred to me: My brain is like a fixture deep in dead flies. How I long for my thoughts to shine clear! Disperse your crumpled wings, college students and professors of U.N.D. Let your bodies blow like dust across the prairies! I jotted them down in the notebook that I carried in the hip pocket of my jeans, and then headed downstairs to the living room, where a party had just begun. It was a welcome-home party for a draft-dodging poet who’d walked back across the Canadian border and was going to go underground, as he kept saying, loudly. But, first, he was going to take a shower in my clean bathroom. I deserved to drink wine. I remember that the wine we had was cheap and very pink, and that when I was halfway through a glass of it Corwin took a piece of paper from a plain white envelope and tore off a few small squares, which I put in my mouth. Anaïs had tried everything—she would have tried this! “Spanish dancer,” I cried to Corwin. She had been in love with her cousin. “Eduardo!” I said to Corwin, and kissed him. This all came back to me much later. At the time, I was not aware that I had taken lysergic acid, even after all its effects were upon me—the hideous malformations of my friends’ faces, the walls and corridors of sound, the whispered instructions from objects, the panicked fear that rendered me unable to communicate at all. I locked myself in my room, which I soon realized was a garden for lizards, geckos, garter snakes, and some exotics, like a hooded cobra, all of which passed underneath the mopboard and occasionally slid out of the light fixtures. I was in my room for two days, sleepless, watching reptiles, moving in and out of terror, unaware of who I was, unaware of how I’d come to be in the state I was in. I should have been hospitalized, I suppose, but my reclusiveness was so habitual and the household so chaotic that no one really noticed my absence. On the third day, the reptiles were replaced by the occasional amphibian and I began to sense a reliable connection between one moment and the next, to feel with some security that I inhabited one body and one consciousness. The terror lessened to a milder sense of dread. I ate and drank. On the fourth day, I slept. I cried my heart out the fifth day and the sixth. And gradually I became again the person I had known as myself. But I was not the same, for I had found out what a slim rail I walked. My fear kept returning. It was as though, in those awful days, I’d switched inner connections and now the fear seemed hardwired in me. I couldn’t stop shaking at the slightest unexpected movement. I endured panic attacks, momentary breaks with reality, daydreams so vivid they made me sick. On campus, I watched the well-fed, sane, secure, shiny-haired, and leather-belted students pass me by. I was now convinced that I would never be one of them, that I should leave and find my place among the less than healthy. I got my Psych 1 professor (the course was nicknamed Nuts and Sluts) to help me find a position as a psychiatric aide. That winter, I packed a suitcase and took an empty, overheated Greyhound bus to the state mental hospital, where I trudged through blinding drifts of cold and was shown to a room in a staff dormitory. My room was small, the walls a deep pink. I had a single bed with an Oriental-print spread—pagodas, winding streams, bent willows. There was a mirror, a shiny red-brown bureau, a tiny refrigerator on a wooden table, a straight-backed blue chair. I took the refrigerator off the table and made myself a desk. I’d met none of the other aides yet. There were rules against noise, against music, because the people on the night shift slept all day. My shift would begin at 6 A.M. So I showered down the hall and dried my hair. I laid my uniform out on the chair, a white rayon dress with deep pockets, panty hose, thick-soled nurse’s shoes, which I’d bought at J. C. Penney. In the room above me, that night, a couple made love over and over. The springs creaked, increasing speed, until there was a crescendo, silence. Then laughter. Each session lasted about ten minutes. I woke in time to shut off the alarm just before it rang. I boiled water in my little green hot pot and made a cup of instant coffee. It was still dark outside. I put on a long black coat I’d bought at Goodwill, and walked across the frozen lawn to the ward where I was assigned. The nurse coming on duty introduced herself as Mrs. L., because, she said, her actual name was long, Polish, and unpronounceable. She was tall, broad, and already looked tired. She wore a green cardigan over her uniform and a nurse’s cap pinned to her fluffy black hair. She was drinking coffee and eating a glazed doughnut from a paper bag. “You’re welcome to share this with me,” she offered in a dull voice. She turned to one of the other aides coming on and said that she’d had a rough night. Her little boy was sick. She and the aide knew each other well, and the talk swirled back and forth for a few minutes. “What am I supposed to do?” I asked in a too bright, nervous voice. “Can you give me something to do?” “Listen to this.” Mrs. L. laughed. “Don’t worry, there’s plenty. None of the patients are up yet.” “Except Warren,” the nurse who was going off duty said. “Warren’s always up.” I walked out of the office into the hall, which opened onto a huge square room with green and black linoleum tiles. The walls were a paler green. The curtainless windows were rectangles of electric-blue sky that turned to gray and then normal daylight as the patients rose and slowly, in their thin striped cotton robes, began wandering down the corridor that led into the common room. Everyone looked the same at first—men and women, young and old. Mrs. L. handed out medications in small paper cups, and said to me, pointing, “Go with Warren there and make sure he takes it.” So I went with Warren, the night owl, an elderly—no, really old—man with long arms and the rope-muscled body of a farmer who has worked so hard that he will now live forever, or, at least, beyond the reach of his mind. His tan was permanent, burned into the lower half of his face, his hands, and a V of leather at his neck. He was already dressed neatly, in clean brown pants and a frayed but ironed plaid shirt. He liked to walk. He popped the pills down without missing a step. I watched Warren a lot that first day, because I couldn’t believe that he would keep it up, but he didn’t stop for more than a breath, filling up on food quickly at the designated times, then strolling up and down the corridors, crisscrossing the common room, in and out of every bedroom. To everyone he met, he nodded and said, “I’ll slaughter them all.” The patients answered, “Shut up.” The staff didn’t seem to hear. The first day’s schedule became routine. I woke early to record my dreams and sensations, then I dressed, putting a pen and a small notebook in my pocket, plus a miniature French dictionary I’d sent away for. I noted everything, jotted quickly in a stall on bathroom breaks. At breakfast time, I walked through the underground steam tunnels to the dining room. I ate with the patients—pushed my tray along the line and waited to see what landed on it. Farina, cold toast, a pat of butter, a carton of milk, juice if I was early enough, and coffee. There was always coffee, endless transparent acid in stained and sterilized Melmac cups. Ravenous and forgetful, I ate what they gave me, no matter what. I did the same at lunch. Mashed turnips. Macaroni and meat sauce. Extra bread, extra butter. I began to think of food all day. Food took up too much of my diary. There was nothing new to say about it in English, so I described it in French. Soon there was nothing new to say about it in either language. I was assigned to an open ward. The patients could sign themselves out if they wanted to walk the ice-blasted grounds. I spent a lot of time making and unmaking beds. Sometimes it was my job to sit with the patients who did not want to go anywhere. If they didn’t want to talk, I wrote. Nobody cared—I said that I was training to be a psychoanalyst. I filled a thirty-nine-cent notebook every few days. I knew all the patients’ routines, their delusions, the places where their records were scratched and the sounds repeated. More than anything else, I realized, it had to be boring to be crazy, to think the same sequence of thoughts and come up with the same set of bizarre conclusions, to voice those conclusions using the same words, several times an hour, day in and day out. It was hard to get people off their tracks. Because I was new, I kept trying. One morning, Mrs. L. was in her office, admitting a new patient, a young woman who sat with her back to the door. I paused as I was passing. There was something about the woman—I didn’t know what, but I felt it immediately. A heat. She was wearing a black dress. When she swivelled in her chair and smiled at me, I saw that her eyes were black, too, and her lips very red. Her skin was pallid, shiny, as though she had a fever. Her blond hair, maybe dyed, was greasy and dull. She was about my age. Her teeth had thin spaces between them, which made her look frightening, predatory, like an animal. “This is Nonette,” Mrs. L. said. I felt a small electric jolt and said, “Is that French?” That was it—she looked French. The new patient didn’t answer, but looked at me steadily, her smile becoming a false, unpleasant leer. Mrs. L. pursed her lips and filled in her forms. “Nonette can sleep in No. 20. Here’s the linen key. Why don’t you help her settle in?” “Fetch my things along,” Nonette ordered. “Evelina’s not a bellhop,” Mrs. L. said. “That’s all right.” I lugged one of Nonette’s suitcases down the corridor. She smiled in an underhanded way and dropped the other suitcase once we were out of Mrs. L.’s sight. She waited while I carried it to her room, and watched as I took her sheets, a pillowcase, a heavy blanket, and a thin cotton waffle-weave spread from the linen closet. Her room was one of the nicer ones, with only two roommates. It had built-in wooden furniture, not flimsy tin dressers, and the bed was solid. It even had all four casters on the legs. “What a fucking dump,” Nonette said. I said nothing. I was supposed to be pleasant. Nonette’s mouth twisted open in scorn. I left. The next day, she was extremely friendly to me. When I walked onto the ward, she immediately grabbed my hand, as though we’d been interrupted the day before while having some wonderful conversation, and she tugged me toward the freezing glassed-in porch, where patients went to talk privately. I sat down beside her in an aluminum lawn chair. I was wearing a sweater. She had on a thin cotton button-down shirt, with a necktie and men’s chino pants. Her shoes were feminine kitten heels. Her hair was slicked back. She was an odd mixture of elements: she looked depressed but also—it could not be denied—chic. Today she wore no makeup except black eyeliner, and her face was prettier, more harmonious in the subdued light. “What do you want to talk about?” I said. “I wanted to talk to someone my age, not those jerks, shrinks, whatever. You’re not bad-looking, either. That helps. I want to talk about what’s bothering me. I came to get well, didn’t I? So I want to talk about how really, truly sick I am. I’ve talked about it, I know I have, but I haven’t really told it.” “O.K., go ahead.” She paused for a moment, then she leaned toward me, and when she did her whole face sharpened. “If I could just be born over,” she said, “I’d be born neutral. Woman or man—that’s not what I mean. I wouldn’t have a sex drive. I wouldn’t care about it, need it, or anything. It’s just a problem, the things you do that you hate yourself for afterward. Like take when I was nine years old, when I had it first. He was a relative, a cousin, living with us for the summer.” “Where?” I asked. “Not in stupid France,” she answered. “Anyway, he comes in without knocking and kneels by my bed. He uncovers me and starts giving it to me with his mouth. And I’m, like, at first I don’t know what—ashamed of it. I could get a hook for my door. I could tell on him. I don’t, though, because I get so I want it. He strips naked. He teaches me how to jerk him off. And then he does it to me again. “I’m a little girl, right? I don’t even wash very well. Next time, he brings along a washcloth and cleans me first. We have a ritual. Where are my mother and father? They sleep at the other end of the hall, with the fan going in their room. And my cousin is a fucking Eagle Scout! Is he trying for a fucking merit badge? Anyway, he goes home. I already feel different. I am different. There is a smell on me, sex, that no one else in my schoolroom has. I look at the older boys. I know what’s coming. I go searching for it.” She laughed suddenly, drawing away. “Look at you. You’re, like, fascinated.” She stared out the window. “I’m not French,” she said gently. “I’m fucked up. I’m in a state hospital. I think I want a sex-change operation. I want to be a man so I won’t have to put up with this shit.” “I’m not giving you shit.” Her mouth gaped mockingly. “Oh, look at you, trying to be tough. You’re not tough. You’re, like, a little college girl, right? Who the hell cares? I’m from the university, too. I have a Ph.D. Pretty Hot Dick. I’m a man, posing as a woman. You want proof?” Then her face closed in, bored. “I’m just kidding. Get the fuck away from me.” “I’m sorry,” I said to her. “You’re really beautiful.” She wouldn’t say anything, wouldn’t look at me now. “You’re an Indian or something, aren’t you?” she mumbled. “That’s cool.” I went back to the common room and played gin rummy with Warren, who couldn’t concentrate. I didn’t think he was taking all his medication, but if he’d discovered a way to hide it he was pretty slick. A policeman was standing in the office the next morning, drinking a cup of coffee with Mrs. L. He’d just brought Warren back. The day before, Warren had marched out of town. He took a narrow road that ran west, and was discovered twenty miles away as he crawled into a farmyard. He had fallen and bloodied the side of his head. He was sleeping now, sedated, and it was not until late afternoon that he rose and came out to sit in the lounge, the side of his head swollen and bandaged. I sat down next to him. “I hear you had a bad day.” These words popped out of my mouth. I was curious. Perhaps it was cruel to be so curious. I asked about the voices he heard—if they were hard on him. He straightened, shrugged a little. He was wearing a yellow shirt that looked almost new. He ran a hand up his face gently, exploring the damage with his fingers. Then he turned to me, his eyes moist and red. “I did it because they told me—” he started, but he choked on what he might have said and his voice was a crow’s croak. He rubbed his face with a fumbling hand and closed his eyes. And then I saw, around the edges of his face, in the balled musculature and the set of his eyes and jaw, that he was in a waking dream. He raised his arms. He recoiled. He sat down in a chair and began taking apart some invisible thing in his lap. Then his hands froze and he lifted his head, gazed off to the side in a fugue of stillness, listening. Nonette and I were sitting on the frigid sunporch. She had told the story about being raped by her cousin, the Eagle Scout, to every nurse, aide, doctor, and patient available. It was just a conversation opener. Here, of course, it was not supposed to matter whether or not the story was true—the important thing was her need to tell it. I had been trained to believe that. Nonette was wearing a men’s black suit and a Charlie Chaplin-style black bowler that were too big for her and comically masculine. Suddenly she reached out and took my face in her palms, leaned toward me, and kissed me. I didn’t resist at all. It didn’t even occur to me to resist. All I thought was, How shall I describe this in my diary? There was nothing strange about it, not then, or at least it was no stranger than the other occasions on which I’d kissed someone for the first time. There was the same thrill, the same hush of attraction and mutual daring. Only she was supposed to be crazy, I was supposed to not be crazy, and we were women. “That was nice.” She drew back into her chair, crooked one leg up, and hugged her knee. She stared at me, assessing my reaction. I was suddenly and completely charged with an electrifying embarrassment. I forced myself to rise, and stumbled, awkward and big, to the door of the sunporch and the entrance to the ward. She was still watching, smiling now. Soon the dinner call came, but she was too tired to eat. “I’m sick,” she said as she walked past me. “I’m going to bed.” “Are you O.K.?” I asked. She ignored me. Later, I was sent down the ward to check on her. She had slid underneath the covers with all her clothes on. I could see her shoes sticking out at the end of the bed. I stood for a long time, watching, hoping that she would move. I had escorted a patient to the beauty parlor late one morning, and was returning alone through the underground steam tunnels when she was suddenly there, walking toward me with no escort. “I have a pass.” Nonette grinned, stopping when we were face to face. There was no one else in the tunnel, which was whitewashed and warm, lit by low-wattage bulbs, and branched off into small closets and locked chambers full of brooms and mops and cleaning solutions. Her face was clear and bright, her hair a rumpled silver in the odd light, her eyes calm and free of makeup. She was as beautiful as someone in a foreign movie, a book, or a catalogue of strange, expensive clothes. Her eyes were dark, with green in them, brown, every color. I could almost taste her mouth again, fresh with toothpaste. She was wearing jeans, a white sweatshirt, sneakers, and gym socks. I was wearing my cheap scratchy white uniform with tucks and a front zipper. She put her fingers on the tongue of the zipper at my throat. “Are you wearing a slip?” she said. I took her hand and held it around the wrist, my thumb at her pulse. “Stop, stop.” She pretended to resist, but her voice was soft. “Here.” She pulled me, but pulled me only because I did not let go of her wrist. I followed her around a corner, then through a door, and we were right in the middle of the pipes, some wrapped with powdery bandages of asbestos, some smooth, boiling copper conduits. My cap snagged, and I let it fall. We ducked under a nest of pipes and walked down some stone steps to the other side, a kind of landing, completely enclosed. Behind us there was a wall of rough flagstone that smelled of dirt, of fields in summer with the sun beating down after a heavy rain. The heat brought out the smell. “Let’s sit down,” she said. “I’d like to get you stoned, but I don’t have anything.” I was still holding her wrist. There was barely room to stand. The pipes grazed the tops of our heads. We sat down together. I was shaking, but she was very gentle, not like she’d been the first day. And, anyway, it wasn’t how I’d thought it would be. After the first few minutes, there was nothing frightening at all about kissing her or touching her. It was familiar, entirely familiar, much more so than if I’d been touching a boy for the first time. Our bodies were the same, and when I touched her I knew what she was feeling, just as she knew when touching me—it seemed both normal and unbearable. We didn’t take our clothes off, just felt each other lightly on the arm and throat and kissed. Her face was soft, like flower petals. She said, “That’s enough.” Any longer and we’d have been missed. As I walked back down the corridors and onto the ward, I began to imagine our story. Nonette had come here in obvious need, and I was here for her. I had come here not knowing that she was what, or who, I’d always needed. And she was here for me. A week, maybe three, and she would be all right. I’d leave with her, go to Fargo or Minneapolis or wherever. She would come with me. “Nonette said you asked for a patient visit.” Mrs. L. sat behind her desk, a stack of forms beneath her spread hands. “Yes,” I said, though I hadn’t. But I was smiling, slowly blooming at the idea. Nonette’s idea. “We like to encourage our aides to work with the patients during off-duty hours, and I don’t see anything wrong with it, as long as you know that she presented here with some real problems.” “I know that. I’ve talked to her about them.” “Good.” Mrs. L. waited, watching me a little too carefully. I was not supposed to know a whole lot about each patient’s personal history, at least not more than the patient wanted me to know. “Look,” I said, “she told me about her cousin forcing himself on her. I know that she came here out of control, though I still don’t know exactly what precipitated it. I don’t know what she’s dealing with at home, at school, or if she’s going back there. The thing is, I really like Nonette. I’m not doing this because I feel sorry for her.” Mrs. L. bit her lip. “Your motives are good, I know that. But you’ve got to understand: she’s on lithium, and we’re adjusting her dosage. She’s depressive, and then she has her manic spells.” “We’re just going to make a batch of cookies.” Mrs. L. smiled approvingly and signed the pass. There was a small kitchen in the basement of the aides’ residence, just one room with a stove and some cupboards, a fridge, an old wooden table painted white, and six vinyl chairs. Nonette and I made molasses cookies, leaving them soft in the middle, then took them upstairs to my room. The cookies were still warm as we ate them, crumb by crumb, sitting on my bed. We drank cold milk. Later, we took our clothes off. It wasn’t strange at all, the covers pulled back, the willows bending over streams and bridges. She had small breasts, pointed, the nipples round and slightly chapped because she didn’t wear a bra beneath her men’s shirts. She was older than I was by two years and knew so much more. She kneeled over me and spread her legs with a clinical cool, then began to laugh. We laughed at everything I’d never done, and then we did it. Just before nine-o’clock curfew, I walked Nonette back to the ward, a bag of cookies in one hand. “Do you think about, you know,” I finally asked her, at the door. “Do I think about what?” Nonette looked at me, her face bland and empty, smiling. She looked like a girl in a ski commercial. Healthy. In my room, when she came, she’d made me look into her eyes, deep with pleasured shock. Now those eyes were scary cheerleader eyes. “Do I think about what?” she said again. I looked down at my boots. About what’s going to happen to us, I wanted to say. But I didn’t. The night was so cold and dark that the snow made squeaking noises as it settled in drifts around the big, square yard. I could hear the trees, tall black pines, cracking. I stood there as Nonette walked into the hospital, as the glass-and-steel doors shut behind her with that movie-ending sound of metal catching, holding fast. The locks were automatic, but I tried them once, anyway, as she disappeared down the bright corridor. “I’m going home next week,” Nonette said one morning. “My parents decided it was O.K.” Her parents? Why hadn’t I ever seen them? A sudden burst of energy pulsed from the center of my chest. I clapped my hands fast, making sounds to divert the awful feeling, and then I wrung them in the air, shedding the pain like drops of water. Nonette looked at me and shook her head. “Are you all right?” I caught my breath, let it out slowly. “Have they been down to visit?” “Sure. You work days. They drive down in the early evening.” “Next week, next week.” My face stretched into a stupid smile, and she twinkled back. She’s not O.K., I thought. She’s crazier than I am if she can deny this. She must be. I tore my gaze away and felt a deep body flush, as though my ribs were glowing hot, like the bars of a grill. My mind spun a series of wild questions: If she weren’t crazy . . . if this weren’t out of the ordinary . . . if it couldn’t be helped . . . if I were wrong . . . if people could see . . . if she left here . . . if it meant nothing to her . . . if she didn’t care about me at all . . . I stepped away from her. She had a lovely face, so gentle, a pretty face. A prom-queen face. She was wearing a blue sweater, a plaid skirt, and knee-high stockings—ultra-normal Midwest catalogue clothes—now that she was well. “Come and see me,” she said. “Sure! I will!” She didn’t mean it—of course she didn’t. I was part of what she thought of as her illness, a symptom of which she believed she had been cured. She, on the other hand, was what I was looking for. I could hardly breathe for wanting her. I walked away with my hands shaking in the scratchy cloth of my pockets. I kept going, without punching out, and walked back down the corridors of the hospital, out the doors, and across the snowy central lawn. I called in sick the next morning and the morning after that. Two days went by. I couldn’t make it to the telephone anymore. I could barely force myself to get up and walk to the bathroom. Once I was in bed again, a kind of black-hole gravity held me there. Acid flowed back into my brain, and I could see creatures moving in the Chinese landscape of my bedspread. I threw it on the floor. Gray curtains came down. I put my grandfather’s tobacco pouch under my pillow and tried to remember what he said when he prayed. I couldn’t think of a single word. The air was painful. I breathed pain in and out, and its residue clung to my lungs like tar, making each breath a little more difficult. A week went by, and then Mrs. L. came to the door and called, “Can I come in? Can you answer?” I tried. I opened my mouth. Nothing came out. It was such a peculiar feeling that I started to laugh. But there was no sound. I went to sleep again, slept and slept, and, the next time I woke, Mrs. L. was in the room, sitting beside my bed, and she was using the voice she used with the others. “We’re going to move you,” she said. “We’ve called your mother.” Which was how I ended up in Nonette’s bed after all. I was sitting on the cracked green plastic sofa in the common room, wearing my nurse’s shoes, only now no uniform to go with them, just baggy jeans and a droopy brown sweater. I’d talked to my mother on the phone and summoned up the energy to convince her that I was all right, that I only needed a rest and would be back in school in time for the next quarter. I’d told my mother that I would use this voluntary commitment as a rest period, but the fact was I was afraid, afraid of losing my observer, the self who told me what to do. My consciousness was fragile ground now, as thin as forming ice. Every morning, when I opened my eyes and experienced my first thought, I was flooded with relief. The I was still there. If it went, there would be only gravity to guide me. Warren walked into the common room and saw me sitting on the sofa. He came over, in his careful and dignified way, and stood before me. He was wearing his yellow shirt, along with a rust-colored jacket, a striped tie of rich burgundy silk, and gray woollen slacks: his best clothes. His shirt had French cuffs. Instead of cufflinks, he had used safety pins. “You should have cufflinks,” I muttered. “I’ll slaughter them all,” he said. “Shut up,” I answered. I lay there for days and more days. I did not get out of bed. I did not read Anaïs Nin—she couldn’t possibly help me now. I was past all that, and, anyway, she was the one who had got me into trouble by providing the treacherous paradigm of a life that I was too backward or provincial or reservation-bound to pull off. I no longer wanted adventure. The thought of Paris was a burden. I would never see the back of Notre-Dame, and the coffee I drank would always be transparent. My mother and father came down to see me every weekend. All I did when they visited was cry in sympathy for their worry over me, or fall asleep, but after they left I missed them. I thought about how I had grown up with the certainty of my parents’ love, and how rare a thing that was, and how unaccountable and shameful my breakdown was, as was the fact that I had just loved a woman to the point of literal madness. I was just a nothing, half-crazy, half-drugged half Chippewa. One day, Corwin came to see me. I was surprised but not embarrassed. He’d learned where I was from my aunt. He remembered the acid he’d fed me, and he felt that he should look me up. He was dressed in a long black riding duster, with a strange orange hunting cap pulled down over his eyes. Under the duster, he was carrying a violin case. “Sit down.” I gestured with a cigarette. I tried to look bored, but actually I was excited to see him. Corwin sat in a plastic armchair and rested the violin case on his lap. His face was long, his eyes dark and Indian. He had a short scraggle of unmowed beard. His ponytail flowed out from under his cap. “So,” he said. “So,” I said. We nodded for a while, like two sages on a hill. Then he opened the case and picked up his fiddle. As he tuned it—an unfamiliar sound—the other patients began to wander out of their rooms and down the corridor. The nurses ventured from their station and stood, arms folded, chewing gum. Their mouths stopped moving when Corwin began to play, and some of the patients sat down, right where they were, a couple of them on the floor, as if the music had cut through the room like a scythe. After the first run of notes, the music gathered. Corwin played a slow and pretty tune that made people’s eyes blur. Warren stood stiff and tall, rooted in the center of the linoleum. Others swayed or looked as if they might weep, but that changed quickly as Corwin picked up the tempo and plucked out a lively Red River jig. At this point, Warren began to walk around and around the room, faster and faster. The music ticked along in a jerky way, and then something monstrous happened. All the sounds merged for a moment in the belly of the violin and filled the room with distress. Alarm struck us. Warren stopped walking and backed up flat against the wall. But Corwin drew some note out of the chaos in his hands, and then drew it farther up and up, until it was unbearable, but at the very point where it might have become a shriek that note changed a fraction and broke into the most lucid sweetness. Warren slid down the wall, his hand over his heart as if he were taking a pledge. His head slumped onto his chest. The rest of us sat down, too. Calm rained upon us, and a strange peace slowed our hearts. The playing went on in a penetrating, lovely way. I don’t know how long it lasted. I don’t know when or if it ever really ended. Warren had fallen to the floor. A nurse plodded over to check his pulse. The violin was the only thing in the world, and in that music there was dark assurance. The music understood, and it would be there whether we stayed in pain or regained our sanity, which was also painful. I was small. I was whole. Nothing mattered. When the music was just reverberations, I stood up. The nurse was checking her watch and frowning first at it, then down at Warren, then at her watch again. I stood next to Corwin as he carefully replaced his violin in its case and snapped the latches down. I looked at my cousin and he looked at me—he gave me his wicked, shy grin and pointed his lips in a kiss, toward the door. “I can’t leave here,” I said. And I walked out of that place. When I left the hospital with Corwin, I took my purse and my diary and nothing else. I left behind Anaïs—the entire boxed set, annotated. I didn’t know if I could actually bear leaving the safety of the hospital, but I just kept going until we reached Corwin’s car. I’d lost a lot of weight and hardly exercised, so I was dizzy and had to ask Corwin to stop the car once so that I could puke. He told me that he had stopped selling drugs. He was straight now, he said, which gave me an opening. “Well, I’m not. I’m a lesbian,” I told him. He said that I couldn’t be. I didn’t dress like one. “Like you’d know,” I said. He said that he did know. He’d been around. “They dress like me, aaaay.” We drove along quietly for a while. “I’m really sorry that I gave you that acid, man,” he said. “Did it, you know, change your head around?” “You mean did it make me a lesbian?” He nodded. “I don’t think so.” We drove some more. We’d known each other stoned, sick, and drunk. We’d beaten each other up in Catholic school. So the silence between us was comfortable, even a relief. I looked out the car window. The world was beautiful all along the road. The fields were great mirrors of melted water. And the light was clear and golden, blazing on the slick surfaces. I started to feel better. It was as if telling my news to someone I’d known my whole life had lifted a great weight from me. Every morning in the hospital, I’d awakened and felt normal and then remembered about Nonette. Corwin’s taking my confession in stride removed some of the dark glamour from my feelings. “Do you actually know any lesbians?” I asked. “I’ve played in bars all over, but I don’t know any just to talk to,” he said. Then, a moment later, “Or any I could set you up with, if that’s what you want.” A heated flush rose along my collarbone. “Hey,” Corwin said after a while, “you don’t have to go anywhere with this thing just yet. Take it easy.” I didn’t answer, but after a while I felt happier, thinking that he was right. As we passed onto the reservation, I saw that the ditches were burning. Fires had been set to clear the spring stubble, and a thin glaze of smoke hung over the road in a steady cloud. After Corwin dropped me off, I sat outside with my grandfather Mooshum, drinking cool water from tall galvanized water cans. It occurred to me that I’d be all right. I didn’t have to do anything, not right away. I didn’t even have to record my sensations in a diary. I could just sit with Mooshum, drinking water. As the sun went down, light shot through the smoke and turned the air around us a dark gold that cast an unsettling radiance on the trees and houses. Mooshum and I watched as the light began to recede. It was very cold, but still we sat until the darkness had a brown edge to it, and my mother came to the door, expressing no surprise at seeing me there. “Come in here, you two,” she said, her voice gentle.
Wakefield People will say that I left my wife and I suppose, as a factual matter, I did, but where was the intentionality? I had no thought of deserting her. It was a series of odd circumstances that put me in the garage attic with all the junk furniture and the raccoon droppings—which is how I began to leave her, all unknowing, of course—whereas I could have walked in the door as I had done every evening after work in the fourteen years and two children of our marriage. Diana would think of her last sight of me, that same morning, when she pulled up to the station and slammed on the brakes, and I got out of the car and, before closing the door, leaned in with a cryptic smile to say goodbye—she would think that I had left her from that moment. In fact, I was ready to let bygones be bygones and, in another fact, I came home the very same evening with every expectation of entering the house that I, we, had bought for the raising of our children. And, to be absolutely honest, I remember I was feeling that kind of blood stir you get in anticipation of sex, because marital arguments had that effect on me. Of course, the deep change of heart can come over anyone, and I don’t see why, like everything else, it wouldn’t be in character. After having lived dutifully by the rules, couldn’t a man shaken out of his routine and distracted by a noise in his back yard veer away from one door and into another as the first step in the transformation of his life? And look what I was transformed into—hardly something to satisfy a judgment of normal male perfidy. I will say here that at this moment I love Diana more truthfully than ever in our lives together, including the day of our wedding, when she was so incredibly beautiful in white lace with the sun coming down through the stained glass and setting a rainbow choker on her throat. On the particular evening I speak of—this thing with the 5:38, when the last car, where I happened to be sitting, did not move off with the rest of the train? Even given the sorry state of the railroads in this country, tell me when that has happened. Every seat taken, and we sat there in the sudden dark and turned to one another for an explanation, as the rest of the train disappeared into the tunnel. It was the bare, fluorescent-lit concrete platform outside that added to the suggestion of imprisonment. Someone laughed, but in a moment several passengers were up and banging on the doors and windows until a man in a uniform came down the ramp and peered in at us with his hands cupped at his temples. And then when I do get home, an hour and a half later, I am nearly blinded by the headlights of all the S.U.V.s and taxis waiting at the station. Under an unnaturally black sky is this lateral plane of illumination, because, as it turns out, we have a power outage in town. Well, it was an entirely unrelated mishap. I knew that, but when you’re tired after a long day and trying to get home there’s a kind of Doppler effect in the mind, and you think that these disconnects are the trajectory of a collapsing civilization. I set out on my walk home. Once the procession of commuter pickups with their flaring headlights had passed, everything was silent and dark—the groomed shops on the main street, the courthouse, the gas stations trimmed with hedges, the Gothic prep school behind the lake. Then I was out of the town center and walking the winding residential streets. My neighborhood was an old section of town, the houses large, mostly Victorian, with dormers and wraparound porches and separate garages that had once been stables. Each house was set off on a knoll or well back from the street, with stands of lean trees dividing the properties—just the sort of old establishment solidity that suited me. But now the entire neighborhood seemed to brim with an exaggerated presence. I was conscious of the arbitrariness of place. Why here rather than somewhere else? A very unsettling, disoriented feeling. A flickering candle or the bobbing beam of a flashlight in each window made me think of homes as supplying families with the means of living furtive lives. There was no moon, and under the low cloud cover a brisk unseasonable wind ruffled the old Norwegian maples that lined the street and dropped a fine rain of spring buds on my shoulders and in my hair. I felt this shower as a kind of derision. All right, with thoughts like these any man would hurry to his home and hearth. I quickened my pace and would surely have turned up the path and mounted the steps to my porch had I not looked through the driveway gate and seen what I thought was a moving shadow near the garage. So I turned in that direction, my footsteps loud enough on the gravel to scare away whatever it was I had seen, for I supposed it was some animal. We lived with animal life. I don’t mean just dogs and cats. Deer and rabbits regularly dined on the garden flowers, we had Canadian geese, here and there a skunk, the occasional red fox—this time it turned out to be a raccoon. A large one. I have never liked this animal, with its prehensile paws. More than the ape, it has always seemed to me a relative. I lifted my litigation bag as if to throw it and the creature ran behind the garage. I went after it; I didn’t want it on my property. At the foot of the outdoor stairs leading to the garage attic, it reared, hissing and showing its teeth and waving its forelegs at me. Raccoons are susceptible to rabies and this one looked mad, its eyes glowing, and saliva, like liquid glue, hanging from both sides of its jaw. I picked up a rock and that was enough—the creature ran off into the stand of bamboo that bordered the back yard of our neighbor, Dr. Sondervan, who was a psychiatrist, and a known authority on Down syndrome and other genetic misfortunes. And then, of course, upstairs in the attic space over the garage, where we stored every imaginable thing, three raccoon cubs were in residence, and so that was what all the fuss was about. I didn’t know how this raccoon family had got in there. I saw their eyes first, their several eyes. They whimpered and jumped about on the piled furniture, little ball-like humps in the darkness, until I finally managed to shoo them out the door and down the steps to where their mother would presumably reclaim them. I turned on my cell phone to get at least some small light. The attic was jammed with rolled-up rugs and bric-a-brac and boxes of college papers, my wife’s inherited hope chest, old stereo equipment, a broken-down bureau, discarded board games, her late father’s golf clubs, folded-up cribs, and so on. We were a family rich in history, though still young. I felt ridiculously righteous, as if I had fought a battle and reclaimed my kingdom from invaders. But then melancholy took over; there was enough of the past stuffed in here to sadden me, as relics of the past, including photographs, always sadden me. Everything was thick with dust. A bull’s-eye window at the front did not open and the windows on either side were stuck tight, as if fastened by the cobwebs that clung to their frames. The place badly needed airing. I exerted myself and moved things around and was able then to open the door fully. I stood at the top of the stairs to breathe the fresh air, which is when I noticed candlelight coming through the stand of bamboo between our property and the property behind ours, that same Dr. Sondervan’s house. He boarded a number of young patients there. It was part of his experimental approach, not without controversy in his profession, to train them for domestic chores and simple tasks that required their interaction with normal people. I had stood up for Sondervan when some of the neighbors fought his petition to run his little sanitarium, though I have to say that in private it made Diana nervous, as the mother of two young girls, that mentally deficient persons were living next door. Of course, there had never been a bit of trouble. I was tired from a long day, that was part of it, but, more likely suffering from some scattered mental state of my own, I groped around till I found the rocking chair with the torn seat that I had always meant to recane, and, in that total darkness and with the light of the candles slow to fade in my mind, I sat down and, though meaning only to rest a moment, fell asleep. And when I woke it was from the light coming through the dusty windows. I’d slept the night through. What had brought on our latest argument was what I claimed was Diana’s flirtation with someone’s house guest at a back-yard cocktail party the previous weekend. I was not flirting, she said. You were hitting on the guy. Only in your peculiar imagination, Wakefield. That’s what she did when we argued—she used the last name. I wasn’t Howard, I was Wakefield. It was one of her feminist adaptations of the locker-room style that I detested. You made a suggestive remark, I said, and you clicked glasses with him. It was not a suggestive remark, Diana said. It was a retort to something he’d said that was really stupid, if you want to know. Everyone laughed but you. I apologize for feeling good on occasion, Wakefield. I’ll try not to feel that way ever again. This is not the first time you’ve made a suggestive remark with your husband standing right there. And then denied all knowledge of it. Leave me alone, please. God knows you’ve muzzled me to the point where I’ve lost all confidence in myself. I don’t relate to people anymore. I’m too busy wondering if I’m saying the right thing. You were relating to him, all right. Do you think with the kind of relationship I’ve had with you I’d be inclined to start another with someone else? I just want to get through each day—that is all I think about, getting through each day. That was probably true. On the train to the city, I had to admit to myself that I’d started the argument willfully, in a contrary spirit and with some sense of its eroticism. I did not really believe what I had accused her of. I was the one who came on to people. I had attributed to her my own wandering eye. That is the basis of jealousy, is it not? A feeling that your congenital insincerity is a universal? It did annoy me, seeing her talking to another man with a glass of white wine in her hand, and her innocent friendliness, which any man could mistake for a come-on, not just me. The fellow himself was not terribly prepossessing. But it bothered me that she was talking to him almost as if I were not standing there beside her. Diana was naturally graceful and looked younger than she was. She still moved like the dancer she had been in college, her feet pointed slightly outward, her head high, her walk more a glide than something taken step by step. Even after carrying twins, she was as petite and slender as she had been when I met her. And now in the first light of the new day I was totally bewildered by the situation I had created for myself. I can’t claim that I was thinking rationally. But I actually felt that it would be a mistake to walk into my house and explain the sequence of events that had led me to spend the night in the garage attic. Diana would have been up till all hours, pacing the floor and worrying what had happened to me. My appearance, and her sense of relief, would enrage her. Either she would think that I had been with another woman or, if she did believe my story, it would strike her as so weird as to be a kind of benchmark in our married life. After all, we had had that argument the previous day. She would perceive what I told myself could not possibly be true—that something had happened predictive of a failed marriage. And the twins, budding adolescents, who generally thought of me as someone they were unfortunate to live in the same house with, an embarrassment in front of their friends, an oddity who knew nothing about their music—their alienation would be hissingly expressive. I thought of mother and daughters as the opposing team. The home team. I concluded that for now I would rather not go through the scene I had just imagined. Maybe later, I thought, just not now. I had yet to realize my talent for dereliction. When I came down the garage stairs and relieved myself in the stand of bamboo, the cool air of the dawn welcomed me with a soft breeze. The raccoons were nowhere to be seen. My back was stiff and I felt the first pangs of hunger, but, in fact, I had to admit that I was not at that moment unhappy. What is there about a family that is so sacrosanct, I thought, that one should have to live in it for one’s whole life, however unrealized one’s life was? From the shadow of the garage, I beheld the back yard, with its Norwegian maples, the tilted white birches, the ancient apple tree whose branches touched the windows of the family room, and for the first time, it seemed, I understood the green glory of this acreage as something indifferent to human life and quite apart from the Victorian manse set upon it. The sun was not yet up and the grass was draped with a wavy net of mist, punctured here and there with glistening drops of dew. White apple blossoms had begun to appear in the old tree, and I read the pale light in the sky as the shy illumination of a world to which I had yet to be introduced. At this point, I suppose, I could have safely unlocked the back door and scuttled about in the kitchen, confident that everyone in the house was still asleep. Instead, I raised the lid of the garbage bin and found in one of the cans my complete dinner of the night before, slammed upside down atop a plastic bag and held in a circle of perfect integrity, as if still on the plate—a grilled veal chop, half a baked potato, peel side up, and a small mound of oiled green salad—so that I could imagine the expression on Diana’s face as she had come out here, still angry from our morning argument, and rid herself of the meal gone cold that she had stupidly cooked for that husband of hers. I wondered now at what hour had she lost patience. That would be a measure of whatever slack she granted me. Another woman might have refrigerated the dinner, but I lived in Diana’s judgment; it shone upon me as in a prison cell where the light is never turned off. I lacked interest in her work. Or I was snide and condescending toward her mother. Or I wasted beautiful fall weekends watching dumb football games on television. Or I wouldn’t agree to have the bedrooms painted. And if she was such a feminist why did my opening a door for her or helping her on with her coat matter so much? All I had to do was stand outside my home in the chill of the early morning in order to see things in their totality: Diana felt that she had married the wrong man. Of course, I didn’t imagine I was the easiest person to get along with. But even she would have to admit that I was never boring. And, whatever problems we had, sex, the crucial center of our lives, wasn’t one of them. Was I under an illusion to think that that was the basis of a sound marriage? Given these thoughts, I could not bring myself to walk in the door and announce that I was home. I made my breakfast of the congealed veal chop and the potato as I sat out of sight behind the garage. I had met Diana when she was dating my best friend, Dirk Richardson, whom I had known since middle school. Because she was going with him, I looked at her more closely than I might have otherwise. I registered her as pretty, of course, very attractive, with a lovely smile, light-brown hair pulled back in a ponytail, and what the merest glance could affirm was a fine body, but somehow it was Dirk’s interest in her, which was clearly of the most intense kind, that made me consider Diana as a potentially serious relationship for myself. At first, Diana wouldn’t go out with me. But when I told her I had got permission from Dirk to ask her out she relented, obviously from feelings of hurt and bitterness. Of course, I had lied. When eventually she and Dirk realized my perfidy, things became bitter all around, and in the ensuing competition, many months in duration, the poor girl was torn between us and, all told, we made the unhappiest ménage you could imagine. We were all children, the three of us, what—barely out of Harvard Law, in my case? And Dirk with an entry-level Wall Street job? And Diana working for a Ph.D. in art history? Young, self-styled Upper East Siders. There were times when Diana wouldn’t see me, or wouldn’t see Dirk, or wouldn’t see either of us. Of course, in retrospect, it’s clear that all this was quite the normal thing, when, adrift in their hormonic tides, people in their twenties are about to land on one shore or another. I didn’t know if, before I broke into their relationship, Diana had been sleeping with Dirk. I knew now that she was sleeping with neither of us. One day, in a stroke of genius, I told Dirk that I had spent the previous night with her. When he confronted her, she denied it, of course, and, showing his lack of insight and understanding of the quality of the person he was dealing with, he didn’t believe her. That was his fatal error, which he compounded by trying to press himself on her. Diana was not a virgin—nobody was by our age—but, as I was later to learn, neither did she have much experience, though that quality of sexy innocence I have mentioned could easily have passed for it. At any rate, you didn’t try to force yourself on this woman if you ever expected to see her again. His second mistake, Dirk, before he disappeared from our lives altogether, was to punch me out. He was the heavier of us, though I was the taller. And he landed a couple of good ones before someone pulled him off me. That was the first and last time I’ve ever actually been hit, though I’ve been threatened a few times since. But my black eye brought out a tender resolution of Diana’s feelings for me. Perhaps she understood that all my tactical cunning was a measure of my devotion, and, as her cool lips brushed my bruised cheek, I could not imagine myself ever having been happier. After we had been married for a year and some of the energy had gone out of the relationship, I did wonder if my passion might have been pumped up by the competition for her. Would I have been all that crazy about her had she not been my best friend’s girl? But then she became pregnant and a whole new array of feelings entered into our marriage and, as her belly swelled, she became more radiant than ever. I had always liked to draw—I drew seriously as late as my freshman year at Harvard—and my knowledge of art had been one of the things that attracted her to me. Now she allowed me to draw her as she posed naked, with her small breasts fruited out and her belly gloriously ripened, as she lay back on some pillows with her hands behind her head and turned on one hip with her legs slightly pulled up but pressed together for modesty, like Goya’s “Maja.” I spent that first day watching through the bull’s-eye window for the sequence of events that would occur when it became clear that I had gone missing. First, Diana would get the twins off to school. Then, the minute the bus had turned the corner, she would call my office and satisfy herself that I had been seen off by my secretary at the usual time the night before. She would ask to be notified when I showed up for work, her voice not only under control but doggedly cheerful, as if she were calling about a minor family matter. I reasoned that only after a call or two to whichever of our friends she thought might know something would the panic set in. She would look at the clock, and, around eleven, steel herself and call the police. I was wrong by half an hour. The squad car came up the driveway at eleven-thirty, by my watch. She met the patrolmen at the back door. Our town police are well paid and polite and they are not very different from the rest of us in their distant relationship to crime. But I knew that they would take down a description, ask for a photo and so on, in order to put out a missing-persons bulletin. Yet, when they were back in their car, I saw through the windshield that the cops were smiling: where else were missing husbands to be found but in St. Bart’s, drinking piña coladas with their chiquitas? All that was wanting now was Diana’s mother, and by noon she was up from the city in her white Escalade—the widow Babs, who had opposed the marriage and was likely now to say so. Babs was what Diana, God help us, might be thirty years hence—high-heeled, ceramicized, liposucted, devaricosed, her golden fall of hair as shiny and hard as peanut brittle. In the days following, cars pulled up at the house at all hours as friends and colleagues came to show their support and to console Diana, as if I had died. These wretches, hardly able to restrain themselves in their excitement, were making victims of my wife and children. And how many of the husbands would hit on her the first chance they got? I thought about bursting in the door—Wakefield arisen—just to see the expression on their faces. Then the house grew quiet again. There weren’t many lights on. Occasionally, I’d see someone for a moment in a window without being able to tell who it was. One morning after the school bus had stopped to pick up the twins, the garage doors below me rolled up and Diana got in her car and went back to her curator’s job at the county art museum. I was hungry, having lived off scraps in our garbage and neighbors’ garbage, and also fairly rank at this point, so I slipped into the house and availed myself of its amenities. I ate crackers and nuts from the pantry. I was careful when showering to rinse out my towel, put it in the dryer, and return it, properly folded, to the linen closet. I stole some socks and briefs on the theory that there were drawers full and a few missing would not be noticed. I thought about taking a fresh shirt and another pair of shoes but decided that that would be risky. At this stage, I still worried about money. What would I do after I had spent the slender amount of cash in my wallet? If I wanted to disappear completely, I could no longer use my credit cards. I could predate a check and cash it at the downtown branch of our local bank, but when the month’s statement came Diana would see it and think that my abandonment of my family had been premeditated, which, of course, it had not. Early one evening, at that time of day when the apple blossoms release their lovely scent, Diana came out to stand in the back yard. I watched her from my garage atelier. She took a blossom from its branch and put it to her cheek. Then she looked around, as if she had heard something. She turned this way and that, her glance actually passing over the garage. She stood there as if listening, her head slightly tilted, and I had the feeling that she almost knew where I was, that she had sensed my presence. I held my breath. A moment later, she turned and went back inside, and the door closed and I heard the lock click. That loud click was definitive. It sounded in my mind like my release into another world. I felt the stubble on my chin. Who was this fellow? I had not even thought about what I had left behind in my law office—the cases, the clients, the partnership. I became almost giddy. There would be no more getting on the train. Below me in the garage was my beloved silver BMW 325 convertible. Of what use was it to me? I felt uncharacteristically defiant, as if I were about to roar and pound my chest. I did not need the friends and acquaintances accumulated over the years. I no longer required a change of shirt or a smooth, shaven face. I would not live with credit cards, cell phones. I would live how I might on what I could find or create for myself. If this were a simple abandonment of wife and children, I would have written Diana a note, telling her to find a good lawyer, taken my car out of the garage, and been on my way to Manhattan. I would have checked in to a hotel and walked to work the next morning. Anyone could do that, anyone could run away; he could go as far as he could go and still be the same person. There was nothing to that. This was different. This strange suburb was an environment in which I would have to sustain myself, like a person lost in a jungle, like a castaway on an island. I would not run from it—I would make it my own. That was the game, if it was a game. That was the challenge. I had left not only my home; I had left the system. This life in the glittering eye of the prehensile raccoon was what I wanted, and never had I felt so absolutely secure, as if the several phantom images of myself had resolved into the final form of who I was—clearly and firmly the Howard Wakefield I was meant to be. For all my exuberance, I did not fail to understand that I might have left my wife but I would still be able to keep an eye on her. Of necessity, I was now a nocturnal creature. I slept in the garage attic by day and went out at night. I was alert and sensitive to the weather and the amount of moonlight. I moved from yard to yard, never trusting sidewalks or streets. I learned much about people in the neighborhood, what they ate, when they went to sleep. As spring turned to summer and people left on vacation, more of the houses were empty and there were fewer opportunities for trash-can forage. But then there were fewer dogs to bark at me as I passed under the trees, and, where the dog was big, so was the dog door, and I could crawl in and avail myself of the canned and packaged foods in kitchen pantries. I never took anything but food. I felt an equivalence, but not seriously, to the Native American buffalo hunter who slew the creature for his meat and fur and thanked his risen soul afterward. I really had no illusions about the morality of what I was doing. My clothes began to show wear and tear. I was growing a beard and my hair was longer. As August approached, I realized that if Diana wanted to do what we had done for many years she would rent the house we liked on the Cape and take the girls there for the month. In my garage den, I took pains to restore the disarray. I planned to sleep out of doors until they came up there for the life jackets, the pontoon float tube, the swim fins, the fishing rods, and whatever other summer junk I had bought so obediently. With a keen sense of dispossession, I wandered out of the neighborhood to find someplace to sleep, and discovered that I had barely begun to use the resources available to me when I came upon an undeveloped piece of land as wild as I could wish. It took me a moment to recognize, in the dim light of a half-moon, that I was in the town’s designated Nature Preserve, a place where elementary-school children were taken to get an idea of what an unpaved universe looked like. I had brought my own children here. My law firm had represented the wealthy widow who had deeded this land to the town with the provision that it be kept forever as it was. Now its true wildness loomed before me. The ground was soft and swampy, fallen tree branches lay over the paths, I heard the obsessive self-hypnotizing cicadas, the gulp of the bullfrogs, and knew with an animal sense only lately developed in me that there were some four-footed creatures about. I found a small pond at the bottom end of these woods. It must have been kept fresh by an underground stream, because the water was cold and clear. I stripped and bathed myself and put my clothes back on over my wet body. I slept that night in the crotched trunk of a dead old maple tree. I can’t say that I slept well; moths brushed my face and there was a constant stirring of unknown life around me. I was really quite uncomfortable but I resolved to see it through until such nights as this were normal for me. Yet when Diana and the girls had gone on their vacation and I was able to reclaim my pallet in the garage attic, I felt despicably lonely. With my new death’s-door look, I decided that I had at least an even-money chance to go about unrecognized. I was lean and long-bearded and with a shock of hair that fell down the sides of my face. As my hair grew out, I saw how barbering it in the old days had hidden its increasing grayness. My beard was even further along. I took myself in my tatters to the business district and availed myself of the town’s social services. In the public library, which, not incidentally, had a well-kept men’s room, I read the daily papers as if informing myself of life on another planet. I thought it was more my image to read the papers than to sit at one of the library computers. If the weather was good, I liked to take up residence on a bench at the mall. I did not beg; had I begged, the security people would have shooed me off. I sat with my legs crossed and head up, and projected attitude. My regal mien proposed to passersby that I was a delusionary eccentric. Children would come up to me at the urging of their mothers and put coins or dollar bills in my hands. In this way, I was able occasionally to enjoy a hot meal at Burger King or a coffee at Starbucks. Pretending to be mute, I pointed to what I wanted. I regarded these expeditions to the town center as daring escapades. I needed to prove to myself that I could take risks. While I carried no I.D., there was always the possibility that someone, even Diana herself, if back early from her vacation, might come by and recognize me. I almost wished that she would. But after a while the novelty of these trips wore off and I reclaimed my residential solitude. I embraced my dereliction as a religious discipline; it was as if I were a monk sworn to an order devoted to affirming God’s original world. Squirrels travelled along the telephone wires, their tails rippling like signal pulses. Raccoons lifted the lids off the garbage pails left at the curb for the morning pickup. If I had preceded them at a pail, they knew immediately that there was nothing there for them. A skunk each night made its rounds like a watchman, taking the same route past the garage and through the stand of bamboo and diagonally across Dr. Sondervan’s back yard, and disappearing down his driveway. At the preserve pond, my occasional swim was observed by a slick, slime-covered rat-tailed muskrat. His dark eyes glowed in the moonlight. Only when I had climbed out of the pond did he dive into it, silently, with no apparent disturbance of the water. Most mornings, invader crows arrived, twenty or thirty of them at a time coming out of the sky and cawing away. It was as if loudspeakers were strung in the trees. Sometimes the crows would go quiet and send out reconnaissance, one or two of them circling and landing in the street to examine a candy wrapper or the dregs of a garbage can that the sanitation men had emptied incompletely. A dead squirrel was occasion for a feast, a great black mass of fluttering feathers and bobbing heads stripping the carcass down to its bones. Altogether they were a kind of crow state, and if there were any dissidents I could not find them. I did dislike it that they drove away the smaller birds—a pair of cardinals, for example, who nested in the back yard, and didn’t have the range of these ravenous black birds who would be off as quickly as they had come, in powerful flight to the next block or the next town. There were house cats always on the prowl, of course, and dogs barking late at night in one house or another, but I did not see them as legitimate. They were sheltered; they lived at the behest of human beings. One night in early autumn, with the swampy ground of the Nature Preserve papered with fallen leaves, I was hunkered down to examine a dead snake about a foot in length whose color I thought might in life have been green, when, as I stood, I felt something brush the top of my head. As I looked up I saw the wings of a ghostly pale owl fold into his body as he disappeared into a tree. The feathery touch of the owl wing on my scalp left me shivering. These creatures and I either were food to one another or were not. That was all there was to it. I was presumptive from my loneliness, an unrequited lover as incidental to all of them as they had once been to me. Diana was always comfortable in her body and was careless about covering herself in front of our girls. She didn’t mind being seen in the nude, and when I suggested that it might not be the best thing for them she replied that, on the contrary, it was instructive for them to see how naturally accepting and unself-conscious a woman could be about her physical being. Well, then, how about a man, if they were to see me walking around in the altogether? I said. And Diana said, Really, Howard, Mr. Prude in the nude? Not a chance. In our bedroom, Diana seemed not to care if the blinds were open when she was dressing or undressing. I was always the one to close them. Who are you trying to attract? I would say to her, and she’d say, That very good-looking fellow out there in the apple tree. But she seemed as oblivious of her effect nude in a bedroom window as she was when attracting men at cocktail parties. All this behavior was ambiguous and kept me wondering. And now, though I was not up in the apple tree, I had found various salients in our half acre that allowed me to see a good deal of her at night, when she went to bed. It was always alone, I was satisfied to see. She would sometimes come right up to the window and stare into the darkness while brushing her hair. In those moments, with the light behind her, I would see her lovely shape only in silhouette. Then she would turn and walk back into the room. A long-waisted girl with narrow shoulders and firm buttocks. Oddly enough, seeing my wife in the nude usually got me thinking of her financial situation. I did this to assure myself that she would not find it necessary to sell the house and move elsewhere. Her salary at the museum was just adequate, and we had a mortgage, prep-school tuition for the twins—all the usual presiding expenses. On the other hand, I had set up a savings account in her name and had added to it regularly. My investments were in a revocable trust of which she as well as I was a trustee. And I had paid down a considerable part of the mortgage with my last year’s partner’s bonus. She might have to cut back on her clothes purchases and all the little luxuries she enjoyed, she would have to give up her hope of redoing the bathrooms in marble, but that was hardly to suggest her impoverishment. I was the impoverished one. My spying was not restricted to her bedtime. Now in the autumn it grew dark earlier every day. I liked to know what was going on. I would hunker down in the garden foliage under the windows and listen to the conversation. There she would be in the dining room, helping the twins with their homework. Or they would all three be putting together their dinner. Never once did I hear my name mentioned. Arguments I could hear from the very edge of the property, one of the twins, screeching and stamping her foot. A door would slam. Sometimes Diana came out on the back porch and lit a cigarette, standing there holding her elbow, the hand with the cigarette pointing at the sky. That was news—she had quit the habit years before. Sometimes she was out for the evening and all I could see were the flickering colored lights of the TV in the family room. I didn’t like it that she left the twins alone. I kept watch at the bull’s-eye window in my attic until I saw her car come up the drive. On Halloween, the street was busy with parents escorting their cutely costumed children from one porch to another. Diana always prepared for the onslaught by buying tons of candy. All the lights were on in my house. I heard laughter. And here passing under the window of my garage attic were a few of Dr. Sondervan’s patients. They had come through the bamboo, ambling down the drive, these larger children, carrying shopping bags for the treasures to be collected from somewhat uneasy neighbors receiving them at the front door. Every two weeks, the town residents put out for trash their hard, nonorganic items: old TVs, broken chairs, boxes of paperbacks, end tables, busted lamps, toys their children had outgrown, and so on. I had come away previously with a usable, only slightly torn and sperm-stained futon from this resource, as well as an old portable radio that looked as if it might work if I could find some batteries for it. I did miss music as I missed nothing else. On this night I went looking for some shoes. Mine had worn away. They were falling apart. It was a damp night; it had rained in the afternoon and slick wet leaves were pressed to the streets. Timing was crucial: by one in the morning, anything that was going to be thrown out was on the sidewalk. By two, anything that was usable was gone. On these nights, people from the south end of town cruised around in their old pickups or in cars that tilted to one side, and they’d pull up and, with their motors running, hop out to judge items, grabbing each thing for examination, to see if it met their exacting standards. Some winding blocks away from my home base, I spotted in the light of a street lamp a promising trove—an unusually large pile of curbed junk that could have passed for an installation in a Chelsea gallery. It bespoke someone’s desperation to move—stacks of chairs, open cartons of toys and stuffed animals, board games, a sofa, a brass headboard, skis, a desk with a lamp still clamped to it, and, underneath everything, layers of men’s and women’s clothing going damp in the dew. I was busy putting things aside and digging under the suits and dresses, and didn’t hear the truck approach or the men get out, a pair of them, who were suddenly there beside me, two guys in sleeveless T-shirts to show off their muscular arms. They were talking to each other in some foreign language and it was as if I weren’t there, because, as they worked their way through the trove, lifting away the furniture to put in their truck, the cartons of toys, the skis and everything else, they got around rather quickly to the pile of clothes under which I had just found three or four shoeboxes and they pushed me aside to get at these things. Just a minute, I thought, having found a pair of white-and-tan wingtips, not my style at all, but they seemed in the moonlight to be right out of a store window and close to my size. I kicked off the sole-flapping holey pair I was wearing. At this point, I had no reason to think that these scavenger men were anything but boors. Now it appeared that a woman was with them, who was wider and heavier in the arms than they were, and, as I stood there, she decided that my pair of shoes, too, should be theirs. No, I said. Mine, mine! The shoebox was wet and, with each of us pulling, it came apart and the shoes dropped to the ground. I grabbed them before she could. Mine! I shouted and slapped them together, sole against sole, in her face. She shrieked and a moment later I was running down the street with the two men chasing me and shouting curses, or what I assumed were curses, great hoarse expletives that echoed through the trees and set dogs barking in the dark houses. I found myself running well, a shoe stuck paddle-like over each hand. I heard heavy panting behind me, then a cry as one of the men slipped on the wet leaves in the street and went down. As I ran, I visualized the blunt faces of these people and decided that they were a mother and two sons. I supposed they made a business out of their collectibles. This was to be admired—entry-level work into the American dream. But I’d had them first—the shoes, I mean—and by the law of salvage they were mine. Mine! I had said like a child. Mine, mine! These were the first words I had spoken in all the months of my dereliction. And as I uttered them I almost thought it was someone else speaking. I had an advantage in knowing the neighborhood, and gained on my pursuit by cutting across yards and up driveways and through garden gates, punishing my tender wet feet every step of the way. I heard a rhythmic wheeze and realized that it was coming from my aching chest. I didn’t dare look behind me. I heard their truck somewhere on an adjoining street and imagined the mother, that sturdy peasant of a woman, behind the wheel, peering over her headlights for a sight of me. I was nearing my atelier now, coming up the back way through my neighbor Sondervan’s yard. I reasoned that I did not want these people to know where I lived. Retribution could be theirs at any time they chose if they saw me climb the stairs to the garage attic. My solution was not entirely logical: as I approached the stand of bamboo, I veered off, and ducked down the three stone steps to the basement door of Sondervan’s house. The door was unlocked. I slipped inside and slid down against the wall and attempted to catch my breath. At the end of a short hallway was another door, indicated to me now by the light that came on behind it. The door opened and I had to raise my arms against the light. I must have made an odd picture, sitting there with each hand in a wingtip shoe, as if that were how shoes were worn, because whoever was standing there began to laugh. In this way, I became a familiar of two of the unfortunates who lived in the basement dormitory under the care of Dr. Sondervan. One was a Down-syndromer by the name of Herbert. Emily, his pal, was the other—I don’t know what she was, but she couldn’t keep from smiling, out of unceasing happiness or a neurological glitch, but either way it was eerily unnatural. This bucktoothed girl with very thin hair, I couldn’t tell her age—she might have been anything from fourteen to nineteen. She and Herbert, who was smaller in his proportions than he should have been, with a round head, slanted eyes, and a nose that looked as if he’d had a boxing career, seemed distinct from the four other patients down there, who were aloof, who took me in with a glance that first night and couldn’t care less after that—teen-agers, apparently, three male, one female, physically normal-looking, compared with Herbert and Emily, but living in their own minds, with not much concern for what went on around them. I assumed that they were a variety of autistics, though of course I knew nothing about autism, except what I had read in magazines or seen on television. But Herbert and Emily loved me from the moment they saw me sitting there with the shoes on my hands, as if they had found someone mentally less fortunate even than they, who may not have known much but did know that shoes were more properly worn on the feet. They didn’t ask what had brought me to their door, but welcomed me as one might a stray cat. From that first moment, they were solicitous and protective, instructing me to repeat their names after them to make sure I understood, and then asking my name. Howard, I said, my name is Howard. They brought me a glass of water and Emily, giggling all the while, brushed the sweated thatch of hair from my forehead. Howard is a fine name, she said. Don’t you love the autumn, Howard? I love the falling leaves, don’t you? They took the shoes from my hands and fitted them on my wet feet, Herbert, with his mouth open as befit his concentration, tying the laces, and Emily looking on as if it were a surgical procedure. Neatly done, Herbert, very fine indeed, she said. As soon as I judged it safe to go, they insisted on following me to my garage and watched as I climbed the stairs to make sure that I did not fall. So now two of Dr. Sondervan’s mental defectives knew about me. It would be a costly pair of shoes if they blabbed about Howard, the nice man who lived next door over the garage. There was not only the doctor but his staff, the three or four women who ran the household, to whom they might say something. I looked around the attic, my de-facto home. The only sensible thing to do was to leave. But how could I? While I struggled with this, I maintained a watch by day and didn’t make my nightly forage until well past their lights-out. A couple of mornings later, I saw Herbert and Emily and the others in the back yard. They were sitting on the ground, and there was Sondervan addressing them, like students in a class. The doctor was a tall but stooped man in his seventies, with a gray goatee and black horn-rimmed glasses. I had never seen him without a jacket and tie, and in deference to the season he had added a short-sleeved sweater that served as a vest. I couldn’t hear what he was saying, though I could hear his voice; a thin, high elderly man’s voice, it was, but self-assured and with an almost smugly assumed authority. At one point, Herbert grabbed a handful of fallen leaves and tossed them up so that they rained down on Emily’s head. She, of course, laughed, thus interrupting the lecture. The doctor glared. How normal this all was. Had Herbert and Emily revealed my whereabouts, wouldn’t I by now have heard from someone—from Sondervan himself, or from Diana, or from the police, or from all of them, my little world crashing down on my head? I understood that for whatever reason, perhaps a dissident impulse that they might not even understand, the retarded children, if they were children, had decided to make me their secret. It was odd—on the occasions when they could visit me safely, I enjoyed their company. I found my own mind comfortable with the reduced wattage that conversation with them required. They did see things, notice things. Their predominant emotion was wonder. Everything in the attic was examined, as if they were visiting a museum. Herbert opened and shut the brass snaps of my litigation bag over and over. Emily, digging in Diana’s hope chest, came up with an antique silver hand mirror in which to study herself. Perhaps, not having spoken with another human being for some months, I was overly responsive, but I was happy to explain how a life jacket worked, and why the game of golf required many clubs, or how spiderwebs were made, or why I, yet another exhibit, lived here in this attic. I gave them the expurgated version of that: I told them that I was a wanderer, a hermit by choice, and that this attic was one stop on my life’s journey. Then I had to assure them that I had no intention of moving on for quite some time. I worried that they would be found missing back at their place, but somehow they knew when they could get away safely. And they brought me things, little gifts of food and bottled water, knowing without my having to explain that I was a person in need. They would bring me a piece of cake and solemnly watch me eat it. Herbert, with his dark almond eyes in that globular head, had the most intense stare. He would hold himself at the shoulders and watch how my jaw moved. And Emily, of course, chattered on, as if she had to speak for both of them. Isn’t that good, Howard? Do you like cake? What is your favorite? I like chocolate cake the best, though strawberry is good, too. They may have been heartbreaking—and they were, casting me into the realm of remorseless normality—but in fact Herbert and Emily were there when I needed them. Sharply honed as my survival skills had become, some residual upper-middle-class indifference to the weather had left me unprepared for winter. What was thrown into the neighborhood garbage pails after Thanksgiving had fed me nicely for several days, but I was chilled as I foraged, and within a week the wind was whistling through the siding of my attic hideout. I had no heat up here. Winter, with its assortment of effects, was a threat to my life style. I cursed the homeowner I had been for neglecting the upkeep of this place. I rummaged about in all the junk I lived with and, finding some antique curtains in Diana’s inherited hope chest, I laid them atop the old coat that I used for a blanket and, pulling down over my ears the watch cap that I had found on the street, I snaked down under these pathetic coverings on my salvaged futon and tried to keep my teeth from chattering. How could I stay abreast of what was going on in my house if, when the snow came, my every footstep in the yard would leave a trail of incrimination and such clear proof of a prowler on the grounds as to get Diana on the phone to the town police? I was tempted during one dry cold spell to let myself in the back door of my house and keep warm beside my basement furnace, safely spending a few hours down there between midnight and dawn. But I would not surrender to my former self. Whatever I did I would do as I had done. Which meant also that going into a shelter for the homeless—there had to be one somewhere in town, probably at the south end, where lived immigrants, undocumented aliens, and the working poor—that, too, was out of the question. And never mind principles: even the homeless have names, histories, and inquisitive social workers. If I played dumb, went mute, how could I not end up committed somewhere? Better to freeze to death. As I understood it, it wasn’t half bad—you simply grew warm and fell asleep. Another option, one not prohibited by any vows I had taken, was to find shelter in Dr. Sondervan’s house. While it is true that I did more than once sneak into the basement dorm to use the bathroom, and on occasion I even risked a shower with Herbert and Emily guarding the door, and while another time, late at night, they led me into the dark kitchen, whose antiseptic smell was an offense to my nostrils, and whose ticking clock suggested discipline verging on tyranny, so that it was almost as a courtesy to them that I accepted an apple and a chicken leg, I could not reasonably expect in this odd doctor’s sanitarium to go unnoticed as an overnight guest. And so, as I pondered and worried and accomplished nothing, the winter blew in with a wild snow that scoured the streets and roared through my meagre shelter like the vengeful God of the Old Testament. Of course, I was not trapped; I just felt as if I were. I thought what a brilliant evolutionary expedient was hibernation, and if bears and hedgehogs and bats had managed to work it into their repertoire why hadn’t we? Actually, as the snow was blown against the siding of the garage it stuck there, sealing off the cracks, and my atelier became a bit cozier, though not in time to keep me from falling ill. I thought I had caught cold when I awoke with eyes watering and a sore throat. But when I tried to get up I felt too weak to stand. I could actually feel the virus humming happily through me. There comes a moment when you have to admit that you’re sick. How could I have expected otherwise, as undernourished and poorly prepared for the winter as I was? I had never in my life felt so bad. I must have been running a high fever, because I was out of it half the time. I have an image of two alarmed young retards standing in the doorway looking down at me. Perhaps I gave them a pathetic wave of my pale, bony hand. And then one of them must have come back that night or another, because I woke up in the small hours with a hot-water bottle under my feet. And—this is the most phantasmic impression of all—once I awakened to find Emily in my bed, clothed, with her arms and legs wrapped around me as if to provide warmth. At the same time, though, she was pressing her pelvis rhythmically against my hip and cooing something and kissing my bearded cheeks. After several days, I found myself still alive. I got up from my poor pallet and did not collapse. I was a bit weak but steady on my feet and clearheaded. If one can feel physically chastened, as if having been scrubbed down to another skin, that’s what I felt. I studied myself in the antique silver hand mirror: what a thin, gaunt fellow I had become, though with eyes bright with intelligence. I decided that I had passed through some crisis that was more a test of spirit than a lousy virus. I felt good. Tall and lean and limber. There was a stale sandwich and a glass of frozen milk beside my bed. The jars that served as my urinals were empty and aligned in a gleaming row. Sun came through the bull’s-eye window and cast an oblong rainbowed image of itself on the attic floor. Wrapping my coat around me, I went outside into the cold pure air of the winter morning, careful not to slip on the icy steps. The bamboo copse was encased in clear ice. I looked for my friends, for some sign of them, but there was not even one track in the snow covering Sondervan’s back yard. I saw no smoke from the chimney, no lights at the back basement door that had always burned there, day and night. So they were gone, the whole crew of them, patients, staff. Do you take a houseful of mentally problematic people for a Christmas vacation? Or had the neighbors finally got a court to rule against Sondervan’s little sanitarium? And the doctor? Had he fled to his practice in the city? I didn’t know. They had been like little elves tending to my illness, Herbert and Emily, there but not there. I spent that day getting used to the fact that I was alone again in the fullness of my hermitage. It was not a bad feeling. The childishness of the two of them had migrated somewhat to me, and, while I felt bad for them, their home, such as it was, taken from them, it was a relief to be back in my own mind, undistracted, uninvolved. That night I was once again out on my rounds, and the takings were good. I put together a fine dinner and for drink I melted snow in my mouth. When the weather softened, leaving only patches of snow on the ground, I resumed my nighttime surveillance of my home. I found some subtle changes. Diana had done something with her hair, cut it shorter. I was not sure it was right for her. There was a jauntiness in her step. The twins appeared to have grown an inch or two since the last time I had looked in the window. Quite the young ladies. No more fighting, no door slams. Mother and daughters seemed very together, even happy. The undecorated fir tree in the dining room told me that Christmas had not yet arrived. Why did all of this come to me as a presentiment? I was uneasy as I climbed back to my atelier. I found myself thinking of the law. I knew that, having disappeared and not been found after diligent inquiry, I would be declared an absentee and Diana, as my spouse, would become temporary administrator of my property. Had she not seen to that, I was sure that one of my partners would have seen to it for her. What I could not remember was how much time would have to elapse before I was declared legally dead and the provisions of my will would come into play. Was it a year, two years, five years? And why was I thinking about this? “Spouse”? “Diligent inquiry”? Why was I thinking with these words, these legal terms? I had expunged the law from my mind, I had wiped the slate clean, so what was the matter with me? I did something then out of a gleeful-seeming desperation that I still don’t understand. A couple of times a year, an old Italian man who had a knife-and-tool-sharpening business in his van would come to the back door and ask if anything needed to be sharpened. He had his van outfitted with a gas-powered grinding wheel. Diana would give him kitchen knives, poultry shears, scissors, even if they didn’t need sharpening, just because she knew he needed work. I think it was the Old World quality of this gentle peddler that appealed to her. So there I was, looking out the window and watching him come up the driveway and stand at the door while Diana went into the kitchen to find something for him. A moment later, I was standing behind him with a big grin; I was this tall, long-haired homeless soul with a gray beard down to his chest, who, for all Diana knew, as she returned with a handful of knives, was the old Italian’s assistant. I wanted to look into her eyes, I wanted to see if there was any recognition there. I didn’t know what I would do if she recognized me; I didn’t even know if I wanted her to recognize me. She didn’t. The knives were handed over, the door closed, and the old Italian, after frowning at me and muttering something in his own language, went back to his van. And, back in my atelier, I thought of the green-eyed glance of my wife, the intelligence it took in, the judgment it registered, all in that instant of nonrecognition. While I, her lawful husband, stood there grinning like an idiot. I decided that it was good that she hadn’t recognized me—it would have been disastrous if she had. My devilish impulse had pulled off a good joke. But my disappointment was like one of those knives, after sharpening, in my chest. A day or two later, in the late afternoon, as the setting sun reddened the sky over the big trees, I heard a car pulling into the driveway. A door slammed, and by the time I got to the attic window whoever it was had disappeared around the front of the house. I had never seen this car before. It was a top-of-the-line sedan, a sleek black Mercedes. Long after the sun had set and all the lights were on in my house, I could see that the car was still there. I kept going back to the window and the car kept being there. Whoever it was, he was staying to dinner. For, of course, I knew it was a he. The moon was out, and so it was somewhat risky for me to go around to the dining room and look in the window. The shades were drawn—what was she trying to hide?—but not completely; there was an inch or two of light above the windowsill. When I bent my legs and peered in, I could see his back, and the back of his head, and, across the table from him, my smiling radiant wife lifting her wineglass as if in acknowledgment of something he had said. I heard the girls’ voices; the whole family was there, having themselves a grand time with this guest, this special guest, whoever he was. I lurked about through dinner; they took their damn time, all of them, and then there was coffee and dessert, which Diana liked to serve in the living room. I ran around to that window and again saw his back. He was a well-tailored fellow with a good head of salt-and-pepper hair. He was not particularly tall but sturdy, strong-looking. It was no one I knew, not anyone from my firm, not one of our friends come to hit on Diana. Was it someone she had met? I was determined to keep watch and to satisfy myself that he did not stay past dinner. But surely that was not in the cards, not with the twins in the house. Nevertheless, I lingered at the window, even though the night was cold and getting colder. And then he did leave; they were handing him his coat and I turned and ran around the back of the house and took a position at the corner, where I could see the driveway. I was looking at the front of his car, and when he got in and the cabin of the car lit up, I had a clear view of his face, and it was my former best friend, Dirk Richardson, the man from whom I had stolen Diana, a lifetime ago. The next days were busy ones. I washed as best I could with melted snow and dried myself with one of Dr. Sondervan’s towels, a gift from Herbert and Emily. I took my wallet out of the top drawer of the old broken-down bureau. In it was all the cash I had come home with that night of the raccoon, my credit cards, Social Security card, driver’s license. I dug around for my checkbook, house and car keys—all the impedimenta of citizenry. I then contrived to get myself to town, cutting through the Sondervan back yard to the next block and thence to the business district. My first stop was the Goodwill store, where I replaced my tattered rags with a clean and minimally decent brown suit, unironed shirt, overcoat, wool socks, and a pair of brogues that were no better fitting than my wingtips but more appropriate to the season. The ladies at the Goodwill were shocked when I walked in, but my courteous demeanor and the clear effort I was making to better myself left them smiling approvingly as I left. And don’t forget to get yourself a nice haircut, dear, one of them said. That was exactly my intention. I walked into a unisex place on the theory that my shoulder-length hair would not alarm them as it would a traditional old-time barber. Still, there was resistance—Can’t come in here without an appointment, the hairdresser-in-chief sniffed—at which point I laid two crisp hundred-dollar bills on the cashier’s table and an empty chair materialized. A layered cut and not too short, I said. I watched in the big mirror as, snip by snip, I travelled back in time. With each falling hank of hair, more and more of the disastrous lineaments of my previous self emerged, until, big naked ears and all, staring back at me was the missing link to Howard Wakefield. Yet a shave was still required for the transmogrification, and this took another fifty dollars, shaves not being in the repertoire of this crew of artistes. Somehow they came up with shears and a straight razor and several of the staff gathered around to agree on a strategy. I didn’t want to see. I lay back in the chair and prepared to have my throat cut. I didn’t care. I was disappointed in myself and how easily I was acclimating to the old life. It was as if I had never left. Finally, I was sat up to see the result, and it was me, all right, looking pale and somewhat skinnier, the eyes perhaps too importunate, a new loose fold of flesh under the chin, Howard Wakefield redux, a man of the system. That was enough for one day. That night, in my unaccustomed togs, I slipped around to the house to see if anything special was going on. Another visitor, perhaps, a justice of the peace to accompany Dirk Richardson? But all was quiet. No strange cars in the driveway, and my wife at her dressing table, not quite naked in her negligible concession to winter. She had something on the stereo, her favorite composer, Schubert, whom she had touted to me when we were dating. It was one of the Impromptus, played by Dinu Lipatti, and it brought back the old days, before such music was no longer ours. I felt as if an artery had been opened, and ran back to my attic. The next morning, the garage doors opened beneath me and I watched as Diana, with the girls in tow, backed the S.U.V. down the driveway. Of course. Christmas shopping. They would head for the mall. They would lunch there as well. I waited a few minutes, took out my car keys, went downstairs, and turned on the engine of my BMW. It started right up. I had heard about Dirk over the years that he had made himself a fortune. And why not, as he was a hedge-fund manager who was quoted on the business pages. Remarkable how I still knew how to drive, and how I remembered all the shortcuts to the highway to New York. An hour later, the city rose up before my eyes, and in a moment, it seemed, I was in it, in all the noisy raucous chaos of souls flowing through the city’s canyons, each of them with an imperial intention. They were underground, too, rumbling along in the subways. They were stacked above my head, too, forty, fifty stories of them. It was stunning. I was in shock and barely able to negotiate the entrance to a garage. Had I actually worked in this city most of my adult life? Would I have to again? My Madison Avenue haberdashery was still where it had always been and my man was there standing in the suit department as if he’d been waiting for me. I had had myself barbered and had clothed myself in a reasonably presentable outfit at the Goodwill before coming here, just so that I could get through the door. He looked at me and shook his head. He beckoned. Come with me, he said. And that is how that evening, after parking the BMW in front of the next house, and taking the trouble to reclaim my litigation bag from the attic, I stood at my front door in my black cashmere coat and pin-striped suit with a Turnbull & Asser spread-collar shirt and a sober Armani silk tie, American-flag suspenders, and Cole Haan black English calfskin shoes, and I turned the key in the lock. Every light in the house was on. I could hear them in the dining room; they were decorating the Christmas tree. Hello? I shouted. I’m home!
Outage The weatherpersons on television, always eager for ratings-boosting disasters, had predicted a fierce autumn storm for New England, with driving rain and high winds. Brad Morris, who worked at home while his wife, Jane, managed a boutique on Boston’s Newbury Street, glanced out his windows now and then at the swaying trees—oaks still tenacious of their rusty leaves, maples letting go in gusts of gold and red—but was unimpressed by the hyped news event. Rain came down heavily a half hour at a time, then pulled back into a silvery sky of fast-moving, fuzzy-bottomed clouds. The worst seemed to be over, when, in midafternoon, his computer died under his eyes. The financial figures he had been painstakingly assembling swooned as a group, sucked into the dead blank screen like glittering water pulled down a drain. Around him, the house seemed to sigh, as all its lights and little engines, its computerized timers and indicators, simultaneously shut down. The sound of wind and rain lashing the trees outside infiltrated the silence. A beam creaked. A loose shutter banged. The drip from a plugged gutter tapped heavily, like a bully nagging for attention, on the wooden cover of a cellar-window well. The lines bringing the Morrises’ house electricity and telephone service and cable television came up, on three poles, through two acres of woods. Brad stepped outside in the storm’s lull, in the strangely luminous air, to see if he could spot any branches fallen on his lines. He saw none, and no window lights in the nearest house, barely visible through the woods whose leaves in summer hid it entirely. The tops of the tallest trees were heaving in a wind he barely felt; a spatter of thick cold drops sent him back into the house, where drifts of shadow were sifting into the corners and the furnace ticked in the basement as its metal cooled. Without electricity, there was nothing to do. He opened the refrigerator and was surprised by its failure to greet him with a welcoming inner light. The fireplace in the den emitted a sour scent of damp wood ash. Wind whistled in crevices he had not known existed, under the eaves and at the edges of the storm windows. He felt impotent, and amused by his impotence, in this emergency. He remembered some letters he had planned to mail at the post office in his suburb’s little downtown, and a check he had intended to deposit at the bank. So he did have something to do: he collected these pieces of paper, and put on a tan water-resistant zippered jacket and a Red Sox cap. The burglar alarm by the front door was peeping and blinking, softly, as if to itself. Brad punched the reset button; the device fell silent, and he went out the door. It seemed odd that his car started as usual. Wet leaves were plastered over the driveway and the narrow macadam roads of this development; the neighborhood had been built all at once, twenty years ago, on the land of an unprofitable farm. He drove cautiously, especially around the duck pond, beside a vanished barn, where, in a snowstorm ten years ago, a teen-ager had slid through a rail fence and sunk his parents’ Mercedes up to its hubcaps. The downtown—two churches, a drugstore, a Dunkin’ Donuts, a pizza shop, a mostly Italian restaurant, two beauty parlors, a dress shop, a bridal shop, a few more stores that came and went in the same chronically vacated premises, an insurance agent and a lawyer on the floor above a realty office, a dentist, a bank branch, and a post office—was without electricity but busier than usual, the sidewalk full of pedestrians in this gleaming gray lull. Brad was startled by the sight of two young women embracing, before they began to converse, as if renewing a long-neglected acquaintance. People stood talking, discussing their fate in small groups. Shopwindows usually bright were dark, and it occurred to him that, of course, people had been flushed onto the sidewalk by the outage. The health-food store, its crammed shelves of bagged nuts and bottled vitamins and refrigerated tofu sandwiches, and the fruit store, its rival in healthy nutrition across the street, were both caves of forbidding darkness behind their display windows. But it did not occur to him that the bank, usually so receptive to his deposits, would have a taped notice on its glass doors declaring the location of the nearest other branch, and that, although he could see the tellers chatting on the padded bench where applicants for mortgages and perpetrators of overdrafts customarily languished, he could no more gain access to his money than he could have laid hands on the fish in an aquarium. The bank manager, an excitable tall woman in a severe suit, was actually patrolling the sidewalk; she told Brad breathlessly, “I’m so sorry, Mr. Morris. Our A.T.M., alarms, everything is down. I was just checking to see if the hardware store had any power.” “Myra, I think we’re all in the same boat,” Brad reassured her; yet he understood her incredulity. He himself did not expect that the post office, though open to box users and seekers of the inside mail slots, would be also closed to transactions; everything had been computerized by a United States Postal Service zealous to modernize, and now not a single letter could be weighed or a single stamp sold, even had there been light enough to see. The afternoon was darkening. In danger of completing no errands at all, he tested the door of the health-food store. The latch released, and he heard a giggle in the shadows. “Are you open?” he called. “To you, sure,” answered the voice of the young proprietress, curly-haired, perpetually tan Olivia. Brad groped toward the back, where a single squat perfumed candle illuminated bins of little plastic bags; they shimmered with blobby reflections. He brought to the counter a bag of what he hoped were roasted but unsalted cashews. “The register’s out. All contributions accepted,” Olivia joked, and made change out of her own purse for what he, holding it close to his eyes, verified was a five-dollar bill. The transaction had felt flirtatious to him, and the atmosphere of the downtown, beneath its drooping festoon of useless cables, seemed festive. Automobiles paraded past with burning headlights. The ominous thickening in the air stirred the pedestrians to take shelter again. There was a brimming, an overflow of good nature, and a transparency: something occluding had been removed, baring neglected possibilities. Hurrying back into the shelter of his car, Brad laughed with irrational pleasure. Fresh drops speckled his windshield as he turned in to his neighborhood, through a break in the stone wall that had once marked the bounds of the farm. “Private Way,” a painted sign said sternly. A woman in white—a shiny vinyl raincoat and silly-looking white running shoes—was walking in the middle of the narrow road. With fluttering gestures she motioned him to stop. He recognized a newish neighbor, a wispy blonde who had moved a few years ago, with her husband and two growing boys, into a house invisible from the Morrises’. They met only a few times a year, at cocktail parties or zoning-appeals-board hearings. She looked like a ghost, beckoning him. He braked, and lowered the car window. “Oh, Brad,” she said, with breathy relief. “It’s you. What’s happening?” she asked. “All my electricity went out, even the telephones.” “Mine, too,” he said, to reassure her. “Everybody’s. A tree must have fallen on a power line somewhere, in this wind. It happens, Lynne.” He was pleased to have fished her name up from his memory: Lynne Willard. She came close enough to his open window for him to see that she was actually trembling, her lips groping like those of a child near tears. Her eyes stared above his car roof as if scanning the treetops for rescue. She brought her focus down to his face and shakily explained, “Willy’s away. In Chicago, all week. I’m up there all alone, now the boys are both off to boarding school. I didn’t know what I should do, so I put on sneakers and set off walking.” Brad remembered those boys as sly and noisy, waiting in blazers for the day-school bus at the end of the road, just outside the tumbled-down fieldstone wall. If they were now old enough for boarding school, then this woman was not as young as she seemed. Her face, narrowed by a knotted head scarf, was white, except for the tip of her nose, which was pink like a rabbit’s. Her eyelids also were pink; they looked rubbed, and her eyes watered. “I like your hat,” she said, to fill the lengthening silence. “Are you a fan?” “No more than normal.” “They won the World Series.” “That is true. Get in the car, Lynne,” he said, his powers of reassurance deepening. “I’ll drive you home. There’s nothing downtown. Nobody knows how long the outage will be. Even the bank and post office didn’t know. The only thing open was the health-food store.” “I was taking a walk,” she said, as if this hadn’t been quite established. “I can keep going.” “Don’t you notice? The rain is starting up again. The skies are about to let loose.” Blinking, pressing her lips together to suppress their tremor—the lower had a trick of twitching sideways—she walked around in front of his headlights. He leaned across the seat to tug at the door handle and push open the passenger door for her, as if she couldn’t do it for herself. Sliding in, with a slither of white vinyl, she confessed, “There was a beeping in the house I had to get away from. Willy’s not even in Boston, where I could call him.” “I think that’s your burglar alarm,” Brad told her. “Or some other alarm that doesn’t like losing current. I’ll come inside, if I may, and look at the problem.” She had brought a pleasant smell with her into the car, a smell from his childhood, like cough drops or licorice. “You may,” she said, settling back on his leather car seat. “I got so afraid,” she went on, with a wry twist to her mouth, as if to laugh at herself, or in memory of a long-ago self. He had never been to the Willards’ place. Their driveway was fringed with more elaborate plantings—gnarly little azaleas, bare of leaf, and euonymus still blaring forth that surreal autumnal magenta—than the Morrises’, and their parking area was covered in larger, whiter stones than the brown half-inch pebbles that Brad’s wife had insisted on despite their tendency (which he had pointed out) to scatter into the lawn during winter snowplowing. But the basic house, a good-sized clapboarded neo-Colonial twenty years old, with a gratuitous swath of brick façade, looked much like his. Lynne hadn’t locked the front door, just walked out in her panic. Trailing behind her, Brad was surprised by the lithe swiftness with which she climbed the steps of the flagstone porch and let herself back in, holding the storm door for him as she opened the other. Inside, the beeping was distinct and insistent, but not the urgent, ever-louder bleating of alarm mode. He turned the wrong way at first; the floor plan of this house was different from his, with the family room on the left instead of the right, and the kitchen beyond it, not beside it. The furnishings, though, looked much the same—the modern taste of twenty years ago, boxy and stuffed, bare wood and monochrome wool, coffee tables of thick glass on cruciform legs of stainless steel, all mixed with Orientals and family antiques. These possessions looked slightly smarter and less tired than those in his home; but then Brad tended to glamorize what other people had. “Over here,” Lynne said, “next to the closet”—the very front-hall closet in which she was hanging up her vinyl coat. The snug knit gray dress she wore beneath it looked to him as if she had come from a ladies’ luncheon that noon. Using her toes, she pried off her sneakers without bothering to unlace them—perhaps to avoid bending over beneath his eyes—and tossed them onto the closet floor. “Yes,” he said, moving to the panel. “It’s just like mine.” He lifted his hand to touch it, then thought to ask, “May I?” “Help yourself,” she said. Her voice, in her own house, had become almost slangy, shedding its quaver. “Be my guest.” He pushed the little rectangular button labelled Reset. The beeping sharply stopped. Coming close up behind him, she marvelled. “That’s all it takes?” “Apparently,” he said. “That tells it the current shutoff wasn’t a home invasion. Not that I’m much of a hand with technology.” She giggled in obscure delight. What he had smelled in the car, he realized, had had alcohol in it, mixed with licorice from long ago. “Willy’s such a prick,” she told Brad. “He knows all this stuff but never shares it. Tell me,” she said, “as a man. Do you think he really has to spend all this time in Chicago?” Brad said cautiously, “Business can be very demanding. At a certain level men—and women in business, too, of course—have to look each other in the eye. I used to be on planes all the time and have meetings and so on myself, but I found working at home was more efficient. With all this electronic communication everywhere, there’s really no need to get out all that much. But then I don’t know Will—Mr. Willard’s business.” His words, nervously excessive, seemed to have an echo in the unfamiliar house—or, rather, felt absorbed by its partial strangeness, the sounds falling into the many little differences between this house and his own. The rain, as he had foretold, had returned, whispering and drumming outside, and bringing inside a deeper shade of darkness. The wind whipped bursts of wet pellets across the windows. “Me neither. Could I offer you a drink?” this woman asked, nervous herself. She added with another giggle, “Since you’ve gotten out.” She gestured toward her becalmed kitchen. “I can’t offer you coffee.” “What have you been drinking?” Brad asked her. Her eyes widened, as if to compensate for the lack of light. “How did you know it was anything? Some girlfriends and I finished off lunch with anisette.” “In the car,” he answered her, “you smelled sweet,” and moved closer, as if to verify. Her kisses did not taste of licorice. There in the family room, where the great plasma TV screen stared blankly and the morning Globe lay, still in its plastic wrapper, where it had been tossed onto the sofa unread, Lynne kissed dryly, tentatively, as if testing her lipstick. Then her lips warmed to the fit; her face pushed up at his and her fidgety hands went around his back, to its small and the nape of his neck, and Brad dizzily wondered if he wasn’t too far, too suddenly, out on a limb. But no, he reassured himself, this was human and harmless, this sheltered contact while the rain thrashed outside and the light inside the rooms dimmed by imperceptible notches. His impulse was to keep smoothing her hair, where it had been tangled and pressed flat beneath her head scarf. His hands trembled, as her lips had. Their faces grew hot; their caresses through their clothes began to feel clumsy. “We should go upstairs,” she said huskily. “Anybody going by could look inside.” “Who would go by in this weather?” he asked. “He gets a lot of FedExes,” she said. Climbing the stairs ahead of him—carpeted in pale green, where his and Jane’s were maroon—Lynne continued the unidentified pronoun. “He calls me every day, often around now. I guess it leaves his nights free.” Brad, slightly winded at the head of the stairs, from having held his breath while admiring her haunches as they moved in the snug knit dress, asked, “Did you mean it, that your phone doesn’t work, either?” “Yeah, some penny-pinching system he got installed, so it’s all the same wires. I don’t understand it exactly. In our new car, I can’t do the radio stations. They give you too many options now.” “Exactly,” he agreed. The rooms upstairs had a different layout from those in his house, and the one she led him into was barer and smaller than the master bedroom would have been. Photographs on the bureau showed her boys, at various stages, and older people, though still young, in fifties clothes, perhaps her parents, or Willy’s. The color in various framed vacation snapshots had bleached out, shifting register. On the wall a paper poster showed a woman draped only in a tiger skin stretched out on a Lamborghini. Lynne stood a moment by the window. “Look,” she said. “You can see your house, now that the leaves are down.” It took Brad some seconds to make it out—a pale shadow, the tint of smoke, through the intervening trees. “You have good eyes,” he told her. He did not want to feel that this neighbor was much younger than he, but an age difference was declared in how calmly and quickly she shed her clothes, as if it were no big deal. Oh, but it was a big deal, she was so lovely, all bony and downy and pale and fat in the right places, drifting back and forth in the shadowy room to put her folded clothes on chairs, simple straight-backed boys’ chairs. When he had seen her in the center of the road he had thought for an instant she was a ghost, and there was a ghostly detached quality in the way she moved, her lips crimped in that twist of self-criticism he had noticed in the car, when she had slid in beside him. She came to him to help him undress, something Jane never did. This servile act, her small face frowning as she worked at his shirt buttons, excited him so that he ceased to feel nervous, out on a limb—ceased to listen to the rain and wind. The storm of blood inside him drowned them out. The tip of her tongue crept out between her lips in her concentration. The front fringe of her hair, which the scarf had left uncovered, showed a few gleaming droplets and smelled of rain, another scent from boyhood. “God,” he said. “I love this.” He had kept himself, with an effort, from saying “you.” “It’s not over,” she promised, in the light voice of a woman talking to a girlfriend. “There’s more, Brad.” The electricity came on. All over the upstairs, wallpaper patterns and wood moldings popped into clarity. Downstairs, in the kitchen, the dishwasher surged into its next phase. By the front door, the burglar alarm resumed its beeping, at a shriller pitch. The furnace in the basement, at a pitch below that of the wind, ignited and began, with a roar steadier than the wind, to reintroduce warmth into the cooling house. Amplified, eager voices downstairs proclaimed that Lynne had been watching television news an hour ago, before she panicked. Her face, so close to his that their breaths mingled, jumped back, like a cut to the commercial. “Oh, dear,” she said, her rubbed-looking eyes coming back into focus. “To the rescue,” he said. He began to redo his buttons. “You don’t have to go.” But she, too, in her nakedness, was embarrassed; her cheeks blazed as if with a rash. “I think I do. He,” he said, “might call. Even she might, if the outage has made the news in Boston. You’ll be fine now. Listen. Lynne. The alarm has stopped beeping. It’s saying, ‘All is well. All is normal.’ It’s saying, ‘Get that man out of my house.’ ” “No,” she weakly protested. “It’s saying, ‘I’m in charge now.’ ” Brad turned his eyes from her nakedness, his wispy blonde’s. “It’s saying,” he told her, “ ‘This is how it is. This is reality.’ ”
Alma You have a girlfriend named Alma, who has a long tender horse neck and a big Dominican ass that seems to exist in a fourth dimension beyond jeans. An ass that could drag the moon out of orbit. An ass she never liked until she met you. Ain’t a day that passes that you don’t want to press your face against that ass or bite the delicate sliding tendons of her neck. You love how she shivers when you bite, how she fights you with those arms that are so skinny they belong on an after-school special. Alma is a Mason Gross student, one of those Sonic Youth, comic-book-reading alternatinas without whom you might never have lost your virginity. Grew up in Hoboken, part of the Latino community that got its heart burned out in the eighties, tenements turning to flame. Spent nearly every teen-age day on the Lower East Side, thought it would always be home, but then N.Y.U. and Columbia both said nyet, and she ended up even farther from the city than before. She is in a painting phase, and the people she paints are all the color of mold, look like they’ve just been dredged from the bottom of a lake. Her last painting was of you, slouching against the front door: only your frowning I-had-a-lousy-Third-World-childhood-and-all-I-got-was-this-attitude eyes recognizable. She did give you one huge forearm. I told you I’d get the muscles in. The past couple of weeks, now that the warm is here, Alma has abandoned black, started wearing these nothing dresses made out of what feels like tissue paper; it wouldn’t take more than a strong wind to undress her. She says she does it for you: I’m reclaiming my Dominican heritage (which ain’t a complete lie—she’s even taking Spanish to better minister to your mom), and when you see her on the street, flaunting, flaunting, you know exactly what every nigger that walks by is thinking. You met at the weekly Latin parties at the DownUnder in New Brunswick. She never went to those parties, was dragged there by her high-school best friend, Patricia, who still listened to TKA, and this was how you got the chance to strike while, as your boys put it, the pussy was hot. Alma is slender as a reed, you a steroid-addicted block; Alma loves driving, you books; Alma owns a Saturn (bought for her by her carpenter father, who speaks only English in the house), you have no points on your license; Alma’s nails are too dirty for cooking, your spaghetti con pollo is the best in the land. You are so very different—she rolls her eyes every time you turn on the news and says she can’t “stand” politics. She won’t even call herself Hispanic. She brags to her girls that you’re a “radical” and a real Dominican (even though on the Plátano Index you wouldn’t rank, Alma being only the third Latina you’ve ever really dated). You brag to your boys that she has more albums than any of them do, that she says terrible white-girl things while you fuck. She’s more adventurous in bed than any girl you’ve had; on your first date she asked you if you wanted to come on her tits or her face, and maybe during boy training you didn’t get one of the memos but you were, like, umm, neither. And at least once a week she will kneel on the mattress before you and, with one hand pulling at her dark nipples, will play with herself, not letting you touch at all, fingers whisking the soft of her and her face looking desperately, furiously happy. She loves to talk while she’s being dirty, too, will whisper, You like watching me don’t you, you like listening to me come, and when she finishes lets out this long demolished groan and only then will she allow you to pull her into an embrace as she wipes her gummy fingers on your chest. This is me, she says. Yes—it’s an opposites-attract sort of thing, it’s a great-sex sort of thing, it’s a no-thinking sort of thing. It’s wonderful! Wonderful! Until one June day Alma discovers that you are also fucking this beautiful freshman girl named Laxmi, discovers the fucking of Laxmi because she, Alma, the girlfriend, opens your journal and reads. (Oh, she had her suspicions.) She waits for you on the stoop, and when you pull up in her Saturn and notice the journal in her hand your heart plunges through you like a fat bandit through a hangman’s trap. You take your time turning off the car. You are overwhelmed by a pelagic sadness. Sadness at being caught, at the incontrovertible knowledge that she will never forgive you. You stare at her incredible legs and between them, to that even more incredible pópola you’ve loved so inconstantly these past eight months. Only when she starts walking over in anger do you finally step out. You dance across the lawn, powered by the last fumes of your outrageous sinvergüenzería. Hey, muñeca, you say, prevaricating to the end. When she starts shrieking, you ask her, Darling, what ever is the matter? She calls you: a cocksucker a punk motherfucker a fake-ass Dominican. She claims: you have a little penis no penis and worst of all that you like curried pussy. (Which really is unfair, you try to say, since Laxmi is technically from Guyana, but Alma isn’t listening.) Instead of lowering your head and copping to it like a man, you pick up the journal as one might hold a baby’s beshatted diaper, as one might pinch a recently be-nutted condom. You glance at the offending passages. Then you look at her and smile a smile your dissembling face will remember until the day you die. Baby, you say, baby, this is part of my novel. This is how you lose her.
Natalie So Natalie put me straight. Who knows what Natalie wants or what she likes, but we know what she doesn’t like, that’s for sure. At least we do now. “Well,” I said, after I put the phone down, “I won’t be getting in your way again.” Natalie should be a star. When she grows up, that is. Natalie should be something really impressive. Because if she isn’t, then it’ll get pretty lonely, won’t it? I mean, how many friends has she got to lose? I am going to be a writer when I grow up, and I am going to put it all down on the page—this tangle between Natalie and me, which is supposed to be about Billy’s mother, though I don’t think it is, really. Billy is Natalie’s boyfriend. I nearly went out with him once, but that was so long ago, and it wasn’t even a proper thing. Now he’s best friends with my boyfriend, who couldn’t care less, and neither could Natalie, so that isn’t what this is about, either. I wake up in the middle of the night I am so upset. I mean, when I put down the phone I didn’t know what to think—Natalie is so polite, you could hardly call what we had a fight—but six hours later I’m lying with my eyes wide open, looking at what turns out to be the ceiling (duh!), wondering what terrible thought just woke me up. My sister is asleep across the room. She has a kind of glowing-pebble night-light that changes colors very slowly, and she is lying in this sea of stuff: books and broken Nintendos and inflatable Bratz cushions and God knows what else—except, from somewhere deep inside the heap, her breathing. And it makes me think of the milk inside a coconut, and also of Natalie’s room, which I was in once, and it was really tidy. That’s all. It was just really tidy. Natalie is an only child. She says it’s O.K. She says she doesn’t know if her parents really, really love her or really, really couldn’t care less. She has nothing to compare them with. They never shout at her, they just have “little conversations”—which sounds like hell to me, but she says it’s O.K. Here are the four of us—we all grew up in the same boring suburb of Dublin: I am the fat, jokey one with the flaking nail polish, though it is always interesting flaking polish, like mirror silver or navy blue. Still, you can tell by the way the stuff jumps off me that I don’t really mean it. Natalie is more a Rouge Noir sort of girl. She might have her doubts, but that polish stays put. Natalie has the kind of looks you have to get used to, but, once you do, it is like you have personally discovered them. Her features are sort of see-through, her skin is really pale, and she has thin white-blond hair—this is why I say she should be a star, because the camera loves all that, close up. She hasn’t got a single open pore. Though she does need to get her eyelashes dyed professionally—she did it herself once, and the edges of her eyelids went pink and she had to stop using anything for a while, which made her look sort of blinky and peeved. When I say I am fat—even though, statistically speaking, I’m an eight-and-a-quarter-stone midget—my boyfriend says that I am not actually fat, I am just sleek. So that’s the new word for fat—“sleek.” But before I go completely self-hating I do actually like my hair, which is black and really glossy, especially when it’s, like, totally saturated with grease. Who else? Billy is a lot of trouble, and I like him a lot. Hey, I like trouble. Or so I say to my boyfriend when he rolls his eyes the way he does. Billy has the kind of looks I used to go for a couple of years ago, when I was about fifteen: soulful and soft, with absolutely no hair on his chest. Billy is my boyfriend’s best friend. I say that, but I don’t think my boyfriend has a best friend, actually. So maybe that’s the real question—who knows what my boyfriend wants, or who he likes? Does he even like me? It’s a mystery. I am so in love with my boyfriend—that much I know. He has eyes like George Clooney and beautiful hands. At least the backs of them are beautiful; the palms are a bit dry and shattered-looking. I tried to get him to use some cream, but that’s like trying to put him in a tutu, as far as he is concerned. I literally had to chase him around the room, and he ended up pushing my hand with the cream on it all over my face, even though it is hand cream and like lard, basically. My boyfriend has his own room, and his parents gave him a gas heater to help him study in there, and I don’t know if it was the smell of the gas or the heat of it that made us feel so fuggy all last winter. We did a lot of kissing in front of that heater, and, yes, we have gone all the way—but that’s only when his parents are out, which, these days, is never. But I don’t mind. We kiss until we are dizzy, and my boyfriend is just so gorgeous and gentle about it. We tried to go further in the park one time, but it was freezing and dark and I didn’t find it sexy at all; in fact, I think it made me a bit upset. (I am not saying that I am leaving my boyfriend mad with lust—I am not that sort of person. And, actually, that’s all I am going to say about that.) The school dance was on Friday evening, and I’m still getting flashbacks. It’s like a nightmare—that guy getting sick over my shoulder, and Natalie smiling like some kind of nun. She was like a nun on the phone tonight, too, saying, “I thought I’d leave you to recover.” But I am not even thinking about all this, as I lie here in the changing pink light. I’m not even thinking that she has Botoxed her emotions so she won’t ever need to do her face. I am thinking, It is something else again. It all started with Billy’s Terrible Time last year, just a little while after he hooked up with Natalie. And we were all delighted that he had her, because she is like a flame in the daylight—that’s what I think—unwavering, you can hardly see her, but she is always there. And after that mad bitch and, excuse me, cocktease Peony Mulvey we were really glad he had someone sane. Natalie is, above all things, sane. In the middle of the night I think, Maybe she’s not sane at all. Anyway. Billy’s mother (who I really like, actually) got cancer last September, and she came home from her first chemo session high as a kite from the steroids, and she told Billy—told the whole family, in fact—that she didn’t love his father anymore, had never loved him in the first place, and that once her chemo was over then her marriage was, too. It was, like, “I’m alive! I’m alive! I’m not going to waste my life anymore!!!” At least, that’s how Billy described it. Then all her hair fell out, and she was sick as a parrot, and Billy’s looking at his da and his da is looking at him—and, you know, there is nothing wrong with Billy’s da, he’s a genuinely lovely man—and he is bringing her four hundred cups of green tea a day while she lies on the sofa with a face on her that says, As soon as this is done, then I am out that door. The minute we hear the diagnosis, my boyfriend gets online. He says ovarian cancer is a complete doozy—and who’s going to tell Billy? Like, who is going to tell him that her percentages are basically on the floor? We are sitting in the chipper one day, waiting for Billy to get off the phone to his mother—she is in for maybe her third chemo session, and he is outside the plate-glass window trying to get good reception—and his face looks so difficult, so old and childish at the same time, that the sight of him is like a pain for each of us. It is like each of us has a pain in our side. Then Natalie says, “Fuck the statistics. You just have to be in the right per cent. That’s all. You just have to be in the per cent that survives.” And I understand that she’s a bit defensive—I mean, she is literally defending her new boyfriend’s peace of mind here—but another part of me thinks that she is also marking her territory, which I completely respect, except that I’ve known Billy’s mother for five years, and if she dies I, too, will cry. His mother, incidentally, is what made Billy bonkers—long before she got sick, his mother was what made Billy interesting and unhappy—so she’s a bit of a bitch, too, but I don’t say that to Natalie. I say, “You think she’s going to survive?” “I think,” Natalie says, after a minute, “that we don’t know. And, until we do know, then there’s not much point getting in a fizz.” Which is so like something my boyfriend would say that I think they’d be better off with each other, really. They could roll their eyes up to heaven and not get in a fizz together—while having sex, for example. And, afterward, Natalie could make tea. So, all the way back to his place, I accuse my boyfriend of fancying her, but this is just to get him going, just to clear out the memory of Billy coming back in after the phone call, saying, “No, no, just her usual self,” and pushing his chips away. It is also to distract me from the fact that Natalie’s “Don’t get in a fizz” is not actually a reasonable, considered sort of thing to say—that what she is really telling me is You don’t own Billy’s mother. Dead or alive. It was only a tiny moment, you know? As I say, I really did respect Natalie for holding the line. And somehow, through that long winter, we all seemed to feel that if Natalie didn’t flicker, if she didn’t blink, and if we all stayed nice, and stayed separate, and had emotions that were appropriate to our actual situation vis-à-vis Billy’s mother, then Billy’s mother would survive. I just thought, What a great sense of decorum Natalie has. And God knows there’s not much of that around. And I really admired her, that’s all. I began to see how beautiful she was close up, and I started asking her advice on chip-proof nail polish, even though these things don’t ever interest me as much as I think they do. And that makes it worse, the fact that I don’t give a fuck about Rouge Noir, really, so a sort of wheedling, messy thing starts to happen when we talk, and it is a while before I realize that what I want is for Natalie to be my friend. I say this to my boyfriend, and he says, “She is your friend,” which just shows how much he knows about these things. And after a while she does start to like us, though it’s not like she has much choice. It can’t have been easy: her boyfriend mad with worry, and his mother lying on the sofa, and me gabbling on about someday, maybe, getting my legs waxed—I mean, Natalie just does things, she doesn’t talk about them first, and it seems like all those months were about getting nothing done at all. Then, in the spring, Billy’s mother gets her hair back, and it has this amazing red glow, like when she was a child, so we are all in and out of Billy’s kitchen again, returned from our months as refugees in the chipper, and Billy’s mother stays married, and she also stays as crazy as she ever was, and also superbly happy, and I just admire her so much for all of this. The next few months are a blur for Billy and my boyfriend, because they both have their last exams, so Natalie and I hang out a little, and the thing about Natalie is she is a really nice person. It’s like I’m making her out to be some kind of bitch or something, but she really isn’t. She is actually very cool, and nice. In the summer, my boyfriend gets a job in the local garage, so his clothes smell of petrol and his hands smell of money. The guy who owns the place won’t put soap in the toilets, even though they serve coffees there as well. I say why doesn’t he take his own soap in, but my boyfriend just looks at me like I’m trying to turn him into a queer. He is saving for college. He is going to do Engineering, and even though it is only a bus ride away, I know that I will lose him when he goes. So I go on the strictest possible diet, and I am talking non-stop to Natalie about the dress—the one that I will wear to the school dance. I mean, I know my boyfriend loves me, but I will wear this dress and he will take one look at me and realize what he stands to lose. All this. Billy’s going to the local uni, too. He got accepted into two colleges in England, but I don’t think that his family has the money, really, and with his mother still in remission he wants to stay close to home. September is Billy and Natalie’s first anniversary, and it is also the anniversary of his mother’s diagnosis, and the month of our last dance, before the boys go off forevermore. But I feel so grateful for the turn of the leaves, somehow. I walk through the little park and remember where we nearly did it one time, my boyfriend and me, and I think that—a bit like Billy’s mother—when we go, we will go down swinging. I’m texting Natalie one day and she idly mentions that she has her dress already—“White! white! white!” And it takes me about two years to spell out “Very Renée Zellweger!!!” Eventually, I have to bring my little sister in to town with me, which feels like a sad bastard thing to do, but the thing is she’s a demon when it comes to clothes—it’s like bringing the entire lineup of a girl band. Between us, we solve everything with a sub-Westwood, sub-goth bustier and my mother’s long silk skirt, and a gorgeous secondhand—or should I say vintage?—lamé shawl. Billy’s mother says we should go over to their house before the dance so she can frisk us down for naggins of whiskey, and besides, she says, she wants to see me in all my finery. And I say, “Mrs. Casey, I can’t even take the smell of whiskey—vodka’s the only way to go.” So when Natalie rings I ask her to bring her hair straightener, and she says, “Like, it’s sort of large.” “Not to the dance,” I say. “Just over to Billy’s before we go.” “Uh . . . O.K.,” she says, like “whatever.” So I turn up at Billy’s with everything in a huge bag, and Billy’s father answers the door. I don’t know where I got it from, this idea that we were going to do it all there: the fake tan and the fake eyelashes and the bow ties and the zips. When I text Natalie, she just comes back with “???!!?,” and Billy’s da looks a bit embarrassed, because not even Billy is home. He shows me upstairs into his own bedroom, which is a funny place to be, and I sit at Billy’s mother’s dressing table, which is a sort of alcove in the fitted wardrobe, and I look at Billy’s mother’s stuff: lipsticks gone off, and pressed powder with one of those pads that look sort of orthopedic, and industrial-strength night cream. And I know that I have to skip the tan, for a start—there’s no one to do my back. I get a really glossy face on, and then I just sit there, looking at myself in Mrs. Casey’s mirror. After a while, there’s nothing for it except to put on the damn dress. Then I sit on Billy’s parents’ bed and look at the wallpaper. The bed isn’t made. The sheets are a moss green. I lie down for a moment—just for two seconds, I lie down. Then suddenly everyone’s arriving, so I jump up and stuff all the gear into my bag, and I make my grand entrance, sweeping down the stairs and into the hall. Natalie jigs up and down and screams, and she hugs me from four feet away, so as not to muss. Then we go into Billy’s front room, and his father takes a picture, and then she’s there—Mrs. Casey. I was wondering what the silence in the house was all about, but there she is, flattened against the wall. Actually, first she swung into the room like a broken gate, holding the door frame with one hand and slamming the other one flat against the wall. Then she went rigid, and looked to the left, like someone was after her and they were in the hall. “Hi, Mrs. Casey,” I say. She’s really drunk. “Hiiiii,” she says. “What do you think?” I do a pathetic little twirl, and she lowers her head at me and gives a sort of grunt of approval. Then she swings her head around to find Natalie. She looks at Natalie’s dress. “Hnnnn,” she says. Which, actually, the way it comes out of her, is quite a friendly and ironic sound. It’s a “White? Interesting choice!” sort of sound. But Natalie just stares at her. Then Natalie picks up her white skirt with her Rouge Noir nails and calls out “Billy!” like he’s a dog or something. She doesn’t look to the left or the right. She puts that nun’s smile on her face, walks past Mrs. Casey, and keeps walking until she is out the front door. “People die.” That’s what Natalie said to me on the phone tonight. Because of course we had a big surge when we got to the damn dance, and the boys got really trashed—at least, I got really trashed, so I assume the boys did, too. And I ended up snogging—not Billy, thank Christ—but someone else altogether. There’s a little splash of puke on the back of my mother’s silk skirt, and I’m pretty sure that the guy got sick over my shoulder, and Natalie must’ve heard it in my voice on the phone, the way I blame her for all this, because when she picked up her white skirt and walked past Mrs. Casey something broke. Something between the four of us broke, for good. “And, anyway, she’s not dying,” said Natalie, who has no intention of dying, ever. “She was just drunk.” Which is true. Like we weren’t drunk? Which I didn’t think of saying, at the time. I think of saying it now, though—in the middle of the night, when I’ve just woken up in a sweat of pure shame. Apart from anything else, it’s so gay—this trailer fantasy I had of me and Natalie swapping mascara and spraying each other’s hair and fixing the boys’ ties; and Mrs. Casey, downstairs, being tough and smart about my dress, giving me a tough, smart kiss on the cheek before we go. And it’s a while before I realize that (a) it isn’t hair spray that makes you gay, it’s sex that makes you gay, and (b) I don’t even like hair spray. So that’s all right, then. For a while I just lie there and let all the little moments fly round in my head. Like, months ago, in the chipper, when Natalie said, “There is no point getting in a fizz.” And I think that Billy’s mother will live or die whether or not we get in a fizz. So I say, Fizz away. You might as well play it as it feels, Natalie. My sister’s night-light thinks about shifting from blue to lilac, and then seems to change its mind. What do I tell her, precocious brat that she is at the age of twelve and a half? We are not connected. Because this is what Natalie is saying, isn’t it? That we are alone. That there is no connection between me and her, or between Billy and me, or between any of us and Mrs. Casey, who might live or who might actually die. Between human beings. And of course she isn’t saying this at all. I mean, I will still hang out with Natalie. And I know I’ll get to like her in some different way—probably her way, whatever that is. And I know the thing I have for my boyfriend isn’t love, it’s just a stupid kind of bliss. I know all these things—they’re not what woke me up. What woke me was a feeling like a horror film, except really boring. It was the sheets. When I lay down, just for a second, on Mr. and Mrs. Casey’s moss-green sheets. Before the dance, when I was all dolled up in my silk skirt, and I pushed my hands along them and put my cheek against the dark cotton, just for a second. It was the smell of those sheets, cool, unwashed—like something I really wanted, going stale. That is what woke me up.
The Arbus Factor On one of the first days of the New Year, Jack called Hope. “Let’s have lunch,” he said. “I’ve got an agenda.” No need to specify the Café Provence on upper Broadway, or the time—fifteen minutes before noon, when they were sure of getting their table by the window. They did the menu, heard the specials. Hope said, “I’m always going to order something different,” but ordered the onion soup. Jack ordered the cassoulet, saying, “I should have the fish. “And a bottle of your Merlot,” he told the unsmiling proprietress, “which we will have right away.” “We’ll share a salad,” Hope said. She saw Jack watch the proprietress walk off in the direction of the bar, in a remarkably short skirt for a woman of fifty. Hope saw the long, brown, athletic legs, bare even in January, with Jack’s eyes. Jack, a large man, with a heavy, dark face, turned to Hope. “So?” “O.K., I guess. You?” Jack said, “My agenda: if we were still making resolutions, what would yours be?” Hope’s interest pricked right up. “I’m thinking. You go first.” Jack said, “I’m going to watch what I eat. It’s not the weight; it’s the constantly thinking of eating. I don’t eat real meals unless Jeremy comes over.” Jeremy was Jack’s son. Hope said, “I’m going to watch what I watch and then I’m going to turn the TV off. It’s ugly waking mornings with the thing flickering. It feels debauched.” Jack said, “I’m not going to order books from Amazon till I’ve read the ones on my shelves.” Hope said, “I’m going to hang up my clothes even when nobody is coming over. Nora is very severe with me.” Nora was Hope’s daughter. The wine arrived. Jack did the label-checking, cork-sniffing, tasting, and nodding. The salad came. Hope served their two plates. Jack indicated Hope’s hair, which she had done in an upsweep. “Very fetching,” he commented. “Thank you. Here’s an old new resolution: Going to learn French. What was the name of my teacher when we got back from Paris? I once counted eleven years of school French, but it was you who always had to do the talking.” Jack said, “I want to learn how to pray.” Hope looked across the table to see if he was being cute. Jack was concentrating on folding a whole lettuce leaf into his mouth. Hope said, “I’ll never understand the principle of not cutting it into bite size.” The onion soup came, the cassoulet came. Jack asked Hope if she would like to go back. “Go back? Back to Paris!” Jack and Hope had lived together before marrying two other people. Jack subsequently divorced his wife, who had subsequently died. Hope was widowed. “To Paris. To Aix,” Jack said. “Something I’ve been meaning to ask you,” Hope said. “Were you and I ever together in an old, old garden? Did we walk under century-old trees? Did we lie down in the grass and look into tree crowns in France, or was that in England? Was it an old English garden or is this a garden in a book?” “What’s to keep us?” Jack said. There were a lot of reasons, of course, to keep them from going back. Two of the littlest were at this moment flattening their noses against the outside of the restaurant window. Ten-year-old Benjamin stuck his thumbs in his ears and wiggled his fingers at his grandfather. Hope made as if to catch her granddaughter’s hand through the glass. This made little Miranda laugh. And there was Hope’s daughter, Nora, with baby Julie in a stroller, and Jack’s son, Jeremy, standing out on the sidewalk. “I’m just going to the bathroom,” Hope mouthed to her daughter. “What?” Nora mouthed back, her face sharpened with irritation. The baby was crying. “She knows I can’t hear her through the glass,” Nora said to Jeremy. Jeremy said, “You stay with the kids. I’ll go in and get him. I’ll see what your mother wants.” Jeremy walked into the restaurant, passing Jack and Hope on his way to the corner where, an hour ago, he had folded up his father’s wheelchair. Hope stood and came around the table to kiss Jack and be kissed goodbye. “On the double, Dad,” Jeremy said. “I need to get back to the office.” “I’ll call you,” Jack said to Hope. “We’ll have lunch.” Hope was mouthing through the window again and Nora said, “Julie, shut up, please! Mom, what?” The baby had started screeching. Hope pointed in the direction of the ladies’ room. Nora signalled, You need me to go with you? Hope shook her head no. One of the reasons for the Café Provence was that its bathrooms were on the street floor, not in the basement, down a long stair. Gathering her coat and bag, Hope opened the door to the ladies’ room and saw, in the mirror above the basins, that her hair was coming out of its pins. She removed all the pins and stood gazing at the crone with the gray, shoulder-length hair girlishly loosened. Hope saw what Diane Arbus might have seen and was appalled, and being appalled pricked her interest right up. “I’ve got an agenda: the Arbus factor of old age,” Hope looked forward to saying to Jack the next time it would be convenient for Jeremy and Nora to arrange lunch for them at the Café Provence.
Beginners My friend Herb McGinnis, a cardiologist, was talking. The four of us were sitting around his kitchen table drinking gin. It was Saturday afternoon. Sunlight filled the kitchen from the big window behind the sink. There were Herb and I and his second wife, Teresa—Terri, we called her—and my wife, Laura. We lived in Albuquerque, but we were all from somewhere else. There was an ice bucket on the table. The gin and the tonic water kept going around, and we somehow got on the subject of love. Herb thought real love was nothing less than spiritual love. When he was young he’d spent five years in a seminary before quitting to go to medical school. He’d left the Church at the same time, but he said he still looked back to those years in the seminary as the most important in his life. Terri said the man she lived with before she lived with Herb loved her so much he tried to kill her. Herb laughed after she said this. He made a face. Terri looked at him. Then she said, “He beat me up one night, the last night we lived together. He dragged me around the living room by my ankles, all the while saying, ‘I love you, don’t you see? I love you, you bitch.’ He went on dragging me around the living room, my head knocking on things.” She looked around the table at us and then looked at her hands on her glass. “What do you do with love like that?” she said. She was a bone-thin woman with a pretty face, dark eyes, and brown hair that hung down her back. She liked necklaces made of turquoise, and long pendant earrings. She was fifteen years younger than Herb, had suffered periods of anorexia, and during the late sixties, before she’d gone to nursing school, had been a dropout, a “street person,” as she put it. Herb sometimes called her, affectionately, his hippie. “My God, don’t be silly. That’s not love, and you know it,” Herb said. “I don’t know what you’d call it—madness is what I’d call it—but it’s sure as hell not love.” “Say what you want to, but I know he loved me,” Terri said. “I know he did. It may sound crazy to you, but it’s true just the same. People are different, Herb. Sure, sometimes he may have acted crazy. O.K. But he loved me. In his own way, maybe, but he loved me. There was love there, Herb. Don’t deny me that.” Herb let out breath. He held his glass and turned to Laura and me. “He threatened to kill me, too.” He finished his drink and reached for the gin bottle. “Terri’s a romantic. Terri’s of the ‘Kick-me-so-I’ll-know-you-love-me’ school. Terri, hon, don’t look that way.” He reached across the table and touched her cheek with his fingers. He grinned at her. “Now he wants to make up,” Terri said. “After he tries to dump on me.” She wasn’t smiling. “Make up what?” Herb said. “What is there to make up? I know what I know, and that’s all.” “What would you call it then?” Terri said. “How’d we get started on this subject anyway?” She raised her glass and drank. “Herb always has love on his mind,” she said. “Don’t you, honey?” She smiled now, and I thought that was the last of it. “I just wouldn’t call Carl’s behavior love, that’s all I’m saying, honey,” Herb said. “What about you guys?” he said to Laura and me. “Does that sound like love to you?” I shrugged. “I’m the wrong person to ask. I didn’t even know the man. I’ve only heard his name mentioned in passing. Carl. I wouldn’t know. You’d have to know all the particulars. Not in my book it isn’t, but who’s to say? There’re lots of different ways of behaving and showing affection. That way doesn’t happen to be mine. But what you’re saying, Herb, is that love is an absolute?” “The kind of love I’m talking about is,” Herb said. “The kind of love I’m talking about, you don’t try to kill people.” Laura, my sweet, big Laura, said evenly, “I don’t know anything about Carl, or anything about the situation. Who can judge anyone else’s situation? But, Terri, I didn’t know about the violence.” I touched the back of Laura’s hand. She gave me a quick smile, then turned her gaze back to Terri. I picked up Laura’s hand. The hand was warm to the touch, the nails polished, perfectly manicured. I encircled the broad wrist with my fingers, like a bracelet, and held her. “When I left he drank rat poison,” Terri said. She clasped her arms with her hands. “They took him to the hospital in Santa Fe where we lived then and they saved his life, and his gums separated. I mean they pulled away from his teeth. After that his teeth stood out like fangs. My God,” she said. She waited a minute, then let go of her arms and picked up her glass. “What people won’t do!” Laura said. “I’m sorry for him and I don’t even think I like him. Where is he now?” “He’s out of the action,” Herb said. “He’s dead.” He handed me the saucer of limes. I took a section of lime, squeezed it over my drink, and stirred the ice cubes with my finger. “It gets worse,” Terri said. “He shot himself in the mouth, but he bungled that, too. Poor Carl,” she said. She shook her head. “Poor Carl nothing,” Herb said. “He was dangerous.” Herb was forty-five years old. He was tall and rangy with wavy, graying hair. His face and arms were brown from the tennis he played. When he was sober, his gestures, all his movements, were precise and careful. “He did love me, though, Herb, grant me that,” Terri said. “That’s all I’m asking. He didn’t love me the way you love me, I’m not saying that. But he loved me. You can grant me that, can’t you? That’s not much to ask.” “What do you mean, ‘He bungled it’?” I asked. Laura leaned forward with her glass. She put her elbows on the table and held her glass in both hands. She glanced from Herb to Terri and waited with a look of bewilderment on her open face, as if amazed that such things happened to people you knew. Herb finished his drink. “How’d he bungle it when he killed himself?” I said again. “I’ll tell you what happened,” Herb said. “He took this .22 pistol he’d bought to threaten Terri and me with—oh, I’m serious, he wanted to use it. You should have seen the way we lived in those days. Like fugitives. I even bought a gun myself, and I thought I was a nonviolent sort. But I bought a gun for self-defense and carried it in the glove compartment. Sometimes I’d have to leave the apartment in the middle of the night, you know, to go to the hospital. Terri and I weren’t married then and my first wife had the house and kids, the dog, everything, and Terri and I were living in this apartment. Sometimes, as I say, I’d get a call in the middle of the night and have to go in to the hospital at two or three in the morning. It’d be dark out there in the parking lot and I’d break into a sweat before I could even get to my car. I never knew if he was going to come up out of the shrubbery or from behind a car and start shooting. I mean, he was crazy. He was capable of wiring a bomb to my car, anything. He used to call my answering service at all hours and say he needed to talk to the doctor, and when I’d return the call he’d say, ‘Son of a bitch, your days are numbered.’ Little things like that. It was scary, I’m telling you.” “I still feel sorry for him,” Terri said. She sipped her drink and gazed at Herb. Herb stared back. “It sounds like a nightmare,” Laura said. “But what exactly happened after he shot himself?” Laura is a legal secretary. We’d met in a professional capacity, lots of other people around, but we’d talked and I’d asked her to have dinner with me. Before we knew it, it was a courtship. She’s thirty-five, three years younger than I am. In addition to being in love, we like each other and enjoy one another’s company. She’s easy to be with. “What happened?” Laura asked again. Herb waited a minute and turned the glass in his hand. Then he said, “He shot himself in the mouth in his room. Someone heard the shot and told the manager. They came in with a passkey, saw what had happened, and called an ambulance. I happened to be there when they brought him in to the emergency room. I was there on another case. He was still alive, but beyond anything anyone could do for him. Still, he lived for three days. I’m serious, though, his head swelled up to twice the size of a normal head. I’d never seen anything like it, and I hope I never do again. Terri wanted to go in and sit with him when she found out about it. We had a fight over it. I didn’t think she’d want to see him like that. I didn’t think she should see him, and I still don’t.” “Who won the fight?” Laura said. “I was in the room with him when he died,” Terri said. “He never regained consciousness, and there was no hope for him, but I sat with him. He didn’t have anyone else.” “He was dangerous,” Herb said. “If you call that love, you can have it.” “It was love,” Terri said. “Sure it was abnormal in most people’s eyes, but he was willing to die for it. He did die for it.” “I sure as hell wouldn’t call it love,” Herb said. “You don’t know what he died for. I’ve seen a lot of suicides, and I couldn’t say anyone close to them ever knew for sure. And when they claimed to be the cause, well I don’t know.” He put his hands behind his neck and leaned on the back legs of his chair. “I’m not interested in that kind of love. If that’s love, you can have it.” After a minute, Terri said, “We were afraid. Herb even made a will out and wrote to his brother in California who used to be a Green Beret. He told him who to look for if something happened to him mysteriously. Or not so mysteriously!” She shook her head and laughed at it now. She drank from her glass. She went on. “But we did live a little like fugitives. We were afraid of him, no question. I even called the police at one point, but they were no help. They said they couldn’t do anything to him, they couldn’t arrest him or do anything unless he actually did something to Herb. Isn’t that a laugh?” Terri said. She poured the last of the gin into her glass and wagged the bottle. Herb got up from the table and went to the cupboard. He took down another bottle of gin. “Well, Nick and I are in love,” Laura said. “Aren’t we, Nick?” She bumped my knee with her knee. “You’re supposed to say something now,” she said, and turned a large smile on me. “We get along really well, I think. We like doing things together, and neither of us has beaten up on the other yet, thank God. Knock on wood. I’d say we’re pretty happy. I guess we should count our blessings.” For answer, I took her hand and raised it to my lips with a flourish. I made a production out of kissing her hand. Everyone was amused. “We’re lucky,” I said. “You guys,” Terri said. “Stop that now. You’re making me sick! You’re still on a honeymoon, that’s why you can act like this. You’re still gaga over each other yet. Just wait. How long have you been together now? How long has it been? A year? Longer than a year.” “Going on a year and a half,” Laura said, still flushed and smiling. “You’re still on the honeymoon,” Terri said again. “Wait a while.” She held her drink and gazed at Laura. “I’m only kidding,” she said. Herb had opened the gin and gone around the table with the bottle. “Terri, Jesus, you shouldn’t talk like that, even if you’re not serious, even if you are kidding. It’s bad luck. Here, you guys. Let’s have a toast. I want to propose a toast. A toast to love. True love,” Herb said. We touched glasses. “To love,” we said. Outside, in the back yard, one of the dogs began to bark. The leaves of the aspen tree that leaned past the window flickered in the breeze. The afternoon sunlight was like a presence in the room. There was suddenly a feeling of ease and generosity around the table, of friendship and comfort. We could have been anywhere. We raised our glasses again and grinned at each other like children who had agreed on something for once. “I’ll tell you what real love is,” Herb said finally, breaking the spell. “I mean I’ll give you a good example of it, and then you can draw your own conclusions.” He poured a little more gin into his glass. He added an ice cube and a piece of lime. We waited and sipped our drinks. Laura and I touched knees again. I put a hand on her warm thigh and left it there. “What do any of us really know about love?” Herb said. “I kind of mean what I’m saying, too, if you’ll pardon me for saying it. But it seems to me we’re just rank beginners at love. We say we love each other and we do, I don’t doubt it. We love each other and we love hard, all of us. I love Terri and Terri loves me, and you guys love each other. You know the kind of love I’m talking about now. Sexual love, that attraction to the other person, the partner, as well as just the plain everyday kind of love, love of the other person’s being, the loving to be with the other, the little things that make up everyday love. Carnal love, then and, well, call it sentimental love, the day-to-day caring about the other. But sometimes I have a hard time accounting for the fact that I must have loved my first wife, too. But I did, I know I did. So I guess before you can say anything, I am like Terri in that regard. Terri and Carl.” He thought about it a minute and then went on, “But at one time I thought I loved my first wife more than life itself, and we had the kids together. But now I hate her guts. I do. How do you figure that? What happened to that love? Did that love just get erased from the big board, as if it was never up there, as if it never happened? What happened to it is what I’d like to know. I wish someone could tell me. Then there’s Carl. O.K., we’re back to Carl. He loved Terri so much he tries to kill her and winds up killing himself.” He stopped talking and shook his head. “You guys have been together eighteen months and you love each other, it shows all over you, you simply glow with it, but you’ve loved other people, too, before you met each other. You’ve both been married before, just like us. And you probably loved other people before that. Terri and I have been together five years, been married for four. And the terrible thing, the terrible thing is, but the good thing, too, the saving grace, you might say, is that if something happened to one of us—excuse me for saying this—but if something happened to one of us tomorrow, I think the other one, the other partner, would mourn for a while, you know, but then the surviving party would go out and love again, have someone else soon enough and all this, all of this love—Jesus, how can you figure it?—it would just be memory. Maybe not even memory. Maybe that’s the way it’s supposed to be. But am I wrong? Am I way off base? I know that’s what would happen with us, with Terri and me, as much as we may love each other. With any one of us for that matter. I’ll stick my neck out that much. We’ve all proved it anyhow. I just don’t understand. Set me straight if you think I’m wrong. I want to know. I don’t know anything, and I’m the first to admit it.” “Herb, for God’s sake,” Terri said. “This is depressing stuff. This could get very depressing. Even if you think it’s true,” she said, “it’s still depressing.” She reached out to him and took hold of his forearm near the wrist. “Are you getting drunk, Herb? Honey, are you drunk?” “Honey, I’m just talking, all right,” Herb said. “I don’t have to be drunk to say what’s on my mind, do I? I’m not drunk. We’re just talking, right?” Herb said. Then his voice changed. “But if I want to get drunk I will, God damn it. I can do anything I want today.” He fixed his eyes on her. “Honey, I’m not criticizing,” she said. She picked up her glass. “I’m not on call today,” Herb said. “I can do anything I want today. I’m just tired, that’s all.” “Herb, we love you,” Laura said. Herb looked at Laura. It was as if he couldn’t place her for a minute. She kept looking at him, holding her smile. Her cheeks were flushed and the sun was hitting her in the eyes, so she squinted to see him. His features relaxed. “Love you, too, Laura. And you, Nick. I’ll tell you, you’re our pals,” Herb said. He picked up his glass. “Well, what was I saying? Yeah. I wanted to tell you about something that happened a while back. I think I wanted to prove a point, and I will if I can just tell this thing the way it happened. This happened a few months ago, but it’s still going on right now. You might say that, yeah. But it ought to make us all feel ashamed when we talk like we know what we were talking about, when we talk about love.” “Herb, come on now,” Terri said. “You are too drunk. Don’t talk like this. Don’t talk like you’re drunk if you’re not drunk.” “Just shut up for a minute, will you?” Herb said. “Let me tell this. It’s been on my mind. Just shut up for a minute. I told you a little about it when it first happened. That old couple who got into an accident out on the interstate? A kid hit them, and they were all battered up and not given much chance to pull through. Let me tell this, Terri. Now just shut up for a minute. O.K.?” Terri looked at us and then looked back at Herb. She seemed anxious, that’s the only word for it. Herb handed the bottle around the table. “Surprise me, Herb,” Terri said. “Surprise me beyond all thought and reason.” “Maybe I will,” Herb said. “Maybe so. I’m constantly surprised with things myself. Everything in my life surprises me.” He stared at her for a minute. Then he began talking. “I was on call that night. It was in May or June. Terri and I had just sat down to dinner, when the hospital called. There’d been an accident out on the interstate. A drunk kid, a teen-ager, had plowed his dad’s pickup into a camper with this old couple in it. They were up in their mid-seventies. The kid, he was eighteen or nineteen, he was D.O.A. when they brought him in. He’d taken the steering wheel through his sternum and must have died instantly. But the old couple, they were still alive, but just barely. They had multiple fractures and contusions, lacerations, the works, and they each had themselves a concussion. They were in a bad way, believe me. And, of course, their age was against them. She was even a little worse off than he was. She had a ruptured spleen and along with everything else, both kneecaps were broken. But they’d been wearing their seat belts and, God knows, that’s the only thing that saved them.” “Folks, this is an advertisement for the National Safety Council,” Terri said. “This is your spokesman, Dr. Herb McGinnis, talking. Listen up now,” Terri said and laughed, then lowered her voice. “Herb, you’re just too much sometimes. I love you, honey.” We all laughed. Herb laughed, too. “Honey, I love you. But you know that, don’t you?” He leaned across the table, Terri met him halfway, and they kissed. “Terri’s right, everybody,” Herb said as he settled himself again. “Buckle up for safety. Listen to what Dr. Herb is telling you. But, seriously, they were in bum shape, those old people. By the time I got down there, the intern and nurses were already at work on them. The kid was dead, as I said. He was off in a corner, laid out on a gurney. Someone had already notified the next of kin, and the funeral-home people were on the way. I took one look at the old couple and told the E.R. nurse to get me a neurologist and an orthopedic man down there right away. I’ll try and make a long story short. The other fellows showed up, and we took the old couple up to the operating room and worked on them most of the night. They must have had incredible reserves, those old people, you see that once in a while. We did everything that could be done, and toward morning we were giving them a fifty-fifty chance, maybe less than that, maybe thirty-seventy for the wife. Anna Gates was her name, and she was quite a woman. But they were still alive the next morning, and we moved them into the I.C.U. where we could monitor every breath and keep a twenty-four-hour watch on them. They were in intensive care for nearly two weeks, she a little longer, before their condition improved enough so we could transfer them out and down the hall to their own rooms.” Herb stopped talking. “Here,” he said, “let’s drink this gin. Let’s drink it up. Then we’re going to dinner, right? Terri and I know a place. It’s a new place. That’s where we’ll go, this new place we know about. We’ll go when we finish this gin.” “It’s called the Library,” Terri said. “You haven’t eaten there yet, have you?” she said, and Laura and I shook our heads. “It’s some place. They say it’s part of a new chain, but it’s not like a chain, if you know what I mean. They actually have bookshelves in there with real books on them. You can browse around after dinner and take a book out and bring it back the next time you come to eat. You won’t believe the food. And Herb’s reading ‘Ivanhoe’! He took it out when we were there last week. He just signed a card. Like in a real library.” “I like ‘Ivanhoe,’ ” Herb said. “ ‘Ivanhoe’ ’s great. If I had it to do over again, I’d study literature. Right now I’m having an identity crisis. Right, Terri?” Herb said. He laughed. He twirled the ice in his glass. “I’ve been having an identity crisis for years. Terri knows. Terri can tell you. But let me say this. If I could come back again in a different life, a different time and all, you know what? I’d like to come back as a knight. You were pretty safe wearing all that armor. It was all right being a knight until gunpowder and muskets and .22 pistols came along.” “Herb would like to ride a white horse and carry a lance,” Terri said, and laughed. “Carry a woman’s garter with you everywhere,” Laura said. “Or just a woman,” I said. “That’s right,” Herb said. “There you go. You know what’s what, don’t you, Nick?” he said. “Also, you’d carry around their perfumed hankies with you wherever you rode. Did they have perfumed hankies in those days? It doesn’t matter. Some little forget-me-not. A token, that’s what I’m trying to say. You needed some token to carry around with you in those days. Anyway, whatever, it was better in those days being a knight than a serf,” Herb said. “It’s always better,” Laura said. “The serfs didn’t have it so good in those days,” Terri said. “The serfs have never had it good,” Herb said. “But I guess even the knights were vessels to someone. Isn’t that the way it worked in those days? But, then, everyone is always a vessel to someone else. Isn’t that right? Terri? But what I liked about knights, besides their ladies, was that they had that suit of armor, you know, and they couldn’t get hurt very easy. No cars in those days, man. No drunk teen-agers to run over you.” “Vassals,” I said. “What?” Herb said. “Vassals,” I said. “They were called vassals, Doc, not vessels.” “Vassals,” Herb said. “Vassals, vessels, ventricles, vas deferens. Well, you knew what I meant anyway. You’re all better educated in these matters than I am,” Herb said. “I’m not educated. I learned my stuff. I’m a heart surgeon, sure, but really I’m just a mechanic. I just go in and fix things that go wrong with the body. I’m just a mechanic.” “Modesty somehow doesn’t become you, Herb,” Laura said, and Herb grinned at her. “He’s just a humble doctor, folks,” I said. “But sometimes they suffocated in all that armor, Herb. They’d even have heart attacks if it got too hot and they were too tired and worn out. I read somewhere that they’d fall off their horses and not be able to get up because they were too tired to stand with all that armor on them. They got trampled by their own horses sometimes.” “That’s terrible,” Herb said. “That’s a terrible image, Nicky. I guess they’d just lay there then and wait until someone, the enemy, came along and made a shish kebab out of them.” “Some other vassal,” Terri said. “That’s right, some other vassal,” Herb said. “There you have it. Some other vassal would come along and spear his fellow-knight in the name of love. Or whatever it was they fought over in those days. Same things we fight over these days, I guess,” Herb said. “Politics,” Laura said. “Nothing’s changed.” The color was still in Laura’s cheeks. Her eyes were bright. She brought her glass to her lips. Herb poured himself another drink. He looked at the label closely, as if studying the little figures of the Beefeater guards. Then he slowly put the bottle down on the table and reached for the tonic water. “What about this old couple, Herb?” Laura said. “You didn’t finish that story you started.” Laura was having a hard time lighting her cigarette. Her matches kept going out. The light inside the room was different now, changing, getting weaker. The leaves outside the window were still shimmering, and I stared at the fuzzy pattern they made on the pane and the Formica counter under it. There was no sound except for Laura striking her matches. “What about that old couple?” I said after a minute. “The last we heard they were just getting out of intensive care.” “Older but wiser,” Terri said. Herb stared at her. “Herb, don’t give me that kind of look,” Terri said. “Go on with your story. I was only kidding. Then what happened? We all want to know.” “Terri, sometimes,” Herb said. “Please, Herb,” she said. “Honey, don’t always be so serious. Please go on with the story. I was joking, for God’s sake. Can’t you take a joke?” “This is nothing to joke about,” Herb said. He held his glass and gazed steadily at her. “What happened then, Herb?” Laura said. “We really want to know.” Herb fixed his eyes on Laura. Then he broke off and grinned. “Laura, if I didn’t have Terri and love her so much, and Nick wasn’t my friend, I’d fall in love with you. I’d carry you off.” “Herb, you shit,” Terri said. “Tell your story. If I weren’t in love with you, I damn sure well wouldn’t be here in the first place, you can bet on it. Honey, what do you say? Finish your story. Then we’ll go to the Library. O.K.?” “O.K.,” Herb said. “Where was I? Where am I? That’s a better question. Maybe I should ask that.” He waited a minute, and then began to talk. “When they were finally out of the woods, we were able to move them out of intensive care, after we could see they were going to make it. I dropped in to see each of them every day, sometimes twice a day if I was up doing other calls anyway. They were both in casts and bandages, head to foot. You know, you’ve seen it in the movies even if you haven’t seen the real thing. But they were bandaged head to foot, man, and I mean head to foot. That’s just the way they looked, just like those phony actors in the movies after some big disaster. But this was the real thing. Their heads were bandaged—they just had eye holes and a place for their mouths and noses. Anna Gates had to have her legs elevated, too. She was worse off than he was, I told you that. Both of them were on intravenous and glucose for a time. Well, Henry Gates was very depressed for the longest while. Even after he found out that his wife was going to pull through and recover, he was still very depressed. Not just about the accident itself, though of course that had gotten to him, as those things will. There you are one minute, you know, everything just dandy, then blam, you’re staring into the abyss. You come back. It’s like a miracle. But it’s left its mark on you. It does that. One day, I was sitting in a chair beside his bed and he described to me, talking slowly, talking through his mouth hole so sometimes I had to get up to his face to hear him, telling me what it looked like to him, what it felt like, when that kid’s car crossed the center line onto his side of the road and kept coming. He said he knew it was all up for them, that was the last look of anything he’d have on this earth. This was it. But he said nothing flew into his mind, his life didn’t pass before his eyes, nothing like that. He said he just felt sorry to not be able to see any more of his Anna, because they’d had this fine life together. That was his only regret. He looked straight ahead, just gripped the wheel and watched the kid’s car coming at them. And there was nothing he could do except say, ‘Anna! Hold on, Anna!’ ” “It gives me the shivers,” Laura said. “Brrr,” she said, shaking her head. Herb nodded. He went on talking, caught up in it now. “I’d sit awhile every day beside the bed. He’d lay there in his bandages staring out the window at the foot of his bed. The window was too high for him to see anything except the tops of trees. That’s all he saw for hours at a stretch. He couldn’t turn his head without assistance, and he was only allowed to do that twice a day. Each morning for a few minutes and every evening, he was allowed to turn his head. But during our visits he had to look at the window when he talked. I’d talk a little, ask a few questions, but mostly I’d listen. He was very depressed. What was most depressing to him, after he was assured his wife was going to be all right, that she was recovering to everyone’s satisfaction, what was most depressing was the fact they couldn’t be physically together. That he couldn’t see her and be with her every day. He told me they’d married in 1927, and since that time they’d only been apart from each other for any time on two occasions. Even when their children were born, they were born there on the ranch and Henry and the missus still saw each other every day and talked and were together around the place. But he said they’d only been away from each other for any real time on two occasions—once when her mother died, in 1940, and Anna had to take a train to St. Louis to settle matters there. And again in 1952, when her sister died in Los Angeles, and she had to go down there to claim the body. I should tell you they had a little ranch seventy-five miles or so outside of Bend, Oregon, and that’s where they’d lived most of their lives. They’d sold the ranch and moved into the city of Bend just a few years ago. When this accident happened, they were on their way down from Denver, where they’d gone to see his sister. They were going on to visit a son and some of their grandchildren in El Paso. But in all of their married life they’d only been apart from each other for any length of time on just those two occasions. Imagine that. But, Jesus, he was lonely for her. I’m telling you he pined for her. I never knew what that word meant before, pined, until I saw it happening to this man. He missed her something fierce. He just longed for her company, that old man did. Of course, he felt better, he’d brighten, when I’d give him my daily report on Anna’s progress—that she was mending, that she was going to be fine, just a question of a little more time. He was out of his casts and bandages now, but he was still extremely lonely. I told him that just as soon as he was able, maybe in a week, I’d put him into a wheelchair and take him visiting, take him down the corridor to see his wife. Meanwhile, I called on him and we’d talk. He told me a little about their lives out there on the ranch in the late nineteen-twenties and during the early thirties.” He looked around the table at us and shook his head at what he was going to say, or just maybe at the impossibility of all this. “He told me that in the winter it would do nothing but snow, and for maybe months at a time they couldn’t leave the ranch, the road would be closed. Besides, he had to feed cattle every day through those winter months. They would just be there together, the two of them, him and his wife. The kids hadn’t come along yet. They’d come along later. But, month in, month out, they’d be there together, the two of them, the same routine, the same everything, never anyone else to talk to or to visit with during those winter months. But they had each other. That’s all and everything they had, each other. ‘What would you do for entertainment?’ I asked him. I was serious. I wanted to know. I didn’t see how people could live like that. I don’t think anyone can live like that these days. You think so? It seems impossible to me. You know what he said? Do you want to know what he answered? He lay there and considered the question. He took some time. Then he said, ‘We’d go to the dances every night.’ ‘What?’ I said. ‘Pardon me, Henry,’ I said, and leaned closer, thinking I hadn’t heard right. ‘We’d go to the dances every night,’ he said again. I wondered what he meant. I didn’t know what he was talking about, but I waited for him to go on. He thought back to that time again, and in a little while he said, ‘We had a Victrola and some records, Doctor. We’d play the Victrola every night and listen to the records and dance there in the living room. We’d do that every night. Sometimes it’d be snowing outside and the temperature down below zero. The temperature really drops on you up there in January or February. But we’d listen to the records and dance in our stocking feet in the living room until we’d gone through all the records. And then I’d build up the fire and turn out the lights, all but one, and we’d go to bed. Some nights it’d be snowing, and it’d be so still outside you could hear the snow falling. It’s true, Doc,’ he said, ‘you can do that. Sometimes you can hear the snow falling. If you’re quiet and your mind is clear and you’re at peace with yourself and all things, you can lay in the dark and hear it snow. You try it sometimes,’ he said. ‘You get snow down here once in a while, don’t you? You try it sometimes. Anyway, we’d go to the dances every night. And then we’d go to bed under a lot of quilts and sleep warm until morning. When you woke up you could see your breath,’ he said. “When he’d recovered enough to be moved in a wheelchair, his bandages were long gone by then, a nurse and I wheeled him down the corridor to where his wife was. He’d shaved that morning and put on some lotion. He was in his bathrobe and hospital gown, he was still recovering, you know, but he held himself erect in the wheelchair. Still, he was nervous as a cat, you could see that. As we came closer to her room, his color rose and he got this look of anticipation to his face, a look I can’t begin to describe. I pushed his chair, and the nurse walked along beside me. She knew something about the situation, she’d picked up things. Nurses, you know, they’ve seen everything, and not much gets to them after a while, but this one was strung a little tight herself that morning. The door was open and I wheeled Henry right into the room. Mrs. Gates, Anna, she was still immobilized, but she could move her head and her left arm. She had her eyes closed, but they snapped open when we entered the room. She was still in bandages, but only from the pelvic area down. I pushed Henry up to the left side of her bed and said, ‘You have some company, Anna. Company, dear.’ But I couldn’t say any more than that. She gave a little smile and her face lit up. Out came her hand from under the sheet. It was bluish and bruised-looking. Henry took the hand in his hands. He held it and kissed it. Then he said, ‘Hello, Anna. How’s my babe? Remember me?’ Tears started down her cheeks. She nodded. ‘I’ve missed you,’ he said. She kept nodding. The nurse and I got the hell out of there. She began blubbering once we were outside the room, and she’s a tough lot, that nurse. It was an experience, I’m telling you. But after that he was wheeled down there every morning and every afternoon. We arranged it so they could have lunch and dinner together in her room. In between times, they’d just sit and hold hands and talk. They had no end of things to talk about.” “You didn’t tell me this before, Herb,” Terri said. “You just said a little about it when it first happened. You didn’t tell me any of this, damn you. Now you’re telling me this to make me cry. Herb, this story better not have an unhappy ending. It doesn’t, does it? You’re not setting us up, are you? If you are, I don’t want to hear another word. You don’t have to go any farther with it, you can stop right there. Herb?” “What happened to them, Herb?” Laura said. “Finish the story, for God’s sake. Is there more? But I’m like Terri, I don’t want anything to happen to them. That’s really something.” “Are they all right now?” I asked. I was involved in the story, too, but I was getting drunk. It was hard to keep things in focus. The light seemed to be draining out of the room, going back through the window where it had come from in the first place. Yet nobody made a move to get up from the table or to turn on an electric light. “Sure, they’re all right,” Herb said. “They were discharged a while later. Just a few weeks ago, in fact. After a time, Henry was able to get around on crutches and then he went to a cane and then he was just all over the place. But his spirits were up now, his spirits were fine, he just improved every day once he got to see his missus again. When she was able to be moved, their son from El Paso and his wife drove up in a station wagon and took them back down there with them. She still had some convalescing to do, but she was coming along real fine. I just had a card from Henry a few days ago. I guess that’s one of the reasons they’re on my mind right now. That, and what we were saying about love earlier. “Listen,” Herb went on. “Let’s finish this gin. There’s about enough left here for one drink all around. Then let’s go eat. Let’s go to the Library. What do you say? I don’t know, the whole thing was really something to see. It just unfolded day after day. Some of those talks I had with him . . . I won’t forget those times. But talking about it now has got me depressed. Jesus, but I feel depressed all of a sudden.” “Don’t feel depressed, Herb,” Terri said. “Herb, why don’t you take a pill, honey?” She turned to Laura and me and said, “Herb takes these mood-elevator pills sometimes. It’s no secret, is it, Herb?” Herb shook his head. “I’ve taken everything there is to take, at one time or another. No secret.” “My first wife took them, too,” I said. “Did they help her?” Laura said. “No, she still went around depressed. She cried a lot.” “Some people are born depressed, I think,” Terri said. “Some people are born unhappy. And unlucky, too. I’ve known people who were just plain unlucky in everything. Other people—not you, honey, I’m not talking about you, of course—other people just set out to make themselves unhappy and they stay unhappy.” She was rubbing at something on the table with her finger. Then she stopped rubbing. “I think I want to call my kids before we go eat,” Herb said. “Is that all right with everybody? I won’t be long. I’ll take a quick shower to freshen up, then I’ll call my kids. Then let’s go eat.” “You might have to talk to Marjorie, Herb, if she answers the phone. That’s Herb’s ex-wife. You guys, you’ve heard us on the subject of Marjorie. You don’t want to talk to her this afternoon, Herb. It’ll make you feel even worse.” “No, I don’t want to talk to Marjorie,” Herb said. “But I want to talk to my kids. I miss them real bad, honey. I miss Steve. I was awake last night remembering things from when he was little. I want to talk to him. I want to talk to Kathy, too. I miss them, so I’ll have to take the chance their mother will answer the phone. That bitch of a woman.” “There isn’t a day goes by that Herb doesn’t say he wishes she’d get married again, or else die. For one thing,” Terri said, “she’s bankrupting us. Another is that she has custody of both kids. We get to have the kids down here just for a month during the summer. Herb says it’s just to spite him that she won’t get married again. She has a boyfriend who lives with them, too, and Herb is supporting him as well.” “She’s allergic to bees,” Herb said. “If I’m not praying she’ll get married again, I’m praying she’ll go out in the country and get herself stung to death by a swarm of bees.” “Herb, that’s awful,” Laura said, and laughed until her eyes welled. “Awful funny,” Terri said. We all laughed. We laughed and laughed. “Bzzzzzz,” Herb said, turning his fingers into bees and buzzing them at Terri’s throat and necklace. Then he let his hands drop and leaned back, suddenly serious again. “She’s a rotten bitch. It’s true,” Herb said. “She’s vicious. Sometimes when I get drunk, like I am now, I think I’d like to go up there dressed like a beekeeper—you know, that hat that’s like a helmet with the plate that comes down over your face, the big thick gloves, and the padded coat. I’d like to just knock on the door and release a hive of bees in the house. First I’d make sure the kids were out of the house, of course.” With some difficulty, he crossed one leg over the other. Then he put both feet on the floor and leaned forward, elbows on the table, chin cupped in his hands. “Maybe I won’t call the kids right now after all. Maybe you’re right, Terri. Maybe it isn’t such a hot idea. Maybe I’ll just take a quick shower and change my shirt, and then we’ll go eat. How does that sound, everybody?” “Sounds fine to me,” I said. “Eat or not eat. Or keep drinking. I could head right on into the sunset.” “What does that mean, honey?” Laura said, turning a look on me. “It just means what I said, honey, nothing else. I mean I could just keep going and going. That’s all I meant. It’s that sunset maybe.” The window had a reddish tint to it now as the sun went down. “I could eat something myself,” Laura said. “I just realized I’m hungry. What is there to snack on?” “I’ll put out some cheese and crackers,” Terri said, but she just sat there. Herb finished his drink. Then he got slowly up from the table and said, “Excuse me. I’ll go shower.” He left the kitchen and walked slowly down the hall to the bathroom. He shut the door behind him. “I’m worried about Herb,” Terri said. She shook her head. “Sometimes I worry more than other times, but lately I’m really worried.” She stared at her glass. She didn’t make any move for cheese and crackers. I decided to get up and look in the refrigerator. When Laura says she’s hungry, I know she needs to eat. “Help yourself to whatever you can find, Nick. Bring out anything that looks good. Cheese in there, and a salami stick, I think. Crackers in that cupboard over the stove. I forgot. We’ll have a snack. I’m not hungry myself, but you guys must be starving. I don’t have an appetite anymore. What was I saying?” She closed her eyes and opened them. “I don’t think we’ve told you this, maybe we have, I can’t remember, but Herb was very suicidal after his first marriage broke up and his wife moved to Denver with the kids. He went to a psychiatrist for a long while, for months. Sometimes he says he thinks he should still be going.” She picked up the empty bottle and turned it upside down over her glass. I was cutting some salami on the counter as carefully as I could. “Dead soldier,” Terri said. Then she said, “Lately, he’s been talking about suicide again. Especially when he’s been drinking. Sometimes I think he’s too vulnerable. He doesn’t have any defenses. He doesn’t have defenses against anything. Well,” she said, “gin’s gone. Time to cut and run. Time to cut our losses, as my daddy used to say. Time to eat, I guess, though I don’t have any appetite. But you guys must be starving. I’m glad to see you eating something. That’ll keep you until we get to the restaurant. We can get drinks at the restaurant if we want them. Wait’ll you see this place, it’s something else. You can take books out of there along with your doggie bag. I guess I should get ready, too. I’ll just wash my face and put on some lipstick. I’m going just like I am. If they don’t like it, tough. I just want to say this, and that’s all. But I don’t want it to sound negative. I hope and pray that you guys still love each other five, even three years from now the way you do today. Even four years from now, say. That’s the moment of truth, four years. That’s all I have to say on the subject.” She hugged her thin arms and began running her hands up and down them. She closed her eyes. I stood up from the table and went behind Laura’s chair. I leaned over her and crossed my arms under her breasts and held her. I brought my face down beside hers. Laura pressed my arms. She pressed harder and wouldn’t let go. Terri opened her eyes. She watched us. Then she picked up her glass. “Here’s to you guys,” she said. “Here’s to all of us.” She drained the glass, and the ice clicked against her teeth. “Carl, too,” she said, and put her glass back on the table. “Poor Carl. Herb thought he was a schmuck, but Herb was genuinely afraid of him. Carl wasn’t a schmuck. He loved me, and I loved him. That’s all. I still think of him sometimes. It’s the truth, and I’m not ashamed to say it. Sometimes I think of him, he’ll just pop into my head at any old moment. I’ll tell you something, and I hate how soap opera a life can get, so it’s not even yours anymore, but this is how it was. I was pregnant by him. It was that first time he tried to kill himself, when he took the rat poison. He didn’t know I was pregnant. It gets worse. I decided on an abortion. I didn’t tell him about it, either, naturally. I’m not saying anything Herb doesn’t know. Herb knows all about it. Final installment. Herb gave me the abortion. Small world, isn’t it? But I thought Carl was crazy at the time. I didn’t want his baby. Then he goes and kills himself. But after that, after he’d been gone for a while and there was no Carl anymore to talk to and listen to his side of things and help him when he was afraid, I felt real bad about things. I was sorry about his baby, that I hadn’t had it. I love Carl, and there’s no question of that in my mind. I still love him. But God, I love Herb, too. You can see that, can’t you? I don’t have to tell you that. Oh, isn’t it all too much, all of it?” She put her face in her hands and began to cry. Slowly, she leaned forward and put her head on the table. Laura put her food down at once. She got up and said, “Terri. Terri, dear,” and began rubbing Terri’s neck and shoulders. “Terri,” she murmured. I was eating a piece of salami. The room had gotten very dark. I finished chewing what I had in my mouth, swallowed the stuff, and moved over to the window. I looked out into the back yard. I looked past the aspen tree and the two black dogs sleeping in amongst the lawn chairs. I looked past the swimming pool to the little corral with its gate open and the old empty horse barn and beyond. There was a field of wild grass, and then a fence and then another field, and then the interstate connecting Albuquerque with El Paso. Cars moved back and forth on the highway. The sun was going down behind the mountains, and the mountains had gotten dark, shadows everywhere. Yet there was light, too, and it seemed to be softening those things I looked at. The sky was gray near the tops of the mountains, as gray as a dark day in winter. But there was a band of blue sky just above the gray, the blue you see in tropical postcards, the blue of the Mediterranean. The water on the surface of the pool rippled and the same breeze caused the aspen leaves to tremble. One of the dogs raised its head as if on signal, listened a minute with its ears up, and then put its head back down between its paws. I had the feeling something was going to happen, it was in the slowness of the shadows and the light, and that whatever it was might take me with it. I didn’t want that to happen. I watched the wind move in waves across the grass. I could see the grass in the fields bend in the wind and then straighten again. The second field slanted up to the highway, and the wind moved uphill across it, wave after wave. I stood there and waited and watched the grass bend in the wind. I could feel my heart beating. Somewhere toward the back of the house the shower was running. Terri was still crying. Slowly and with an effort, I turned to look at her. She lay with her head on the table, her face turned toward the stove. Her eyes were open, but now and then she would blink away tears. Laura had pulled her chair over, and sat with an arm around Terri’s shoulders. She murmured still, her lips against Terri’s hair. “Sure, sure,” Terri said. “Tell me about it.” “Terri, sweetheart,” Laura said to her tenderly. “It’ll be O.K., you’ll see. It’ll be O.K.” Laura raised her eyes to mine then. Her look was penetrating, and my heart slowed. She gazed into my eyes for what seemed a long time, and then she nodded. That’s all she did, the only sign she gave, but it was enough. It was as if she were telling me, Don’t worry, we’ll get past this, everything is going to be all right with us, you’ll see. Easy does it. That’s the way I chose to interpret the look anyway, though I could be wrong. The shower stopped running. In a minute, I heard whistling as Herb opened the bathroom door. I kept looking at the women at the table. Terri was still crying and Laura was stroking her hair. I turned back to the window. The blue layer of sky had given way now and was turning dark like the rest. But stars had appeared. I recognized Venus and, farther off and to the side, not as bright but unmistakably there on the horizon, Mars. The wind had picked up. I looked at what it was doing to the empty fields. I thought unreasonably that it was too bad the McGinnises no longer kept horses. I wanted to imagine horses rushing through those fields in the near-dark, or even just standing quietly with their heads in opposite directions near the fence. I stood at the window and waited. I knew I had to keep still a while longer, keep my eyes out there, outside the house, as long as there was something left to see.
Year’s End I did not attend my father’s wedding. I did not even know there had been a wedding until my father called early one Sunday during my final year at Swarthmore. I was roused from sleep by a pounding on my door, followed by the voice of one of my hallmates saying my last name. I knew before answering that it was my father; there was no one else who would have called me before nine. My father had always been an early riser, believing that the hours between five and seven were the most profitable part of the day. He would use that time to read the newspaper and then go for a walk, along Marine Drive when we lived in Bombay and on the quiet roads of our town on the North Shore of Massachusetts, where we moved when I was sixteen, after my mother got sick. As much as he used to encourage my mother and me to join him, I knew he preferred being alone. Things were different now, of course; those solitary hours he’d once savored had become a prison for him, a commonplace. I knew that he no longer bothered to go for walks and that since my mother’s death he hardly slept at all. I had not spoken to my father in several weeks. He had been in Calcutta, visiting my grandparents, all four of whom were still alive, and when I picked up the phone, left for me hanging upside down by its cord, I expected him to say only that he had returned safely, not that I now had a stepmother and two stepsisters. “I must tell you something that will upset you,” he began, and I wondered if perhaps one of my grandparents had fallen ill, if my mother’s parents, in particular, could no longer endure the loss of their only daughter at the age of forty-two. It had been the hardest thing, in those first months after she was gone: having to go to Calcutta with my father and enter the home where my mother had been a girl, having to see the man and woman who had raised her, who had known her and loved her long before she had a husband and a son. My grandparents had already lived in a state of mild mourning since 1962, when my parents got married and moved away. My father’s first job was in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which was where I was born, three years later. When I was nine, we went back to India, to Bombay. Occasionally, my mother would return to them, like Persephone in the myth, temporarily filling up and brightening the rooms, scattering her creams and powders on the dressing table, sleeping in the room where she’d been small. After we called my grandparents to tell them my mother was dead, they had held on to the hope that it was only a matter of time, and that she would board a plane and walk through the door once again. When my father and I entered the house, my grandmother asked if my mother was still in the taxi that had already driven away, this in spite of the fact that a photograph of my mother, larger than life and draped with a tuberose garland, hung on their living-room wall. “She’s not with us, Didun,” I said, and it was only then that both my grandparents broke down, grieving freshly for my mother as neither my father nor I had done. Being with her through her illness day after day had denied us that privilege. But my grandparents were fine, my father reported now. They missed me and sent their love, he said, and then he told me about Chitra. She had lost her spouse two years ago, not to cancer but to encephalitis. Chitra was a schoolteacher and, at thirty-five, nearly twenty years younger than my father. Her daughters were seven and ten. He offered these details as if responding diligently to questions I was not asking. “I don’t ask you to care for her, even to like her,” my father said. “You are a grown man, you have no need for her in your life as I do. I only ask, eventually, that you understand my decision.” It was clear to me that he had prepared himself for my outrage—harsh words, accusations, the slamming down of the phone. But no turbulent emotion passed through me as he spoke, only a diluted version of the nauseous sensation that had taken hold the day that I learned my mother was dying, a sensation that had dropped anchor in me and never fully left. “Is she there with you?” I asked. “Would you like me to say something?” I said this more as a challenge than out of politeness, not entirely believing him. Since my mother’s death, I frequently doubted things my father said in the course of our telephone conversations: that he had eaten dinner on any given night, for example, and not simply polished off another can of almonds and a few Johnnie Walkers in front of the television. “They arrive in two weeks. You will see them when you come home for Christmas,” my father said, adding, “Her English is not so good.” “Worse than my Bengali?” “Possibly. She will pick it up, of course.” I didn’t say what came to my lips—that my mother had learned English as a girl, that she’d had no need to pick it up in America. “The girls are better at it,” my father continued. “They’ve gone to English-medium schools. I’ve enrolled them in their grades to start in January.” He had known Chitra just a few weeks, had met her only twice before their marriage. It was a registry wedding, followed by a small dinner at a hotel. “The whole thing was arranged by relatives,” he explained, in a way that suggested that he was not to blame. This remark upset me more than anything my father had said so far. My father was not a malleable man, and I knew that no one would have dared to find him a new wife unless he had requested it. “I was tired, Kaushik,” he said. “Tired of coming home to an empty house every night.” I didn’t know which was worse—the idea of my father’s remarrying for love or of his actively seeking out a stranger for companionship. My parents had had an arranged marriage, but there was a touch of romance about it, too, my father seeing my mother for the first time at a wedding and being so attracted that he had asked, the following week, for her hand. They had always been affectionate with each other, but it wasn’t until her illness that he seemed fully, recklessly, to fall in love with her, so that I was witness to a courtship that ought to have faded before I was born. He doted on her then, arriving home at our Bombay flat with flowers, lingering in bed with her in the mornings, going in late to work, wanting to be alone with her to the point where I, a teen-ager, felt in the way. “I thought,” he continued, “since your bedroom is a good size, of putting the girls together there. Would you mind terribly staying in the guest room when you visit, Kaushik? Most of your things are with you now anyway. It is just a matter of where to sleep. But please tell me if you mind.” He seemed more concerned about my reaction to a new room than the fact that I had just acquired a new family. “It’s fine.” “You are being honest?” “I said I don’t mind.” I returned to my dorm room. There was a girl in my bed that morning; she had remained asleep as I stumbled barefoot into the hallway to answer the phone. Now she was lying on her stomach, a pen in her hand, finishing a crossword I’d abandoned. Her name was Jessica, and I’d met her in my Spanish class. “Who was that?” she asked, turning to look at me. Strong sunlight angled in from the window behind her, darkening her to the point that her features wereobscured. “My father,” I said, squeezing back into the bed beside her. For a while, she continued pondering the puzzle as I lay there, the unfamiliar smell of her still thrilling. She knew nothing about my family, about my father’s recent visit to Calcutta, or about my mother’s death, the summer before I started college. In the course of our few weekends together, I had told Jessica none of those things. That morning, after crying briefly against her body, I did. After my exams, I drove to Massachusetts, dropping off Jessica at her parents’ farmhouse in Connecticut on the way. When I decided to attend Swarthmore, my father had given me the Audi he’d bought after we moved back from Bombay. He’d said that it would make it easier for me to come home for weekends and holidays, but I knew it was really an excuse to get rid of yet another thing my mother had touched, known, or otherwise occupied. The day we came back from the hospital for the last time, he took every single photograph of her, in frames and in albums, and put them in a shoebox. “Choose a few. I know pictures are important to you,” he told me, and then he sealed the box with tape and put it in a closet somewhere. He had wasted no time giving away her clothes, her handbags, her boxes of cosmetics and colognes. The clothes her Bengali friends in America had no need for were sent to charities in India, as there was nowhere in New England to donate all those saris with their matching blouses and petticoats. This was according to my mother’s instructions. “I don’t want all that beautiful material turned into curtains,” she’d told us from her hospital bed. Her ashes were tossed from a boat off the Gloucester coast, but her gold went back to Calcutta, distributed to poor women who had worked for my extended family as ayahs or cooks or maids. It didn’t matter to me that her things were gone. After Bombay, she had little occasion to wear jewels and saris, saying no to most of the parties she and my father were invited to. Coming home from school toward the end, I would find her sitting wrapped in a blanket, looking out at the pool she no longer had the strength to swim in. Sometimes I would take her outside for fresh air, walking carefully through the birches and pines behind the house and sitting with her on a low stone wall. Occasionally, feeling ambitious, she would ask me to drive her to the sea. “Be sure to keep my ruby choker and the pearl-and-emerald set for the person you will marry,” she said during one of those walks. “I’m not planning on getting married anytime soon,” I told her, and she said that she wished she could say the same for dying. Ultimately, I disobeyed her. After she was gone, I was unable to open up any of the flat red boxes she’d kept hidden in a suitcase on her closet shelf, never mind set something aside for the sake of my future happiness. Late in the afternoon, I climbed the road that led to our driveway. Our house was the only source of light for miles, amid isolated patches of hardened snow. It was a stark structure of concrete and glass that my mother had loved more than the shingled, shuttered homes typical of the town. Stone steps had been built into the uneven ground, flanked by overgrown rhododendrons leading to the entrance. I could tell from the other car in the driveway that my father was home, and he stood behind the storm door, waiting for me to come in with my things. “We were expecting you earlier,” he said. “You said you would be here by lunchtime.” I knew then that it was true, that there was another person inside the house, a person who made it possible for my father, without hesitating, to say “we” instead of “I.” I said nothing about my detour to Jessica’s home and the two hours I’d spent there. Instead, I said the traffic had been bad. I wondered if my father had left work early for my sake. He had given up wearing suits and was dressed as he might be for the weekend, in dark-blue pants and a cream-colored sweater. There was more gray in his hair than I remembered, and though he was still vigorously handsome, old age was creeping into his face, the skin sagging at the sides of his nose, his pale-greenish eyes—a trait that made my mother insist that there was Irish blood on his side of the family—less curious than they had once been. I tried to imagine him, just weeks before, in a silk kurta, a groom’s topor on his head. I wondered who had taken photographs of the wedding, whether my father would show them to me. I was unused to the heavy smell of cooking that was in the air as I stepped into the house. Otherwise things appeared unchanged, the black-and-white photographs I’d taken of the surrounding woods, which my mother had insisted on framing, still lining one wall of the entryway. The house had always maintained an impersonal quality, full of built-in cupboards concealing the traces of our everyday lives. Now that I no longer lived there, I was astonished by how enormous it was, the soaring double-height ceiling of the living room and the great wall of glass looking out onto the trees, more befitting of an institution than a private home. There was a window seat running the length of the glass wall, enough space for twenty people to sit side by side, as they had during my mother’s funeral. My mother had insisted on furnishing the house with pieces true to its modernist architecture: a black leather sectional configured in a U, a chrome floor lamp arcing overhead, a glass-topped kidney-shaped cocktail table, and a dining table made of white fibreglass surrounded by matching chairs. She had never allowed a cloth to cover the table, but one was there now, something with an Indian print that could just as easily have been a bedspread and didn’t fully reach either end. In the center, instead of the generous cluster of fresh fruit or flowers my mother would have arranged, there was a stainless-steel plate holding an ordinary saltshaker and two jars of pickles, hot mango and sweet lime, their lids missing, their labels stained, spoons stuck into their oils. A single place had been set for me at one end, with translucent luchis piled on a plate, and several smaller bowls containing dal and vegetables arrayed in a semicircle. “Sit down,” my father said. “You must be hungry.” He was nervous, as I was. There was no drink in his hand, no bottle of Johnnie Walker set out, as it usually was by this time, on the cocktail table. I remained standing, uninterested in the food, staring down at the table. I was no longer accustomed to Indian food. At school, I ate in the cafeteria, and during my time at home after my mother’s death my father and I either went out or picked up pizzas, so that the impressive gas stove that my mother had been so excited about when we moved in was used only to boil water for tea. I looked above the table at one corner of the ceiling and saw that it was discolored by a leak. “When did that happen?” I asked. “A while back.” “Aren’t you going to fix it?” My father, sensitive to how buildings were put together, had always been particular about that sort of thing. “It’s a big project,” he said. “There’s a reason roofs should be sloped in this part of the world.” I heard no voices or footsteps. It was as if Chitra and her daughters were discreetly hidden in one of the closets, swallowed up as so many other things were. “Where are they?” I asked finally. She appeared then, walking through the swinging doors that led to the kitchen. She was closer to my age than to my father’s. I had known this beforehand, but seeing her was a shock. Her hair was long and dark and she had a broad nose on an otherwise pleasant face, though it was too round for me to find beautiful. She was taller than I’d expected her to be, a little taller than my mother. She wore vermillion in her hair, a traditional practice my mother had shunned, that powdery red stain the strongest element of her appearance. “I would like for you to call me Mamoni,” she said in Bengali. Her voice was of a lower pitch than my mother’s, with a faint huskiness that was oddly calming. “Do you have any objection to that?” She asked this kindly, smiling, wary of my reaction, and I shook my head, not smiling back. “Please,” she said, this time in English, motioning to the chair. I turned to my father and asked, “Aren’t we all eating?” “We already have,” Chitra said, switching back to Bengali. “You have driven from so far. More is coming.” She returned abruptly to the kitchen, and I sat down. The last thing I’d eaten was a slice of fruitcake baked by Jessica’s mother. My mouth watered, in spite of my reluctance to eat, and I was suddenly grateful for the food in front of me. “Start, Kaushik,” my father said, sitting down in an empty chair beside me. “It’s getting cold.” The arrangement of the bowls, small glass bowls in which we normally had ice cream, felt too formal to me. This was the old-fashioned, ceremonious way I remembered my grandfathers eating in Calcutta, being treated each day like kings after their morning baths. I wondered what was the best way to go about it, whether to take a spoonful of each dish as I went or to dump everything onto the plate at once. In the meantime, I ate the luchis, still warm and impressively puffed. I was reminded of Sunday mornings in Bombay, eating luchis prepared by our Parsi cook, Zareen. I could hear my mother complaining cheerfully in the kitchen, telling Zareen to try another batch, that she was frying them before the oil was hot enough. When Chitra returned, she was followed by her daughters, two girls who at first glance were indistinguishable, apart from a few inches in height. They were overdressed in our comfortably heated house, in thick sweaters and socks, incongruous Indian things that would soon be rejected, I knew, in favor of clothes from the mall. The sweaters were both made of a sickeningly bright shade of pink wool. The girls were darker and sweeter-looking than Chitra, with heart-shaped faces and two black ponytails on either side of their heads, adorned with red ribbons. “Would you like some of this?” I asked, pointing to the luchis left on my plate, and to my surprise they stepped forward and both put out a hand, cupping their giggling mouths with the other. One of the girls, the shorter one, was missing a front tooth. “Let Dada eat in peace,” Chitra said. She had trod cautiously in terms of what I was to call her, but now referred to me without hesitation as the girls’ older brother. “You can call me Kaushik,” I said to the girls, and this made them giggle more forcefully. “What about K.D.?” my father suggested. We all turned to him, puzzled, this man for whom we were now gathered together. “Short for Kaushik Dada,” he explained. I wondered if this was something that had just popped into his head or if he’d considered it carefully beforehand. He had always possessed an inventive streak when it came to words, writing Bengali poems and reading them aloud to my mother. It had been one of our family secrets, the fact that my civilengineer father was also a poet. I assumed he’d stopped writing after my mother’s death, as he’d stopped doing so many things. “That’s clever,” Chitra said, speaking directly to my father for the first time since my arrival. She spoke approvingly, with the tone of someone who is used to acknowledging small achievements, and it was then that I remembered that she had been a schoolteacher in her former life. “Yes, K.D. is better.” I found the nickname inane, but my father seemed proud of it, and it was preferable to Chitra’s alternative. “And what do I call you?” I asked my stepsisters. “I am Rupa,” the taller one said, her voice husky, like her mother’s. “And I am Piu,” the one missing the tooth said. “We are very glad to be in your room,” Rupa added. She spoke stiffly, a bit distantly, as if reciting something she’d been forced to memorize. “We are very much appreciating.” They spoke to me in English, their accents and their intonation sounding as severe as mine must have when I returned to America at sixteen. I knew the accents would soon diminish and then disappear, as would their unstylish sweaters, their silly hair style. “Rupa and Piu are eager to see the aquarium and the science museum,” my father said. “Perhaps you can take them one day, Kaushik.” I didn’t reply to this. “Very tasty,” I said instead in Bengali, referring to the food, something my mother had taught me to say when eating in the homes of other people. I got up to carry my plate to the kitchen. “You have not eaten,” Chitra said, intercepting me. She attempted to take the plate from my hand, but I held on to it and went to the kitchen, to pour myself some of the Johnnie Walker my father stored in the cupboard over the dishwasher. “What do you need? I’ll get it for you,” Chitra said, following me. I was suddenly sickened by her, by the sight of her standing in our kitchen. The space retained my mother’s presence more than any other part of the house. The jade and spider plants she had watered were still thriving on the windowsill, the orange-and-white sunburst clock she’d so loved the design of, with its quivering second hand, still marking the time on the wall. Ignoring Chitra, I opened one cupboard for a glass and another for the Scotch, but all I found were boxes of cereal and packets of chanachur brought back from Calcutta. My father came into the kitchen as well. “Where’s the Scotch?” I asked him. He glanced at Chitra, and after some small silent communication between them she walked out. “I put it away,” he said once we were alone. “Why?” “I’ve stopped taking it. I sleep better at night, I find.” “Since when?” “For some time now. Also, I didn’t want to alarm Chitra.” “Alarm her?” “She’s a bit old-fashioned.” He pulled out the step stool that lived in a space beside the refrigerator and unfolded it. He climbed to the top and opened up a cupboard above the refrigerator, pulling out a half-empty bottle. I wanted to ask my father what on earth had possessed him to marry an old-fashioned girl half his age. Instead, I said, taking the bottle from his hand, “I hope it’s all right if I alarm her.” “Just be quiet about it, especially around the girls.” My parents had never been quiet about their fondness for Johnnie Walker, around me, around anyone. After my mother’s death, when I was eighteen, it was I who had filled her shoes, nursing one glass and then another in the evenings in order to keep my father company until we could both justify going to bed. I almost never drank the stuff at college, preferring beer, but whenever I came home I craved the taste. “I thought tomorrow, while I’m at work, you could go pick up a tree,” my father said. “There’s a place not too far down 128. Perhaps the girls would want to join you. They’re terribly excited about it.” I looked at him, confused. Until now, it had not fully registered that my father would be at work during the days, that I would be alone with Chitra and her daughters. “You mean a Christmas tree?” For the past three years, since my mother’s death, we had not celebrated the holiday at our house. Instead, we had fallen into a pattern of accepting invitations to the homes of friends, appearing in the mornings fully dressed while the other family was still in their pajamas. In Bombay, my mother had always thrown a party on Christmas Day, stringing lights throughout our flat and putting presents under a potted hibiscus. It was a time of year when she always spoke fondly about Cambridge, saying the holiday wasn’t the same without the cold weather, the decorated shops, the cards that came in the mail. “I suppose we’ll have to get some presents,” my father added. “We still have a few days. It needn’t be extravagant.” I knew Chitra and her girls were probably huddled together in the dining area listening to every word my father and I exchanged, but that didn’t stop me from saying, “Those girls are barely half my age. Do you expect me to play with them?” “I don’t expect you to do anything,” my father replied evenly. He was unshaken by my remark, perhaps even relieved that we were now officially in opposition, that there was no longer a need to pretend. It was as if he had already played out this scene several times in his mind and was weary of it. “I am only asking if you mind picking up a tree.” I had yet to pour my drink. I’d been standing with my back to the kitchen counter, one hand holding a glass, the other the bottle my father had retrieved from its hiding place. I poured it now, taking it as my mother did, with one ice cube, not adding water. I drank what I had poured, then poured another. “Easy,” my father said. I glanced directly at his face. After my mother’s death, he had acquired an expression that permanently set his features in a different way. It was an expression less of sadness than of irritated resignation, the way he used to look if a glass slipped from my hands when I was little, or if the day we had planned a picnic happened to be cloudy. That was the expression that had come to his face the morning we stepped into my mother’s hospital room for the last time, that subsequently greeted me whenever I came home from college, that still seemed directed at my mother for letting him down. But the expression was missing now. “Not easy,” I said, shaking my head at my own reflection suspended against the black backdrop of evening. “It’s not easy for me.” My father had already left for work by the time I woke up the next morning. For a while, I remained in bed, not knowing what time it was, confused, initially, as to why I was in the guest room and why I could hear the sound of muffled girlish laughter drifting down through the ceiling. The guest room was on the first floor of the house, in its own wing off a corridor behind the kitchen. My bed faced a sliding glass door that opened onto the back yard and the pool, which was covered now by a black tarp. When we first moved into the house, my mother had devoted a disproportionate amount of attention to setting up the guest room, shopping for the grasshopper-green quilt on the bed and curtains for the glass door, asking me to hang a pink-and-purple Madhubani painting over the chest of drawers. I didn’t know who she was expecting to come and stay with us, but by then we indulged her in whatever pastime lifted her spirits. I was grateful for it now, glad not to be upstairs in my old bedroom, which shared a wall with my parents’ room. It had been awful enough hearing my mother’s raspy breathing at night, her moans. Now I would have had to hear Chitra and my father conversing before bed, I would have had to imagine their bodies under a blanket side by side. To my knowledge, the only person who’d ever occupied our guest room was a nurse named Mrs. Gharibian, who had come to tend to my mother after her needs became too much for my father and me. Mrs. Gharibian was a middle-aged woman with short brown hair and a soft Southern accent. Normally, she left in the evenings, but for two weeks she spent the nights with us, administering morphine injections and emptying bedpans, making notes in a little cloth book that looked as if it ought to contain recipes. Something about her quietly optimistic manner made me believe that Mrs. Gharibian had the power to sustain my mother—not to cure her but to keep her alive indefinitely. “This is the worst part,” she told me once. “You’re holding your breath, thinking it’s still ahead, but this really is the worst of it, for you and for her.” At the time, her words had not soothed me; I could imagine nothing worse than the moment my mother no longer drew air in and out of her lungs, no longer took us in through her weary eyes. I could imagine nothing worse than not being able to look at her face every day, its beauty grossly distorted but never abandoning her. But in the days after my mother’s death I realized that Mrs. Gharibian had been right, there had been nothing worse than waiting for it to come, that the void that followed was easier to bear than the solid weight of those days. I pulled on a sweater, cracked open the sliding door, lit a cigarette. The season’s leaves had not been raked and were scattered everywhere, drifting in the breeze over the tarp-covered pool. Our first summer in the house, my mother had used the pool religiously, forty lengths back and forth before breakfast. By the following summer, when she was weak from chemotherapy, she would only wade or dangle her legs on hot days, and at the end of that summer she died. Inside, I could hear the television—as soon as I emerged from the guest room I would have to see them. I put on my jeans, annoyed that I could not simply walk through the house in my boxers. In the bathroom, I brushed my teeth and took the time to shave. I craved coffee but not food. Dinner had been another embarrassment of riches. Chitra hovered over my father and me and the girls, eating privately after we were done, the way our maids would in Bombay. I imagined another crowded plate waiting for me on the dining table, but there was no breakfast prepared, nothing offered when I approached Chitra and her daughters in the living room. They were sitting with their feet up on the sectional, watching “Family Feud.” They were dwarfed by the soaring ceiling, washed out by the morning sunlight. The girls were dressed, but Chitra was wearing a zippered housecoat in a frumpy red-and-yellow calico print. Without makeup or jewelry, she looked even younger. She was drinking a cup of tea, my mother’s biscuit tin open beside her. “Good morning,” I said. “Good morning,” Piu and Rupa chimed back, their eyes quickly returning to the television. “I’ll get your tea,” Chitra said, putting her cup on the cocktail table and preparing to get up. “I didn’t make any for you. Your father told me you like to sleep late when you visit home.” “It’s O.K.,” I told her. “Don’t get up. I don’t need any.” She spoke to me in Bengali, I to her in English, as had been the case the night before. I thought that my slack Americanized pronunciation would be lost on her, but she seemed to follow what I said. She frowned, confused. “No tea in the morning?” The girls also looked away from the television, waiting for my answer. “I need coffee. It’s what I have at school. I’m used to it now.” “But there is no coffee in the kitchen. Not that I have seen.” “Don’t worry about it. I’ll grab some at Dunkin’ Donuts.” Before she had the chance to ask, I continued, “It’s a place that sells doughnuts. Doughnuts are a kind of cake, with a hole in the center.” “The store is far?” “Just a few minutes.” “But you must take the car?” I nodded, and she looked disappointed. “Without a car there is nowhere to go?” “Not really. Can you drive?” She shook her head. “It’s not hard. I’m sure you could get a license.” “Oh, no,” she said, not as if she were incapable but as if driving were beneath her. “I would not like to learn.” “I’ll be back in a while,” I said. I noticed that the girls were looking up at me and I hesitated. “Would you like to come along?” “Yes, please,” Rupa and Piu said at the same time. They looked at Chitra, and she nodded in assent. I went back to the guest room to get my wallet and keys, and when I returned the girls were already in their coats, matching red parkas that my father must have bought for them after they arrived. The thick zippers and bright nylon shells of the coats transformed their appearance, suddenly lending them a legitimately American air. They sat together in the back of my car among the newspapers, empty soda bottles, course books, cassette tapes. “Sorry for the mess,” I said, tossing everything off the seat and onto the floor. They fastened their seat belts carefully, prying one of the buckles out of its gap, Rupa helping Piu. Chitra stood in her housecoat looking through the storm door. She was trusting me to take her children to a place she’d never heard of and would not be able to find. Still, she waved and forced a small smile. I stepped on the clutch, about to reverse the car, when Chitra opened the storm door, poking her head out. “And I will be all right?” “What do you mean?” “I will be safe alone, in this house?” “Of course,” I said, stunned that it would be the first time, nearly laughing at her. “Enjoy it.” “She does not allow us to go outside,” Piu said. “Not without her.” “She is afraid because she cannot see neighbors,” Rupa added. “And that we will fall into the swimming pool.” I did not know how to respond to any of this, so I said nothing as I backed out of the long driveway and drove toward town. The closest Dunkin’ Donuts was less than fifteen minutes away, and when I approached, it felt too soon. I wanted to continue driving, and so I kept going, heading toward the next town, where there was a beach my mother used to like for an occasional change of scenery. This required getting on the highway, and I found it satisfying, accelerating for a short while along the empty, impersonal road. The girls asked no questions about where we were going, each looking steadily out the back windows, the journey brief enough that the lack of conversation did not feel strange. I entered the next town and took a road from which the gray line of the ocean was visible. I pointed this out to Rupa and Piu, but they said nothing. “We can either go into the drive-through or inside,” I said once we reached the doughnut shop. “You guys have a preference?” “Which way is best?” Rupa asked. “With the drive-through, I get my coffee and drink it as we go back to the house. The other way, we sit inside.” Rupa voted for the drive-through, Piu to go inside. “Tell you what,” I said. “We’ll go in, and on our way home I’ll get a refill in the drive-through.” They seemed pleased that neither option would be denied to them and got out of the car, holding hands as they walked across the parking lot. The Dunkin’ Donuts was part of a shopping plaza, and the lot was crammed with the cars of last-minute Christmas shoppers, but Dunkin’ Donuts was empty. I ordered my coffee and asked the girls what they wanted. They stared at the selections, Piu straining on tiptoe, Rupa with her mouth slightly open and her tongue planted in one corner of it. The decent thing to do was to lift Piu up so that she could get a better view, and when I offered she raised her hands and came into my arms. She was heavier than I expected, and I placed her on the counter, where she continued to stare. “Which is your favorite, K.D.?” “Boston cream.” “I want that one, then.” “Me, too,” Rupa said. “Make it three,” I told the cashier. We sat in a booth, me on one side of the Formica table, my stepsisters on the other. They began eating enthusiastically, not pausing until they were finished, exchanging glances in a sisterly commentary I was not privy to. I ate my doughnut as well, surprised by how much smaller their mouths were than mine, how much longer it took them to finish. I felt separate from them in every way but at the same time could not deny the things that bound us together. There was my father, of course, but he seemed to be the least relevant, in a way. Like them, I’d made the journey from India to Massachusetts, too old not to experience the shock of it, too young to have a say in the matter. They would recall all of this, perhaps not as clearly as I remembered those first months, but nevertheless they would remember. Like them, I had lost a parent and was now being asked to accept a replacement. I wondered how clearly they remembered their father; Piu would have been only five when he died. Even my memories of my mother had begun to break apart in the three and a half years since her death, the thousands of days I had spent with her reduced to a handful of stock scenes. I was lucky, compared with Rupa and Piu, having had my mother for as long as I did. The knowledge of death seemed present in both sisters—it was something about the way they carried themselves, something that had broken too soon and had not mended, marking them in spite of their lightheartedness. “Liked that?” I asked. Both girls nodded, and Piu said, “Another tooth is loose.” She opened her mouth and pressed a tiny chocolate-stained lower tooth forward with her tongue. The coffee was too hot to drink, so I removed the lid and set it on the counter. Piu was looking out the window, at the cars pulling in and out of the lot. Rupa was eying the doughnuts on display, the dispensers of coffee, the tanks of bubbling red punch. “Would you like another?” She shook her head, avoiding my gaze. She was more reserved than Piu and seemed, at times, unimpressed by her new surroundings. “I would like to bring one home for Ma.” “The one with the colors on top,” Piu said, kneeling up in the booth and pointing. “That is prettiest.” Rupa disagreed. “I like the one that is covered in snow.” “Here’s a dollar,” I said, reaching for my wallet. “Would you guys like to buy a couple more?” “We are not allowed to touch money,” Rupa said. “It’s only a dollar. Even if you were to lose it between here and there,” I said, glancing back at the cash register, “it wouldn’t be a big deal.” “Big deal?” Piu asked, knitting her dark brows together. “Not important.” They slid out of the booth and walked toward the counter, each of them holding a corner of the dollar bill as if it were a miniature banner in a parade. I had my back to the counter, so I turned partway around to watch. I saw Rupa pointing, once and once more, then both of them sliding the dollar to the cashier. He folded over the top of the bag and moved it back and forth, unsure which of the girls to hand it to, eventually leaving it on the counter for Rupa. “Why didn’t you say anything?” I asked when they returned. Rupa handed me the change, looking defensive. “We have done something wrong?” “No. But you could have said the kind of doughnuts you wanted instead of pointing, you could have thanked the cashier when he gave them to you. And you should always start off by saying hello.” Rupa looked down at the table. “Sorry.” “Don’t apologize. I’m just saying, you guys don’t have to be shy. The more you use your English in these situations, the better it will be. It’s already good.” “Not like yours,” Rupa said. “They will laugh at us in school.” “I am afraid to go to school,” Piu said, shaking her head and covering her eyes with her hands. It was not my intention to reassure them, but it seemed cruel not to. “Look, I know how you feel. A few kids might laugh in the beginning, but it doesn’t matter. They laughed at me, too. I came here from Bombay when I was sixteen and had to figure things out all over again. I was born here but it was still hard, leaving and then coming back again.” “It was before your mother died?” Piu asked. She asked this reverently, a bit sadly, as if she’d actually known my mother, or perhaps because it reminded her of her father, I could not tell. I nodded. “What was she like?” “She was—she was my mother,” I said, caught off guard by the question. I felt suddenly vulnerable in front of two little girls I’d known less than a day and yet who understood me better, in many ways, than friends who had known me for years. Four years ago, my mother would have been the one sitting across from me, sipping her tea, complaining how tasteless it was, after one of our windy walks along the beach. “Do you have a picture of her?” Rupa asked. For a moment her gaze held mine. “No,” I lied, not wanting to show them the one I carried stuffed behind the I.D. cards in my wallet. It had been taken during a party in our flat in Bombay, long before her illness. “Why is there no picture of her in the house?” Rupa asked. “My father didn’t want any.” “Ma has been looking,” Piu said. “She has looked in every room. But she cannot find one.” Chitra was sitting on the window seat when we got back, watching for my car. The anxiety in her face was obvious, but she didn’t ask what had taken us so long. Piu and Rupa didn’t give her a chance, rushing up as if they hadn’t seen her for days, handing her the doughnuts and telling her what a fun trip it was, how generous I’d been, Piu reporting that they’d paid for the doughnuts themselves. It was obvious that the girls liked me and that, because of her daughters’ approval, Chitra was willing to like me, too. But I needed to be alone. The open plan of the house meant it was impossible to watch television or listen to music without engaging with them. Instead, I sat on the bed in the guest room, looking at the yard and leafing through the Globe. Then I went for a run, five cold miles on the winding roads. When I returned, they were eating a heavy Bengali lunch, hunched over plates of rice and dal and the previous night’s leftovers. I turned down Chitra’s invitation to join them and instead, after my shower, dragged the phone into the guest room and called Jessica. “Why don’t you just come here?” she suggested. I wished I could, wished I could simply get into my car and drive to her parents’ home. But I wasn’t capable of walking out, not yet. When I went to return the phone to its place in the hallway, I realized that they were all upstairs, napping, the way my relatives did in India. For the first time since my arrival, I stretched out on the sectional, to watch television, and without meaning to I fell asleep myself. They were downstairs when I woke up, within arm’s reach but behaving as if I were not there. It was already getting dark outside, the arcing lamp spreading its light over the cocktail table. The channel had been changed to a talk show. Chitra was combing and retying the girls’ hair and then proceeded to comb her own. She worked through it with her fingers, a stunning mass cascading nearly to her waist which had been contained, until now, in a braid. The sight repulsed me; I could not help thinking of the hair that had fallen out in clumps from my mother’s head, the awful wig she’d worn, even in the hospital, up until the day she died. Rupa sat behind Chitra, massaging her mother’s scalp and plucking out a few gray hairs while Chitra leaned back and closed her eyes. I sat up and watched, imagining the rest of Chitra’s hair turning gray one day, imagining her growing into an old woman alongside my father, the way my mother was meant to. That thought made me conscious, formally, of my hatred of her. As if aware of what I was thinking, Chitra opened her eyes and looked at me, embarrassed, quickly gathering her hair around her hand. She got up and went to the kitchen, returning a few minutes later with a pot of tea and cups of Ovaltine on a tray. There were two types of chanachur in cereal bowls and, on a small plate, a doughnut cut into four pieces. “Now will you take tea?” she asked me. I accepted, lifting from the tray the cup she’d already prepared, with separately heated milk and too much sugar. “This is from Haldiram,” she said, passing me one of the cereal bowls. “Best in all Calcutta.” “No, thank you.” “This room is cold,” she continued. “The wind comes straight through the glass. Why aren’t there curtains?” “It would spoil the view,” I said. “The steps are also slippery.” She pointed to the floating staircase leading to the second floor. “And there is no railing. I am afraid Rupa and Piu will fall.” I turned to look at the thick pieces of wood arranged like empty shelves ascending the white walls. Even at her weakest, my mother had gone up and down them without protest. “Why is there no railing?” Chitra repeated. “Because we liked it that way,” I said, aware that I sounded pedantic. “Because that’s what makes it beautiful.” We had nothing else to say to each other. We sat and watched one program and then the next as Chitra worked on something with a crochet hook, and I wondered how I was going to survive the next four weeks in her company. We were all waiting for my father, waiting for him to return and explain, if only by his presence, why we were sitting together drinking tea. When he did, he asked me to give him a hand outside; there was a Christmas tree tied to the roof of his car. “I would have gone tomorrow,” I said, helping him to untie the rope that held it in place. We dragged the tree inside and propped it in one corner of the living room, next to the high stone fireplace. Chitra and the girls gathered around. “But it’s just like all the other trees outside,” Chitra said, pointing through the glass wall. “It’s different, actually.” I said. “On the property we have pine trees. This is a spruce.” Somewhere in the basement there was a box, my father said, containing the stand, the lights, ornaments to hang from the branches. They were from our first winter in the house, the last Christmas my mother celebrated, and I was surprised my father hadn’t tossed them out. He asked me to go down and look for the box. Our basement lacked the sedimented clutter of most, given that we’d lived in the house only a handful of years. There had been no period of haphazard accumulation, only events that had caused things to be taken away. Still, there were a number of boxes stacked up against the walls, empty ones that had once contained the television and the stereo speakers, others still taped up, full of inessential items my parents had had shipped from Bombay and never bothered to unpack. I slit the tape of a few of the boxes with my car key and lifted the flaps. One contained some old engineering books of my father’s. Another had a dinner set wrapped in pages from the Times of India, plates I had eaten off for years but forgotten until now, with a pattern of small orange diamonds around the rim. I found my enlarger, tongs, a set of trays, and old bottles of fixer for the darkroom I’d set up during my last year of high school. There were times when my mother had come down and kept me company, sitting quietly in the blackness as I struggled to load film onto the developing reel. Together we would breathe in the chemical smells, their corrosiveness, from which my hands were protected by rubber gloves, nothing compared with what was taking place inside her body. She would keep time for me with her watch, familiarizing herself with the process enough to be able to tell me when to pour the series of fluids in and out of the processing tank, both of us knowing that I’d have to buy a timer, eventually. “It must be something like this,” she said once in that perfectly dark, silent, sealed space, and I understood without her saying so that she was imagining what it might be like to be dead. “This is how I want to think of it.” The box I was looking for was labelled “X-Mas” in my mother’s hand. I had no sentimental attachment to the items inside, and yet I didn’t want to see them. The thought of Chitra going through the box, watching her sift through everything, upset me just as it had upset me, throughout the day, to watch her handle the cutlery, the teakettle, to hold the telephone and speak with my father and learn that he was on his way home. When my father had tried to remove the signs of my mother from the house, I blamed him for being excessive, but now I blamed him for not having done enough. “I can’t find it,” I said, after returning upstairs. My father did not press the issue. He behaved differently around Chitra, was more accepting of the minor defeats in life. I offered to go to a drugstore and buy what we needed, glad to have another reason to leave the house. When I came back, my father and I trimmed the tree together, Chitra and the girls watching us from the sectional. We placed the tree in the stand and tightened the screws and draped lights over the branches. There was nothing personal or idiosyncratic to put on it, just a box of sapphire-blue balls, so that it looked less like a tree in someone’s home than one in the corner of a bank or an office lobby. But Rupa and Piu were delighted, exclaiming that they’d never seen anything more beautiful. My father went upstairs and returned with a shopping bag full of gifts. They’d all been wrapped at whatever store he bought them in, the same green-and-gold paper, professionally taped and tied. He distributed them under the tree, eight boxes altogether. “Two for each of you,” he said to no one in particular. Rupa and Piu got up and went to look at them, excited to find their names written on the tags. “Can we open them?” Piu asked Chitra, Chitra who did not know the answer. “Not until Christmas morning,” I said. “Until then you can just look. And maybe shake them a little.” “So lovely,” Chitra said, impressed now that the tree had been trimmed. “Kaushik, what about a picture?” my father suggested. I shook my head. I had left my camera, my father’s old Yashica, at school. “But you always have the camera with you.” That look of irritated disappointment, the one that had appeared the day my mother died and was missing now that he’d married Chitra, passed briefly across my father’s face. “I forgot it,” I said. It was true, I did always have the camera with me. Even on quiet weekends when I came home and my father and I saw no one I would bring it, taking it with me on walks. This time I had left it behind, knowing that I would not want to document anything. “I don’t understand,” my father said. “Neither do I,” I replied. “You haven’t wanted a picture of anything in years.” “That’s not true.” “It is.” We were stating facts and at the same time arguing, an argument whose depths only he and I could fully comprehend. I went to the kitchen to pour myself a drink, bringing it with me to the dining table when Chitra announced, a few minutes later, that dinner was ready. No one said anything during the meal. When we were done eating, Chitra cleared all the plates and took them into the kitchen, just as she had the night before. I sat finishing my drink, and Rupa and Piu slithered out of their seats and returned to the sectional to watch more television. My father got up and followed them, settling into his recliner with the newspaper. He opened it to a large ad for Lechmere that featured cameras for sale, circling things with a ballpoint pen. Two days later was Christmas Eve, and my father stayed home from work, suggesting that we all go, the five of us, into Boston to show Chitra and the girls the city. I had no excuse and so I joined them, sitting in the back seat of my father’s car, between Rupa and Piu. Though we were going for only a short ride, the trip felt strangely momentous. For the last two years of my mother’s life, when she was always in and out of the hospital, we had gone nowhere, taken no trips for pleasure apart from occasional walks along the beach. I had thought we would get out of the car at various points and walk around, but Chitra said it was too cold and my father agreed. After circling around Kendall Square, he drove over the Mass Avenue Bridge and turned onto Commonwealth Avenue, which was decorated with lights and wreaths, and then drove around the Public Garden and the Common. He pointed out the golden dome of the State House and the beautiful homes that lined the steep streets of Beacon Hill. Behind those homes was Mass General, where my father and I had gone together so many times. A phone call had woken us in the early hours one morning, and we had driven down to Boston just as the first light was intruding with harsh orange streaks in the sky. She looked the same as the night before, lying in the bed with her eyes closed, only all the machines were shut off, making the room in which we had spent so many quiet hours all the more silent. Her skin felt chilled when I touched it, as if she had just returned from a brisk walk in winter. I looked up now at the windows of the hospital, but my father turned toward Chitra. “This is where America’s Brahmins live,” he said, laughing at his own joke, and in the front seat Chitra smiled in a way that revealed to me that she was falling in love. For Christmas, my father bought me a sweater and a shirt, but later he gave me an envelope containing ten hundred-dollar bills. “You will need it for this and that,” he said when I told him it was too much. My father had also arranged to go to Disney World for five days; this, along with the toys under the tree, was his present to the girls. “You are welcome to join us,” my father said when he announced this news on Christmas morning, but I said no, making up something about there being a winter session at Swarthmore. My father did not try to persuade me. But Rupa and Piu were devastated. “Why don’t you want to come?” they kept asking, all the more bewildered when they discovered that I had never been to Disney World. I sensed that they needed me, as I needed them, to mask the growing, incontrovertible fact that Chitra and my father now formed a couple. My presence was proof that my mother had once existed, just as they represented the physical legacy of their dead father. “Won’t you be lonely by yourself?” Chitra asked me more than once. At the same time, I gathered that she, like my father, was relieved to hear my plans. I had no plans, of course, other than to be in the house alone. Once I knew that they were leaving, I felt more charitable toward the girls, and in an effort to make up for not going to Disney World I took them to the science museum one day, and another day to the aquarium. They behaved impeccably on these outings, never complaining or demanding, overjoyed when I bought each of them a cheap rubber lobster. They were with me, having ice cream at Herrell’s in Harvard Square, where I’d gone to buy a record, when Piu’s loose tooth fell out as she crunched on her cone, and I sopped up the blood in her mouth with napkins and put the sticky tooth in my pocket, telling them about the tooth fairy as we drove home. I did not hold it against them that they had begun calling my father Daddy. They never spoke of their own father, but one night I woke up to the sound of Piu screaming, locked inside a nightmare, asking for her Baba again and again. A few days before New Year’s Eve, my father and Chitra were invited to a holiday party at the home of some of my parents’ friends. How strange it was, seeing Chitra carefully descending the floating staircase, dressed up in a dark-green sari and a garnet necklace, and my father behind her, then beside her, always beside her now, his hair neatly combed, wearing a tweed sports jacket I had not seen since my mother died. I was not expected to attend the party, but Rupa and Piu were going, had put on matching dresses with red-and-black checkered skirts and black velvet headbands. At the last minute, just as my father was taking the coats out of a closet, Rupa turned to Chitra and asked, “Can we stay home?” “Of course not,” Chitra said. “It would be rude.” “But K.D. isn’t going.” “Actually, it may be rather dull for them,” my father said. “I don’t believe there will be any children close to their ages.” “I haven’t made dinner for them,” Chitra said. “They haven’t eaten.” “I can get a pizza,” I offered, looking up from the sectional. I winked at Rupa and Piu. “We can have our own party.” The girls clapped their hands, Piu smiling to reveal the new gap in her teeth. Chitra told me to have them in bed by nine, and then she and my father buttoned their coats and went off to the party. It was the first time they had gone out alone. The girls took off their shoes but kept their tights and party dresses on, and sat with me to watch television. We passed a bag of potato chips back and forth, and when it was empty I called for pizzas. I put on my coat to go to the restaurant. Rupa and Piu stared at me. “Where are you going?” Piu asked. “To get our dinner.” “You are leaving us alone?” “It’s ten minutes away. I’ll be back before you know it.” They said nothing, but they looked scared. It annoyed me that Chitra had instilled in them such fear. “Well, come if you want.” We drove to the restaurant and ended up eating the pizza there. I drank a beer and smoked a few cigarettes during the meal, and Rupa and Piu sipped Cokes from tall paper cups. They asked me again if I would go with them to Disney World. I told them I would think about it, and the lie was enough to fill them with new hope. The phone was ringing when we returned to the house. It was Jessica, so I poured myself a drink and took the phone into the guest room. When I told her about my father taking Chitra and the girls to Disney World, Jessica suggested coming up to visit me while they were away. I missed her, I thought about her and desired her at night in bed, and yet I did not want to see her in my parents’ house. I didn’t say this, but she sensed my reluctance, and we began to quarrel for the first time. It was an awkward conversation, full of long pauses, draining, even though it never escalated into a real argument. I told Jessica the same lie that I told the girls, that I would think about it, and got off the phone. When I opened the door, I saw that Rupa and Piu were no longer watching television. I called for them, checking the kitchen, the bathroom, then went upstairs, to the door of my old room. I didn’t hear them talking and, seeing that it was already ten o’clock, thought maybe they were asleep. I opened the door, looking into the room for the first time since I’d come home. The lights were on, and I saw my old bed, and a folding cot placed beside it without any gap. The things I’d had on the walls, the poster of Jimi Hendrix and a copy of Paul Strand’s “Blind Woman” that I’d ripped out of a magazine, had not been removed. The closet door was open, and there was a chair in front of it, as if positioned to pull something down from the shelf. I had thought the room would be transformed with Rupa and Piu’s things, but there was no sign of them apart from the extra bed and the small pile of toys they’d got for Christmas neatly stacked in one corner. Close to this pile sat Rupa and Piu in their party dresses. They had their backs to me, were hunched over something on the carpet that I couldn’t see. “She looks sad in this one,” I heard Piu whisper in Bengali, and then Rupa, saying, “She and K.D. smile the same way.” “What are you doing?” I said. They leaped apart, startled, realizing I was there. Spread out on the gray carpet, arranged like a game of solitaire, were about a dozen photographs of my mother taken from the box my father had sealed up and hidden after her death. Even from a distance, the banished images assaulted me: My mother wearing a swimsuit by the edge of the pool at our old club in Bombay. My mother sitting with me on her lap on the brown wooden steps of our house in Cambridge. My mother and my father standing, before I was born, in front of a snow-caked hedge. “What the hell do you think you’re doing?” I said now. Rupa looked at me, her dark eyes flashing, and Piu began to cry. I walked into the room and picked up the pictures, putting them face down on my old dresser. Then I grabbed Rupa by the shoulders from where she sat crouched on the floor, shaking her forcefully. Her body had gone limp, her thin legs wobbling in their cabled black tights. I wanted to throw her against the wall, but instead I managed to direct her to the folding cot and forced her to sit, knowing that I was squeezing too hard. “Tell me, where did you find these?” I demanded, just inches from her face. Now Rupa began to cry as well, but she pointed to the closet. I walked toward it, but Piu, still sobbing on the carpet and shaking her head, said, “It is not there anymore.” She crawled toward the cot where her sister was sitting and pulled out a black shoebox, white at the edges, the masking tape that had once bound it lifted away. This time it was Piu that I grabbed, dragging her away from the shoebox as if her proximity would contaminate it and thrusting her aside. “You have no right to be looking at those,” I told them. “They don’t belong to you, do you understand?” They nodded, Rupa trembling as if with cold, Piu’s lips pressed tightly together. Tears fell down their faces but words continued to pour out of me, words that should not have been uttered, should not have been heard. “Well, you’ve seen it for yourselves, how beautiful my mother was. How much prettier and more sophisticated than yours. Your mother is nothing in comparison. Just a servant to wash my father’s clothes and cook his meals. That’s the only reason she’s here, the only reason both of you are here.” Now the girls were no longer crying, their shiny black heads staring down at the carpet, not moving, saying nothing in reply. I took the shoebox and the rest of my mother’s photographs and left the room. I wanted to remove the pictures from the house, as far as I could. I returned to the guest room, hastily packed my things, and got into my car, telling myself that my father and Chitra would be back from their party soon enough. My actions felt spontaneous, almost involuntary, propelled by the adrenaline of a state of emergency, but I realize now that on some level I had been thinking of running away for days. Rupa and Piu never came out of their room, never opened the door to see or question what I was doing, and when I started the car they did not rush out of the house to beg me to stay. I had no idea where to go, but I got on the highway and started driving north. I quickly left Massachusetts, driving through a small piece of New Hampshire and over the bridge into Maine. As I approached Portland, I turned onto a smaller, two-lane road that occasionally hugged the sea. I drove down dark, empty stretches punctuated now and then by a cluster of churches and restaurants and houses. I could not see the ocean but detected its salty smell and the jerking sound of the wind, a sound like that of a fire burning, penetrating the closed doors and windows of my car. I thought at first that I would drive through the night, but eventually I began to feel tired and looked for a place to sleep. Most of the hotels and motels were shut for the season, and the ones that looked open were closed because it was so late. I was considering pulling onto the shoulder to nap when I spotted a motel with a twenty-four-hour sign glowing in the parking lot. The next day, I was woken by the calls of seabirds. I sat up in a sagging brass bed and saw the water for the first time, outside my window. I remember that the window was disproportionately small for the room, as if the motel itself were a ship. The water was choppy, a gray a shade or two darker than the sky, its nearness and activity unknown to me as I’d slept. The room was dank and clammy, wallpapered with small blue anchors against a white ground, and the empty medicine cabinet in the bathroom was edged with rust. The desk clerk told me that there was a restaurant a few miles down the road, and that I was somewhere on Penobscot Bay. After breakfast, I walked around the town and along the harbor, past boarded-up businesses and summer homes. But I spent most of the day in the motel, either looking at the ocean from the armchair in my room or downstairs at the bar, drinking, feeling sick to my stomach about what had happened the night before, afraid of myself and ashamed. I kept seeing Rupa and Piu with their heads bent, their bodies prepared to be shaken again, absorbing all the things I was too afraid to say to my father and Chitra. And I thought of them in the house after I’d left, knowing how frightened they were to be alone. I wondered what had happened when my father and Chitra returned from the party, what Rupa and Piu had told them. I assumed they’d told everything, that they had done the dirty work of expressing what I could not. I was aware that by disappearing I was causing my father concern, but I felt worse about my treatment of the girls. It was to Rupa and Piu that I owed the greater apology, but at the same time I knew that what was done was done, that no matter what I said now I would never be able to make it right. In the afternoon, I went to a pay phone and called my father at work. “I know that you aren’t happy, that this is hard for you,” he told me, as if my disappearance were something he’d been prepared for. “But you could have done the decent thing and waited until morning. You could have said goodbye.” I didn’t offer an explanation. I had none. Instead, I asked how the girls had been when my father and Chitra returned. “They were asleep,” my father said. “Still, you shouldn’t have abandoned them in the house, Kaushik, not so late at night. Anything might have happened. Chitra was quite disturbed. She’s worried that it’s her fault you’ve run off, that she’s said or done something to upset you. She’s trying her best, you know.” I realized then: the girls had said nothing. Chitra had no idea that I had ranted at her daughters, that I had harmed and terrified them. “We leave for Florida the day after tomorrow,” my father said. “Do you plan to return by then?” “I don’t think so.” “You will get back to college on time?” “Yes.” “We will speak in a few weeks, then.” He hung up the phone. He had not bothered to ask me where I’d gone. The next morning, I got back in my car, and for days I did the same thing: driving along the coast, eating in restaurants when I was hungry, finding motels when I was tired, paying for it with the money my father had given me for Christmas. I didn’t bother getting a map. A gas-station attendant told me that eventually I would hit Canada. Now and again I saw the water, little islands and striped lighthouses and tiny spits of land. It was too brutally cold to get out of the car, but occasionally I did, to look at the ocean or explore a bit of trail. It was like no other place I’d seen, nothing like the North Shore. The sky was different, without color, taut and unforgiving. But the water was the most unforgiving thing, nearly black at times, cold enough, I knew, to kill me, violent enough to break me apart. The waves were immense, battering rocky beaches without sand. The farther I went, the more desolate it became, more than any place I’d been, but for this very reason the landscape drew me, claimed me as nothing had in a long time. Most of the fishing villages were shut down, the lobster boats out of the water for the winter, the wooden traps stacked and empty. The bars were the only consistent sign of life, strange small places that felt more like people’s living rooms, with clamshells for ashtrays and nets draped on the walls. I had nothing to say to the fishermen and the other people who drank there and had lived in those villages all their lives, their tobacco-stained beards concealing their faces, their hands raw and chapped, their accents unfathomable. They were neither friendly nor unfriendly, and I kept to myself, aware that I stood out. I did not crave anyone’s company. I had never travelled alone before and I discovered that I liked it. No one in the world knew where I was, no one had the ability to reach me. It was like being dead, my escape allowing me to taste that tremendous power my mother possessed forever. I spent five days getting to the border of Canada, another four heading back, using my father’s money almost to the penny. Somewhere during that time, the year ended; I was aware of it thanks only to a free shot of whiskey I received one night in a bar. I was certain that if my mother had lived to visit that part of the world she would have persuaded my father to buy her one of the hundreds of houses I passed, overlooking the open sea. The bars and diners I stopped at all had stacks of pamphlets listing waterfront properties, and sometimes, lacking anything else to read, I looked at them. It reminded me of my parents’ search for our house after leaving Bombay. In spite of all the effort and money my mother put into that house, we had never been able to inhabit it properly, and because of what was happening to her we never felt happy. There phone calls were made to doctors, medicine bottles were strewn about, the paraphernalia of her illness taking over every corner of every room. It was there that my mother prepared to depart for another place altogether, one where we would be unable to join her and from which she would not return. One day, close to the Canadian border, walking along cliffs overlooking the Bay of Fundy, I found a spot that was particularly striking. A sign told me that I was in the easternmost state park in the country. The trail was not easy, falling through rich-smelling pine forests. The tops of the trees were spindly, their lower boughs dusted with snow. The wind ripped and chewed through everything, and the water was a sheer drop down. I crossed paths with no one. For a long time, I watched the approach and retreat of the waves, their thick caps crashing apart against the rocks, that eternally restless motion having an inversely calming effect on me. The following day I returned to the same spot, this time bringing with me the shoebox of my mother’s photographs. I sat on the ground, opened the box, and began going through the pictures one by one, as if they were pieces of mail that I was quickly scanning and would read later on. But there were too many pictures, and after a few I, like my father, could no longer bear the sight of them. A slight lessening in the pressure of my fingertips and the ones I was holding would have blown away into that wild sea, scattering down to where my mother’s ashes already resided. But I could not bear that, either, and so I put them back in the box and began to break the hardened ground. I had only a stick and a sharp-edged rock to work with and the hole was not impressive, but it was deep enough to conceal the box. I covered it with dirt and stones. The moon’s first light was shining down when I was done, and I walked back, aided by that same beam of light, to my car. A few weeks before my college graduation, my father called to say that he was selling our house, that he and Chitra and the girls were moving to a more traditional one in a less isolated suburb of Boston. There were other Bengalis nearby and an Indian grocery in the town, things that were more important to Chitra than the proximity of the ocean and modernist architecture had been for my mother. I would not be following my father to that new house; I had made plans to travel in South America after graduating. The events over Christmas had never been discussed, never acknowledged. Along with my father, Chitra and Rupa and Piu watched my commencement sitting on folding chairs on the grass, clapping when it was my turn to walk to the dais, posing beside me for photographs in my cap and gown. The girls were polite to me, respectful of the fact that it was my day, but it was as if we’d never met. I knew that they had never revealed anything to Chitra or to my father about the things I had said and done that night, that it would remain between the three of us, that in their silence they continued both to protect and to punish me. The memory of that night was now the only tie between us, eclipsing everything else. In their utterly polite way, they made that clear. They spoke only to each other, and though their accents had turned American, my stepsisters, the closest thing I would ever have to siblings, seemed more impenetrable to me now than they had when they arrived. “Everyone closer,” my father directed from behind his new camera, and Rupa and Piu held their shoulders tensely as I draped an arm around each. “We are both moving forward, Kaushik,” my father told me after the ceremony. “New roads to explore.” And, without our having to say it, I knew we were both thankful to Chitra for chafing under whatever lingered of my mother’s spirit in the place she had last called home and for forcing us to shut its doors.
The King of Sentences This was the time when all we could talk about was sentences, sentences—nothing else stirred us. Whatever happened in those days, whatever befell our regard, Clea and I couldn’t rest until it had been converted into what we told ourselves were astonishingly unprecedented and charming sentences: “Esther’s cleavage is something to be noticed” or “You can’t have a contemporary prison without contemporary furniture” or “I envision an art which will make criticism itself seem like a cognitive symptom, one which its sufferers define to themselves as taste but is in fact nothing of the sort” or “I said I want my eggs scrambled not destroyed.” At the explosion of such a sequence from our green young lips, we’d rashly scribble it on the wall of our apartment with a filthy wax pencil, or type it twenty-five times on the same sheet of paper and then photocopy the paper twenty-five times and then slice each page into twenty-five slices on the paper cutter in the photocopy shop and then scatter the resultant six hundred and twenty-five slips of paper throughout the streets of our city, fortunes without cookies. We worked in bookstores, the only thing to do. Nobody who didn’t—and that included every one of our customers—knew what any of the volumes throbbing along those shelves was worth, not remotely. Nor did the bookstores’ owners. Clea and I were custodians of a treasury of sentences much bigger on the inside than on the outside. Though we mostly handled the books only by their covers (or paged briefly through to ascertain that no dunce had striped the pages yellow or pink with a Hi-Liter), we communed deeply with them, felt certain that only we deserved to abide with them. Any minute we’d read them all cover to cover, it was surely about to happen. Meanwhile, every customer robbed us a little. At the cash registers we spoke sentences tailored to convey our disdain, in terms so subtle it was barely detectable. If our customers blinked a little at the insults we embedded in our thank-yous, we believed, they just might be worthy of the marvels their grubby dollars entitled them to bear away. We disparaged modern and incomplete forms: gormless and garbled jargon, graffiti, advertising, text-messaging. No sentence conveyed by photons or bounced off satellites had ever come home intact. Punctuation! We knew it was holy. Every sentence we cherished was sturdy and Biblical in its form, carved somehow by hand-dragged implement or slapped onto sheets by an inky key. For sentences were sculptural, were we the only ones who understood? Sentences were bodies, too, as horny as the flesh-envelopes we wore around the house all day. Erotically enjambed in our loft bed, Clea patrolled my utterances for subject, verb, predicate, as a chef in a five-star kitchen would minister a recipe, insuring that a soufflé or sourdough would rise. A good brave sentence (“I can hardly bear your heel at my nape without roaring”) might jolly Clea to instant climax. We’d rise from the bed giggling, clutching for glasses of cold water that sat in pools of their own sweat on bedside tables. The sentences had liberated our higher orgasms, nothing to sneeze at. Similarly, we were also sure that sentences of the right quality could end this hideous endless war, if only certain standards were adopted at the higher levels. They never would be. All the media trumpeted the Administration’s lousy grammar. But we were chumps and we knew it. As makers of sentences we were practically fetal, beneath notice, unlaunched, fooling around in our spare time or on somebody else’s dime. Nobody loved our sentences as we loved them, and so they congealed or grew sour on our tongues. We barely glanced at our wall-scribblings for fear of what a few weeks or even hours might expose in our infatuations. Our photocopied fortune slips we’d find in muddy clogs in storm drains, tangled with advertising flyers, unheeded. Our manuscripts? Those were unspeakable secrets, kept not only from the world but from each other. My pages were shameful, occluded everywhere with xxxxxx’s of regret. I scurried to read Clea’s manuscript every time she left the apartment but never confessed that I even knew it existed. Her title was “Those Young Rangers Thought Love Was a Scandal Like a Bald White Head.” Mine was “I Heard the Laughter of the Sidemen from Behind Their Instruments.” Others might hail kings of beer or burgers—we bowed to the King of Sentences. There was just one. We owned his titles in immaculate firsts and tattered reading copies and odd variant editions. It thrilled us to see the pedestrian jacket copy and salacious cover art on his early mass-market paperbacks: to think that he’d once been considered fodder for dime-store carrousels! The newest editions of the titles he’d allowed to be reprinted (four early novels had been suppressed from republication) were splendidly austere, their jackets, from the small presses that published him now, bearing text only, no graven images. The progress of his editions on our shelf was like a cartoon of evolution, a slug crawling from the surf to become a mammal, a monkey, and then at last a hairless noble fellow gazing into the future. The King of Sentences gave no interviews, taught nowhere, condescended to appear at no panels or symposia. His tastes, hobbies, and heartbreaks were unknown, and we extrapolated them from his books at our peril. His digital footprint was pale: people like that didn’t care about people like him. Google, for what it was worth, favored a famous painter of wildlife scenes—beaver dams, heron hideaways—with the same name. The King of Sentences only wrote, beavering away himself on a dam of quintessence, while wholly oblivious of public indifference and of a sales record by now likely descending to rungs occupied by poets. His author photograph, identical on twenty years of jackets and press clippings until it stopped circulating at all, arrested him somewhere in the mid-sixties, turtlenecked, holding a cocktail glass forever. His last cocktail, maybe. In the same loft where we entangled, Clea and I drove ourselves mad reading the King of Sentences’ books aloud, by candlelight, when we ought to have been sleeping. We’d tear the book from each other’s hands for the pleasure of running his words like gerbils in the habitrails of our own mouths. We’d alternate chapters, pages, paragraphs, finally sentences, at last agree to read him in unison. He could practically hear us as we intoned his words, we’d swear they reached his ears. But not really. Really, we were vowing to ourselves and to each other that we’d make a day trip in search of the King of Sentences, that we’d flush him out, propel ourselves into his company and confidence, buoy him with our love and bind ourselves (and our secret manuscripts, oh yeah!) to his greatness. We each had what the other needed, of this we were positive. Maybe we’d watch him write. Maybe he’d watch us dance, or fuck, who knew? We’d buy him lunch. He was surely mortal enough for lunch. He’d want us at least for lunch. He lived, we’d learned, north of the city, having drawn from his days as a Greenwich Village flâneur whatever inspiration he’d needed, and departed around the time of that last photograph and cocktail. (We figured that his departure from the narrow town house on Jane Street marked an expiration date on anything west of Second Avenue as an authentic locale.) Minimal detective work pinned him to a P.O. box in Hastings-on-Hudson—how clever and coy he had been to find a place-name that was itself, with the mere insertion of an apostrophe, a sentence, and a faintly lascivious one, too. So it was that we knew he’d summoned us to his hiding place: Clea could play Hudson, and I’d be Hasting. We sent a postcard warning, addressed to his box. No return address, so he couldn’t refuse. No fancy sentences, fearing his judgment of those. Just fragments: “coming in two weeks,” “get ready,” “can’t wait to meet in person” (as if we’d already met on other planes, for we had). The appointed day came upon us like a sickness, and though each in our privacy might have preferred to stay in bed and sweat it out we couldn’t have looked each other in the eye if we hadn’t staggered out of doors, to the subway, up to Grand Central Terminal. During the short ride we held hands, fever-sweaty at the palms. Exiting Metro-North’s Hastings-on-Hudson station under a thundercloud-clotted sky, we found ourselves the sole travellers not claimed by family members waiting in Subarus or bleeping their driver-side doors unlocked as they crossed the parking lot with cell phones clammed to their ears. The train continued on behind us, and the station depopulated as if neutron-bombed. “This is the town of the King of Sentences.” “This little town.” “He could be watching us now, don’t act stupid. With a telescope.” We blundered along something called Main Street, seeking the post office, until a passerby directed us to Warburton Avenue. Inside the mediocre lobby we staked out a position near the numbered boxes, innocuously pretending to screw up our change-of-address forms so that we had to start over again a dozen times. His box, which we surveilled with peripheral vision only, pulsed with risk and possibility—our own postcard had been handled there, a precursor to this encounter. Losing patience, we sidled to the main counter. “What time on the average day does the box holder typically, you know, pick up?” “Box mail goes up at ten-thirty.” “Right, sure, but mostly when do citizens appear and begin to gather it up, take it to their private homes?” “Whenever they care to.” “Sure, right, this is America, isn’t it?” “Sure is.” “Thank you.” We resumed charades with the chained pen. Two, three, five, eight, eighteen Hastings-on-Hudsonians lumbered in to check their boxes, sort circulars into recycling bins, greet the postmistress, and trade coins for stamps, each of comically tiny denominations. Everyone in this hamlet, it seemed, had just found a sixteen- or twenty-three-cent stamp in a dusty drawer, and had chosen today to supplement it up to viability using car-seat nickels and pennies. Yet somehow between transactions the postmistress had snuck away for a tattling phone call, or so we surmised from the blinking patrol car that now swept up in front of the P.O. Into the lobby strode a cowboyesque figure, a man, late-fiftyish, wearing a badge in the manner of a star, lean, and, when he spoke, laconic. Clea read my mind, saying, “You the sheriff in these parts?” “Chief of Police.” “Not the Sheriff of Hastings-on-Hudson?” “No, ma’am, there isn’t one. Can I ask what you’re doing here?” “Waiting.” “Have you folks got postal business today?” “No,” I said. “But we’ve got business with someone who might have postal business, if that’s O.K.” “I suppose it might be, sir, but I’m forced to wonder who we’re talking about.” “The King of Sentences.” “I see. You wouldn’t happen to be the authors of a certain unsigned and borderline-ominous postcard?” “Might happen to be, though there was hardly ominous intent.” “I see. And now you’re waiting, I’m guessing, for the addressee.” “In the manner of free Americans in a federally controlled public space, yes. We checked with the postmistress.” “I see. You mind if I wait a bit myself?” “By definition we can’t.” Soon enough he appeared. The King of Sentences, unmistakably, though withered like a shrunken-apple fetish of the noble cipher in the photograph. He wore a gray sweatshirt and caramel corduroys with the knees and thighs bald, like a worn radial tire. Absurd black Nikes over gray dress socks. Hair white and scant. Eyes tiny and darting. They darted to the not-sheriff, who nodded minimally. The King nodded back with equal economy. We collapsed, as planned, to our knees, conveying the beautiful anguish of our subjection to the sole King of Sentences—bowed heads, fingers wriggling as if combing the air for particles of his greatness. A chapter of “I Heard the Laughter of the Sidemen from Behind Their Instruments,” secreted in the waistband of my underwear, buckled as I knelt there. The King stood inert, if anything sagged slightly. The Chief turned and shook his head, a little appalled. “You O.K.?” he asked the King. “Sure. Let me talk to them a minute.” “Anything you say.” The law went outside, to stand and take a cigarette beside his cruiser. He watched us through the window. We nodded and waved as we scrambled back to our feet. “Who sent you?” the King said. “You, you, you,” Clea said. “It was you.” “We weren’t so much sent as drawn,” I said. “You gave us the gift of your work, and now we’re here, a gift in return.” “Take us,” Clea said. “No, thank you,” the King said. His eyes shifted nervously from Clea, settling on me. “We annointed you the King of Sentences,” I told him. “We’re the ones who did that. Nobody else.” I didn’t want to bully him with news of how scarcely his name circulated, how stale and marked-down the assembly of his hardcovers on used-bookstore shelves. “I didn’t tell you to come.” “No, but you are responsible for our presence.” “Let me be clear. I have nothing for you.” “Take us home.” “Not on your life.” “We came all this way.” He shrugged. “When’s the next train back?” The sentences that emerged from his mouth were flayed, generic, like lines from black-and-white movies. I tried not to be disappointed in this stylistic turn. He had something to teach us, always. “We don’t care. We don’t have tickets. We came for you.” “I don’t fraternize. This kind of intrusion is the last thing I need.” “Lunch,” I begged. “Just lunch.” “I eat only what my housekeeper prepares. A disproportion of sodium could murder me at this point.” Clea hugged herself with pleasure. I heard her murmur the line, cherishing it privately, “. . . disproportion . . . sodium . . . murder me.” The King craned on his Nike toes, checking that the cop was still outside. “Forget lunch. An hour of your time.” “We’re to hover in the post-office lobby for an hour? Doing what, exactly?” “No, let’s go somewhere,” Clea said. “A hotel room, if you won’t have us in your house.” “Or the bar,” I said, offering a check on Clea’s presumption. “The bar in the lobby of a hotel, a public setting. For a cocktail.” The King laughed for the first time, a cackle edged, like a burnt cookie, with bitterness. “What largesse. You’d take me to one of our town’s fine hotels. They’re as superb as the restaurants. Motel 6 or Econo Lodge, I believe those are your options.” “Anywhere,” Clea panted. The King’s weary gaze again shunted: Clea, myself, the disinterested postmistress, the Chief outside, who now ground a butt into the curb with his heel and turned his head to follow the progress of some retreating buttocks. The King’s voice edged down an octave. “Econo Lodge,” he said. “On Lower Brunyon. I’ll find you there in fifteen minutes.” “We don’t have a vehicle.” “Too bad.” “Can we ride with you?” “No way, José.” “How do we get there?” “Figure it out.” The King of Sentences departed the P.O. and skulked around the corner and out of view, presumably to his car. I couldn’t have entirely imagined the extra little kick in his step as he went. The King had been energized, if only slightly, by meeting his subjects. It was a start, I thought. On the sidewalk we teetered with excitement, blinking in the glare that now filtered through the gnarled clouds. The Chief looked us up and down again. We offered charming smiles. “Can I give you folks a lift back to the station?” “No, thanks, we’re looking for Lower Brunyon. Care to point us in the right direction?” “Why Lower Brunyon?” “The Econo Lodge, if you must know. Is it walking distance?” “Longish, I’d say. Why not let me escort you?” “Sure.” We sat behind a cage. The back seat smelled of smoke, perfume, and vomit, raising interesting questions about the definition of police work in Hastings-on-Hudson. The Chief took corners smoothly, in the prowling, snaky manner of a driver unconcerned about regulating his speed. “You two in the regular habit of doing junk like this?” “What do you mean by ‘junk’?” “Putting yourselves in the hands of a customer like your friend in there?” “I’d be junk in his hands any day,” Clea said defiantly. “Well, he’s old and likely pretty harmless by now,” the Chief said. “I saw him the other day in the pharmacy, getting himself one of those inflatable doughnuts for sitting on when you’ve got anal discomfort. I’d say from what I’ve heard those sort of troubles are his just deserts. We’re not dummies around here, you know. When he moved up here from the city a certain number of stories trailed after him. He’s been a bad boy.” “He’s the greatest maker of sentences in the United States of America,” I said. “I’ve had a look,” the Chief said. “He’s not bad. I’m just wondering if you ever troubled with the content of his books, as opposed to just the sentences.” “Sentences are content,” Clea said. The Chief lifted his hands in mock surrender. “Fair enough then, I’ve said my piece. Just understand this—whatever my personal views of either his character or his prose he’s under my protection surely as any other citizen in this town. Comprende?” “Does everyone up here speak Spanish? Is this a bilingual metropolis?” Clea said. “That’s enough out of you, young lady. Here’s the Econo Lodge, and a good day to you both.” “Thanks, Chief.” We crept inside the Econo Lodge’s slumbering atrium. A uniformed teen-age clerk blinked hello, raised his hand. We ignored him. The King of Sentences hovered beside a counter bearing urns of complimentary coffee labelled “Premium,” “Diesel,” and “Jet Fuel.” The King nodded mutely, beckoned to us with a tilt of his chin. We trailed him down a corridor with a tongue-hued carpet. I worked not to visualize an anal doughnut. “Inside,” he said. The King lit only a lamp at the bedside in the windowless room. We crowded in, the room a mere margin to the queen-size bed. The air-conditioner rumbled and hummed. The temperature was frigid. The King took the only chair, gestured us to the bed’s edge. We sat. Clea and I began simultaneously, tangling aloud. “We’re—” I said. Clea said, “You’re the—” “Let’s not waste time,” the King interrupted. He spoke in an exhausted snarl, all redemptive possibility purged from his voice and manner. Our rendezvous had taken on the starkness of an endgame. “Do you want money?” “Money?” I said. “That’s right.” He reached into his shirt pocket and revealed a packet of twenties, obviously prepared in advance. It occurred to me wildly that he’d taken us for blackmailers. Perhaps he was blackmailed routinely, had cash on hand for regular payouts. “How much will it take to make you go away?” He began counting out piles: “Twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, one hundred, twenty, forty, sixty, eighty, two hundred—” “We don’t want your money!” I nearly shouted. “You’ve given us enough, you’ve given us everything! We’re here to give something back!” “I suppose I’m meant to be glad to hear it.” He repocketed his money carelessly. “We’d like you to be glad, yes.” He only cocked an eyebrow. “What have you got for me?” I untucked my polo shirt and withdrew my chapter, the pages a mass curled and baked in its secret compression against my belly. “I knew you looked funny!” Clea cried. I ignored her, handed the pages across to the King. He accepted them, his expression sour. “For a moment there I thought you were about to undress,” he said. “Would you like that?” Clea blurted. “Should we undress?” The King examined us starkly. He placed my chapter ignominiously on the carpet beneath his chair. Perhaps now we were at the crossroads, perhaps we had his attention at last. “Yes,” he said cautiously. “I think that could be . . . advantageous.” We stripped, racing to be the first bared to his view. I’d lose the race either way, for Clea had rigged the game: she had written a sentence on her stomach in blue marker. The sorcerer lately couldn’t recall whether he was a capable sleeper or an insomniac. Brilliant, I thought bitterly. The King stared. I saw Clea’s pubic hair through the eyes of the King. Clea’s bush was full and crazy. I thought, I will never see it again without seeing the pubic hair at which the King of Sentences once glanced. The King said, “Insomniac, I believe.” Clea blushed around the sentence, her flesh blazing like neon. “Hand me your clothes, please.” We handed the King our clothes. He began immediately rending them, in a weary frenzy of destruction, tearing both our shirts sleeve from sleeve, shredding Clea’s bra and underwear, slicing at her skirt with his nicotine teeth. He struggled to do any damage to my jeans. I felt I wanted to help him somehow, but stood jellied in my nakedness, doing nothing, not wishing to insult him, to draw attention to his feebleness. It was a mighty enough display, given his age. The hands that had forged the supreme sentences in contemporary American writing were now dismembering the syntax of my underwear. Soon enough our daily costumes lay in an unseemly ruined pile at our feet. My chapter scattered beneath the clothes and chair legs, forgotten. He hadn’t looked at even one sentence, never would. I knew I would have to forgive him. So I did it right then and there: I forgave him. The King moved to the door. We stood in our bare feet, wobbling slightly, goose-pimpled, still breathing out clouds of expectation like frost-breath. “That’s all?” Clea said. “That’s all, you ask? Yes, that’s all. That’s more than enough.” “You’re leaving us here.” “I am.” He closed the door carefully, not slamming it. Clea and I waited an appropriate interval, then turned and clung to each other in a kind of rapture. Understanding, abruptly and at last, just what it takes to be King. How much, in the end, it actually costs.
Found Objects It began the usual way, in the bathroom of the Lassimo Hotel. Sasha was adjusting her yellow eyeshadow in the mirror when she noticed a bag on the floor beside the sink that must have belonged to the woman whose peeing she could faintly hear through the vault-like door of a toilet stall. Inside the rim of the bag, barely visible, was a wallet made of pale-green leather. It was easy for Sasha to recognize, looking back, that the peeing woman’s blind trust had provoked her: I live in a city where people will steal the hair off your head if you give them half a chance, but you leave your stuff lying in plain sight and expect it to be waiting for you when you come back? It made her want to teach the woman a lesson. But that wish only camouflaged the deeper feeling that Sasha always had: that fat, tender wallet, offering itself to her hand. It seemed so dull, so life-as-usual just to leave it there rather than seize the moment, accept the challenge, take the leap, fly the coop, throw caution to the wind, live dangerously (“I get it,” Coz, her therapist, said), and take the fucking thing. “You mean steal it.” He was trying to get Sasha to use that word, which was harder to avoid in the case of a wallet than with a lot of the things she’d lifted over the past year, when her condition (as Coz referred to it) had begun to accelerate: five sets of keys, fourteen pairs of sunglasses, a child’s striped scarf, binoculars, a cheese grater, a pocket knife, twenty-eight bars of soap, eighty-five pens, ranging from cheap ballpoints she’d used to sign debit-card slips to the aubergine Visconti that cost two hundred and sixty dollars online, which she’d lifted from her former boss’s lawyer during a contracts meeting. Sasha never took anything from stores—their cold, inert goods didn’t tempt her. Only from people. “O.K.,” she said. “Steal it.” Sasha and Coz had dubbed that feeling she got the “personal challenge,” as in: taking the wallet was a way for Sasha to assert her toughness, her individuality. What they needed to do was switch things around in her head so that the challenge became not taking the wallet but leaving it. That would be the cure, although Coz never used words like “cure.” He wore funky sweaters and let her call him Coz, but he was old-school inscrutable, to the point where Sasha couldn’t tell if he was gay or straight, if he’d written famous books or if (as she sometimes suspected) he was one of those escaped cons who impersonate surgeons and wind up leaving their operating tools inside people’s skulls. Of course, these questions could have been resolved on Google in less than a minute, but they were useful questions (according to Coz), and, so far, Sasha had resisted. The couch where she lay in his office was blue leather and very soft. Coz liked the couch, he’d told her, because it relieved them both of the burden of eye contact. “You don’t like eye contact?” Sasha had asked. It had seemed like a weird thing for a therapist to admit. “I find it tiring,” he’d said. “This way, we can both look where we want.” “Where will you look?” He smiled. “You can see my options.” “Where do you usually look? When people are on the couch.” “Around the room,” Coz said. “At the ceiling. Into space.” “Do you ever sleep?” “No.” Sasha usually looked at the window, which faced the street, and tonight, as she continued her story, was rippled with rain. She’d glimpsed the wallet, tender and overripe as a peach. She’d plucked it from the woman’s bag and slipped it into her own small handbag, which she’d zipped shut even before the sound of peeing had stopped. She’d flicked open the bathroom door and floated back through the lobby to the bar. She and the wallet’s owner had never seen each other. Pre-wallet, Sasha had been in the grip of a dire evening: lame date (yet another) brooding behind dark bangs, sometimes glancing at the flat-screen TV, where a Jets game seemed to interest him more than Sasha’s admittedly worn-out tales of Bennie Salazar, her old boss, who ran a record label and also (Sasha happened to know) sprinkled gold flakes into his coffee—as an aphrodisiac, she suspected—and sprayed pesticide in his armpits. Post-wallet, however, the scene tingled with mirthful possibility. Sasha felt the waiters eying her as she sidled back to the table holding her handbag with its secret weight. She sat down and took a sip of her Melon Madness Martini and cocked her head at Alex. She smiled her yes/no smile: remote yet flirtatious, quizzical yet penetrating, a smile she could muster only at certain lucky times. “Hello,” she said. The yes/no smile was amazingly effective. “You’re happy,” Alex said. “I’m always happy,” Sasha said. “Sometimes I just forget.” Alex had paid the bill while she was in the bathroom—clear proof that he’d been on the verge of aborting their date. Now he studied her. “You feel like going somewhere else?” They stood. Alex wore black cords and a white button-down shirt. He was a legal secretary. On e-mail he’d been fanciful, almost goofy, but in person he seemed simultaneously anxious and bored. She could tell that he was in excellent shape, not because he went to the gym but because he was young enough that his body was still imprinted with whatever sports he’d played in high school and college. Sasha, who was thirty-five, had passed that point. Still, not even Coz knew her real age. The closest anyone had come to guessing it was thirty-one, and most put her in her twenties. She worked out daily and avoided the sun. Her online profiles all listed her as twenty-eight. As Sasha followed Alex from the bar, she couldn’t resist unzipping her purse and touching the fat green wallet just for a second, for the contraction it made her feel around her heart. “You’re aware of how the theft makes you feel,” Coz said. “To the point where you remind yourself of it to improve your mood. But do you think about how it makes the other person feel?” Sasha tipped back her head to look at him. She made a point of doing this now and then, just to remind Coz that she wasn’t an idiot—she knew that the question had a right answer. She and Coz were collaborators, writing a story whose end had already been determined: she would get well. She would stop stealing from people and start caring again about the things that had once guided her: music, the network of friends she’d made when she first came to New York, a set of goals she’d scrawled on a big sheet of newsprint and taped to the walls of her early apartments. Find a band to manage Understand the news Study Japanese Learn the harp “I don’t think about the people,” Sasha said. “But it isn’t that you lack empathy,” Coz said. “We know that, because of the plumber.” Sasha sighed. She’d told Coz the plumber story about a month ago, and he’d found a way to bring it up at almost every session since. The plumber was an old man, sent by Sasha’s landlord to investigate a leak in the apartment below hers. He’d appeared in Sasha’s doorway, tufts of gray on his head, and within a minute—boom—he’d hit the floor and crawled under her bathtub like an animal fumbling its way into a familiar hole. The fingers he’d groped toward the bolts behind the tub were grimed to cigar stubs, and reaching made his sweatshirt hike up, exposing a soft white back. Sasha turned away, stricken by the old man’s abasement, anxious to leave for her temp job, except that the plumber was talking to her, asking about the length and frequency of her showers. “I never use it,” she told him curtly. “I shower at the gym.” He nodded without acknowledging her rudeness, apparently used to it. Sasha’s nose began to prickle; she shut her eyes and pushed hard on both temples. Opening her eyes, she saw the plumber’s tool belt lying on the floor at her feet. It had a beautiful screwdriver in it, the orange translucent handle gleaming like a lollipop in its worn leather loop, the silvery shaft sculpted, sparkling. Sasha felt herself contract around the object in a single yawn of appetite; she needed to hold the screwdriver, just for a minute. She bent her knees and plucked it noiselessly from the belt. Not a bangle jangled; her bony hands were spastic at most things, but she was good at this—made for it, she often thought, in the first drifty moments after lifting something. And, once the screwdriver was in her hand, she felt instant relief from the pain of having an old soft-backed man snuffling under her tub, and then something more than relief: a blessed indifference, as if the very idea of feeling pain over such a thing were baffling. “And what about after he’d gone?” Coz had asked when Sasha told him the story. “How did the screwdriver look to you then?” There was a pause. “Normal,” she said. “Really? Not special anymore?” “Like any screwdriver.” Sasha had heard Coz shift behind her and felt something happen in the room: the screwdriver, which she’d placed on the table (recently supplemented with a second table) where she kept the things she’d lifted, and which she’d barely looked at since, seemed to hang in the air of Coz’s office. It floated between them: a symbol. “And how did you feel,” Coz asked quietly, “about having taken it from the plumber you pitied?” How did she feel? How did she feel? There was a right answer, of course. At times, Sasha had to fight the urge to lie simply as a way of depriving Coz of it. “Bad,” she said. “O.K.? I felt bad. Shit, I’m bankrupting myself to pay for you—obviously I get that this isn’t a great way to live.” More than once, Coz had tried to connect the plumber to Sasha’s father, who had disappeared when she was six. She was careful not to indulge this line of thinking. “I don’t remember him,” she told Coz. “I have nothing to say.” She did this for Coz’s protection and her own—they were writing a story of redemption, of fresh beginnings and second chances. But in that direction lay only sorrow. Sasha and Alex crossed the lobby of the Lassimo Hotel. Sasha hugged her purse to her shoulder, the warm ball of wallet snuggled in her armpit. As they passed the angular budded branches by the big glass doors to the street, a woman zigzagged into their path. “Wait,” she said. “You haven’t seen—I’m desperate.” Sasha felt a twang of terror. It was the woman whose wallet she’d taken—she knew this instantly, although the person before her had nothing in common with the blithe, raven-haired wallet owner she’d pictured. This woman had vulnerable brown eyes and flat pointy shoes that clicked too loudly on the marble floor. There was plenty of gray in her frizzy brown hair. Sasha took Alex’s arm, trying to steer him through the doors. She felt his pulse of surprise at her touch, but he stayed put. “Have we seen what?” he said. “Someone stole my wallet. My ID is gone, and I have to catch a plane tomorrow morning. I’m just desperate!” She stared beseechingly at both of them. It was the sort of frank need that New Yorkers quickly learn how to hide, and Sasha recoiled. It had never occurred to her that the woman was from out of town. “Have you called the police?” Alex asked. “The concierge said he would call. But I’m also wondering—could it have fallen out somewhere?” She looked helplessly at the floor around their feet. Sasha relaxed slightly. This woman was the type who annoyed people without meaning to; apology shadowed her movements even now, as she followed Alex to the concierge’s desk. Sasha trailed behind. “Is someone helping this person?” she heard Alex ask. The concierge was young and spiky-haired. “We’ve called the police,” he said defensively. Alex turned to the woman. “Where did this happen?” “In the ladies’ room. I think.” “Who else was there?” “No one.” “It was empty?” “There might have been someone, but I didn’t see her.” Alex swung around to Sasha. “You were just in the bathroom,” he said. “Did you see anyone?” “No,” she managed to say. She had some Xanax in her purse, but she couldn’t open her purse. Even with it zipped, she feared that the wallet would blurt into view in some way that she couldn’t control, unleashing a cascade of horrors: arrest, shame, poverty, death. Alex turned to the concierge. “How come I’m asking these questions instead of you?” he said. “Someone just got robbed in your hotel. Don’t you have, like, security?” The words “robbed” and “security” managed to pierce the soothing backbeat that pumped through not just the Lassimo but every hotel like it in New York. There was a mild ripple of interest from the lobby. “I’ve called security,” the concierge said, adjusting his neck. “I’ll call them again.” Sasha glanced at Alex. He was angry, and the anger made him recognizable in a way that an hour of aimless chatter (mostly hers, it was true) had not: he was new to New York. He came from someplace smaller. He had a thing or two to prove about how people should treat one another. Two security guys showed up, the same on TV and in life: beefy guys whose scrupulous politeness was somehow linked to their willingness to crack skulls. They dispersed to search the bar. Sasha wished feverishly that she’d left the wallet there, as if this were an impulse she’d barely resisted. “I’ll check the bathroom,” she told Alex, and forced herself to walk slowly around the elevator bank. The bathroom was empty. Sasha opened her purse, took out the wallet, unearthed her vial of Xanax, and popped one between her teeth. They worked faster if you chewed them. As the caustic taste flooded her mouth, she scanned the room, trying to decide where to ditch the wallet. In the stall? Under the sink? The decision paralyzed her. She had to do this right, to emerge unscathed, and if she could, if she did—she had a frenzied sense of making a promise to Coz. The bathroom door opened, and the woman walked in. Her frantic eyes met Sasha’s in the bathroom mirror: narrow, green, equally frantic. There was a pause, during which Sasha felt that she was being confronted; the woman knew, had known all along. Sasha handed her the wallet. She saw, from the woman’s stunned expression, that she was wrong. “I’m sorry,” Sasha said quickly. “It’s a problem I have.” The woman opened the wallet. Her physical relief at having it back coursed through Sasha in a warm rush, as if their bodies had fused. “Everything’s there, I swear,” she said. “I didn’t even open it. It’s this problem I have, but I’m getting help. I just—please don’t tell. I’m hanging on by a thread.” The woman glanced up, her soft brown eyes moving over Sasha’s face. What did she see? Sasha wished that she could turn and peer in the mirror again, as if something about herself might at last be revealed—some lost thing. But she didn’t turn. She held still and let the woman look. It struck her that the woman was close to her own age—her real age. She probably had children at home. “O.K.,” the woman said, looking down. “It’s between us.” “Thank you,” Sasha said. “Thank you, thank you.” Relief and the first gentle waves of Xanax made her feel faint, and she leaned against the wall. She sensed the woman’s eagerness to get away. She had an urge to slide to the floor. There was a rap on the door, a man’s voice: “Any luck?” Sasha and Alex left the hotel and stepped into desolate, windy Tribeca. She was tired of him. In a mere twenty minutes, they’d blown past the point of meaningful-connection-through-shared-experience into the less appealing state of knowing-each-other-too-well. Alex wore a knit cap pulled over his forehead. His eyelashes were long and black. “That was weird,” he said finally. “Yeah,” Sasha said. Then, after a pause, “You mean finding it?” “The whole thing. But yeah.” He turned to her. “Was it, like, concealed from view?” “It was lying on the floor. In the corner. Kind of behind a planter.” The utterance of this lie caused tiny pinpricks of sweat to emerge on Sasha’s Xanax-soothed skull. She considered saying, “Actually, there was no planter,” but managed not to. “It’s almost like she did it on purpose,” Alex said. “For attention or something.” “She didn’t seem like that type.” “You can’t tell. That’s something I’m learning, here in N.Y.C.: you have no fucking idea what people are really like. It’s not even that they’re two-faced— they’re, like, multiple personalities.” “She wasn’t from New York,” Sasha said, irked by his obliviousness even as she sought to preserve it. “Remember? She was getting on a plane?” “True,” Alex said. He paused and cocked his head, regarding Sasha across the ill-lit sidewalk. “But you know what I’m talking about? That thing about people?” “I do know,” she said carefully. “But I think you get used to it.” “I’d rather just go somewhere else.” It took Sasha a moment to understand. “There is nowhere else,” she said. Alex turned to her, startled. Then he grinned. Sasha grinned back—not the yes/no smile, but related. “That’s ridiculous,” Alex said. They took a cab and climbed the four flights to Sasha’s Lower East Side walkup. She’d lived there for six years. The place smelled of scented candles, and there was a velvet throw cloth on her sofa bed and lots of pillows, and an old color TV with a very good picture, and an array of souvenirs from her travels lining the windowsills: a white seashell, a pair of red dice, a small canister of Tiger Balm from Singapore, now dried to the texture of rubber, a tiny bonsai tree that she watered faithfully. “Look at this,” Alex said. “You’ve got a tub in the kitchen! I’ve heard of that—I mean I’ve read about it, but I wasn’t sure there were any left. The shower part is new, right? This is a bathtub-in-the-kitchen apartment, right?” “Yup,” Sasha said. “But I almost never use it. I shower at the gym.” The tub was covered with a fitted board. Sasha kept her plates stacked on top of it. Alex ran his hands around the rim of the bath and examined its clawed feet. Sasha took a bottle of grappa from the kitchen cupboard and filled two small glasses. “I love this place,” Alex said. “It feels like old New York. You know this stuff is around, but how do you find it?” Sasha leaned against the tub beside him and took a tiny sip of grappa. She was trying to remember Alex’s age on his profile. Twenty-eight, she thought, but he seemed younger than that, maybe a lot younger. She saw her apartment as he must see it—a flash of local color that would fade almost instantly into the swirl of adventures that everyone has on first coming to New York. It jarred Sasha to think of herself as a glint in the hazy memories that Alex would struggle to organize a year or two from now: Where was that place with the bathtub? Who was that girl? He left the tub to explore the rest of the apartment. To one side of the kitchen was Sasha’s bedroom. On the other side, facing the street, was her living room-den-office, which contained two upholstered chairs and the desk she reserved for projects outside of work—publicity for bands she believed in, short reviews for Vibe and Spin—although these had fallen off sharply in recent years. In fact, the whole apartment, which six years ago had seemed like a way station to some better place, had ended up solidifying around Sasha, gathering mass and weight, until she felt both mired in it and lucky to have it—as if she not only couldn’t move on but didn’t want to. Alex leaned over to peer at the tiny collection on Sasha’s windowsills. He hadn’t noticed the tables where she kept the pile of things she’d stolen: the pens, the binoculars, the keys, the child’s scarf, which she’d lifted simply by not returning it when it dropped from a little girl’s neck as her mother led her by the hand from a Starbucks. Sasha was already seeing Coz by then, so she recognized the litany of excuses even as they throbbed through her head: winter is almost over; children grow so fast; kids hate scarves; it’s too late, they’re out the door; I’m embarrassed to return it; I could easily not have seen it fall—in fact, I didn’t, I’m just noticing it now. Look, a scarf! A kid’s bright-yellow scarf with pink stripes—too bad, who could it belong to? Well, I’ll just pick it up and hold it for a minute. . . . At home, she’d washed the scarf by hand and folded it neatly. It was one of the things she liked best. “What’s all this?” Alex asked. He’d discovered the tables now and was staring at the pile. It looked like the work of a miniaturist beaver: a heap of objects that was illegible yet clearly not random. To Sasha’s eye, it almost shook under its load of embarrassments and close shaves and little triumphs and moments of pure exhilaration. It contained years of her life compressed. The screwdriver was at the outer edge. Sasha moved closer to Alex, drawn to the sight of him taking everything in. “And how did you feel, standing with Alex in front of all those things you’d stolen?” Coz asked. Sasha turned her face into the blue couch because her cheeks were heating up and she hated that. She didn’t want to explain to Coz the mix of feelings she’d had, standing there with Alex: the pride she took in these objects, a tenderness that was only heightened by the shame of their acquisition. She’d risked everything, and here was the result: the raw, warped core of her life. Watching Alex move his eyes over the pile of objects stirred something in Sasha. She put her arms around him from behind, and he turned, surprised, but willing. She kissed him full on the mouth, then undid his zipper and kicked off her boots. Alex tried to lead her toward the other room, where they could lie down on the sofa bed, but Sasha dropped to her knees beside the tables and pulled him down, the Persian carpet prickling her back, street light falling through the window onto his hungry, hopeful face, his bare white thighs. Afterward, they lay on the rug for a long time. The candles started to sputter. Sasha saw the prickly shape of the bonsai silhouetted against the window near her head. All her excitement had seeped away, leaving behind a terrible sadness, an emptiness that felt violent, as if she’d been gouged. She tottered to her feet, hoping that Alex would leave soon. He still had his shirt on. “You know what I feel like doing?” he said, standing up. “Taking a bath in that tub.” “You can,” Sasha said dully. “It works. The plumber was just here.” She pulled up her jeans and collapsed onto a chair. Alex went to the tub and lifted off the cover. Water gushed from the faucet. Its force had always startled Sasha, the few times she’d used it. Alex’s black pants were crumpled on the floor at Sasha’s feet. The square of his wallet had worn away the corduroy from one of the back pockets, as if he often wore these pants, and always with the wallet in that place. Sasha glanced over at him. Steam rose from the tub as he dipped in a hand to test the water. Then he came back to the pile of objects and leaned close, as if looking for something specific. Sasha watched him, hoping for a tremor of the excitement she’d felt before, but it was gone. “Can I put some of these in?” He was holding up a packet of bath salts that Sasha had taken from her best friend, Lizzie, a couple of years ago, before they’d stopped speaking. The salts were still in their polka-dot wrapping. They’d been deep in the middle of the pile, which had collapsed a little from the extraction. How had Alex even seen them? Sasha hesitated. She and Coz had talked at length about why she kept the stolen objects separate from the rest of her life: because using them would imply greed or self-interest, because leaving them untouched made it seem as if she might one day give them back, because piling them in a heap kept their power from leaking away. “I guess,” she said. “I guess you can.” She was aware of having made a move in the story that she and Coz were writing, of having taken a symbolic step. But toward the happy ending, or away from it? She felt Alex’s hand on the back of her head, stroking her hair. “You like it hot?” he asked. “Or medium?” “Hot,” she said. “Really, really hot.” “Me, too.” He went back to the tub and fiddled with the knobs and shook in some of the salts, and the room instantly filled with a steamy plantlike odor that was deeply familiar to Sasha: the smell of Lizzie’s bathroom, from the days when Sasha used to shower there after she and Lizzie went running together in Central Park. “Where are your towels?” Alex called. She kept them folded in a basket in the bathroom. Alex went to get them, then shut the bathroom door. Sasha heard him starting to pee. She knelt on the floor and slipped his wallet from his pants pocket and opened it, her heart firing with a sudden pressure. It was a plain black wallet, worn to gray along the edges. Rapidly she flicked among its contents: a debit card, a work ID, a gym card. In a side pocket, a faded picture of two boys and a girl in braces, squinting on a beach. A sports team in yellow uniforms, heads so small she couldn’t tell if one of them belonged to Alex. From among these dog-eared photos, a scrap of binder paper dropped into Sasha’s lap. It looked very old, the edges torn, the pale-blue lines rubbed almost away. Sasha unfolded it and saw written, in blunt pencil, “I BELIEVE IN YOU.” She froze, staring at the words. They seemed to tunnel toward her from their meagre scrap, bringing a flush of embarrassment for Alex, who’d kept this disintegrating tribute in his disintegrating wallet, and then shame at herself for having looked at it. She was faintly aware of the faucet being turned on, and of the need to move quickly. Hastily, mechanically, she reassembled the wallet, keeping the slip of paper in her hand. I’m just going to hold this, she was aware of telling herself as she tucked the wallet back into Alex’s pocket. I’ll put it back later; he probably doesn’t remember it’s in there. I’ll actually be doing him a favor by getting it out of the way before someone finds it. I’ll say, Hey, I noticed this on the rug, is it yours? And he’ll say, That? I’ve never seen it before—it must be yours, Sasha. And maybe that’s true. Maybe someone gave it to me years ago, and I forgot. “And did you? Put it back?” Coz asked. “I didn’t have a chance. He came out of the bathroom.” “And what about later? After the bath? Or the next time you saw him?” “After the bath, he put on his pants and left. I haven’t talked to him since.” There was a pause, during which Sasha was keenly aware of Coz behind her, waiting. She wanted badly to please him, to say something like It was a turning point; everything feels different now, or I called Lizzie and we made up, finally, or I’ve picked up the harp again, or just, I’m changing, I’m changing, I’m changing. I’ve changed! Redemption, transformation—God, how she wanted these things. Every day, every minute. Didn’t everyone? “Please,” she told Coz. “Don’t ask me how I feel.” “All right,” he said quietly. They sat in silence, the longest silence that had ever passed between them. Sasha looked at the windowpane, rinsed with rain, smearing lights in the falling dark. She lay with her body tensed, claiming the couch, her spot in this room, her view of the window and the walls, the faint hum that was always there when she listened, and these minutes of Coz’s time: another, then another, then one more.
The Visitor The new boy was three-quarters gone. Both legs below the knee and the left arm at the shoulder. Candy spent her lunch hour lying on the lawn outside the V.A. hospital, sending nicotine clouds into the cloudless sky, wondering whether it would be better to have one leg and no arms—or, if you were lucky enough to have an arm and a leg left, whether it would be better to have them on opposite sides, for balance. In her six months as a nurse’s aide, she had become thoughtful about the subtle hierarchy of human disintegration. Blind versus deaf—that was a no-brainer, no brain being perhaps the one wound in her personal calculus that could not be traded in for something worse. It was sad. Of course it was sad. But she didn’t feel sad. Sad was what people said they were in the face of tragedies as serious as suicide bombings or as minor as a lost earring. It was a word that people used to tidy up and put the problem out of sight. The grass was making needle-like pricks through the thin material of her maroon scrubs, and she sat up, smoothing her matching V-neck over her chest and belly, feeling the familiar stab of self-consciousness as her hand rode over the unfashionable lumps. In photographs, Candy’s mother, Sylvie, at twentytwo—Candy’s age now—was as skinny as dripping water, but that could have been a result of the drugs. Candy had her grandmother’s build, and she knew that with age her shape would settle into the short, hale block that was Marjorie, less body than space-saver. Candy glanced at her watch. She still had ten minutes until the end of her break. She wasn’t sure when she had last felt sad. She knew that she must have been sad when she was eleven and her mother had gone into the hospital for the last time. But she couldn’t actually recall the feeling. She did remember being happy afterward, sitting at her grandmother’s kitchen table picking walnuts out of their shells with the tines of a fork, while Marjorie made phone calls to let people know that Sylvie had landed on her final and terminal addiction: death. She listened to Marjorie say, “My baby diiihd,” the last vestiges of her Texas accent breathing so much air into the word that Candy could almost see it flying up toward the ceiling of the kitchen like a helium balloon. Sylvie’s presence in Candy’s life had been birdlike. She had swooped into Marjorie’s apartment from time to time to drop a Big Mac into Candy’s waiting mouth, but the enthusiasm that she’d carried with her usually dissipated quickly, smothered as much by Marjorie’s insistence on behaving as if nothing were out of the ordinary as by Candy’s abject need. Candy recalled feeling another sort of happiness, too, when she had crawled over the railing of the hospital bed in order to lie next to her mother one last time. Marjorie had forced Candy to wear a new party dress she’d sewn the day before. The frock, made with leftover material from the flower-girl dress that Marjorie had been working on, was an embarrassing pink affair that grabbed at the tender buds of Candy’s new breasts with tight smocking. What was the point, Candy had whined, as Marjorie finished off the hem, breathing heavily through her nose, her mouth a cactus of pins. But in the hospital, lying beside her mother, Candy had understood why she was so dressed up: she was there to act out the role of daughter in the hope that Sylvie would wake and finally take up her own part in the charade of parenting that Marjorie had insisted on whenever Sylvie showed up at the apartment—as if Sylvie had come back not for food or a shower or money but to French-braid Candy’s hair or to explain menstruation to her. The metal guardrails on the bed had felt cold against Candy’s thighs. The sensation was shocking in a pleasurable way that she couldn’t name then, but it wasn’t long before she discovered that the faucet in her grandmother’s bathtub could be angled to hit her between the legs just so. When Candy first started working at the V.A., the other aides had said that it would take her a long time to become “used to it.” They’d told her to look away from the wounds, to focus on the soldiers’ faces as a way to protect the boys from embarrassment and herself from disgust. But she was not disgusted, even when she had to rewrap stumps or sponge gashes that were sewn up like shark bites. She found these molestations frankly interesting, the body deconstructed so that you could see what it really was: just bits and pieces, really, no different from the snatches of fabric that Marjorie wrestled into dresses for Mr. Victor of Paris, the tailor in Burbank who had employed her for thirty-seven years. The nurses praised Candy’s bravery, but when she passed by a group of aides taking their break in the cafeteria one afternoon she knew from their covert glances that they found her strange. She once overheard a girl say that she had no heart. Well, no heart was better than no brain, Candy thought, as she sucked on the last of her cigarette and stubbed it out in the grass, dismissing the notion that she might cause a brushfire in this hottest of seasons. She knew that hers was not a singular life, that she would not be the cause of anything monumental. Recently, the thermometer had topped out at a hundred and nine in the valley. The power had failed in her grandmother’s apartment complex, where Candy had lived all her life. Marjorie, excited by the idea of a disaster that she might have some control over, had instructed Candy to gather her important papers, as if she expected the apartment to burst into spontaneous flames. Candy scanned the top of her dresser, where her community-college diploma sat in its Plexiglas frame, alongside assorted gift-with-purchase tubes of lipstick and miniature eyeshadow compacts. In a gesture that even at the time she regarded as TV-movie maudlin, she had put her mother’s Communion cross around her neck and lain down on her bed. When she was woken by the sudden snap of lights turning on and the sound of her window fan whirring to life, she took off the necklace and placed it back in her dresser drawer. She showered and went to bed naked, letting the fan blow its slow, oscillating wind across her body. The new boy’s name was Gregorio Villalobos. Juana, the admitting nurse, told Candy that lobo meant “wolf” in Spanish. Down the hall lay a Putter and a Shooter, boys who clung to their jaunty monikers as though they were one day going to walk out of the hospital and back onto the golf course or the basketball court where they had earned those nicknames. Candy wondered if the new boy had been called El Lobo in the service. She could ask him, but he wouldn’t answer her. He had not yet spoken. He watched her as she moved around the room, his eyes tracking her as if she were a fly and he was waiting for the right moment to bring down his swatter. Most of the boys looked at her when she brought them food or checked on I.V. bags, but their gazes were like those of old dogs: hope combined with the absence of hope. The nurses chattered at the boys as they went about their work, talking about the weather or whatever sports trivia they had picked up from their husbands. In general, the boys went along with this, and Candy often felt as if she were watching a play in which all the actors had agreed to pretend that someone onstage had not just taken a huge shit. Candy knew that the nurses were scared of silence, and perhaps the boys were, too. The truth hid in silence. Before she left the room, she looked at El Lobo’s chart. It wasn’t her business to read charts, simply to mark down what he did and didn’t eat, did and didn’t expel. She’d received minimal training, most of which had to do with things that anyone who’d ever cleaned a house would know, and she couldn’t understand much of what was written on the chart. But she did understand the phrase “elective muteness.” She stared at El Lobo, feeling words crawling up inside her, pushing to get past her closed lips—that pathetic human need to communicate when there was nothing to say. She had been this way when her mother was alive. On the occasions when Sylvie was home, Candy had told her anything she could think of to tell: what had happened at school that day, what clothing the popular girls were wearing, how pretty she thought Sylvie looked, with her dark hair parted down the center and hanging on either side of her narrow face like a magician’s cape. She’d talk and talk, and the more she suspected that her mother didn’t care what she was saying, the more she’d fill the apartment with her desperate noise. She replaced the chart on the hook at the foot of the bed and glanced at El Lobo once more before leaving the room. She could hold her silence longer than he could. He had no idea who he was dealing with. That night, she woke to the sound of her grandmother yelling at the ghost. “Get outta here riii-ght this minute!” Marjorie said, her accent always thicker when she was torn from her dreams, as if her unconscious resided in Beaumont, Texas, while the rest of her kept pace in L.A. Water splashed noisily against the porcelain sink in the bathroom between Candy’s and Marjorie’s bedrooms. Candy lay in her bed, which had been her mother’s childhood bed, the headboard still bearing the Day-Glo flower stickers her mother had affixed to it. Candy tried to imagine Sylvie as a naïve girl who liked stickers, but it was impossible. What she remembered most about her mother was the patchouli scent of her skin, underneath which hid a more elusive, dirty smell, an odor that Candy yearned to excavate whenever Sylvie was near. But Sylvie did not often let her daughter get that close. Even during the times when she was living at home, when she swore to Marjorie that she was clean, and Marjorie decided, all pinny-eyed, fidgety evidence to the contrary, to believe her, Sylvie kept herself apart. She’d take over her old room, leaving Candy to the fold-out sofa in the living room, and Candy would spend the early-evening hours inventing reasons to walk past the bedroom door, hoping that it might open, that she might be invited in. Candy listened as her grandmother hurried into the bathroom to turn off the faucet. “Turn that water on again and I’ll murder you!” Marjorie said, on her way past Candy’s room to the kitchen. “It’s quarter past three, for Lord’s sake.” Candy got out of bed and made her way to the kitchen, too. Marjorie wore her quilted bathrobe, and her bulb of short graying hair was lopsided from lying in bed. She had already set the kettle on the stove. “Ah, she woke you up, too,” she said, shaking her head ruefully. “You woke me up,” Candy said, sitting down at the table. “You probably woke the whole building.” “That ghost is running up my water bill. It has to stop.” “Maybe he’s thirsty,” Candy said. “He’s a she, and ghosts don’t drink, darlin’. They have no bodies. She just turns on the tap to get my goat. And in a dry season, no less! ” she yelled, shaking her fist in the air, as if the ghost were hiding just outside the kitchen door. The wattle beneath Marjorie’s upper arm wavered and Candy remembered how she had played with that loose skin as a child. Something about her grandmother’s excesses of flesh was comforting. On bad nights, when Candy felt an aching maw open up in her chest, she’d slip into Marjorie’s bed. Her nameless dread was always calmed when her cheeks grazed the loose bags of her grandmother’s nylon-swaddled breasts. Marjorie set down two mugs on the kitchen table, then brought over the kettle and poured. “I’ll tell you what, though. I’m tired of waking up in the middle of the night. I’m too old for it.” “Maybe we should have an exorcism.” “You don’t believe in that foolishness, I hope. Oh, you’re just teasing me, you bad girl,” she added, when she saw Candy’s grin. “We got a new boy in,” Candy said, changing the subject. “He’s a mess.” “Ahh,” Marjorie said, sympathetically, replacing the kettle on the stove. “No one’s come to visit him. It’s been two days.” “Maybe he has no one.” “They’re usually there at admitting with their balloons and those smiles. You can see them counting the minutes until they can get the hell out of there.” “You’re harsh, baby girl. It’s not easy to see something destroyed.” Candy looked at her grandmother’s hands. Arthritis was beginning to shape them, like some devious sculptor, and it wouldn’t be long before she could no longer work a sewing machine or hold needle and thread. What then? Could they survive on Marjorie’s Social Security and Candy’s pathetic salary? Candy remembered Marjorie’s younger, stronger hands cupping Sylvie’s cheeks as she tried to wake her, tried to get her to stand up from the living-room floor where she had collapsed sometime during the night. “Time to get your girl to school!” she’d say, her determination fending off the futility of her effort. Candy remembered, too, her grandmother’s calloused grip around her own small hand when they made those hurried journeys to school together, more often than not leaving Sylvie behind, curled up on herself like a pill bug. El Lobo was, of course, where Candy had left him the afternoon before, lying in his bed, gazing up at the ceiling. She raised the mattress so that he was facing forward, placed his breakfast tray on the rolling table, and swung it across the bed. She removed the lid of the oatmeal and the canned pears and peeled off the layer of plastic wrap covering the glass of water. The meal’s monochromatic paleness was disheartening, but Candy dug into the oatmeal with a spoon and lifted it to El Lobo’s mouth. He ate dutifully, but without affect, as if some inner computer chip were responsible for the opening and closing of his lips and the gentle modulations of his throat. He made no eye contact with her. Candy took the opportunity to go vacant as well, a state she had perfected as a child. She’d found that she could continue to do what was required of her—clean her room or go through the motions of paying attention in class, even read out loud if the teacher requested it, while her mind wandered. In that peaceful oblivion, she felt swaddled in cotton, divorced from the feelings that usually plagued her, unworried about what she looked like in her homemade clothing or what others thought of the girl with a grandmother for a mother. The sounds of the other children came at her muffled, harmless. Time passed. She disappeared. She looked over to find that El Lobo’s chin was covered with syrup where she had missed his mouth. It irked her that he had let this happen without making any sound to alert her to the problem. She wiped him clean, becoming even more irritated when he didn’t seem to register this help, either. She took a last, hard swipe at his mouth. He finally looked at her, and his glance was sharp and full of menace. The ease with which his expression resolved into hatred made it clear that anger was his default position. The nurses talked about the “sweet” boys or the “darling” boys, as if the upside of the physical damage were that it turned a soldier into a feckless three-year-old, thus ridding the world of one more potentially dangerous man. But Candy knew that this boy was neither sweet nor darling, and probably never had been. She imagined him as a bored high-school shark, moving slow and silent through the halls, heavy with his own power and cravings. She had known boys like this, had fucked boys like this. She marked on his chart the amount of solids and liquids he had consumed, rolled the tray away from his bed, and carried the half-eaten breakfast into the hallway. She spent the next seven hours of her shift changing sheets and emptying bedpans, delivering food baskets that would be at the nurses’ station by day’s end, as most of the patients had restricted diets or were fed through tubes. She wheeled one boy to X-ray through the maze of hallways and elevators. Every time the gurney lurched over a transom, the boy winced in pain. The first few times, she apologized, but then she stopped, because she knew that her regret, like a basket of muffins, was, in some way, an affront. Later that day, after she had finished her shift, she returned to El Lobo’s room. He was asleep, so she sat in the orange plastic chair in the corner and watched him. As he lay in his bed, covered in blankets, his wounds were invisible; his head, his nutmeg skin, his thick, dark eyebrows and generous, scowling mouth were untouched. A stranger might have thought him one of the lucky ones in this war. Only after his so-called recovery, when he would have to have special clothing made, when he would be assaulted by all the daily acts he could no longer accomplish, would he truly feel the extent of his wounds. She knew about collateral damage, knew that the injuries people saw were never the gravest. After Sylvie died, the school counsellor had brought Candy into her office and handed her a pamphlet called “Teen-Agers and Grief: A Handbook.” She’d told Candy that, although it was against state regulations, she was going to give Candy a hug. She’d had no idea about the hard lump of rage that sat lodged in Candy’s throat like a nut swallowed whole. After fifteen minutes, El Lobo’s eyes opened. For a second, his expression was soft and pliable, like that of a child waking from a nap, but then his mind took over and something calcified in his features, his muscles hardening against the invasion of thought. His gaze fell on her. She didn’t move, but continued to stare at him. He stared back, his upper lip trembling in what she thought was the beginning of an insult. She felt a tingling in her gut, and her nerves were on alert, as if he had actually grazed her skin with that leftover hand. The second-shift nurse’s voice cut through the silence as she entered and exited rooms along the hallway, announcing pain-relieving meds in a voice as bright and cutting as a laser. Candy stood and walked over to the bed. She reached under the cover and pinched El Lobo hard on his arm. She heard his sharp intake of breath, and slipped out of the room before she was discovered. At 3 A.M., Marjorie tore into the bathroom. “You leave me alone!” she yelled. “I’ve done enough for you already.” Candy decided to stay in bed. A few times, over the five years since the ghost had announced itself, Candy had tried to stay up all night. She thought that if she could just once catch Marjorie turning on the faucet—perhaps it was sleepwalking, or some early sign of senility—she would stop, and Candy could get some rest. But on those nights either the ghost had not appeared or Candy had dropped off to sleep, despite the cans of Coke littering her bedside table. She heard the sound of the sewing machine clattering into action. The machine slowed and quickened, and Candy imagined her grandmother’s bare foot playing the floor pedal. She knew that she had little chance of getting back to sleep. It was too hot to put on her terry-cloth robe, so, wearing only her T-shirt and underwear, she went into the living room, where Marjorie bent to her task. “What are you making?” Candy said. “Right about now, nothing,” Marjorie said. She lifted the foot of the sewing machine and pulled the material out, snipped the threads with a pair of scissors, and set to ripping out what she had done. “Victor gives me two weeks to do a bride and four bridesmaids. Two weeks! The man is losing whatever brains he had to begin with.” Candy watched her grandmother’s hands shake as she pulled out the tiny stitches with her seam ripper. Marjorie was no longer as adept as she had been when she was younger and able to unroll a bolt of cloth and see every seam and dart, every buttonhole and facing, when she could tell, even before putting one pin into the cloth, how it would all fall together. A dress form stood beside the sewing machine, draped in the raw ivory silk that Marjorie was working with. Headless and armless, the figure tilted slightly on its stand, as if leaning over to tell a secret. “Expensive,” Candy said, fingering the cloth. “Hands off!” Marjorie ordered, batting Candy’s hands away lightly, as she had done when Candy was young. “Spend all this money on silk and then give me next to no time to do my job. This missy will be lucky if the whole thing doesn’t come flying apart the minute she starts down the aisle.” “Where’s the ghost?” “Gone, that wretched thing. She’ll be back, though. What I ever did to deserve a hauntin’, I’ll never know.” “Maybe she lived here. Before us. Maybe she wants her place back.” “And it’s taken her thirty-five years to show up? Uh-uh.” “What, then?” “Honey, I’m still trying to figure out the reason people do what they do when they’re alive.” She finished ripping out the stitches, sighed audibly, and fit the material into the machine again. Candy went to the window and looked out over the apartment courtyard. The management had recently overhauled the space, taking out the grass and flowers that had required watering and replacing them with decorative pebbles. Only the concrete path that had wound through the garden remained. As a child, Candy had ridden her bike between clumps of impatiens and begonia and stands of banana trees, clumsy with their thick, waxy leaves. She knew every turn and straightaway by heart, but, still, there had been danger inherent in each corner, the thrill of heading into the unseen. She’d been eight when she’d made a turn around a bushel of bamboo and seen her mother lying asleep, across the doormat of Marjorie’s apartment. Candy had parked her bike against the wall and squatted down next to Sylvie. She looked pretty lying there, like the illustration of Sleeping Beauty in one of Candy’s library books. Candy watched her for a while, as if studying an insect, noting the little flutters of her eyelids and lips, her long, corded neck, the muscles of which seemed tense, even in sleep. Finally, she stepped over her mother and went inside. “Mommy’s back,” she told Marjorie, who was hunched over her machine. Together, they carried an incoherent and moaning Sylvie into the bathroom. Candy sat on the lid of the toilet while Marjorie ran the bath, undressed her daughter, and coaxed her into the water. Sylvie cursed her mother, calling her a bitch and a cunt, but Marjorie didn’t react, only shushed her the way she shushed Candy when she was crying over a scraped knee, as if silence trumped pain. Once Sylvie was in the bath, she lay with her eyes closed, head back against the edge of the tub, while Marjorie gently soaped her body, lifting her arms one by one, cleaning between her small breasts and her legs. “Beautiful girl,” she sang in an errant, unidentifiable tune. “Beautiful baby girl.” Later, the three ate chicken with mushroom-soup sauce at the kitchen table and watched MTV on the twenty-one-inch Sony. In the morning, Sylvie was gone, along with the television. The apartment was reduced bit by bit over the following years. The microwave followed the television, and then some of Marjorie’s jewelry disappeared. Each time Candy came back to the apartment after school, she entered with trepidation, waiting to see what was missing. The relief she felt when she realized that Sylvie had not stolen anything new was always tempered by disappointment. When she and Marjorie arrived home from church one Sunday to find the space where the stereo had sat looking as vacant as a missing tooth, Candy had felt a rush of elation. Her mother had been in the apartment. Her breath, her dirty, pretty smell still hung in the air. Marjorie never got angry about the thefts. She’d just stand, hands on hips, facing the emptiness, and inhale deeply as if acquainting herself with the new geography of her life. But when Candy was ten, and she and Marjorie returned from the grocery store to find that Marjorie’s black Singer Featherweight, the hand-me-down from her mother and grandmother that she had oiled and massaged and kept going for years, was gone, she went to her bedroom and didn’t come out until the following morning. Candy poured herself a bowl of Frosted Flakes and sat on the couch waiting for Marjorie to show her, as she always did, how to skirt this new boulder in her life, but she didn’t open her door. “Are you mad?” Candy asked the next morning, when Marjorie finally came out of her room, her face blotchy. Marjorie fingered the thin pages of the phone book, looking for the number of a locksmith. “I’m just tired,” she said softly. Two weeks later, Marjorie held Candy’s hand at the kitchen table as they listened to Sylvie struggle to turn her key in the front-door lock. “I know you’re in there!” Sylvie yelled, pounding on the door. Candy looked at Marjorie, who held her finger to her lips, and the two sat in rigid silence. Giving up on the door, Sylvie came to the kitchen window. She pressed her pallid and wild-eyed face up to the glass so that her nose and lips flattened and distorted. “Let her in, Grandma. Please,” Candy said. “We don’t want any visitors just now,” Marjorie said. For the next year, until her mother’s death, Candy often had the feeling of being shadowed, as if a huge prehistoric bird were passing over her, but when she looked up there was nothing there. El Lobo had his eyes closed when Candy brought in his breakfast the next day, but she knew he wasn’t asleep—there was something too effortful about his breathing. Noisily, she set up the tray table and dragged her chair to the side of his bed. When he finally opened his eyes, he stared, again, at the opposite wall. This time, she did not feed him but simply sat and waited for him to say something. He did not move or shift his gaze. The air in the room stiffened with tension, but neither one gave in. After ten minutes, she rolled the table away from the bed and took the uneaten food from the room. In the hallway, she met up with Tammy, the floor nurse. “What happened?” Tammy said, eying the uneaten food. “He’s not hungry.” “He said this?” Tammy said, warily. “He made it clear.” “He spoke?” “He wasn’t hungry,” Candy repeated. “I’m not supposed to force-feed.” “Well,” Tammy said, considering, “did you mark it down?” Candy nodded. “Zero in. Zero out.” “It’s bath time, anyway. Give me some help.” After gathering supplies and filling a small bowl with warm water, Candy came back into El Lobo’s room. Tammy leaned over the bed and pulled El Lobo toward her. “Candy, get the tie,” she said. Candy put down her supplies and came around the bed. She saw El Lobo’s dark skin where the hospital gown split open in the back. A fine down feathered away from his spine. She resisted the urge to touch that fur. She undid the tie and watched while Tammy gently laid El Lobo back against his pillows, then drew the gown down past his shoulders and chest. The dressing covering the wound where his arm had been was secured by white bandages that stretched across his breastbone, contrasting with his dark skin and his nearly black nipples. “We’re just going to do a little spa treatment!” Tammy said loudly. “How’s that?” El Lobo said nothing and Tammy chattered on, explaining that they would not be taking off his dressing but would just wash around it to freshen him up, and that the doctor would be in later to see how he was doing, and wasn’t he doing well, Candy? Good color in his face. Like he’d been to the beach! Have you been sneaking out of here and hitting the beach? Ha-ha-ha. All the while she sponged his chest, neck, and face, and then, reaching down under the blanket with the warm cloth, her head turned to the side as if to control her urge to look, Tammy cleaned him off below. Candy doled out fresh, damp cloths and took away the used ones, then held a bowl under El Lobo’s mouth while Tammy brushed his teeth. Spit! Good one! Spit again! They dressed him in a clean gown. Hello, gorgeous! Candy knew just what El Lobo, with his pliant body and immobile gaze, was up to. She felt a warm rush of anger start in her stomach and rise into her throat. She wanted to hit him. She wanted to hear him react. “Candy. We have a situation here.” Candy looked over and watched as a stain spread across the sheet covering El Lobo’s lower half. “That’s just a normal thing, honey,” Tammy said to El Lobo. “You get that warm water down there and it makes you want to go, right?” She began to remove the wet sheet covering El Lobo, but her beeper went off. She checked the readout and handed the sheet to Candy. “I’ll call for an orderly,” she said, and left the room. Candy looked at El Lobo, whose head was turned away. She left the room, threw the dirty sheet in the laundry chute, and got a clean gown and fresh bedding from the supply closet. She looked down the hall for the orderly, but no one was coming. She waited next to El Lobo’s door. After a few minutes, the orderly still had not come, and Candy was angry. Angry at the hospital for making her take care of this when it was not part of her job, angry because El Lobo had to lie there in his own piss and stink. She moved to the bed, thinking that she would change his tunic first. That would be easy enough to do alone, and by the time she was done the orderly would have arrived. But then she realized that if she did not change the bottom sheet first, his new gown would become wet, and she’d have to do the whole thing over again. So carefully, as if handling something breakable, she rolled El Lobo onto his good side. He was heavier than she expected a person with most of his body missing to be, and he did nothing to help her. When she stopped pushing, he fell back rather than staying on his side. Her frustration with him and his intransigence welled up and she was thinking of leaving, letting him lie in his own mess until the orderly arrived, when she noticed that his eyes were not simply closed but squeezed shut, like those of a child playing hide-and-seek. Carefully, she pushed him onto his side again, this time bracing herself against his back as she inched the sheet out from under him. It was hard work, but she was careful not to make any sounds that would allow him to sense her frustration. She reached for a wet towel and quickly swiped it across the mattress, then shook out a clean sheet and managed to slip it underneath him just as he was becoming too heavy for her to hold where he was. She laid him back down and walked around the bed, working the sheet until it lay reasonably flat. Next, she undid his tunic and pulled it from his body. She plunged a washcloth into the bowl of now lukewarm water and gently cleaned him off. She wiped around his belly and his groin, reached under him to get at his backside. His soft, pale penis lay against his thigh, as bald as a newborn puppy, but she did not take her eyes away. This was his body. It deserved to be seen. She dressed him in a fresh gown, holding him against her chest as she tied the strings. She knew that she could not hold him by the shoulders to lay him back against his pillows because of his pain there, so she kept her arms around his ribs and leaned him all the way down as if she were embracing him. When she pulled away, his eyes were open, and she saw, for a brief second, the arrow of his hatred for her and for everything that had happened to him bending back on itself and aiming straight into his own heart. Marjorie was sewing at the machine when the power went out. It was ten o’clock at night, and the darkness was sudden and blinding. For a moment, both Candy and Marjorie froze where they were in the living room. “Oh, shoot. I’m just in the middle of something, too,” Marjorie said, finally. “Get the flashlights.” Candy felt her way down the hall and into the kitchen, struck by how frightening real darkness was. For a brief moment, she felt panic rise up in her. What if the power never cameback on? What if they all had to grope around in this darkness forever? She turned on the flashlights and brought them into the living room, glad to be near her grandmother again. “It’s getting hotter already,” Marjorie said. Candy opened the windows to the courtyard, but when she went to the other side of the room to open the street windows for a cross breeze Marjorie stopped her. “Thieves,” she said. “They just wait for times like this.” Candy could already feel sweat forming in the creases of her underarms and beneath her breasts. She took one of the flashlights and trained it on the thermostat. “It’s already eighty in here.” Marjorie went to her machine and slid the material out from under the foot. “I guess I’ll have to do this by hand if I’m gonna be finished in time. Shine that light over here.” Candy stood above Marjorie and trained her flashlight onto the pearly white material. She watched as her grandmother struggled to thread a needle with fingers that were beginning to bend at odd angles, like old trees. “I need glasses,” Marjorie said, missing the eye of the needle and wetting the tip of the thread between her lips. “Want me to do it?” Candy offered. “I can thread my own needle, thank you. Been doing it half my lifetime.” She was successful on the next try, drew the thread out, and tied a knot at the bottom. She adjusted the material on her lap. Candy watched as Marjorie attempted to work the needle through the material in the seed-size stitches required for the seam she was sewing. The stitches were uneven, and Candy waited for Marjorie to stop, or get out her seam ripper, but she continued, her breath coming hard out of her nose as she pursed her lips. Candy felt heat rise in her face as she watched her grandmother’s awkward, determined work. “The power will probably come back on soon,” Candy said, trying to keep her voice neutral. “And if it doesn’t? I’ve got a bride here who’s not gonna care about my excuses if her dress isn’t ready in time.” Candy tried to imagine the bride that her grandmother could see in this material bunched up on her lap. Was she short, tall? Full-breasted or flat? Was her grandmother conjuring up a beauty when the reality was far different? “What’s she like?” “Who?” “The bride.” “They’re all the same, you know. Just girls. They don’t know what’s happening to them. Oh! Oh!” Candy saw the spot of red and snatched the cloth off her grandmother’s lap before the blood could spread any farther on the material. She reached for her grandmother’s hand. “Don’t move,” she said. “I’ll get a Band-Aid.” When she returned from the bathroom, Marjorie was standing and holding the wedding dress out in front of her with her good hand so that it fell into its bodiless shape. “It’s pretty,” Candy said. “It’s beyond repair.” It was impossible to sleep. Even with the windows open, the bedroom was close, the heat making it almost hard to breathe. Candy lay on top of her covers, her arms and legs spread out so that her skin didn’t chafe. Marjorie’s bedroom door opened, and Candy listened as her grandmother went into the bathroom, then she got up quickly. If she was quiet, perhaps she could catch her grandmother turning on the water. But as her hand touched the doorknob she stopped herself and sat back down on her bed. “Get out! Get out! Come on, now! ” she heard her grandmother say, in the gentle, forgiving tone she’d used when she bathed Sylvie or when Candy touched her material with dirty hands, as if their transgressions didn’t really bother her at all, as if she were grateful for the intrusion.
Álvaro Rousselot’s Journey Although it may not warrant an eminent place in the annals of literary mystery, the curious case of Álvaro Rousselot is worthy of attention, for a few minutes, at least. Keen readers of mid-twentieth-century Argentine literature, who do exist, albeit not in great numbers, will no doubt remember that Rousselot was a skilled narrator and an abundant inventor of plots, a sound stylist in literary Spanish, but not averse to the use of Buenos Aires slang, or lunfardo, when a story required it (as was often the case), though never in a mannered way, at least in our opinion—that is, the opinion of his faithful readers. But the action of that sinister and eminently sardonic character Time has prompted a reconsideration of Rousselot’s apparent simplicity. Perhaps he was complicated. By which I mean more complicated than we had imagined. Or, there is an alternative explanation: perhaps he was simply another victim of chance. Such cases are not unusual among lovers of literature like Rousselot. In fact, they are not unusual among lovers of anything. In the end, we all outlast the object of our adoration, perhaps because passion runs its course more swiftly than other human emotions, perhaps as a result of excessive familiarity with the object of desire. In any case, Rousselot loved literature as much as any Argentine writer of his generation, or of the preceding and following generations, which is to say that he loved literature in a reasonably disillusioned manner, like many of his compatriots. What I mean to say is that he was not especially different from the others, from the peers who shared his moments of joy and his suffering, yet nothing even remotely similar happened to any of them. At this point, it could be objected, quite reasonably, that the others were destined for their own hells, their own singularities. Angela Caputo, for example, killed herself in an unimaginable manner: no one who had read her poems, with their charged and ambivalently childlike atmosphere, could have predicted such an atrocious death, stage-managed down to the finest detail for maximum terrifying effect. Or Sánchez Brady, whose texts were hermetic and whose life was cut short by the military regime in the seventies, when he had passed the age of fifty and lost interest in literature (and in the world in general). Paradoxical deaths and destinies, yet they do not eclipse the case of Rousselot, of the enigma that imperceptibly enveloped his life, the sense that his work, his writing, stood near or on the edge of something he knew almost nothing about. His story can be recounted simply, perhaps because, in the final analysis, it is a simple story. In 1950, at the age of thirty, Rousselot published his first book, a novel about daily life in a remote Patagonian penitentiary, under the rather laconic title “Solitude.” Naturally, the book relates numerous confessions about past lives and fleeting moments of happiness; it also relates numerous acts of violence. Halfway through the novel, it becomes apparent that most of the characters are dead. With only thirty pages left to go, it is suddenly obvious that they are all dead, except for one, but the identity of that single living character is never revealed. The book was not much of a success in Buenos Aires, selling less than a thousand copies, but, thanks to some friends, Rousselot had the pleasure of seeing a well-respected publisher bring out a French edition in 1954. “Solitude” became “Nights on the Pampas” in the land of Victor Hugo, where it made little impact, except on two critics, one of whom reviewed it warmly, while the other was perhaps excessively enthusiastic. Then it vanished into the limbo of dusty shelves and overloaded tables in secondhand bookstores. At the end of 1957, however, a film titled “Lost Voices” was released; it was directed by a Frenchman named Guy Morini, and for anyone who had read “Solitude” it was clearly a clever adaptation of Rousselot’s book. Morini’s film began and ended altogether differently, but its stem or middle section corresponded exactly to the novel. It would be impossible to capture Rousselot’s feeling of stunned amazement in the dark, half-empty Buenos Aires cinema where he first saw the Frenchman’s film. Naturally, he considered himself a victim of plagiarism. As the days went by, other explanations occurred to him, but he kept coming back to the idea that his work had been plagiarized. Of the friends who were alerted and went to see the film, half were in favor of suing the production company, while the others were inclined to argue, more or less resignedly, that these things happen—think of Brahms. By that time, Rousselot had already published a second novel, “The Archives of Peru Street,” a detective story, with a plot that revolved around the appearance of three bodies in three different places in Buenos Aires: the first two victims had been killed by the third, victim in turn of an unidentified killer. This second novel was not what one might have expected from the author of “Solitude.” Still, it was well received, although it is perhaps the least successful of Rousselot’s works. When Morini’s film came out in Buenos Aires, “The Archives of Peru Street” had already been kicking around the city’s bookshops for almost a year, and Rousselot had married María Eugenia Carrasco, a young woman who moved in the capital’s literary circles, and he had recently taken a job with the law firm of Zimmerman & Gurruchaga. Rousselot’s life was orderly: he got up at six in the morning and wrote or tried to write until eight, at which time he interrupted his commerce with the muses, took a shower, and rushed off to the office, where he arrived at around ten to nine. He spent most mornings in court or going through files. At two in the afternoon, he returned home, had lunch with his wife, and then went back to the office for the afternoon. At seven, he had a drink with some other lawyers, and by eight, at the latest, he was back home, where Mrs. Rousselot, as she now was, had his dinner ready, after which Rousselot would read, while María Eugenia listened to the radio. On Saturdays and Sundays, he wrote a bit more, and went out at night, without his wife, to see his literary friends. The release of “Lost Voices” brought him a notoriety that extended, in a modest way, beyond his circle of associates. His best friend at the law firm, who was not particularly interested in literature, advised him to sue Morini for copyright infringement. Having thought it over carefully, Rousselot decided not to do anything. After “The Archives of Peru Street,” he published a slim volume of stories, and then, almost immediately, his third novel, “Life of a Newlywed,” in which, as the title suggests, he recounted a man’s first months of married life, and how, as the days go by, the man comes to realize that he has made a terrible mistake: not only is the woman he thought he knew a stranger; she is also a kind of monster who threatens even his physical safety. And yet the guy loves her (or, rather, discovers that he is physically attracted to her in a way that he wasn’t before), so he holds on for as long as he can before fleeing. The book was, obviously, meant to be humorous, and was embraced by the reading public, to the surprise of Rousselot and his publisher: it had to be reprinted after three months, and within a year more than fifteen thousand copies had been sold. From one day to the next, Rousselot’s name soared from comfortable semi-obscurity to provisional stardom. He took it in stride. With the windfall earnings, he treated himself, his wife, and his sister-in-law to a vacation in Punta del Este, which he spent surreptitiously reading “In Search of Lost Time,” a book he had always pretended to have read. While María Eugenia and her sister lolled about on the beach, he strove to redeem that lie, but above all to fill the gap left by his ignorance of France’s most celebrated novelist. He would have been better off reading the Cabalists. Seven months after his vacation in Punta del Este, before “Life of a Newlywed” had even come out in French, Morini’s new film, “The Shape of the Day,” opened in Buenos Aires. It was exactly like “Life of a Newlywed” but better; that is, revised and considerably extended in much the same way that “Lost Voices” had been, compressing Rousselot’s plot into the central part of the film, while the beginning and the end served as commentaries on the main story (or ways into and out of it, or dead ends, or simply—and herein lay the charm of this method—delicately filmed scenes from the lives of the minor characters). This time, Rousselot was intensely annoyed. His case against Morini was the talk of the Argentine literary world for a week or so. And yet, although everyone presumed that he would take swift legal action, Rousselot decided, to the dismay of those who had expected a stronger and more decisive attitude on his part, to do nothing. Few could really understand his reaction. He did not protest, or appeal to the honor and integrity of the artist. After his initial surprise and indignation, Rousselot simply opted not to act—at least, not legally. He waited. Something inside him, which could perhaps, without too great a risk of error, be called the writer’s spirit, trapped him in a limbo of apparent passivity, and began to harden or change him, or prepare him for future surprises. In other respects, his life as a writer and as a man had already changed as much as he could reasonably have hoped, or more: his books were well reviewed and widely read—they even supplemented his income—and his family life was suddenly enriched by the news that María Eugenia was going to be a mother. When Morini’s third film came to Buenos Aires, Rousselot stayed home for a week, resisting the temptation to rush to the cinema like a man possessed. He also instructed his friends not to tell him the plot. At first, he thought he would not go to see the film. But after a week it was too much for him, and one night, having kissed his baby son and entrusted him to the nanny’s care, as if he were going off to war and might never return, he stepped out, resignedly, arm in arm with his wife, and went to the cinema. Morini’s film was called “The Vanished Woman,” and had nothing in common with any of Rousselot’s works, or with either of Morini’s previous films. As they left the cinema, María Eugenia said she thought it was bad and boring. Álvaro Rousselot kept his opinion to himself, but he agreed. A few months later, he published his next novel, his longest yet (206 pages), titled “The Juggler’s Family,” in which he departed from the style that had characterized his work so far, with its elements of fantasy and crime fiction, and experimented with what could, at a stretch, be called the choral, or polyphonic, novel. It was a form that didn’t come naturally to him, and seemed forced, but the book was redeemed by the decency and simplicity of its characters, by a naturalism that elegantly avoided the clichés of the naturalist novel, and by the stories themselves: minimalist and resolute, upbeat and gratuitous narratives, which captured the indomitable Argentine spirit. “The Juggler’s Family” was, without doubt, Rousselot’s greatest success, the book that brought all the others back into print, and his triumph was consummated by the Municipal Literary Award, presented at a ceremony in the course of which he was described as one of the five brightest stars among the nation’s younger writers. But that is another story. Everyone knows that the bright rising stars in the literature of any nation are like flowers that bloom and fade in a day; and whether that day is brief and succinct or extends over ten or twenty years, it must eventually come to an end. The French, who distrust our Municipal Literary Awards on principle, were slow to translate and publish “The Juggler’s Family.” By then, French fashions in Latin-American fiction had shifted to warmer climes than Buenos Aires. When the novel came out in Paris, from a different publisher, Morini had already made his fourth and fifth films, a conventional but engaging French detective story and a turkey about a supposedly amusing family vacation in Saint-Tropez. Both films were released in Argentina, and Rousselot was relieved to discover that neither bore the slightest resemblance to anything he had ever written. It was as if Morini had distanced himself from Rousselot or, under pressure from creditors and swept up in the whirlwind of the movie business, had neglected the relationship. After relief came sadness. For a few days, Rousselot was even preoccupied by the thought that he had lost his best reader, the reader for whom he had really been writing, the only one who was truly capable of responding to his work. He tried to get in touch with his translators, but they were busy with other books and other authors, and replied to his letters with polite and evasive phrases. One of them had never seen any of Morini’s films. The other had seen only the film that resembled the book he had not translated (or read, to judge from his letter). When Rousselot asked his publishers in Paris if Morini might have had access to the manuscript of “Life of a Newlywed” before its publication, they weren’t even surprised. They replied indifferently that many people had access to a manuscript at various stages prior to printing. Feeling embarrassed, Rousselot decided to stop annoying people with his letters and suspend his investigations until at last he got a chance to visit Paris. A year later, he was invited to a literary festival in Frankfurt. The Argentine delegation was sizable, and the trip was pleasant. Rousselot got to know two old Buenos Aires writers whom he considered his masters. He tried to help them in any way he could, offering to render the sorts of little services one might expect from a secretary or a valet rather than a colleague, for which he was reproached by a writer of his own generation, who called him obsequious and servile. But Rousselot was happy and paid no attention. The stay in Frankfurt was enjoyable, in spite of the weather, and Rousselot spent all his time with the pair of old writers. The slightly artificial atmosphere of happiness was, in fact, largely Rousselot’s own creation. He knew that when the festival was over he would go on to Paris, while the others would return to Buenos Aires or take short vacations somewhere in Europe. When the day of departure came and Rousselot went to the airport to see off the members of the delegation who were returning to Argentina, his eyes filled with tears. One of the old writers noticed and told him not to worry; they would see each other again soon, and the door of his house in Buenos Aires would always be open. But Rousselot couldn’t understand what anyone was saying to him. He was on the brink of tears because he was afraid of being left on his own, and afraid, above all, of going to Paris and confronting the mystery waiting for him there. The first thing he did, as soon as he had settled into a little hotel in Saint-Germain-des-Prés, was to call the translator of “Solitude” (“Nights on the Pampas”), unsuccessfully. The phone rang at his apartment, but no one picked up, and when he went to the publishers’ offices they had no idea where the translator might be. To tell the truth, they had no idea who Rousselot was, although he pointed out that they had published two of his books, “Nights on the Pampas” and “Life of a Newlywed.” Finally, a guy who must have been about fifty, and whose role at the company Rousselot never managed to ascertain, placed the visitor and, changing the topic completely, immediately proceeded to inform him, in an absurdly serious tone, that the sales of his books had been very poor. Rousselot then visited the publishers of “The Juggler’s Family” (which Morini, it seemed, had never read) and made a halfhearted attempt to obtain the address of the translator they had employed, hoping that he would be able to put him in touch with the translators of “Nights on the Pampas” and “Life of a Newlywed.” This second publishing house was significantly smaller, and seemed to be run by just two people: a woman who received Rousselot, who he guessed was a secretary, and the publisher, a young guy who greeted him with a smile and a hug, and who insisted on speaking Spanish, although it was soon clear that his grasp of the language was tenuous. When asked why he wanted to speak with the translator of “The Juggler’s Family,” Rousselot was at a loss for words, because it had just dawned on him how absurd it was to think that any of his translators would be able to lead him to Morini. Nevertheless, encouraged by the publisher’s warm welcome (and his readiness to listen, since he didn’t seem to have anything better to do that morning), Rousselot decided to tell him the whole story, from A to Z. When he had finished, the publisher lit a cigarette and paced up and down the office for a long time in silence, walking from one wall to the other, a distance of barely three yards. Rousselot waited, becoming increasingly nervous. Finally, the publisher stopped in front of a glass-fronted bookcase full of manuscripts and asked Rousselot if it was his first time in Paris. Rather taken aback, Rousselot admitted that it was. “Parisians are cannibals,” the publisher said. Rousselot hastened to point out that he was not intending to take any kind of legal action against Morini; he only wanted to meet him and perhaps ask him how he came up with the plots of the two films in which he had a particular interest, so to speak. The publisher burst into uproarious laughter. “It’s all about money here,” he said, “ever since Camus.” Rousselot looked at him, bewildered. He didn’t know whether the publisher meant that idealism had died with Camus, and money was now the prime concern, or that Camus had established the law of supply and demand among artists and intellectuals. “I’m not interested in money,” Rousselot said quietly. “Nor am I, my poor friend,” the publisher said, “and look where it’s got me.” They parted with the understanding that Rousselot would call the publisher and arrange to have dinner one night. He spent the rest of the day sightseeing. He went to the Louvre and the Eiffel Tower; he ate in a restaurant in the Latin Quarter and visited a couple of secondhand bookshops. That night, from his hotel, he called an Argentine writer he had known back in Buenos Aires who lived in Paris now. They weren’t exactly friends, but Rousselot appreciated the writer’s work and had been instrumental in getting a number of his pieces published in a Buenos Aires magazine. The Argentine writer was called Riquelme and he was happy to hear from Rousselot. Rousselot wanted to arrange to meet up some time during the week, perhaps for lunch or dinner, but Riquelme wouldn’t hear of it, and asked him where he was calling from. Rousselot told him the name of his hotel and mentioned that he was just going to bed. But he was not even to think of getting into his pajamas; Riquelme would be right there—the night was on him. Rousselot was overwhelmed, powerless to resist. He hadn’t seen Riquelme for years, and while waiting for him in the lobby of the hotel he tried to remember what he looked like. He had blond hair and a round, broad face with a ruddy complexion; he was short. It had been a while since Rousselot had read any of his work. When Riquelme finally appeared, Rousselot hardly recognized him: he seemed taller, less blond, and he was wearing glasses. The night was rich in confessions and revelations. Rousselot told his friend what he had told his French publisher that morning, and Riquelme told Rousselot that he was writing the great Argentine novel of the twentieth century. He had passed the eight-hundred-page mark and hoped to finish it in less than three years. Although Rousselot prudently refrained from asking about the plot, Riquelme explained several sections of his book in detail. They visited various bars and clubs. At some point during the night, Rousselot realized that both he and Riquelme were behaving like adolescents. At first, this embarrassed him, but then he surrendered to the situation, happy to know that his hotel would be there at the end of the night, his hotel room and the word “hotel,” which in that instant seemed a miraculous (that is to say evanescent) incarnation of risk and freedom. He drank a lot. On waking, he discovered a woman beside him. The woman’s name was Simone, and she was a prostitute. They had breakfast together in a café near the hotel. Simone liked to talk, so Rousselot discovered that she didn’t have a pimp, because a pimp was always the worst kind of deal, that she had just turned twenty-eight, and that she liked watching movies. Since he wasn’t interested in the world of Parisian pimps and Simone’s age didn’t seem a fruitful topic of conversation, they started talking about movies. She liked French cinema, and before long they got onto Morini. His first films were very good, in Simone’s opinion. Rousselot could have kissed her then and there. At two in the afternoon, they returned to the hotel and didn’t reëmerge until dinnertime. It would probably be true to say that Rousselot had never felt so good in his life. He wanted to write, and eat, and go out dancing with Simone, and wander aimlessly through the streets of the Left Bank. In fact, he felt so good that during the meal, shortly before they ordered dessert, he explained the reason for his trip to Paris. Surprisingly for Rousselot, Simone was not at all surprised by the revelation that he was a writer or that Morini had plagiarized or copied his work, or freely adapted two of his novels to make his two best films. Things like that happen in life, and even stranger things, was her laconic response. Then, point blank, she asked him if he was married. The answer was implicit in the question, and with a resigned gesture Rousselot showed her the gold ring that was constricting his ring finger at that moment as never before. “And do you have children?” Simone asked. “A little boy,” Rousselot said, with a tenderness engendered by the mental image of his offspring. And he added, “He looks just like me.” Then Simone asked him to keep her company on the way home. In the taxi, neither of them said anything; both looked out their windows at the unpredictable spills of bright and dark which make the City of Light seem like a medieval Russian city, or at least like the images of such cities that Soviet directors used to offer for public consumption every now and then in their films. Finally, the taxi pulled up in front of a four-story building, and Simone invited him to come in. Rousselot wondered whether he should, and then he remembered that he hadn’t paid her. Shamefaced, he got out of the taxi without worrying about how he would get back to his hotel (there didn’t seem to be many taxis in that neighborhood). Before going into the building, he held out a bunch of uncounted bills, which Simone put into her handbag without counting them, either. The building didn’t have an elevator. By the time they reached the fourth floor, Rousselot was out of breath. In the dimly lit living room, an old woman was drinking a whitish-colored liqueur. In response to a sign from Simone, Rousselot sat down next to the old woman, who produced a glass and filled it with that appalling liquid, while Simone vanished through one of the doors, then reappeared after a while and summoned him with a gesture. What now? Rousselot thought. The room was small; it contained a bed in which a child was sleeping. “My son,” Simone said. “He’s lovely,” Rousselot said. And so he was, but perhaps that was only because he was asleep. He had blond hair, rather too long, and resembled his mother, although Rousselot noted that there was already something thoroughly manly about his childish features. When Rousselot went back to the living room, Simone was paying the old woman, who then took her leave of Mme. Simone, and even wished her visitor an effusive good night, calling him sir. Rousselot was thinking that the day had been eventful enough and that it was time to leave when Simone said he could spend the night with her, if he liked. “But you can’t sleep in my bed,” she said; she didn’t want her son to wake up and see her in bed with a stranger. So they made love in Simone’s room, and then Rousselot went out into the living room, lay down on the couch, and fell asleep. He spent the next day en famille, so to speak. The little boy’s name was Marc; Rousselot found him to be very bright (as well as able to speak better French than he did). The novelist spared no expense: they had breakfast in the center of Paris, went to a park, and had lunch in a restaurant on the Rue de Verneuil that he had been told about in Buenos Aires; then they went rowing on a lake, and finally they visited a supermarket, where Simone bought all the ingredients for a proper French meal. They took taxis everywhere. As they waited for ice creams on a café terrace on the Boulevard Saint-Germain, Rousselot recognized a pair of famous writers. He admired them from a distance. Simone asked him if he knew them. He said no, but he was a passionate reader of their books. “Then go and ask them for an autograph,” she said. At first, it seemed a perfectly reasonable idea, the natural thing to do, but at the last minute Rousselot decided that he didn’t have the right to annoy anyone, least of all people he had always admired. That night, he slept in Simone’s bed; they covered each other’s mouths to stop their moans from waking the child, and made love for hours, violently at times, as if loving each other were the only thing they knew how to do. The next day, he returned to his hotel before the child woke up. His suitcase had not been put out on the street, as he had feared, and no one was surprised to see him appear out of nowhere, like a ghost. At reception, there were two messages from Riquelme. The first was to say he had found out how to reach Morini. The second was to ask if Rousselot was still interested in meeting him. He showered, shaved, brushed his teeth (a horrifying experience), put on clean clothes, and called Riquelme. They talked for a long time. Riquelme told him that a friend of his, a Spanish journalist, knew another journalist, a Frenchman, who was a freelance movie, theatre, and music critic. The French journalist had been a friend of Morini’s and still had his telephone number. When the Spaniard had asked for the number, the Frenchman had given it to him without a second thought. Then Riquelme and the Spanish journalist had called Morini’s number without getting their hopes up, and were amazed when the woman who answered told them that they had indeed reached the director’s residence. Now all they had to do was set up a meeting (at which Riquelme and the Spanish journalist wanted to be present) on some pretext, whatever—for example, an interview for an Argentine newspaper, with a surprise ending. “What do you mean, a surprise ending?” Rousselot shouted. “The surprise ending comes when the bogus journalist reveals his true identity to the plagiarist,” Riquelme replied. That night, as Rousselot was taking photographs more or less at random on the banks of the Seine, a bum came up and asked him for some change. Rousselot offered him a bill if he would consent to be photographed. The bum agreed, and for a while they walked along together in silence, stopping every now and then to allow the Argentine writer to move off to an appropriate distance and take a photo. On the third such occasion, the bum suggested a pose, which Rousselot accepted without quibbling. The writer took eight photos in all: the bum on his knees with his arms stretched out to the sides, and in other poses, such as pretending to sleep on a bench, thoughtfully watching the river flow by, or smiling and waving his hand. When the photo session was over, Rousselot gave him two bills and all the coins in his pocket, and then the pair of them stood there together, as if there were something more to be said but neither of them dared say it. “Where are you from?” the bum asked. “Buenos Aires, Argentina,” Rousselot replied. “What a coincidence,” the bum said, in Spanish. “I’m Argentine, too.” Rousselot was not at all surprised by this revelation. The bum began to hum a tango, then told him that in Europe, where he’d been living for more than fifteen years, he had found happiness and even some wisdom now and then. Rousselot realized that the bum had started using the familiar form of address, which he hadn’t done when they were speaking in French. Even his voice, the tone of his voice, seemed to have changed. Rousselot felt a deep sadness overwhelming him, as if he knew that, come the end of the day, he would have to look into an abyss. The bum noticed and asked him what he was worried about. “Nothing, a girl,” Rousselot said, trying to adopt the same tone as his compatriot. Then he said a rather hurried goodbye, and as he was climbing the stairs from the quai to the street he heard the bum’s voice telling him that death was the only sure thing: “My name is Enzo Cherubini and I’m telling you that death is the only sure thing there is.” When Rousselot turned around, the bum was walking off in the opposite direction. He called Simone that night, but she wasn’t home. He talked for a while with the old woman who looked after the child, then hung up. At ten, Riquelme came visiting. Reluctant to go out, Rousselot said he felt feverish and nauseated, but his excuses were futile. Sadly, he came to the realization that Paris had transformed his friend into a force of nature that would brook no opposition. That night, they dined in a little restaurant with a charcoal grill in the Rue Racine, where they were joined by the Spanish journalist, Paco Morral, who liked to imitate the Buenos Aires accent, very badly, and believed that Spanish cinema was far better than French cinema, much more dense, an opinion shared by Riquelme. The meal went on much longer than anticipated, and Rousselot began to feel ill. When he returned to his hotel at four in the morning, he had a fever and began vomiting. He woke shortly before midday with the feeling that he had lived in Paris for many years. He went through the pockets of his jacket looking for the cell phone that he had managed to extract from Riquelme, and called Morini. A woman—the one who had previously spoken to Riquelme, he supposed—answered and told him that M. Morini had left that morning to spend a few days with his parents. Rousselot’s first thought was that she was lying, or that before his hurried departure the director had lied to her. He said he was an Argentine journalist who wanted to interview Morini for a well-known magazine with a big circulation, widely read all over Latin America, from Argentina to Mexico. The only problem, he alleged, was that he had limited time, since he had to fly home in a couple of days. Humbly, he asked for the address of Morini’s parents. He didn’t have to insist. The woman listened politely, then gave him the name of a village in Normandy, a street, and a number. Rousselot thanked her, then called Simone. No one was home. Suddenly, he realized that he didn’t even know what day it was. He thought of asking one of the hotel staff, but felt embarrassed. He called Riquelme. A hoarse voice answered. Rousselot asked him about the village where Morini’s parents lived: did he know where it was? “Who’s Morini?” Riquelme asked. Rousselot had to remind him and explain part of the story again. “No idea,” Riquelme said, and hung up. After feeling annoyed for a while, Rousselot told himself that it was better that way, if Riquelme had lost interest in the whole business. Then he packed his suitcases and went to the train station. The trip to Normandy was long enough for him to go back over what he had done since arriving in Paris. An absolute zero lit up in his mind, then delicately disappeared forever. The train stopped in Rouen. Other Argentines, and Rousselot himself in other circumstances, would have set off at once to explore the town, like bloodhounds on Flaubert’s trail. But he didn’t even leave the station; he waited twenty minutes for the train to Caen, thinking of Simone, who personified the grace of French women, and of Riquelme and his odd journalist friend, both of whom were, in the end, more interested in rummaging through their own failures than in anyone else’s story, however singular, which, come to think of it, was not so unusual—normal, in fact. People are only interested in themselves, he concluded gravely. From Caen, he took a taxi to Le Hamel. He was surprised to find that the address he had been given in Paris corresponded to a hotel. The hotel had four stories and was not without a certain charm, but it was closed for the winter. For half an hour, Rousselot walked around in the vicinity, wondering if the woman who lived with Morini had sent him on a wild goose chase, until eventually he began to feel tired and headed for the port. In a bar, he was told that he’d be very lucky to find a hotel open in Le Hamel. The owner, a cadaverously pale guy with red hair, suggested he go to Arromanches, unless he wanted to sleep in one of the auberges that stayed open all year round. Rousselot thanked him and went looking for a taxi. He booked himself into the best hotel he could find in Arromanches, a pile made of brick, stone, and wood, which creaked in the gusting wind. Tonight I will dream of Proust, he thought. Then he called Simone and talked to the old lady who looked after her child. “Madame won’t be home until after four. She has an orgy tonight,” the woman said. “A what?” Rousselot asked. The woman repeated the sentence. My God, Rousselot thought, and hung up without saying goodbye. To make things worse, that night he didn’t dream of Proust but of Buenos Aires, where thousands of Riquelmes had taken up residence in the Argentine branch of PEN, all armed with tickets to Paris, all cursing or shouting a name, the name of someone or something that Rousselot couldn’t recognize, a tongue-twister, perhaps, or a password they were trying to keep secret, although it was gnawing at their insides. The next morning at breakfast, Rousselot was stunned to discover that he had no money left. Le Hamel was three or four kilometres from Arromanches; he decided to walk. To raise his spirits, he told himself that on D Day the Allied soldiers had landed on these beaches. But his spirits remained as low as could be, and although he had thought it might take half an hour, in the end it took him more than twice that time to reach Le Hamel. On the way, he started adding things up, remembering how much money he had brought with him to Europe, how much he’d had left when he arrived in Paris, how much he had spent on meals, on Simone (quite a lot, he thought, melancholically), on Riquelme, on taxis (they’ve been ripping me off the whole time!), and wondering whether he could have been robbed at some point without realizing it. The only people who could have done that, he concluded gallantly, were the Spanish journalist and Riquelme. And the idea didn’t seem absurd in those surroundings, where so many lives had been lost. He observed Morini’s hotel from the beach. Anyone else would have given up by now, he thought. For anyone else, circling around that hotel would have been as good as admitting to idiocy, or to a sort of degeneration that Rousselot thought of as Parisian, or cinematic, or even literary, although for him the word “literary” retained all its original lustre, or some of it, at least. In his situation, anyone else would have been calling the Argentine Embassy, inventing a credible lie, and borrowing some money to pay the hotel bill. But, instead of gritting his teeth and making the phone call, Rousselot rang the hotel’s doorbell and was not surprised to hear the voice of an old woman who, leaning out of one of the windows on the second floor, asked him what he wanted and was not surprised by his reply: “I need to see your son.” The old woman disappeared, and Rousselot waited by the door for what seemed like an eternity. He kept checking his pulse and touching his forehead to see if he had a fever. When the door finally opened, he saw a lean, rather swarthy face, with large bags under the eyes; it was, he judged, the face of a degenerate, and it was vaguely familiar. Morini invited him in. “My parents have been working as caretakers of this hotel for more than thirty years,” he said. They sat down in the lobby, where the armchairs were protected from dust by enormous sheets embroidered with the hotel’s monogram. On one wall, Rousselot saw an oil painting of the beaches of Le Hamel, with bathers in Belle Époque costumes, while on the opposite wall a collection of portraits of famous clients (or so he supposed) observed them from a zone taken over by mist. He shivered. “I am Álvaro Rousselot,” he said, “the author of ‘Solitude’—I mean, the author of ‘Nights on the Pampas.’ ” It took a few seconds for Morini to react, but then he leaped to his feet, let out a cry of terror, and disappeared down a corridor. Such a spectacular response was the last thing Rousselot had been expecting. His reaction was to remain seated, light a cigarette (the ash fell steadily onto the carpet), and think moodily of Simone and her son, and a café in Paris that served the best croissants he had ever tasted. Then he stood up and started calling Morini. “Guy,” he called, rather hesitantly. “Guy, Guy, Guy.” Rousselot found Morini in an attic where the hotel’s cleaning equipment was piled. He had opened the window and seemed to be hypnotized by the garden that surrounded the building, and by the neighboring garden, which belonged to a private house and was visible, in part, through dark latticework. Rousselot walked over and patted him on the back. Morini seemed smaller and more fragile than before. For a while, they both stood there looking at one garden, then the other. Then Rousselot wrote the address of his hotel in Paris and the address of the hotel where he was currently staying on a piece of paper and slipped it into the director’s trouser pocket. He felt as if he had committed a reprehensible act, executed a reprehensible gesture, but then, as he was walking back to Arromanches, everything he had done in Paris, every gesture and action, seemed reprehensible, futile, senseless, and even ridiculous. I should kill myself, he thought as he walked along the seashore. Back in Arromanches, he did what any reasonable person would have done as soon as he discovered that his money had run out. He called Simone, explained the situation, and asked her for a loan. The first thing Simone said was that she didn’t want a pimp, to which Rousselot replied that he was asking for a loan, and that he was planning to repay it with thirty-per-cent interest, but then they both started laughing and Simone told him not to do anything, just stay put in the hotel, and in a few hours, as soon as she could borrow a car from one of her friends, she’d come and get him. She also called him chéri a few times, to which he responded by using the word chérie, which had never seemed so tender. For the rest of the day, Rousselot felt that he really was an Argentine writer, something he had begun to doubt over the previous days, or perhaps the previous years, partly because he was unsure of himself, but also because he was unsure about the possibility of an Argentine literature.
Or Else “My family owns a house in Telluride” was his favorite, most useful line. He used it on a particular kind of girl or woman, somebody with whom he could not foresee a future, somebody who he knew would one day perceive him truly, with X-ray eyes, and move on. In the meantime, he could take her for a long weekend to Telluride. She would be impressed by the modesty of the place. “It really is a shack,” he would insist during the drive from Arizona, the desert falling away mile by mile, shrubbery and rocks transforming subtly from prickly saguaro and desiccated scrub oak to piñon, then aspen and spruce, an escalation of markers by which David had measured his own evolution, from nagging anticipation to delighted arrival, for more than twenty-five years. Not much had changed on that journey, neither for David nor in the world around him. Yes, traffic in Tucson was worse now; sure, the R.V. drivers had discovered Show Low; sadly, a piece of the petrified forest was on fire; and some gaudy casino had suddenly landed on the vast moonscape near the Navajo Nation. In Cortez, you had to detour through an endless engineering endeavor meant to straighten out the highway, which used to be sexy 666 but had been newly, inoffensively renumbered. And could it be trout farming below the dam at Dolores—square plastic-lined pools in which writhing motion could be detected, as if someone were boiling a great stew of fish rather than breeding them? But the most important things remained faithfully themselves, and David watched them pass as if they were winking at him, confirming their talismanlike role in his triumphant trajectory. “You’re giddy,” his current companion noted, in her peculiarly deep voice. When would this voice cease surprising David? On the phone you could easily mistake it for a man’s voice. Its owner had not seen him this way before, unguardedly enthusiastic, and he knew that joy, like a child’s smile, made him appealing, and also somehow vulnerable. If she chose to, she could hold his joy, his childishness, in contempt. “Very cute,” she said, opening both windows on her side of the car so that she could smoke. Meanwhile, he held tight to the wheel and adhered to the speed limit, because he wanted nothing to interfere with his momentum, no rules to be broken, no winking signposts missed. Then they were at the penultimate turn, the box canyon just ahead, and the little town corralled within, its waterfall tumbling reliably at the precise center of the backdrop, a landscape painting by a sentimental artist. “Telluride,” he announced in a tone that said ta-da! “The most beautiful place I’ve ever been.” “But,” she exhaled, teasing, “where have you been?” And he was too drunk with pleasure to do anything but laugh. He narrated the noteworthy sites as they rolled past, those milestones of adolescence and young adulthood: the former train station, where he’d watched, one night in the late seventies, as the local firemen, drunk, set flame to an outbuilding and then extinguished it, which was their tradition. Only later did they discover that one of their volunteers had suffered heart failure in the hubbub. This man was the father of one of the boys who were watching, rolling their eyes at the antics of their elders, which were not so different from the antics of the youngsters crowded around a furtive campfire smoking cigarettes, on what was then the rugged other side of the river. “That’s where we used to hang out on Friday and Saturday nights,” David told his passenger, pointing at the marble steps of a former bank, its stately window now cluttered with sunglasses. “Waiting to see where the party was. And that’s the bar that never carded, and up there is the historical museum, which we knew how to break into.” “Why?” He left off his wistful recitation to study her. “‘Why?’” “Yeah. Why break into a museum? I mean, did you steal stuff?” “No.” Well, yes. But not important stuff. Danielle, he considered, was perhaps different from the other women he’d brought here. She was older, for one thing, forty-two to his thirty-nine. Had she outgrown not only adolescent rebellion but the memory of its allure? Maybe. Once, in the middle of making love, he’d asked her why she’d closed her eyes. “I’m pretending you’re someone else,” she said. David had ceased motion, no idea what to say. That was what was wrong with him—he was often left speechless, unsure whether he had a right to indignation or hurt feelings, unsure how exactly a person was entitled to react. “Who?” he’d finally asked. “My last boyfriend,” she told him, slipping away, pulling a pillow into an embrace between them. “He was a married man, and a lot older than me. He died a couple of years ago, of a heart condition. I don’t think of him the whole time—hardly ever, actually. I just was right then, when you asked.” She stared at David frankly, the pillow still clutched in her arms. “And there’s the house,” David said now, making the turn that led up to the little home he loved more than any other place in the world. “The house that caulk built,” the family fondly called it. Jack Hart had purchased this property forty years earlier, upon the birth of his first child, Priscilla. They’d been campers, the Harts, until Pris was born. Then Mrs. Hart had put her foot down; she said so whenever the story was told. “No infants in tents! No diapers in the wilderness!” A small house was found, there in the glorious dying mining town, on a hill, with views that were shockingly symphonic from the crooked front porch. The Harts had lived by the academic calendar; every summer, they’d fled the heat of Tucson for a three-month respite in this tiny miners’ den, with its walls made of something called beaverboard sagging into the ground, atop a fading community of similar structures, occupied or abandoned by drunken miners and eccentric bar owners, Masons, shopkeepers—future ghosts. “The salt of the earth,” Dr. Hart would extoll. He taught American Studies; his interests were wider and perhaps more catholic than those of many of his ivory-tower cohorts. He found his summer town unpretentious, gritty, endearing. He became an Elk; he agreed to be deputized for the annual invasion of the Hell’s Angels on the Fourth of July. He invited his friends to visit, and his offspring did the same. The house was filled with impromptu dinner parties, bridge games, storytelling sessions over the sticky kitchen table, on which there always sat a large bottle of red wine. At the house—which was now wedged, like a cartoon house, between big bullying mansions on either side—David parked. The air was bracing; the lack of oxygen meant that your breath was literally taken away. Around him, the peaks rose in their familiar battleship formation, proximate and daunting. They seemed poised to move, shift on their haunches, and shrug the tiny toy town aside. It was May, and they were still snow-covered; the aspens wore their nascent green, and on the streets below there was a resonant silence. The off season. A collective reverent rest between tourist onslaughts. Up the crumbling concrete steps David led Danielle; the door would be locked, the key long ago lost, he told her, but the west living-room window could be unlatched. It squealed when he yanked it up; to prop it open, he used the tubular cast-iron counterweight that sat, year after year, in a cluster of rusty or glass objects found on hikes and scavenging adventures and brought home as porch décor. Having crawled through the window, David took a moment to breathe in the peculiar scent of the house: coal dust, which still filled the inner walls and pooled at the base of the spongy panelling; stale sunlight, captured through the wavering glass of the west windows; the very faint odor of natural gas, from a leak that could never be located; and the simply unique smell of the Hart family itself. Home. Then he went to the front door, on the other side of which waited Danielle, who was shivering, staring cross-eyed at the door handle rather than at the monstrous mountains around her. The elevation was nearly nine thousand feet; from bake-blasted Tucson, you had to bring sweaters and woollen socks as an act of faith. It was cold up here. At night, the stars devastated the clear, clear sky. David Chalmers was a liar by nature and, now, by long habit. He lied when it wasn’t necessary, when it wasn’t even advantageous. He lied to amuse himself, to excuse himself, to camouflage himself. The Harts were not his family. He had been an honorary member, once upon a time, and then he had been banished, albeit gently. He had found the family through Priscilla, the eldest daughter, who, at age nine, had insisted that he was the friend she wished to bring with her for the summer visit. Priscilla was a tomboy then, and David was her partner in crime. In Tucson, they were prohibited from being in the same classroom at Sam Hughes Elementary. In Telluride, they’d occupied the upstairs front bedroom, with its cracked-window view of town and of the bats that dipped all night long at the green streetlight outside. Late, they’d tiptoe through the back bedroom, where Priscilla’s little sisters slept, and exit through the window there, onto the hillside and into the night. For five summers, she’d invited him. And then they were fourteen, and the invitation did not come. “What happened to your girlfriend?” his father had asked that fateful June, smirking behind his beer and sunglasses. “Have yourself a lovers’ spat?” David had no desire or even ability to explain. It was the exact opposite of what his father was suggesting—not a lovers’ spat but the taint of loverly possibility. Pris had never been his girlfriend. Until that summer, she hadn’t been a girl. And now suddenly she was, and she’d invited another girl to accompany her. David spent the summer daydreaming and imagining himself there, wondering what project Dr. Hart was working on this year. Dr. Hart had always enjoyed having David around, and he had listened with unskeptical, uncritical attention to whatever Dr. Hart taught him. He’d memorized the names of the plants, the difference between flower and weed; he’d read whatever novel Dr. Hart handed him, reporting back on his confused progress, scandalized, mystified, ashamed; he’d learned to drive on the dirt roads of Telluride, while his own parents were busy eviscerating each other back home, unable to fathom what it was that the Harts liked about him, resenting his ability to escape Tucson for weeks at a time while they were forced to remain, their jobs not ones that permitted long holidays, their friends not likely to have summer homes in the mountains, their son a complicating factor in their shared wish to part ways. David had only reluctantly introduced them to the Harts, hustling the conversation along as he fetched his duffelbag on the morning of the first departure. He’d been highly aware of the way Dr. Hart took in his living room, the giant television, the absence of books or art, and his mother’s collection of china dolls, her pantheon, standing rigid on their perches, staring at him with their ice-cold eyes. Meanwhile, his mother had studied Mrs. Hart, glaring at her tall thinness, her long hair falling in a braid down her back, the easy smile on her tanned face. Mrs. Hart was a potter; her hands were tools, unbeautiful, clay beneath her nails, calluses on her palms. She set her own schedule and followed art fairs around the Southwest. Her three daughters blinked, unafraid, beside her, Priscilla, Violet, Lydia. Their hair was tangled, their knees dirty; the older two already read above grade level and sassed the teachers, and so would the youngest, when it was her turn. They were occasionally kept home “to play in the dirt,” Mrs. Hart said. “Just in case they start getting infected by the catty crowd. You know how girls can be,” she said to David’s mother. “No,” she replied. “I just have David.” Just. And as if she’d never been a girl herself. As if she’d been born the hag she was now, lumpen and unhappy, suspicious of the life style of her neighbors those hippie Harts. She and her husband let David go because they had no better options for his summers and expected the worst of him: delinquency, slovenliness, eventual arrest. They didn’t provide spending money: if the Harts wanted him, they could have him, but his parents would never regard it as a favor to them. From then on, Mrs. Hart treated David with a small degree of pity, which he accepted the way any rescued creature would. He was not proud, he knew that. She kissed him good night as she kissed her girls, and tucked them all in upstairs, where the air was stuffy and warm, the pitched ceiling directly overhead, decorated with their childish art work, naughtiness and eloquence crisscrossed by webs and spiders, which the Harts never killed, an old record of folk songs spinning on the player set before the open doors of the two bedrooms, the girls singing along to the shocking lyrics. In the morning, Mrs. Hart would ask how they’d slept and serve them pancakes studded with berries; David hadn’t known that pancakes could come from anything but a box, or that syrup from its maple source ran thin and tart, nothing like the gluey stuff he got at home. Then they were set free, out the front door to run wild in the empty town. Down to the river, out to the mine, up the hills, into the few businesses that lined Main, where all the shopkeepers knew their names. David pretended to be the girls’ brother. He wished he were with all his heart. At night they played kick the can with the local children, hiding behind sheds and burn barrels. When the curfew siren sounded, they’d head home and spend an hour or two riding the propane tank in the side yard while the air cooled around them. For five years, the weeks he spent in Telluride stood for David as an annual pinnacle, time that he anticipated and then consumed. Those summers were when David felt most fully himself, trotting alongside Priscilla down the rocky streets, climbing at midnight up the slender path beside the stream to a large flat stone that they considered their own, reclining there shoulder to shoulder, talking without thinking as stars fell overhead. Priscilla encouraged frankness in him; perhaps she encouraged it in everyone. He hadn’t spoken without forethought since his early days as a liar. And he hadn’t done it since. David pulled the cord for the kitchen light, a foreign familiar coin cool in his palm, beneath which sat the house’s modest hub, the table. Here was where he’d learned the rules of bridge, Mrs. Hart always recognizing his anxiety just before he made a fatal error in play. Here was where, after a morning of painting or plumbing or weeding or roofing, he’d joined Dr. Hart for lunch, sandwiches on bread made by Mrs. Hart, soggy combinations that David’s mother would never have dreamed up, and that his father wouldn’t have tolerated. Hummus. Shredded carrot. Basil leaves. What the Hart family called “stinky-feet cheese.” The beer that the Harts would allow him to sip from time to time. And afterward the afternoon, a warm haze, a certain kind of clicking bug hopping drunkenly through the air. . . . So strong was his sense of the past, so deep was his desire to have it restored that David for a moment forgot whom he’d come with today. Danielle. She was asking in her hoarse voice about the bathroom, about making a fire, about what they might do for dinner, which she called “chow.” David immediately set to work with the necessary homecoming moves: plugging in the refrigerator, pulling sheets from the cupboards, running the water long enough to clear rust from the lines. “This is a cozy room,” Danielle said, after she emerged from the bathroom, the toilet gurgling behind her. She stood at the door to Dr. and Mrs. Hart’s bedroom. “My room’s upstairs,” David said. He had never yet spent a night on the adult Harts’ bed. He was willing to break into their home, but he was superstitious about sleeping where they had slept, having sex where they had had sex. “The view is better up there,” he said, which was certainly true now that the mansion next door had blocked any kind of view or light from the downstairs rooms. He and Danielle went up together, single file on the steep, noisy stairs. In the front bedroom, where he’d spent five summers with Priscilla, and then one, in secret, with teen-age Lydia, he sat on the edge of the bed and creaked open the window. Cool air poured in like water. The moon was rising over the mountains, aglow there opposite the lingering light of the setting sun. “Once I found a bat hanging in here,” David said, “before we put up screens.” This story wasn’t his but Priscilla’s. She’d screamed, the black thing attached to her wall like a leather glove. “It’s incredible,” Danielle said, blinking as her face encountered a spiderweb. “Smart investment, buying this back when.” “It wasn’t an investment,” David said, bristling as he always did when this dull observation was made. “They didn’t buy it to make a profit.” “Yeah, O.K., but most people wouldn’t have hung on to it. Most people would have cashed in.” And then, backing up, she asked, “ ‘They’?” “Before I was around,” he said. Dr. Hart had allowed David the use of the house one winter when David had tried to move to Telluride. He’d failed at college, been refused at both his mother’s and his father’s now separate homes, where they lived with their newly constituted second families, the fleet of step-siblings he scorned. He had found a job with the Telluride transit company, driving off three days a week in a truck that he could barely control, returning the next day with the goods he’d accumulated down in the larger towns: film reels, liquor, coal, hardware, groceries. He was proud of the job—without him, Telluride might not function. He had felt like a legitimate local for the three months that this idyllic situation stuttered along. Then, in November, he crashed, rolled off the hillside on black ice, a delivery of beer and lumber spilled four hundred feet, and that was the end of his reign as town hero. The men who worked at the gravel quarry at the bottom of the hill made off with the spoils; David could only crawl from the cab and shout ineffectually, clutching his broken arm, gasping around bruised lungs, “Stop, thief!” Although he was not paying rent, he had no money for utilities or food or fun. He’d had to return abjectly to Tucson, gas for his own vehicle siphoned with a section of garden hose from a car parked on the street. He hadn’t known how to leave a house in the winter; the pipes froze and burst, and a brood of skunks moved in under the floor. When the Harts returned, as they always did, on June 1st, they’d had to stay in a hotel for a few days while the plumbing was replaced and the vermin evicted. David also came to understand that he hadn’t been particularly tidy as a tenant, either. “I don’t blame you,” Dr. Hart assured him. “But I wouldn’t bring any of this up with Judy or the girls.” With horror, David remembered the pornography he must have left under the upstairs bed. Who had discovered that? Beside him, Danielle sneezed, five loud times in a row. “I may be allergic to your house,” she said. “And don’t you ever bless anybody when they sneeze?” As she stepped cautiously, duck-footed, down the steps ahead of him, David had an ugly temptation to plant his foot squarely between her shoulders and deliver a powerful kick. “Why’s your room painted purple?” she was asking. “You some kinda gaylord?” He’d known the Harts’ schedule so well that he was able to engineer a pity pickup one season. They always arrived on the first of June; he’d positioned himself as a hitchhiker on the highway just east of Rico, thirty miles south of Telluride. This, he felt, would permit neither too much nor too little time with the family. He envisioned their drive as he made his own journey. He had hitched from Tucson days earlier, accepting a long, lucky ride on a band bus with a bluegrass group booked at a bar in Telluride. After begging off at Rico, he’d spent two nights camping on Scotch Creek. It had snowed both nights; his small bivouac sack was frozen every morning as he hatched himself from it. By the time the Harts’ white van appeared, David had been offered a half-dozen rides; if the Harts had driven by without stopping, he might have later sought them out for revenge, torched their little piece of Paradise. But they pulled over, as he’d trusted they would, and he managed to hide his exhausted near-hypothermia long enough to pretend utter astonishment at this coincidence. This was two years after his stint as a Telluride transit driver; he claimed he had a job waiting for him, a place to crash, friends looking forward to his arrival. Lydia and her best friend were along with the parents that year. The other Hart girls were coming later; they had jobs, boyfriends, classes. Only Lydia was still fixed in the family routine. She would be a high-school senior in the fall; her best friend was a dark beauty who greeted David with an automatic seductive move of her knees, making room for him and his damp belongings. Swinging himself into the vehicle, he witnessed an exchanged glance between the Hart parents; he wished that he could somehow convince them that he was worth admitting back into the warm circle of their family. Prodigal? Wasn’t that a role he might claim? “Pris is getting married,” Lydia informed him. “At the house. Me and Violet are maids of honor.” “Violet and I,” Mrs. Hart said. “Wow,” David said, trying to hide his hurt feelings. Nobody had notified him. And now nobody was inviting him. A pregnant pause filled more than a few miles. The teen-age beauty allowed her thigh to rest against David’s, although all he could think of was Priscilla, his old best friend. When they dropped him at the bakery, he immediately began devising some way to become integral to the wedding. Lawn boy? Caterer? He had until the summer solstice to figure it out. The friend, because girls were cutthroat, would be the key, leading Lydia to sneak him into the house, through that same back window, and into her bed, in the purple room that had once been Pris’s, in order to claim victory in having seduced him. Twenty-four to her seventeen, he had closed his eyes during sex, an apology running through his mind like a prayer. For a couple of weeks, he had lived upstairs without the Hart parents’ knowledge, like a stray cat, padding softly across the floor, climbing in and out of the back window, eating the food that Lydia and her friend brought for him, crawling into bed beside Lydia, and lying when he said that he’d always liked her best. In the morning, David’s eyes flew open. He’d heard the west window screech downstairs. He looked to the pillow next to him, where he expected to find Danielle, snoring mannishly away, but she was gone. Maybe she was climbing out of the house, done with him. But before he could pull on pants he heard the women meet, the vague scream of surprise on either side, the confrontation. This was the backdrop to his swift calculations—through the upstairs window he would go, down to the car, out of town. But wait: no key! Then another flashing plan, the one story that would convince both women of his innocence. Palms flattening his hair, he wondered which sister it was, hoping for Lydia, the naughtiest Hart, the spoiled baby with whom he’d had shaming sex. He arrived at the bottom of the stairs just as she was opening the door to the kitchen: Violet. “David! What the hell? I wondered whose car that was, with Arizona plates.” He moved to embrace her, which would normally have been acceptable to placid Violet, except that she seemed somehow armored, wearing a backpack and carrying a shoebox. “You’re early,” David chose to say, hoping that bluster might cover his trespass long enough to hustle Danielle out of earshot. “You’re not usually here till June 1st. This is Danielle, but I guess you met.” Meanwhile, he made a whirl of himself, filling the kettle, lighting the gas. “I told your dad I was coming, but maybe he forgot to mention it?” Violet didn’t respond for a moment. She wasn’t as fast on her feet as her sisters. Finally, she said, “When did you tell Dad?” “Maybe a month ago?” Violet turned to Danielle. “What’s your name again?” “Danielle. Danielle Graham.” “I’m Violet, and this is my family’s house. Welcome,” she added, looking down at Danielle’s long bare legs under her nightshirt. “Coffee?” David asked, having the absurd thought that this might not end badly, that Violet might allow him to escape utter humiliation. “Sure,” Violet said. “I don’t know why I decided to drive all night.” “Lotta wildlife on the road?” David asked, fussing with filters, cups, potholders, avoiding Danielle’s curious expression. Unlike other women, Danielle had a patient, observing personality. She was a nurse, and she didn’t panic, not at the arrival of an emergency. She had seen them all. Would that get him off the hook today? Or more fully snag him? “I almost hit a dozen deer,” Violet said. “I was starting to think it was the same one, following me, throwing itself out in the road as a joke.” She set the shoebox on the table, shrugged out of the pack, then pulled her knitted duster around her and fell, sighing, into a chair. As the middle child, she’d been accustomed to being left out. She was neither the oldest nor the youngest, nor was she a boy, which would have been a Hart novelty. Perhaps she felt redundant. David had been Pris’s friend, not hers. Violet had read books; sometimes she’d grown bored and tattled. David had always thought her the dud Hart, the least necessary of the bunch. She had asthma, and a wandering eye, her left, that nudged toward her skull. Because of these imperfections, she’d always seemed approachable; she’d seemed to be a nice person even if she wasn’t actually a nice person. People were misled by the wandering eye, as if her attention or intelligence or humanity also wandered, as if she had only to be half attended to. Violet let David serve her coffee. Via chitchat, she and Danielle had discovered that they were members of the same twenty-four-hour gym in Tucson, although Violet, lazy, rarely used the place, and Danielle’s routine there was odd, given her shifts at the hospital. “I’m here to prepare for Lydia’s wedding,” Violet said to David. “Mom and Pris and Lyd are coming tomorrow, and then Pris’s husband and kids the day after, with the fiancé.” David had seated himself at the head of the table, aware suddenly that his feet were bare and frozen, that he ought to have started a fire, that Violet hadn’t mentioned her father’s arrival time, that he was looking at the box she had set on the table, and that the label on it was from a mortuary. The wedding would take place in a week, Violet was saying, but before then, before the men and children arrived, the women were going to scatter Dr. Hart’s ashes. “What?” “Dad died,” Violet said, adding, almost apologetically, “last December. Pancreatic cancer. It was very unexpected.” She was studying her coffee cup, which was one that her mother had thrown, years earlier; almost all the cups and plates and bowls and trivets were of Mrs. Hart’s making, mismatched seconds that she hadn’t been able to sell. “Christmas was awful,” Violet said, “but I think we’re all getting used to it now. We thought we’d take him up to Blue Lake. He always said that was his favorite spot. Although I’m not sure that Mom can make it up there anymore, with her arthritis. She’s a potter,” she explained to Danielle. “So it’s really especially cruel for her to have arthritis.” David stared at the white box. It could have held shoes, or pastries, paper. He felt as if he were physically repulsing the news of its true contents, the way one magnet repulses another. The box on the table, the table in the house, the house in the town, the town in the canyon. And the man, in the box. David was dizzy. “I didn’t know. Why didn’t you tell me?” he said finally, interrupting an exchange the women were having. Danielle, he’d overheard, learning it for the first time, was an orphan. Violet performed her unique blink, one eye closing just before the other. “His obituary ran in the paper,” she said at last. They should have notified him, he thought. He should have been personally told. How was it that they could not understand his affection for them all, his need especially for Dr. Hart? Violet said, gently, “I think you probably ought to get out of here today. I don’t really care that you’re here, but it’s not going to be cool with Mom or Pris.” He never got away with anything, he thought. If it wasn’t an officer of the law pulling him over, it was a ticket in the mail, the indisputable evidence of his vehicle flying past a camera at many miles over the speed limit. What such a person might eventually ask himself was why he felt a need to break the rules, tell lies, have things to get away with. Why couldn’t he, in some definitive way, exhaust or outgrow his childish defiance? Upstairs, as they bundled their belongings back into their bags, David preëmpted what he believed would be Danielle’s outrage by saying, “Don’t say anything, O.K.? Just don’t say a fucking word.” She was his responsibility, witness to his humiliation, a woman with a horsy face—big square teeth, oversized jaw, hair that she tossed like a mane—five hundred miles from Tucson, where she belonged. Now she was stripping the bed, methodically removing what they’d just last night spread out together. “We have to wash these,” she said. “It’s the least.” Downstairs, she assured Violet that she would return the sheets by noon, leave them on the front porch. David glanced at the broken-handled mug atop the refrigerator, where the quarters for the Washeteria were kept, and then his gaze crashed into Violet’s, whose eyes had also gone automatically to the money. While the sheets churned, David took Danielle to his favorite bar. The bartender was the same as in previous years; she said hello without recognizing him, the generic hospitality of a tourist town. He had begun to tell Danielle about the local character who rode his horse through these very doors, reliably, every year, when she stopped him. “You already told me that.” “I did?” He wondered if he’d also told her about being beat up at this bar, if he’d trotted out that particular tall tale—his explanation for the divot in his forehead that he’d got by taking a header in the alley. He touched his scar and raised his eyebrows. “Yeah, I heard all about that, too. You know, I’m beginning to feel like I could diagnose your problem.” “I don’t want a diagnosis.” But then he discovered that he’d rather know it than not. “All right, what?” “You perseverate.” “I don’t even know what that means.” “Not knowing doesn’t exempt you. You live in the past—you revisit the same things over and over. This place is nothing but a big nostalgia trip for you. I don’t know what the story is with you and that family, but—” He inserted himself here. “Messy breakup with Violet,” he lied. “The others—” “I. Don’t. Care,” Danielle said. He could tell from her expression that she didn’t. The details bored her. Neon beer signs turned her face green, then yellow. She was as mechanically unmoved as one of the machines she manned at the hospital, merely charting a human condition. “Just for a change, how about you ask me something?” she proposed. “How about that?” “O.K.” David thought for a moment. “How old was that other boyfriend?” “Seventy,” she said. “Wow.” “My parents were spinning in their graves, a man as old as them. But I loved him with all my heart.” “Why?” “ ‘Why?’ ” Danielle leaned back, focussing on David’s face. “Two questions in a row. It’s a record. But whatever. I’d rather visit my weird situation than hear about yours. I loved Franklin because, when we talked, I always felt as if we were wandering around in a big house, a big house with endless rooms, and every time we came to a closed door in one of those rooms we were able to open it. Open doors, open doors, one after another. That’s why I loved him.” David imagined the house, the wind circulating through those rooms, doors swinging on hinges. “You can’t smoke in here,” the bartender came over to tell Danielle as soon as she lit up. “New law.” Danielle suddenly laughed. “I love drinking before noon,” she declared. “It’s a great high,” David agreed. “The altitude really helps.” He was tempted to tell her about the BIOTA club—blame it on the altitude—but was afraid that he already had. Back at the Washeteria, they couldn’t locate their load of sheets and underwear. Every machine was empty. “What the fuck?” David said. The floor was damp and smelled of chlorine. There was nobody to appeal to, the business a self-service one; upstairs were apartments, blameless tenants. “You tell her,” he said to Danielle. She shrugged, willing. Her record was still relatively clean. He watched from the street as Danielle knocked on the front door. When Violet answered it, she sneezed into the sunlight. “Bless you,” David heard. Then the two women went inside, the door banging behind them. David waited. He studied the garbage can, latched the clip so that bears wouldn’t overturn it, swiped his hand on the creosote-treated light pole just to have the odor on his fingers. Finally, Danielle emerged. “What took so long?” “None of your beeswax. I wrote her a check—she can buy six-hundred thread count. And we exchanged numbers. We might share a trainer this fall.” “I don’t actually know what you’re talking about.” “You’re in shock,” Danielle said. “I’ve seen it before.” “Shock?” “The dead dad?” Duh, her tone said. Dr. Hart. David saw him suddenly at the kitchen table, a few of his university cronies alongside, bearded and complaining around the glowing wine bottle—bastard politicians, pretentious films, popular potboilers, historical rogues, critical tirades turned into a competitive sport—while Mrs. Hart floated around humming, serving food, salving childhood wounds, providing pajamas and lighters and answers to all manner of esoteric inquiry: Who the hell was that poet? Where, oh, where is the blankie? Even then, when David was a boy, allowed to sit beside Dr. Hart, to sip at the wine if he wanted to, to receive an occasional fond pat on the back, he had recognized the difference between Dr. Hart and those others. Concerning a certain slim novel that Dr. Hart had just the day before handed to David, one particular colleague had sneered, “Is that any good?” A gauntlet, made of contempt. “Oh, my God,” Mrs. Hart murmured, rolling her eyes indulgently. “Dad’s trashy habit,” Violet singsonged. “Well,” Dr. Hart had confessed, “I did like it.” “I liked it, too!” David had declared, heart swollen with pride, pledging loyalty to his king. Everyone in the room laughed, even little ignorant Lydia, and he felt himself shrink back to size: skinny boy on quaking stool, squawking sidekick to the great man. Still, he had been a great man, hadn’t he? “Keys?” Danielle said, out of nowhere. Apparently, she had been waiting, palm out, fingers wiggling. “I should drive.” It snowed that night. They stayed at a lodge on the edge of town, down by the river, by the former train station where the outbuilding had burned. David opened his mouth to tell the story, then couldn’t remember whether he’d already told it and didn’t want to be scolded for perseverating. Diagnosis, indeed. He did appreciate Danielle’s accepting the change in plans. She did not seem shocked by his deceit, and she offered a functioning credit card at the front desk. David himself was consigned to cash, which he readily provided—what he had of it—promising to make up later what he owed. “No reason to ruin the weekend,” Danielle said. E.R. nurse: David had to admire her unflinching willingness to roll with the punches. In this way, too, she reminded him of a man. When she undressed, he watched from behind, mentally shearing off her long hair so as to see only the wide swimmer’s shoulders and narrow hips, her overmuscled calves, her feet perhaps flat, certainly large. Then she swung around, her breasts dispelling any lingering sense of masculinity. “I think it’s only fair to tell you that I’m not using protection,” she said, in the middle of sex. David laughed, relieved to be in the throes of someone else’s story, in whatever weave of fabrication allowed her to think her admission, at this late date, honorable. “Duly noted,” he said. “I was pregnant before, with the married man, and I aborted. I really wish I hadn’t. It’s my big regret. Franklin,” she added. The image of that man had been taking shape in David’s mind, a dead man like Dr. Hart, and that’s who he was thinking about as they finished having unprotected sex. Danielle wore one of David’s jackets when they went out walking on their third and last evening in Telluride. He was glad to be able to do something for her, clutching at any small favor. They stopped by the trash cans outside the Hart house, as snow fell around the warm glow of the window. The tentative green of spring would not be killed by this storm. It was a harmless piece of winter, an errant cold cloud making a pit stop here, inflicting no permanent damage. Inside were the women, the mother and three daughters; Judy Hart still wore the braid down her back, her hair silver now against her bronze face. She smiled, sitting at the head of the table, facing the window, where she could see only her own reflection. Others crossed the small space, moving from stove to sink to refrigerator, a tight choreography with which David was intimately familiar. Then strangers filled the room, two men and two little boys, Pris’s children, who would no doubt be sent to sleep in the back bedroom upstairs, under the drawings made by their mother and their aunts. And by David. His scrawls were up there, too. “Looking in like this reminds me of a snow globe,” Danielle said, quiet and low. “Except we’re in the snow and they’re in the globe.” There had been drinks with dinner. David held her hand happily, quietly. He wished that Priscilla would step onto the porch and discover his happiness; he needed to display it, to prove it. He saw Lydia embrace one of the men, from the back, lean over him as he sat at the table and put her face beside his. Her hair was the same blond straggle from childhood. It had been Mrs. Hart who’d discovered David and Lydia in bed together, one morning long ago, only days before Pris’s wedding, when David was officially an adult and Lydia officially not. Mrs. Hart had opened the door after rapping briefly. “Lyd?” Then closed her eyes at the sight of David’s bare chest. She hadn’t been angry; she was a kind, kind woman, whose disappointment was far harder to bear than her anger. “Let’s not tell your father,” she’d suggested to Lydia, still standing there at the door, eyes averted. “I’m afraid he won’t understand.” Danielle asked David now, “Do you wish you were in there instead of out here?” “No,” he said. And then he reviewed his response. It was a lie—or else it wasn’t.
Brooklyn Circle Fourteen years after her divorce, Constance Tepper agreed to let her former husband, Jerry Elias, spend a few days in her Prospect Heights apartment (though not in her bed). They’d lived in Philadelphia when they were married, and Jerry still lived there. Now and then, he came to New York on business. Jerry was a tall, thin man who had grown up in his grandfather’s lamp store, learning not to break the lamps by standing up in slow stages. His father was Jewish, his mother a light-skinned black woman from the neighborhood who worked in the store and married the boss’s son. Jerry looked ethnically ambiguous. He’d inherited the store and worked there all his life, but eventually—the last independent store on its downtown-Philadelphia block—it failed. Now he was a consultant to other small family businesses. He liked to tell clients that he’d kept his store going well beyond its natural life span by putting all the lamps on a series of extension cords and plugging the last one into an outlet at City Hall. Con wasn’t sure what that was a metaphor for. This time, it turned out, Jerry was not coming to New York on business. He studied historical topics that made him curious, travelling several times a year to places where something had happened, or might have happened. He did nothing with the copious notes he took: he wasn’t writing a book or even a blog. When Con and Jerry were married, friends had asked how she knew that he didn’t take these trips to be with women, and she replied that she figured he didn’t because that idea infuriated her less. His pointless joy in these explorations seemed like solipsism. The trips denied Con’s existence, their child’s existence. (They had a daughter, Joanna, now thirty.) Con had never been sure that anything Jerry learned on his expeditions was true. So when he said that he wanted to stay with her while investigating somebody named Marcus Ogilvy, who was supposedly significant in the history of Brooklyn, she was pointedly—maybe rudely—uninterested. She knew she was irrational on this topic. A lawyer, she was generally rational. Jerry turned up, when he got to New York, not in Con’s apartment but at her office, near Union Square, at 6:30 P.M. It was a Thursday in November, 2003, six months into the Iraq war. Sitting at her computer, Con sensed a laden body and turned. Jerry had dropped a shapeless nylon bag on the floor and was stretching his long arms up and out. When she stood, he wrapped his arms around her. “I walked from Penn Station,” he said. She extricated herself, then kept him waiting until she came to a stopping place. “Let’s go out for dinner,” Jerry said. He stretched his arms wide again, and stretched each finger as well. Maybe he was getting the kinks out, but the gesture seemed to say that he approved of Con’s dingy office. She worked for a nonprofit that focussed on women’s employment issues. “Joanna’s at my apartment,” she said. “Oh, is that where she is?” “That’s where she is.” He picked up his bag. They’d take a cab to Brooklyn and go out to dinner with Joanna. He swung the bag as if to test its weight, as if it might or might not be heavy enough to knock Con over, to change her mind about a couple of things. He would not literally hit her, of course—Jerry was physically benign in all circumstances. Much about Joanna confused her mother, and lately the confusion had intensified. It had been hard to keep track not just of Joanna’s emotional geography but of where, in the simplest terms, she was. A sculptor who lived with a boyfriend in the South, Joanna had got a three-month internship in New York, and had been staying with Con. She worked in fibre, spending her evenings knitting grotesque, compelling shapes out of greenish twine, and now the apartment housed six or eight gigantic dry sea creatures. The Tribeca sculptor with whom she was interning, Barnaby Willis, worked in steel. “I could work like Barnaby, maybe,” Joanna said one evening. “I once did a piece in aluminum. Aluminum sucks. But steel—you can bend steel, twist it. Steel has ductility.” Con was doubtful. Joanna had a drinking problem—or a former drinking problem—and worrying about her was a habit. Then Barnaby left town for a while, and Joanna returned to the South, leaving behind her green twine and her sea creatures, which Con had come to like. Living with the creatures was simpler than living with Joanna, and Con had had mixed feelings during the last few days, when Joanna changed her mind from one moment to the next about whether she would return to New York. First, she’d phoned to say that Barnaby wanted her to come back, and she didn’t want to. “I never told you,” she said. “He raped me.” She hung up, then called back five minutes later to say that he had not raped her. “Is he harassing you? Report him,” Con said. She had dealt with this sort of thing professionally. Joanna laughed. The next call was about a fight with her boyfriend, who had accused her of sleeping with the famous sculptor. In the call after that, Joanna was breaking up with the boyfriend. The next one had come in the middle of the night, two days later, from jail. “I was stupid,” Joanna said, “but also I was absolutely right. I went to a bar because I was so upset. The TV had something about Iraq, and I said something. This guy next to me started arguing—” There was a pause. “They’re telling me to hurry. Nobody in this state believes in freedom of speech. I got into an argument about Iraq and I was arrested.” “What should I do?” Con said. She had been awakened by the call. Now Joanna was crying. “Mom, get me out. Just get me out.” By the time Con arranged for bail, Joanna had been released, and by the end of the day the charges had been dropped. Still, she’d spent a night in jail, apparently only for speaking her mind. Joanna had returned to New York the night before Jerry arrived, irate at both the jail and her boyfriend, and determined to get her lawyer mother to sue someone. Yet Con felt powerless. She wondered if Joanna had been drunk. She thought the arrest might have been legal. “It would be hard to prove that what they did was illegal,” she said to Joanna. “If the bartender asked you to leave, and the cops asked you to leave, and you didn’t, the arrest was legal.” “The cops didn’t ask me to leave—they just told me to shut up.” “They did?” Con said. “Were there witnesses?” “Nobody was on my side. But we have to do something.” Then Con had received an e-mail from Jerry. “What should we do? Could this be racial?” Joanna was only half as African-American as her father, but her skin was as dark as his, with a rosy tinge, and she sometimes said, “I’d have been a slave.” At other times, she remembered that she was mostly Jewish (Con was Jewish) and said, “Hitler would have killed me.” People never quite knew what Joanna was, and nobody could take their eyes off her: she was tall, and had a magnificent head with untrimmed masses of light-brown curls. Maybe it had been racial. Con still didn’t want to act. She didn’t want to phone the A.C.L.U. or the N.A.A.C.P.; she didn’t want to discuss Joanna’s case with colleagues or law-school classmates. She didn’t want to do anything. “It doesn’t make sense,” Con said to Jerry, in the cab. “Going to court over a young artist who got drunk in a bar.” “It doesn’t sound to me as if she was drunk.” “Even so.” Jerry changed the subject—to Con’s relief—and talked about his current historical treasure hunt. “It’s a huge Brooklyn secret that everybody could know about—but nobody does!” he said. “Except me.” He squeezed her shoulder, as if she, too, were in on the secret. “What was that name? Marcus?” “Marcus Ogilvy. Early-twentieth-century transportation genius. Crazy genius. I’ll tell you.” Instead, he grew silent, then said, “She was arrested for speaking her mind. And maybe for looking ethnic.” Con didn’t reply. In the apartment, Joanna came ambling out of her room, talking on her cell phone. She raised a finger to show she’d be off in a minute, then gave an ironic wave at her father. Con was struck, as if newly, by her daughter’s sturdy, glowing looks. Joanna hung up and Con crossed the room, reaching to take her daughter’s big head in her hands. But in another moment they were arguing. Joanna quickly determined that her father also believed that they should pursue her case, and her rage at the police and the people in the bar rose until she was screaming at her mother. “They carried me off to jail. They locked me up. What does it take to make you care?” “Did they treat you badly?” Jerry asked. “No,” Joanna said, quieting. “I will stipulate that they were polite. I was given weak coffee. I was called Miss.” “But it was terrible,” Con said. “I just don’t—” She had eventually e-mailed several people about Joanna’s experience, but she’d equivocated, saying, “Given Guantánamo Bay, this is trivial, but . . . ” Maybe she’d dissuaded while trying to persuade. “Let’s get something to eat,” Jerry said. They walked together—almost a family. It was cold. Joanna, in her thick parka, was warmer and bigger and walked faster than her parents, and Con, the shortest, in a jacket that wasn’t warm enough, felt like a small scurrying animal, an urban kind, with matted fur. Jerry was never cold, and he strode along like a New Yorker, his open raincoat puffing behind him. He always wanted Chinese food if possible. “Barnaby agrees with me,” Joanna said, once they were seated in the restaurant. Barnaby seemed to be back in favor. Con wanted wine but didn’t order a glass lest Joanna feel encouraged to do the same. Then Joanna ordered a glass of wine, so Con did, too. Jerry shook his head. He rarely drank; maybe he so enjoyed being exactly as he was that he didn’t want even the mild alteration in mood brought on by a glass of Chardonnay. “What does he agree with you about?” he said. “Did you go to his studio today?” Con said. “I talked to him. He was horrified. I mean, we all know there’s intense pro-war feeling in this country, but who would have thought I’d spend the night in jail? That’s what Barnaby said.” “What does an apprentice do?” Jerry asked. “I’m not an apprentice. I wish I were. Then he’d have to teach me until I knew everything he knows. It’s a three-month internship.” “So you prepare material?” Jerry persisted. Joanna sighed. “I haul things around. Sometimes he shows me how to do things, holds my hand when I use a tool. Sometimes I go buy him a sausage-and- pepper sandwich. Then I pick up the pepper strips that fall on the floor.” They ordered Sichuan shrimp and scallops. Joanna continued talking about Barnaby, and Jerry asked her what she’d do when the internship ended. The food was brought. “I’m not going back.” Joanna reached for the shrimp dish. “Maybe I’ll live in Barnaby’s studio.” She waved down the waiter and asked for another glass of wine. “Wait a minute,” Con said. “For one thing, isn’t he married?” This part of the conversation was over, said Joanna’s chopstick, describing a boundary in the air. Jerry was undeterred. “So, is he leaving his wife for you?” he said. “That’s not an appropriate question,” Joanna said. Con reflected that she had never learned how to be anybody’s mother, certainly not the mother of an adult daughter. She said nothing. Jerry began telling stories about the building of the New York City subway. His skin looked young, and his eyes had the same genial alertness that had attracted her the first time she met him, the same delight in the great adventure of being Jerry Elias that had charmed and infuriated her when they were married. Fed, they were warmer on the walk home, and Joanna was kinder. After a block or two, she dropped behind and soon Con and Jerry heard the rise and fall of her voice—intimate and exasperated—on her cell phone. “How does she afford that thing?” Con said. “I help,” Jerry said. “I’m doing all right.” Their daughter caught up. “Could I have the leftovers?” “You’re still hungry?” Jerry said. “No—Barnaby hasn’t eaten.” She took the bag from her father and waved down a taxi a few minutes later. “I’ll stay over,” she said, and raised a friendly hand to her parents. “At least she’s not in jail,” Con said after a silence, as they walked. “And they dropped the charges,” Jerry said. “Still . . . ” The streets had a late feel, with a few dogs out for their bedtime walks. “Who do you think we should talk to?” “I wish she hadn’t been drunk,” Con said again. “Con, I don’t think she was drunk.” “She was in a bar. She was drinking. She has a history of drinking. If she wasn’t drunk, she might as well have been drunk.” “Aren’t you pleased that she’s turned to you?” Jerry said. “And you’re a lawyer. It’s a damn good case. Maybe wake up a few people who can’t seem to realize how different things are these days.” “Are things that different?” Con said. “Since Bush came in?” “There have always been bad guys.” They were silent for the last half block, their footsteps sounding on the sidewalk. Then Jerry said, “It’s different. Blacks have an early-warning system.” “And you think Jews don’t?” Con said. When they remembered that they were a black and a Jew (sometimes they remembered that they were two Jews), they’d either quarrel amiably or become quiet together; one way or another, they were getting along. In Con’s apartment, they sat in her little living room and watched the news. The Pentagon had announced that a covert force was hunting Saddam Hussein. “Do you mind if I turn this off?” Con said. She went for sheets to put on the sofa. Then she said good night, stopped in her study to check her e-mail, and went into the bathroom. Jerry was standing in the hallway when Con, still dressed, came out, and as she turned toward her bedroom he stepped closer. They looked at each other for a long time, and then he put his arms around her. He smelled like her youth. When she stepped back, he took her hand. “Con—do you think . . .” It had been so long that he was someone new—but not new. She knew the ways in which he was a jerk, but right then she didn’t care. She leaned into his embrace, and they went into her bedroom. She hadn’t slept with anyone in a long time, and she was post-menopausal; she rummaged in a drawer for lubricant. Sex with Jerry was athletic, funny, companionable. She sometimes forgot that sex with another person was more satisfying than masturbation, which provided Con with frequent, sharply pleasurable interludes but did not lift her spirits. Sex with someone else made her charitable. Jerry’s egotism was not annoying after sex—it was sweet, like a child’s. He stayed inside her for a long time. Then he withdrew, sleepily kissed her under one eye, and slept. He took up room in her bed, but was gone when she woke in the morning. Con was not sorry she’d slept with Jerry. When she came into the living room, dressed, he was also dressed, and had a laptop on his knees. “You could come with me,” he said, not looking up. “Come with you where?” “It’s just Brooklyn.” “Oh. Marcus Ogilvy?” Con was tempted. She remembered the wild jealousy she had felt over Jerry and his trips, a desire to search with him in some unlikely place for the remnant of a fact nobody else cared to know. In the first years, she’d begged to go along. “Tell me,” she said, sitting down, but she was wary. He told more subway stories, finally getting to the bit of New York history that had caught his attention this time—Marcus Ogilvy’s mad scheme of the nineteen-twenties, the Brooklyn Circle. “It was never finished,” Jerry said, “but parts were built. The books say there’s nothing left, but my guess is there are fragments. You Brooklynites are so used to incomprehensible structures, you walk past these things every day, and nobody notices.” Marcus Ogilvy’s mother had been a German Jew, and on his father’s side he even had one black grandparent. He studied architecture in Europe, late in the nineteenth century, then returned to his native New York and made a small fortune developing new neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens. He’d been in his thirties when most of the subway was built, in the first decade of the twentieth century, but he was never enthusiastic about underground transportation. Before the subway, elevated trains had crossed parts of the city. They were noisy and dirty, so up-to-date thinking at the start of the new century was all in favor of the subway. “Ogilvy loved El trains,” Jerry said, gesturing so expansively that Con felt as if she had been reduced to someone at the back of a lecture hall. He went on to explain how Marcus Ogilvy had built a mansion on Arlington Avenue in East New York from which he could hear the reliable rumble of the Jamaica line as he fell asleep, and he’d enjoyed standing on the platform of the Cleveland Street Station, gazing at the city around him, instead of descending into a tunnel that he always feared would collapse, or would harbor rats and snakes. Ogilvy was especially troubled by one characteristic of the subway system as it extended to Brooklyn. The lines stretched from Manhattan like the tentacles of an octopus, but nothing connected them except in a very few places. To travel between some locations in Brooklyn, it was necessary—it is still necessary, Jerry pointed out—to travel into Manhattan and back. Ogilvy had proposed to change that with an elevated line that would not be ugly. Jerry opened a map. Across Brooklyn, he’d drawn a curved line in pencil. Ogilvy’s Brooklyn Circle was to have been an elevated arc linking the Parkside Avenue Station of what is now the Q train to the Winthrop Street Station on what are now called the 2 and the 5, then to the Crown Heights–Utica Avenue Station on the 3 and the 4, and finally to the station now called Broadway Junction, where the J, the A and the C, and the L trains meet. Ogilvy’s favorite word was “elegance,” and, in his designs and articles, he had actually referred to some features of the European Gothic cathedrals he’d admired as a young man, like pointed arches in the supporting pillars, to let more light into the street, and groined vaults underneath the tracks. He’d wanted people’s eyes to be drawn upward, their moods lightened. At that time, the subways were privately owned—the city didn’t own them until 1940. Ogilvy had secured the necessary permissions, found backers, and begun building supports and tracks. “Bits of the line are still there,” Jerry said. “I’m sure of it.” “What happened to it?” “Oh, what do you think? Nineteen twenty-nine happened. He lost everything.” She didn’t know why, but she wanted to go with him. She called in sick. The weather had turned even colder. Con put on her winter coat for the first time that season. It smelled pleasantly of dry cleaning. Jerry still wore his raincoat. As they left the apartment, they bumped into each other, and Con recalled that doorways narrow when new lovers try to go through them together. Not that they were new lovers. They took the subway to Parkside Avenue. As they went down the steps into the station, Jerry said, “Funny thing—for a while I had a girlfriend around here.” Con pretended more nonchalance than she felt. “Around here?” “A couple of blocks from here. She used the same station.” “Maybe I know her.” “No,” he said. “You don’t know her.” Just before Parkside Avenue, the train emerged into modified sunlight, running in a ditch that was open to the sky. They got off, and stepped out to the street. Con didn’t know how many women had been in Jerry’s life since the divorce. She was in touch with him often enough that names or incidents might have come up, but apparently he concealed names and incidents. It occurred to her that she might have run into him in a local restaurant with another woman—which would not, she told herself, have mattered. “So you’re not seeing this woman anymore?” she said. “Who?” “My neighbor.” “Well, she’s not your neighbor.” He paused, looking toward Prospect Park and then Parkside Avenue. “No, I’m not. We go this way.” Solid, square apartment houses looked well cared for. Farther along were smaller buildings. There was no sign of a failed elevated train line, and Jerry said that most of this construction was more recent than the Brooklyn Circle; developers would have obliterated everything. His exuberance was slightly tiresome. They would find nothing. Con was sorry she hadn’t gone to work. They turned onto Nostrand Avenue at P.S. 92—a massive, plain structure that seemed to tolerate no nonsense; any scraps of lost train lines would have been swept away—and began zigzagging, one block north, one block east, peering through gaps between buildings. “As a lawyer,” Jerry said abruptly, “you should be less timid.” The remark turned Con’s irritation into anger, partly because she’d always felt that was true. “What, you’re some sort of authority?” she said. “Is there anything you are quite certain you don’t know?” “Oh, sure,” Jerry said mildly. The angrier she became, the blander and more reasonable he would be. Then, in an alley, she spotted an upright steel object with a crosspiece. She waited to see whether he’d say anything, but he didn’t. Half a block later, though, Jerry suddenly grew extremely quiet: his long limbs slowed and it was as if he were completely alone. He put an arm on her shoulder. He pointed to three pillars with fretwork and arches intact between them, in the middle of a block off Winthrop Street, in a parking lot. Of course he was right: she knew in an instant that what she was seeing was like nothing she’d ever seen before. The pillars did not resemble fragments of other elevated-train structures. They were gray metal, and the pointed arches between them were sharply cut. They looked light. She tried to delight in him the way she would in a child who’d produced such a discovery. From his pocket, Jerry brought out a stack of three-by-five index cards. He scribbled with a ballpoint pen, leaning on one knee. They continued walking, now passing attached houses with aluminum siding. On New York Avenue, something stood between two buildings, but Jerry couldn’t be sure. Then, near Wingate Park, was a set of pillars with something between them. Jerry had a small camera, and he took some photographs. Con was cold. Everyone they saw was black. Now the houses were smaller, and there was room behind them for dilapidated bits of an old elevated railway. Twice, they spotted single pillars, then another set of three. Con could recognize them easily, with their distinctive pointed arches. Near Utica Avenue, they found a complete set of track work on six or eight pillars. A light, sturdy structure, it was just visible behind some houses. Jerry stopped a man in the street. “Can you tell me what that is?” The man looked. “Part of the Long Island Rail Road they no longer use,” he said authoritatively. “Oh, thanks,” Jerry said. “You like feeling superior,” Con said, as they continued walking. “No!” Jerry sounded hurt, and she put her hand on his arm. “Just teasing,” she said. In a Korean grocery, they bought apples and pretzels and bottles of water. Con had hoped for lunch. They crossed Eastern Parkway. Now the neighborhoods became shabbier, and Con and Jerry seemed more conspicuous. “Are you a teacher?” a little girl asked Con. Near Pacific Street was another set of tracks. It was wedged between small apartment buildings, as if removing it had been too much trouble, or maybe it even helped support the buildings. The tracks crossed a narrow vacant lot strewn with garbage and glass. Jerry walked confidently into the lot between the buildings to get a better look at the tracks, just twenty feet from the street, but Con remained on the sidewalk. “I’d given up on finding something like this,” he called. Double pillars, here, were linked by small platforms. Con was tired and cold, and the pretzels and apples had not satisfied her. She stayed where she was, and at last Jerry returned. They began to walk slowly past the structure. “You’re not as interested as I thought you’d be,” he said. She didn’t try to be fair. “You don’t quite know anybody else is real.” He stopped where he was and looked at her. His buoyancy was gone, and suddenly he looked older, somehow both more Jewish and more African-American. His face was less handsome, but maybe better, and Con was sorry she’d spoken. “What do you mean?” he said. “I shouldn’t have said that.” They’d stopped, and she was cold already, but it seemed necessary to wait where they were, at a street corner a few yards beyond the structure. “It’s beautiful,” she said quietly. “I should have said it’s beautiful.” “But you don’t really care?” “You want me to care.” “I want everything about you, Connie,” Jerry said. “Yes, I want you to care!” Now he sounded angry. “I want you to care about Marcus Ogilvy. I want you to care about Joanna being arrested for saying what she thinks!” “Of course I care,” Con said with some irritation. They were arguing like married people. “I do see that what you’ve found is wonderful,” she continued. Without her noticing, they had turned around, and now they were walking back to the short, graceful section of Marcus Ogilvy’s tracks. Sunlight coming through the fretwork made patterns on the ground. “We could climb that,” Jerry said. “Are you crazy?” But she wasn’t angry anymore. “Why not?” Con’s black wool coat was so clean. And it came down to her knees. If she’d expected to do any climbing, she’d have dressed differently. “It’s illegal,” she said. “I don’t see any signs.” “Of course it’s illegal.” He began slapping his thigh lightly, rhythmically, like someone getting ready to move vigorously. They stood under the tracks, and sunlight touched their faces and clothes. Jerry gazed up. He pulled out his note cards and scribbled, then moved to another part of the lot and scribbled some more. He photographed the tracks from every point. His pleasure was palpable. In truth, the pillars didn’t look hard to climb, with cutouts in the gray metal just right for a hand or a foot. Still, she was relieved that he seemed to have forgotten the idea. But then he said, “O.K., let’s go up.” She was curious, too. She could have her coat cleaned again. They started up. Jerry went first. No one seemed to be watching. What they were doing didn’t feel unsafe. In summer, neighborhood kids were probably all over this structure. Looking up, Con could see cleaner spots, places in the elaborate fretwork below the tracks where children had held on as they climbed. She confidently grasped the uprights. Her purse bounced on her back. At the top, they heaved themselves over a metal fence and onto a track bed. The tracks were still there, ending at the back of what looked like a warehouse. They were not dirty. They would not be hard to walk on, but maybe she wouldn’t try that. On either side of them, faceless apartment windows seemed to ignore everything. Maybe the residents weren’t home, or maybe they didn’t look out these windows. Jerry gingerly stepped along the tracks. Con crouched, holding the barrier she’d just climbed over, watching her ex-husband and new lover, watching his graceful legs. Maybe she would keep him as her lover. “Come on,” Jerry called. He was leaning on his knee, writing. “I’m fine here,” Con said. Then Jerry took a misstep between the tracks, and yelped, coming down hard on an ankle. And there was a knock on the window behind Con. Still holding on, she turned. A man stood at the window, an elderly man in a white shirt. He was waving his hand as if to shoo her away, frowning. She smiled reassuringly and turned back to Jerry. “Are you all right?” she called. “I don’t know yet.” He slowly stood up and put weight on his right foot. “Not all right.” Carefully, he raised his foot and shook it. There was little danger of his falling between the tracks to the lot below—there were plenty of crossbars and underpinnings. But he might have got a foot caught in one of Marcus Ogilvy’s graceful openings and cutouts, the ones that had allowed the light to touch them when they stood below. “Can you come back here?” she said. She looked behind her. The man was still watching, a flash of sun on the window glass hiding his mouth, but his forehead and eyes visible. He looked puzzled. She wasn’t sure he could see Jerry. She gestured. She smiled again. The man looked. His skin was the color of dark cherrywood, his forehead big and shiny. He knocked again, and when she turned he frowned and shooed her once more. She shrugged, and started—as well as she could—toward Jerry. The wind up here was strong, and she had a sudden fear of falling through the spaces between the tracks after all. Now that she was closer, she could see that the spaces were larger than she had believed. She would die. She would die trying to make her way toward Jerry. He should never have ventured out onto the tracks. He should never have wanted to come up here. It was sooty. Her coat—still with the conscientious smell of recent dry cleaning—was already dirty. It flapped and caught at her legs. She might trip on it. She took a step. Now there was no place to put her hand, so she leaned over carefully and got down on her hands and knees, but her coat was seriously in the way, and her bag—a flat, attractive, moderately expensive leather bag—thumped at her side. She considered letting it go, dropping it through the space in the tracks and forgetting it. Were things that bad? She backed up and left the bag on the ledge she’d been clinging to, just below the window of the cherrywood man. He seemed to be gone. She considered taking off her coat but was afraid to move that drastically, afraid that its breadth might make a sail in the wind and pull her down. She opened the coat, got back down on her knees, and with one hand yanked the skirt of the coat up behind her, folded over on itself, so that it was out of the way. She began crawling toward Jerry, stopping twice to refold the skirt of the coat. Jerry was leaning over, clutching his ankle with his free hand. Con didn’t know what she could do for him, but she continued toward him. At last, he reached forward and touched her shoulder. “Be careful. We’ll both fall,” she said. “We won’t fall. There isn’t room to fall,” Jerry said. “Kids come up here all the time. If they fell down and died, you’d have read about it in the paper.” She ignored him. “Can you walk?” she said. She heard the sound of a window opening. “I called the cops,” the man with the broad forehead said, leaning out. “We’re going to be arrested,” Con said. “At least the cops will get us down first,” Jerry said. “But I don’t want to be arrested,” Con said. It was too absurd—mother, father, and daughter running afoul of the law in the same week. She’d die of humiliation. She’d be disbarred. Jerry looked cleaner than she felt, almost dapper, his white shirt still looking crisp through his open raincoat. He smiled at her. “It’s going to be O.K.,” he said. “Then we’ll get married again.” “I don’t think so,” Con said. She got down on her hands and knees again, and began crawling back. She looked ahead instead of down. The tracks might be poorly fastened. The fastenings would have loosened over the years, and wouldn’t have been kept in repair. Con and Jerry’s combined weight might send the whole section, with them on top, crashing down. “The cops are on their way over,” the man called. Con reached the window and looked up at the man, like an actress playing a dog or a cat. She had an impulse to say, “Woof.” Then, as the man watched, she moved her hands up the short walls at the side of the tracks, so as to get upright again. Jerry was crawling behind her. “My husband is crazy,” she heard herself say. “I’m sorry. He’s a historian.” “You’re not allowed to be out there,” the man said. She said, “Of course not. It’s not safe. He’s nuts, and now he’s hurt. Can we come through your apartment to get down? He can’t get down the way we came up.” “I don’t know if I can let you do that,” the man said. “I don’t know anything about you.” “I live on Sterling Place,” Con said. She almost said that Jerry lived in Philadelphia, but remembered that she had called him her husband. “We live on Sterling Place. Prospect Heights?” The man considered. “My brother lives near there,” he said, as if that proved something. “Wait.” He closed the window. “I don’t know if I can make it down,” Jerry said. “This ankle is killing me.” “He’ll be back,” Con said. The man returned and opened the window again. Con retrieved her bag and brushed off her coat as best she could, then made her way over the sill. “I’m sorry to be so dirty,” she said. When she got inside, the man was standing to the side—not blocking her path but leaning against his stove—holding a knife pointed at her. She turned, raising her hand, to tell Jerry to stay outside. Maybe he could scream. Maybe the cops had really been called, and would arrest but also protect them. “I’m sorry, Ma’am,” the man said. “I have to be sure. You can’t be too careful.” Con stood still, studying him, then understood. “You think we’re going to hurt you?” she said. “I let you into my home,” the man said. This was true. “It’s all right,” she said to Jerry, who climbed onto the sill and sat there for a moment. He couldn’t put weight on the injured ankle and had to try several times before, with a cry, he ended up on his hands and knees on the man’s kitchen floor. Now Con supported him as he stood. With the cherrywood man remaining where he was—apparently protecting his stove—they moved side by side, leaning together, across the kitchen, through a sparsely furnished, extremely clean living room, and out into the corridor. There was no elevator, and it took them a few moments to figure out how to get down the stairs. Finally, Jerry hopped, and Con waited below to steady him if he started to tumble. At last they reached the downstairs lobby, crossed it, and, leaning together, made their way outside, stared at by two middle-school kids. “Where’s the subway?” Jerry said. “We’ll never get a cab around here.” It wasn’t far. Like Marcus Ogilvy’s train line that never was, they reached Broadway Junction and, a long time later, Jerry hobbled into Con’s apartment, leaning on her arm. She installed him on the sofa with an ice pack and the TV remote, then poured herself some Scotch. Glass in hand, she returned to the living room. As she began to speak, her hands seemed to become lighter, harder to control, so she had to put her drink down on a bookcase. She wanted to touch him, but didn’t. Her hands—not the rest of her—wanted to touch him. Her hands had acquired a layer of softer but more highly charged air than that in the rest of the atmosphere; they had their own opinion. She pressed them to her sides. “You need more ice?” she said. “Or some Scotch?” “A glass of water would be good.” Jerry stared at the television screen. The gray-green knitted blob next to the sofa seemed larger than it had that morning. Six Americans had died in a helicopter crash in Iraq. Maybe Con would check the police report on Joanna’s arrest, try to figure out if it was legal after all. She retrieved her drink. Her hands still felt lighter and larger than usual, pleasanter than the gray cold hands she’d carried for years. Again she didn’t touch Jerry. She returned to the kitchen and drank, looking at her hands.
The Dog She’d been gone for a couple of hours, most of the afternoon—he wasn’t sure—but she looked like she’d been in Spain. Or the Sahara. She’d been tied down and tortured, under a big round sun. She was suddenly tanned. He watched her taking off her coat. He didn’t know what color her hair was, the name for it. He sat still and said nothing. It went back. They hadn’t coped well. He knew that. His ear had been the start of it. Or a start. Years ago now. Mary had been kissing him. But she’d stopped and he’d heard something, trapped in her throat. —What’s wrong? he’d said. —Nothing, she’d said. Your ear. She’d stiffened beside him, but then he felt her kind of unfold, relax again. —My ear? —There’s a hair on it. —Hair? he said. There’s hair in everyone’s ear. —On, she said. —What? —It’s on your ear. —On? He saw her nod. —I’ll have to see this, he said, and got up. But he couldn’t see it. He put his face right up to the bathroom mirror. He turned his head, so his ear was nearly the only thing he could see. But he couldn’t see a hair. He took off his glasses. And he saw it. All on its own. At the bottom, the lobe. Like a mustache hair. He put the glasses back on. The hair was gone. He took them off. And there it was. He went back to the bedroom. He got into the bed. She was pretending to be asleep, breathing like a baby in an ad. He dated it back to then. Five years, four years—he wasn’t sure. When they stopped growing old together. He’d shaved it off. He’d never had a mustache and he didn’t want one now, growing on his ear. He’d taken his glasses off to do it—he’d had to. He needed the glasses, but sometimes he could see better without them. He took them off to read the paper. He had to put them on to find the fuckin’ paper. She was still taking her coat off. It looked new. He didn’t think he’d seen it on her before. It was nice, soft-looking. He didn’t know what to call the color of that, either. She was being careful. It must have been new. He said nothing. Her knickers came after his ear. His revenge, he supposed, but he hadn’t meant it that way. It had just happened. He’d been sitting up in the bed, reading. “Berlin: The Downfall, 1945” or “Stalingrad”—one of those big books he always liked, about a city getting hammered in the Second World War. He loved history. He could hear her locking the doors downstairs, and coming up the stairs, shoving the bedroom door open, coming in. It must have been the Stalingrad book, because he’d got to the bit about people eating the rats, and he’d looked away from the page. She was taking her jeans off, her back to him. She was kind of vague there, so he put his glasses back on, and saw them. Her knickers—her thong. New, and black. She was bending, to get her feet out of the jeans. Four decades of arse parked inside a piece of string. He pretended he was going to vomit. He still regretted it. He made the gagging sound, and leaned over the side of the bed and let on he was emptying himself. He’d done it before, and she’d always laughed. Not this time. He hadn’t meant to hurt her. He’d thought he was just being funny. She’d said nothing about it. He Googled menopause, but he soon gave up. Age of onset, cessation of menses; it was boring. Hot flushes—he had one of them every time he went up the stairs. But he kept an eye on her. He clucked sympathetically when he saw her sweating. He brought her a glass of water and put it beside the bed. She stared at him before she thanked him. The chest hair was next. His. He woke up sweating one morning. The room was bright. The sun was already pushing through the curtains. She was leaning right over him, looking straight down at his chest. —Gray, she said. —What? There was something there, a pain—the memory. She’d done something to him while he was asleep. —There’s gray in your hair. He was sure of it. She’d pulled the hair on his chest. She looked now like she was going to peck him, the way she was hanging there. —Did you pull my hair? he said. He could hear himself ask the question, almost like he wasn’t the one talking. He wasn’t sure he was awake. She didn’t answer. —And white, she said. —Did you? —What? —Pull my hair. —What? Why would I do that? She said it like she was miles away, or on the phone to someone else. Someone she didn’t think much of. He got up on one of his elbows. He looked down at his chest; he tried to see it properly. His eyes swam a bit. Her back was to him; she was getting up. She held her nightdress down as she climbed out of the bed. —It’s not really something you think about, is it? she said. What happens to you when you get older. She was standing now, looking behind the curtain, out the window. —It’s a bit horrible, she said. —It’s only hair. He’d had gray hair for a good while. It had started in his early thirties, on his head. A few at the side, just above his ears. She’d liked it; so she’d said. She’d said it made him look distinguished. A bit like Bill Clinton. You expected the hair on your head to change; you knew it was coming. But not the chest hair, or the pubic stuff. So she was right: it was a bit horrible. He’d examined himself that morning. He’d looked no different. He took his glasses off so he could look at his face properly. He was still there, the same man. It was frightening, though, how little time you got. You became yourself when you were twenty-three or twenty-four. A few years later, you had an old man’s chest hair. It wasn’t worth it. He put his glasses back on. He didn’t decide to throw out the statue. One of the saints—he couldn’t remember which one, a woman. A present from one of her aunts. He’d just picked it up, walking past it in the hall. Kept walking, into the kitchen, threw it in the bin. Tied the bag, brought it out to the wheelie, dropped it in. Went back to the kitchen and put a new biodegradable bag into the bin. The mark was there on the table, where the statue had been; the varnish was much darker, like a badge—“Something Used to Be Here.” She’d never asked about it; she’d never said anything. He’d never felt guilty. She’d never tried to cover the mark; she’d never rearranged the crap on the table, and neither had he. But she’d thrown out his medal. Not that he gave a fuck. But she had. The statue first. They’d both laughed at it, when the aunt was in the taxi, going home, the night she’d given it to them. The big blue eyes, the snakes at the saint’s plaster feet. He’d put it on the table in the hall; he’d made room for it. It was him who’d done it. He’d made a ceremony of it. This was the first Christmas they’d been in the house, two years after the wedding. They’d laughed, and she’d kissed him. He just picked it up and threw it in the bin. He didn’t know he was going to do it. He just did. He’d often hoped she’d ask him about it, because he could have told her. It could have been the beginning of something; they’d have talked. But she didn’t, and he didn’t. The medal. It was the only one he’d ever won. The Community Games, Football—Under 10s. North Dublin. Runners-up. He remembered the final, losing three-nil, and not caring once he had the medal. And not caring much about the medal, either. His mother had put it away, in the glass cabinet in the front room. She’d given it to him when he’d moved into his own house, along with all his old school reports and his Inter and Leaving Certs and a few photographs: the team in their stripy jerseys, him at the front, smiling and freezing; him and his big sister on the back of a donkey-and-cart, both of them squinting; him in his first suit, the flared trousers, grinning and squinting, the day before his first real job. He could remember his father with the camera. “Smile, smile. Stop bloody squinting.” He’d told his father to fuck off and walked straight out to the street. He could remember the noise of the trouser legs rubbing against each other. She hadn’t taken anything else. Just the medal. He hadn’t been looking for it. He’d just noticed it, gone. He’d kept the stuff in the big envelope his mother had put it into, with “Joe” in her shaky writing on it. He’d kept it in a drawer in the bedroom, under socks and T-shirts. Over the years, the shape of the medal had been pressed into the paper of the envelope. Not the little footballer, or the “1969,” or any of the other details. Just the circular shape. He’d been looking for a sock to match another one, and—he didn’t know why—he’d put his finger on the circle and realized there was nothing under it. He took out the envelope and opened it. The medal was gone. He searched the drawer. More than once. He took everything out. He shook all the socks. He slid the whole lot out of the envelope, and put it all back, one thing at a time. He tried the other drawers. He pulled the chest of drawers away from the wall and looked behind it. He took all the drawers out to see if the medal had slipped to the side, if it was standing on its edge on one of the plywood slats that held the drawers in place. He put everything back. He had no doubt at all: she’d done it. But then the dog came into the house. They got a dog. She got the dog. A Jack Russell, a thoroughbred, papers and all. A mad little thing. It was there yapping at his heels when he got home from work. —What’s this? he said. —What’s it look like? —A dog. —There you go. —Whose is it? —Ours, she said. Mine. —Serious? —Yeah. He looked down at it. —Let go of me fuckin’ trousers, he said. But he’d liked it, immediately. He’d had dogs when he was a kid. There’d always been a dog. Dogs were all right. She gave it the name. Emma. From a book she liked, and the film, by Jane Austen. But it still ran around the kitchen in circles and knocked its head against the rungs beneath the chairs. It never stopped. It was always charging around the gaff, or asleep, beside its mat at the back door. Never on the mat, always right beside it. It was a great dog. Didn’t shed too much hair, was too small to jump onto the good furniture, learned to scratch at the door and yap when it wanted to get outside. Only shat in the kitchen now and again, and always looked apologetic. So it was grand. But he soon began to realize that they weren’t living with the same animal. She talked to it; she had a special voice she used. She’d buy a bag of jelly babies and share them, one for her, one for the dog. There was a child in the house, before he really understood. He got up one morning and she was down there before him, filling the kettle. The dog had taken a dump beside the mat. —Emma had an accident, she said. —As long as it wasn’t you, he said. She laughed and he bent down, got the dog by the scruff, and pushed its snout into the shite. He unlocked the back door with his free hand and threw the dog outside, lobbed it gently, so it would land on its feet. And she exploded. She actually hit him. She smacked him on the back, a loud whack that didn’t hurt but shocked him. She hit him again. More of a thump this time—his shoulder. —What was that for? —What d’you think you’re doing? The two of them breathing hard. He didn’t hit her back. He didn’t even think about it, or lift his hand or anything. He knew immediately what she meant, and why she was furious. Now that she was. He could see. —That’s how you train them, he said. —No, it isn’t. —It is. It was how they’d trained their dogs at home, when he was a kid. Nose in the dirt, out the door. It had always worked. —What other way is there? He never mentioned the fact that she’d hit him. He never brought it up again, that the only one who’d ever been violent was her. She signed them up for training classes. One evening a week, for eight weeks. They brought the dog to a big barn of a place, an actual barn beside an abandoned farmhouse, at the back of the airport. It was a strange, flat landscape. There was the ruin of a castle on one side of the road and the airport runway on the other, just a couple of fields away. He could look straight up at the bellies of the planes. The dog trainers were lovely, three soft-spoken girls who loved the dogs and the racket and the smell. He enjoyed it. They both did. The dog was quick on the uptake, all the sits and the stays, and it was fine with the other dogs. He enjoyed getting there, and coming home. They had to drive through Ballymun and over the M50 motorway. They’d comment on the changes, all the old tower blocks knocked down, the new buildings going up. There was one time, on the road that ran right beside the runway, they saw something ahead—two things—getting clearer and sharper. It was two horses, pulling buggies, racing, on both sides of the road. He drove onto the hard shoulder, and they watched the horses trot past, and two Traveller kids in the buggies—they didn’t even look at the car as they flew by. —Jesus. —That’s disgraceful. —Is it? —It’s dangerous. —That’s for sure. He got out of the car—she did, too—and they watched the buggies till they were too far away, waiting to see if any other cars or trucks came at them. But the road was empty. —I wonder who won, she said. —Don’t know, he said. A draw. I’d love to do it, myself. —Yeah, she said. Not here, though. —No. They got back in and went on to the training center. Another time, they drove past a family of Romanians, Gypsies, about seven of them, walking along the same road, beside the runway. It was like they’d just climbed over the perimeter fence and they were making a break for the city. But, really, they were strolling along, and he’d no idea where to. He couldn’t even imagine. There wasn’t a shop or a house. —Why would they want to be out here? she asked. —Reminds them of home. —Stop that. —They’re left alone out here, he said. That’s my guess. —You’re probably right, she said. It’s like a no man’s land, isn’t it? —Yeah, he said. It’s nowhere. —It’s sad, though. Isn’t it? —I suppose it is. Driving back home, after the training, they saw the Romanians again, off the road this time, on the island in the center of the M50 roundabout; there were kids going into the bushes. He realized it slowly, and so did she. The car was off the roundabout and going through Ballymun before she spoke. —They live in there, she said. —What? —The Romanians, she said. They’re living in the roundabout. —It looked like it, all right. —In the bushes. —Yeah. —Jesus. —Yeah. They brought the dog to the barn every Wednesday night, for the eight weeks. The dog could walk, stop, sit, stay, and shit, and there were no more rows or misunderstandings. She fed the dog. He picked the shit up off the grass in the back garden. And he brought the dog down to Dollymount Strand for a run, on the mornings when he didn’t have an early start. And those mornings were the best thing about having the dog. He’d park the car and walk toward the wooden bridge, with the docks and the city behind it, and Dun Laoghaire to the left, across the bay, and the mountains. He saw herons one morning, two of them, standing still in the water. He’d never seen herons before; he hadn’t even known that there were herons in Ireland. They didn’t budge when the dog ran at them, until the last second. Then they were up together, and they flew off slowly, dragging their legs behind them, and they settled again, in the shallow water farther down the beach. It thrilled him to see that. He loved the whole thing. Even when it rained—when the rain came at him sideways, straight off the sea, and he was soaking before he’d really started—he loved it. But he’d never have done it on his own. He’d never have been comfortable by himself, walking along the empty beach in the morning. He’d have felt strange. What was he doing there, all by himself? But with the dog it was fine. He didn’t have to explain anything, to himself or to anyone else. He was walking the dog. Throwing a ball. Both of them getting their exercise. Then the dog went missing. He came home, and Mary was already there. Her eyes were huge and angry and terrified. —You left the gate open. —I didn’t, he said. What gate? —The side gate. —I didn’t. —It was open. —I didn’t touch it, he said. Oh fuck, the dog. He’d forgotten about the dog. —I went out, she said. I couldn’t find her. —She’ll be grand, he said. Hang on. He went out to his car and came back with the street atlas. He divided the neighborhood; he stayed calm. They’d get into their cars. She’d go right, he’d go left. —She can’t be gone too far. He didn’t believe that. He was already thinking about the next dog. —D’you want a cup of tea before we go? he asked her. He thought he was handling it well. She was crying. He wanted to hug her, but it was a long time since they’d done that. He knew she was angry. He’d look—he’d genuinely look for the dog. He’d stay out all night. He’d search everywhere. And he’d be delighted if he found it—he could feel it in his chest. But they’d been away all day. Nine hours. He’d left first—he remembered shouting “Seeyeh” up the stairs, just before he’d closed the front door. But he hadn’t been outside, in the back garden. He’d let the dog out—he remembered that. He’d been first down to the kitchen. The dog had stood up and stretched. He’d gone straight over to the door, to let it out. He’d had his coffee and his banana, and he’d gone. But the gate. He hadn’t opened it. The night before? No. He couldn’t remember touching the gate. It hadn’t happened. They went out to the cars together. —What if she comes back when we’re gone? —It’s not likely, is it? —I just thought— —I know, but she’s never been out on her own before. —I know. —Let’s stick to Plan A, he said. What d’you think? —O.K., she said. He was looking at the side gate now, open. —Would you prefer to stay here? he said. In case. —No, she said. It’s better if we both do it. —Grand. They didn’t find the dog. He stayed out till after midnight. He drove past the house, twice, until he saw her car parked outside. Then he parked his own and went in. —No luck? —No, she said. She didn’t look at him. She was sitting at the kitchen table. Then she looked, and stopped. —The bloody gate, she said. —It wasn’t me, he said. I don’t think it was. It isn’t bin day. —Bin day? —Yeah. Bin day. The day in the week when I put out the bin. When I open the side gate. Every fuckin’ week for the last twenty fuckin’ years. Sorry. He sat. He stood up. She looked at him. —I’m sorry, too, she said. He sat. —What’ll we do? —I don’t know. They went up to bed together and fell asleep, more or less, together. He was first out again in the morning. He didn’t shout “Seeyeh” up the stairs. He couldn’t. He hadn’t opened the gate. He looked at it before he started the car. It was still open. He got out of the car and shut it. It was open again when he got home. —In case Emma comes back, she told him. —Oh, he said. Fair enough. They were out again that night, putting up little posters she’d designed and photocopied, in the shops and on lampposts. “Missing,” and a photo of the dog, then “Emma—Beloved Pet.” And their phone number and her mobile number. He went left, she went right. He was home first. He fell asleep on the couch. She was in bed when he went up. She wasn’t asleep—he knew—but she didn’t move or say anything. They got a few calls. —I seen your dog. —How much is the reward? —I ate Emma. Kids mostly, messing. And a couple of weird ones. Three in the morning. —Hello? Are you Emma’s dad? —Emma’s a dog. —Yes. He was putting the phone down. He could hear the woman at the other end still talking. He put it back to his ear. —She asked me to tell you she’s fine. She’s happy. —She’s a fuckin’ dog. —Yes. He lay back on the bed and knew he’d be getting up in a minute. Sleep was gone. —Was that someone about Emma? Mary asked. —Yeah. —Another nut? —Maybe we should take the posters down. —No. —O.K. You’re right. We’ll keep at it. Then there was the Web site. She showed it to him—www.missingdogs.ie. She’d opened her own page. The same photo of the dog; the location last seen—a little map, their house filled in red. The dog’s personality, “outgoing.” —Will people look at this? he asked. —Yes, they will, she said. Dog-lovers will. —Grand. —And there are links to other sites, she said. All over the world. Some prick in Hong Kong was staring at the picture of their dog. He said nothing. Nothing. That was the way their life had drifted. They never recovered from the dog. They didn’t get another one. He wasn’t blaming the dog. Things had been heading that way before the dog. The dog had even saved them for a while, or slowed down the drift. They’d had something new in common for a couple of months, and the excursions to the land behind the airport. He hadn’t opened the gate. He hadn’t left it open. But he’d failed. He could have pretended. Cried a bit, let her console him, take over—he didn’t know. It wasn’t about the gate. It was about grief. She grieved. He didn’t. Simple as that. He should have pretended. It would have been a different kind of honesty. He knew that now. He thought he did. He’d said they should get a new one. She’d stared at him and walked away. It wasn’t a house you could walk away in; she had to walk out. She came back. They had another row, and he walked out. It was his turn. He stayed away for hours. He went to the pictures. He came back. The walking out stopped. The rows stopped. The talking, too; it was a wordless life. They’d drifted. But, actually, they hadn’t drifted, and that was another problem. One of them should have gone. They should have looked at each other one night, over the dinner or something, and smiled, and known that enough was enough. But that wise moment had never happened. He hadn’t let it. He’d wished for it, but he hadn’t let it happen. He hadn’t let his eyes sit on hers. Now she was taking off her new coat. He didn’t know her. Didn’t know her hair, didn’t know why she’d have wanted a tan in January—didn’t really know how it was done. Some sort of a lamp, or a bed. He didn’t know. —Your coat’s nice, he said.
The Cold Outside When the cancer came back, I wasn’t surprised. I was upset for Caroline, knowing she’d have to be told eventually, and I was bothered about how Sall would take it, after last time. I was even sorry for Malky, because finding reliable drivers was difficult, and he’d always been a good boss. Still, I wasn’t surprised, not when they told me. I’d been expecting something to go wrong since the summer, when Sall and I had talked about flying over to Montreal to see Caroline and meet her new boyfriend, then given up on the idea. Sall knew I was keen, of course: Caroline had always been Daddy’s little girl, and, ever since she’d left, it had been an effort to hide how empty the house felt without her—an effort I’d sometimes failed to make. Sall probably knew as well as I did that I was on borrowed time, so to begin with she had gone through all the motions of planning the trip, but then she’d started talking about how expensive it was and how tiring it would be for me, having to drive over to Glasgow, then sit on the plane for seven hours, and then, after all that, there was immigration and customs, which took forever. The way she spoke, it was as if she’d made the journey herself, but she hadn’t. She’d never even left Scotland, and all that talk about the Montreal customs was just stuff she’d picked up from Caroline, who’d been back three times in the six years since she got the job in Montreal. Not long before her last visit, though, she had met this new boyfriend and had started making a big thing about how it was our turn to go over there. “I understand it’s a long way,” she’d said. “But you’ll love it when you get there. You’ll see. It’ll be a nice holiday. Besides, Jim keeps asking me if you really exist. He thinks I made you up.” She’d laughed, but the invitation was real, even if she didn’t look at Sall when she said it but kept her eyes fixed on me. She was content to work around her mother for my sake, now that the two of them didn’t have to live in the same house. For her, it was all about careful management, about avoiding those occasions when something might be said that couldn’t be taken back. Even before she left, she had come and gone like a ghost, just so she didn’t have to be with Sall. I’d never really understood why. I once overheard Caroline say that her mother could start a fight in an empty room, but that wasn’t altogether fair. The two of them just weren’t able to sit together without arriving at some kind of disagreement or misunderstanding. It was a mismatch of personalities, something that happened all the time, in all kinds of situations. It was shocking only when it happened between a mother and her child. Whenever Caroline extended one of those vague invitations, I wanted to tell her that we’d come over as soon as we could, but Sall always got in first. “We’ll see” was all she’d say, and then she would go to work, undermining the idea. That was what she had done during the summer, making up excuses and problems and eventually talking the trip out of existence, till we ended up driving down to Hertfordshire instead, for a sad fortnight of rain and tea shops with Sall’s brother Tom and his second wife. I’d understood what was going on, and I told myself that it was probably for the best, what with the history between them; still, that so-called holiday was more of an upset than I’d expected. At first, I just put it down to the usual disappointment with Sall’s games and the way I never seemed to be able to stand up to her, but somewhere in the midst of it all, wandering around a grimy little bric-a-brac shop in Stevenage, I realized that I’d given up the last chance I would ever have to visit Montreal. So the knowledge was there, sitting at the back of my mind, waiting to come true, when the doctor told me. I was almost ready for it: almost accepting, the way you’re supposed to be in all the stories they tell about dying. Not completely but close, just waiting to hear how it was going to be, so I could walk out of the surgery and get on with what was left of my life. I had a matter of months, the specialist thought, and the idea crossed my mind that I could do anything I liked. I was free. Except that there wasn’t anything I wanted to do that much, apart from seeing Caroline, and I knew what Sall would say to that now. I’d heard it all before: how I had never had any time for anybody but my little girl, how I’d spoiled her rotten. To hear Sall talk, you’d have thought that what happened between them was all my fault, but I looked back in my mind’s eye and I tried to find a picture, one reliable image of the two of them happy together, and I couldn’t. Not even when Caroline was a baby. I could see me standing at the window in the back bedroom, rocking her to sleep and singing her Christmas carols, because they were the only songs I could remember, and I could see the two of us, when Caroline was six, going around and around on the horses at Flamingo Park, while Sall sat off by herself, watching, a curious, slightly bewildered look on her face, as if she were ashamed or embarrassed about something. I could see Caroline laughing at my bad jokes as we drove to school in the mornings, and I saw us making a row of snowmen in the garden—four of them, all identical. That was why I liked driving, and that was why I didn’t mind going back on the road so soon, because when I was out there, on my own, I would look at those pictures in my head and I would be happy. Anyway, the day after I got the diagnosis, I was back at work, hauling treacle. When Malky called, that first evening, Sall told him I was fine, and that I’d be back in the morning. I didn’t blame her for that; we needed the money. I suppose I should have been disappointed that she didn’t want me at home, at least for a little while, but I wasn’t. I knew it wasn’t really her fault. She just didn’t know how to deal with that kind of thing. Even before we left the surgery, I could feel her edging away, the way she always did whenever there was a problem. She slipped away into her own separate place, as she had done when we were first married and things weren’t what either of us had expected, or during the long weeks after Caroline moved away and we were left stranded, speechless and unable to touch or even look at each other, alone together with the quiet of an empty house and a shelf’s worth of pale photographs in the matching set of Shaker-style frames that Sall had bought at the Sue Ryder. So I’m not blaming her. I was just as glad to go back on the road and not have to sit moping about the house. Besides, I’ve always liked pulling treacle—molasses, to give it its proper name. Every now and then, I run around the countryside, delivering the warm, dark slop that farmers use to supplement the fodder for their cattle, blending the treacle with barley to make a sweet malty mix that the beasts can’t get enough of. I like going out on the farms, all quiet and lonely in the middle of the day; I like talking to the farmers and listening to their stories—men who have never been anywhere in all their born years save these hundred acres of ground, grown men haunted by their own holdings. To be honest, I like hauling treacle more than anything else. There are times when it’s so thick and dark and solid you could walk on it, and we have to work hard to get it pumped out and into the big tanks, which are usually so old and creaky that you think they won’t hold. Sometimes they don’t. On a really warm day, one of the pipes, or maybe the wall of the tank, will give way, and there will be treacle everywhere: treacle and the smell of treacle that makes you dizzy, it’s so sweet and strong. It was hard work, but it was good being busy. It gave me less time to dwell. And I knew, when I started out that winter’s morning, that I’d feel better coming home with a full day’s work under my belt, knowing that I wasn’t quite used up. I thought about that all day, driving round the farms in the frosty light—about how I would keep going till I couldn’t go on anymore. All a man has is his work and his sense of himself, all the secret life he holds inside that nobody else can know. That was how it had always been, even at home: my real life was separate from the day-to-day business that Sall knew or cared enough about to make decisions. It wasn’t that I didn’t love her, at least to begin with; we got on well enough in the first few years. It was just that we’d always been private people, in our different ways. That was probably what made it possible for us to stay together after Caroline left. We knew how to keep ourselves to ourselves, a skill we had perfected through the years without even knowing how completely we had mastered it. It was late in the afternoon, the sun just going down over the fields, the last of the light filtering through the trees and shrubs along the road by the old hospital. The first green of evening, my mother had always called it, sitting on the back step at home, watching the Peruvian lilies and the montbretia fade into the gloaming. I was never sure if that was a phrase of her own, or a quote from something, some radio drama, say, or a children’s book she’d read to me in the days before memory. Usually, if I got home early, this was my time. While Sall made herself busy in the kitchen, I would sit in the dining room with the paper spread out on the table, or I would listen to the radio, staring out at the garden and fiddling with the dials to get a better signal. That day, though, I had pulled a long run, only just finishing up at Jacob’s Well Farm when the dark set in. It had been a good day, but I knew I wasn’t supposed to overdo it, so I was happy enough saying my goodbyes to Ben Walsh, who used to run Jacob’s Well with his dad, and keeps it going himself now, his wife gone, no kids, both his parents dead. He had been living alone like that for some years by then, which was maybe why he paid so much attention to the few people he encountered. That day, it was attention I could have done without, but then he wasn’t to know what my troubles were. He offered me a cup of tea, but he didn’t seem to mind when I told him I’d better get on back. He gave me a solemn little smile and shook his head. “How’s the missus?” he said. “Keeping all right?” He always talked about Sall as if she were an invalid. “Can’t complain,” I said. “That’s good.” He gave me an odd, shy look. “Still, if you don’t mind me saying, you’re looking a bit under the weather yourself.” “Oh, no,” I said. “I’m fine.” “Yes?” “I’m a bit tired, I suppose,” I said. “It’ll pass.” He nodded. He was curious and, I think, genuinely concerned, but he knew not to pursue it. “Well, I hope so,” he said. “You take care of yourself. You don’t want to be coming down with something, right before Christmas.” I managed a smile. “You can say that again,” I said. “Anyway, this is the last of it, before the holidays. I’ll get a good rest then. You take care, too.” I shook his hand and got back into the rig. For a moment, I wished I’d said yes to the tea and stopped, not to talk about anything in particular but to keep company with the man for a while. I couldn’t imagine that his Christmas would be that festive, with just him and the animals. Then again, I couldn’t imagine much of a Christmas for myself, now that everything was decided. I wasn’t looking forward to the quiet of the holidays, or having to go through the motions with Sall, which she would want to do, because—well, it was Christmas. Maybe Caroline would ring, sometime in the middle of the afternoon, making the call first thing, so she could get on with the rest of the day knowing she’d done her duty. I hadn’t said anything to her about the cancer, of course. I’d considered telling her the first time, but it would only have worried her, and then she might have felt duty-bound to come over. This time, I didn’t even give it a second thought, because I knew for sure that I was going to die, and I wanted to do it in my own way. I wanted to let go of life with some kind of grace, or at least with some attention to what was happening, instead of just sitting quietly in the middle of some great drama between Sall and Caroline about what they thought I should do. That was how it had been through so much of my life: I hadn’t missed any of the big events, but, at the same time, I hadn’t felt entirely present while they were happening. Those last few weeks, though, I noticed everything. Like the way time would catch up with me all of a sudden, and I’d see myself opening a letter, or making a cup of tea: see myself from above, doing these ordinary little things and taking an odd pleasure in them, though I can’t say why. I’d notice things out on the road, too, things I’d seen a thousand times before and had liked without knowing why. Little details and imaginings I’d dismissed all my life as plain silliness suddenly became important. Like that stretch of road on the way back from the Glasgow run, when I would pass the turnoff for Larbert. I used to see it all the time: a blue road sign and a row of cherry-cola street lamps running off into the distance—Larbert, A9. It was odd how much I liked that sign. I’d never had reason to go to Larbert. We didn’t do any runs in that direction, but maybe that was why I’d always liked the name. Larbert. It sounded like a place where the teen-age years went on forever, all gray days by the water and strange-tasting sweets that fizzed in your mouth, making you think of the possibility of sex. Not that I had ever known much about sex as a teen-ager, other than what I saw in films and the oddly pleasurable discomfort I felt when Rita Compton visited my sister. That was the kind of stuff that was running through my head when I came across the boy, a few hundred yards into the woods, in the first of the heavy rain. I was thirty miles from home when it started, a thick sleet that might turn to snow later, or might come to nothing; it was already dark enough for headlights, but as I came into the woods, passing under the beech trees, it was like entering a little theatre, the lights flickering across the darkness, the woods black and still, like a backdrop. I’d always liked that about the woods, the way they suddenly closed in on me as if a story were about to be told. Like when I was a boy, and the announcer on “Listen with Mother” would say, “Are you sitting comfortably? Then I’ll begin.” Usually the road was empty, with maybe the odd set of headlamps—not a person, not even a car, just an effect of the light—streaming past in the opposite direction. But that night the story contained another character, though he wasn’t a character from any of the children’s books I knew. To begin with, I thought he was a woman. Maybe I wouldn’t have stopped if I’d known otherwise. He certainly looked like a woman: a black dress, no coat, fish-net stockings, ankle boots, shoulder-length wavy hair. She was walking slowly, toward the far end of that little avenue of beech trees, and I couldn’t make out much, but when my lights picked her out she turned, and I saw that there was something odd about her, something heavy. Not that I guessed right away that she was a boy. It was dark and rainy, and then, when I saw her properly, I was distracted by the bruises on her face: the bruises, the mess her hair was in, the dark stain that might have been blood on her right leg, just below the hem of the dress. I didn’t pick up hitchhikers much. I did in the early days, and I’d enjoyed the chat most of the time. Not always, but enough to make it worthwhile. More recently, though, I’d preferred being alone in the cab. Some nights, coming home in the dark, reeling off the narrow roads that ran to Perth or St. Andrews, remembering the way by my own landmarks—the hedges and drystone dykes and the spaces between them that other people didn’t even notice, tight angles of holly or lamplight as I came through a town—I would realize, with a pleasant rush of surprise, that I was fond of myself as I was, fond of my life, and yet, at the same time, not that worried about having to let it go. I had got past the stage when company seemed like a good thing on the road, and I have to admit that I thought about driving on that night, even after I’d noticed the gash on her leg. I didn’t need complications, and by then everything that wasn’t part of the usual schedule had come to seem unnecessarily complicated. Nevertheless, I made myself stop, and I pulled up alongside her—still thinking of this person on the road as a woman, possibly a woman in real difficulty—just to check, at least, that she was all right. I rolled down the window and leaned across to the passenger side. “You look like you ran into some trouble,” I called out, trying to make myself heard above the engine and, at the same time, not to be so loud that I might frighten her. The moment I put on the brake, she stopped walking—and that was when I realized that she wasn’t a woman. She looked up, and I could see it in everything about her: the way she stood, the darkness in her face, the heaviness. It was a boy, not a woman. Not a man, either, just a boy of eighteen or twenty, fairly thickset and not at all feminine. When he looked up at me, I saw the fear in his face, behind the mass of wet makeup and mascara, a fear that he wanted, but couldn’t quite manage, to hide. “I’m O.K.,” he said, but he stayed where he was, stock still, waiting. “Where are you headed?” I said, switching off the ignition and trying to keep the surprise out of my voice. “Home,” he said. Then he mumbled something else that I couldn’t make out. “What was that?” I said. He shook his head. He seemed desperate, though I wasn’t sure if he was desperate to be helped or to be left alone—at least, not until he spoke. “I’ll be fine,” he said. I knew then that he wanted to trust me enough to get him home safe and dry. I also knew that he didn’t trust anybody, not right at that moment, anyway. “Well,” I said, “I’m Bill Harley. I’m on my way home from a long run delivering molasses, and it’s nearly Christmas, so I’m not going to leave you out here in the dark.” Something changed in him then. Maybe it struck him as funny that I was talking about molasses, but he seemed to soften. He moved closer to the cab and tried to see inside. “I’m going home,” he said. “It’s just down this road.” He looked up into my face. “I’ll be fine,” he added, though he sounded less convinced than before. “Oh, come on,” I said. “Do yourself a favor. We’ll get you home, and you can get cleaned up.” I swung the passenger-side door open. The boy nodded. I suppose he’d sized me up and decided it was worth the risk. Or maybe he was just past caring and the promise of shelter was more than he could resist. “All right,” he said. “It’s very kind of you.” I nodded, then waited while he climbed in. He had a bit of trouble with that, what with the dress and the sling-back shoes, which I assumed he wasn’t used to, but finally he got himself settled and pulled the door shut. I looked at him for a moment in the golden light from the overhead, then I started the engine as casually as I could. “Well,” I said, raising my voice so he could hear me above the noise. “Where are you headed?” “Coaltown?” I nodded and turned back toward the road. It was a good twenty miles to Coaltown, not just down the road, but I had to pass it on my way home anyway. “O.K.,” I said. “You know it?” “I used to work there,” I said. “Long time ago.” “Well, he said. “You’ll not find it much changed. I guarantee you that.” “I don’t suppose I will,” I said, releasing the hand brake. As I did, I caught sight of the gash on his leg. It looked nasty, but the bleeding seemed to have stopped. There was dirt all over his legs and hands, dirt and blood dried into the mesh of his fish-net stockings. His face was badly bruised, as if someone had punched him several times. I turned back toward the road, but I knew that he’d noticed me looking at him. “I’m all right,” he said. “Just a few cuts and grazes.” I shook my head. “It’s a bit more than that,” I said. He let out a short, hard laugh, as if I’d made some joke at his expense. “I suppose it is,” he said—and I detected something in his voice, more of a drift than a slur, that suggested he might be on something. “Well,” I said. “It’s none of my business. But I’ve got a first-aid kit in the box behind you.” I tilted my head toward the back. “If you want to get yourself sorted out.” “I’m fine,” he said. “But thanks, anyway.” He shot me a quick glance, then looked away. “I’ve had worse.” “Really?” “Rules of the game,” he said. “It’s not as bad as it looks. I just went to the wrong party.” He glanced out at the side mirror. “I suppose it was a mistake, going for the Aileen Wuornos look.” I had to think about that for a moment, before I remembered who he was talking about, and he must have seen the realization dawn in my face, because he laughed again, louder and more confident this time. “Don’t worry, Bill,” he said. “I didn’t bring the gun.” I had to smile at that. “Well,” I said. “There’s a relief.” He laughed again, but this time his laughter was good-humored and warm, and I was suddenly glad that I’d stopped. “So,” he said. “Where are you headed, Bill Harley?” “Home,” I said, and I realized that I didn’t want to think about home, at least for the moment. I wanted to be out on the road still, out on the road on a winter’s night, with no set destination, passing the time with someone I’d never see again. “Ah, yes,” he said. “Home.” He dwelled on the word for the moment before moving on. “Soon be Christmas,” he said. “Not long.” I looked over at him; he was watching me, attentive, taking me in, maybe searching for something that he thought I wanted to keep hidden—and I had an image of Caroline, of how she had watched me like that sometimes when she was younger, hoping for a clue to what lay behind the façade that she thought I was working so hard to maintain. Maybe that was what made me say what I said next, surprising myself, and the boy. I didn’t say it very loudly, and I wasn’t really speaking to him, but it was loud enough to be audible above the noise of the engine. “One last Christmas,” I said. “Better make the most of it, eh?” It wasn’t what I’d intended to say, though I wasn’t sorry I’d said it. Still, I had no wish to pursue the notion any further, now that it was out—and I think he understood that, because, after allowing just enough space for what I might say next, he let it go without another word, and we drove on in silence, staring out from our separate places into the sleety darkness, our faces filling with light from time to time as a car passed from the opposite direction. It was slow going, then, but the silence didn’t bother me; if anything, it felt strangely comfortable, like having a passenger in the cab and being alone at the same time. After a while, though, the boy picked up the conversation, slipping casually into the kind of slow-moving, pointless talk that goes on between people of good will who don’t know each other well: stuff about football—I was surprised by that, though I suppose I shouldn’t have been—and some documentary he’d seen on television. It could have been anybody in the cab with me, to begin with at least, but then he started talking about other things, minor stuff about his school days mostly, only it was funny and good-humored, and all the time I knew he was really talking about something else altogether, some other story about himself that he wanted to tell, not out of need but because it was interesting. Like his memory of the school atlas that he’d been given in geography class—how he had loved the way the world was all mapped out, all the colors and lines and borders perfect and just, so that it looked like the kind of world it would be a pleasure to inhabit, an utterly fictional world where you could never be lost, because everybody and everything belonged somewhere. I enjoyed that, for as long as it lasted, partly because it felt new, to be driving along like this, talking to a boy in a dress and runny makeup, but also because he was such good company. When we finally reached the turn for Coaltown, he leaned forward in his seat slightly. “If you drop me here, that’ll be fine,” he said. I shook my head. I didn’t want to leave him in the dark, on another stretch of featureless road. “I’ll take you to your door,” I said. “It’s no trouble.” “Thanks, Bill,” he said. “But I’d rather walk from here. No offense.” He looked over at me, and, even out of the corner of my eye, I could see that he was hoping he hadn’t somehow insulted me. “None taken,” I said, but I turned off the main road and carried on a few hundred yards toward the coast before I stopped. “Thanks,” he said. “Don’t mention it,” I said. He put his hand on the door, as if to go, then he turned and smiled, not so much at me as at something that had just crossed his mind. “It’s not how you think it is,” he said. I felt uneasy, as if he were breaking some prearranged code and had started telling me a secret that I wasn’t supposed to know. “I’m happy with how things are, most of the time,” he said, and it was as if he were talking to someone else, trying to persuade them that what he was saying was true. Someone else, or himself, or a little of both. “So that question in your mind,” he said. “You might as well forget it.” I nodded, but I didn’t say anything. I really didn’t want to make something of it, even if there was a question in my mind, because it probably wasn’t the question he thought I wanted to ask. I didn’t need to know about his life, or what he did sexually, or what he wanted to do, or any of those things. I certainly didn’t want to know what the wrong party had been, or how he had come by his cuts and bruises. Some part of me was curious about him, but it was his happiness that I was curious about—because I thought he wanted me to imagine him as happy, and I wondered why it mattered to him. Or maybe I was just surprised that he seemed to believe that happiness was possible—and probably that was why I asked him the question I thought he wanted to hear, because, even on such short acquaintance, I liked him and I wished him well, at least. It was a piece of shorthand, I suppose, for all the other questions, the ones about happiness and being alone and getting home safe. It was also nothing at all. “Do you know what you’re doing?” I said. The boy laughed. “Never,” he said, with a little too much emphasis. “But you have to pretend, Bill.” He regarded me for a moment. “If you don’t pretend,” he said, “you’re lost.” I had no idea what he was talking about, but I understood anyway. He couldn’t do anything else, was what he meant. He couldn’t do anything different, and neither could anybody else. “Well,” I said. “You be careful now.” He slid down off the seat and turned back toward me. “You, too, Bill,” he said. He’d said my name again, and I suddenly realized that I didn’t know his. “Have a good Christmas,” he said. “You, too,” I said. Then I slipped into gear, released the hand brake, and pulled away, leaving him there in the slow, dark sleet. I didn’t look back through the side mirror so I didn’t see what he did next, and it wasn’t until I was some miles farther down the road that I realized that he hadn’t wanted to talk about himself at all, but was just giving me something back, and I felt sorry not to have understood it at the time, but glad, too, because, out on the road, in the cold, any gift is better than nothing. After I dropped the boy off, the weather cleared a little, and the last ten miles took next to no time. I liked that final stretch, the road going straight along the coast for a while, the water big and empty to the south, the fields and low hills above spotted with light here and there from farmsteads and faraway cottages. By the time I turned off and began climbing the rise toward home, the sleet had stopped altogether; a few miles farther, I came within sight of my own village, not much more than a row of houses straggling along a back road, a brief distraction on the way to somewhere else. The lights here always seemed dull and brownish in comparison with the fairy-tale silver of the lights I’d seen from the high road, and it struck me, sometimes, coming home late, that I knew the place too well. I knew all the stories. I knew what the people were doing behind those windows. I could see the abandoned dinner tables and the stone sculleries, the muddy boots on the doormat, the piles of newly opened letters on the sideboard, the silent men sitting in worn armchairs in the kitchen, watching television. When I reached my own cottage, I parked the rig in the lay-by opposite and let myself in through the side gate, coming across the garden to the back door, which was always left unlocked. The house was silent, almost dark; the one lamp burning was in the dining room, a room we hardly ever used, preferring to eat in the creaturely warmth of the kitchen. I wasn’t surprised that Sall was in there, though: that was where we kept the things that her real life was made from—the best china and the family albums and the framed pictures from what she probably thought were better days. I opened the back door and went through the kitchen as quietly as I could—quieter, those last months, than I’d ever been before, as if the promise of death had revealed a carefulness in me that I’d never suspected—and I found Sall sleeping in the big armchair by the fireplace, a magazine on the floor by her feet, an empty mug cradled in her lap. Asleep like that, unguarded, her head leaning heavily to one side, she looked old and tired, but at least the worry that usually haunted her face was gone, and, as I stood watching her, it struck me that she was dreaming. I knew she would be upset if she woke up and found that I’d come home while she was sleeping, but I stood a moment longer, watching her dream and wondering how she had spent the day, what she had thought about, what she had done. After a moment, though, I felt uncomfortable spying on her like that, and I walked back through to the kitchen, to let her rest. It was colder than ever now, but the sky had cleared, and a bright moon had emerged from the clouds, cold and white in a pool of indigo sky right above the garden. I put the kettle on, then I stepped outside and stood on the patio, looking over the fields to the stand of trees and the long stone wall that I knew were just beyond, black and irrefutably solid in the darkness. It was almost completely silent: from time to time, a dog barked at the end of the road, or the odd gust of wind caught in the beech hedge by Sall’s flower border; then, after a minute or so, the kettle began to sing quietly, and, as I felt the silence slipping away, I tried to capture it all, to drink it all in, before Sall woke up and I wasn’t alone anymore. This was my life, these were the times when I was true: in these half hours here and there when I felt alone in the house, or those fleeting moments out on the road, when I opened a gate and crossed an empty farmyard, a stranger, even to myself, in the quiet of the afternoon. The best part of the day was getting up at dawn and going down to the cool gray kitchen, the dark garden waiting at the door like some curious beast strayed in from the fields, a casual attentiveness in the coming light that seemed ready to include me, as it did everything else, in a soft, foreign stillness. That was the best, because I knew Sall would stay in bed until after I left, whether she was awake or not—though times like tonight were almost as good. It had become more frequent of late, this coming home and knowing that Sall was asleep somewhere, the magazine she had been reading slipped to the floor, a mug of tea cooling on a side table. It felt like coming home to another house, a place full of secrets, a childhood still there, intact among the green shadows under the stairs. First love, too—though not for Sall, as it happened, even though I’d never known anyone else, or not in that way. No: if thirty years of marriage and bringing up a child had taught me anything, it was that through everything, through all the Christmases and birthdays, through all the mishaps and misunderstandings, almost nothing had been shared. Everything that happened had happened to us separately, and, afterward, in my own mind, it all had a strangely abstract feel: a marriage inferred from picture books and Saturday matinées, a love that didn’t quite materialize, a series of other lives that had involved me for a while then shied away, the way an animal does when you make the wrong move and remind it of what you really are. The kettle was whistling now, and I thought to leave it, so that Sall would have to get up and turn off the gas. That way, I could pretend I hadn’t seen her sleeping. It felt too close, seeing her like that. It was as if I were breaking the rules we had worked for years to set up, a system of small courtesies and avoidances and slow, fluid conversations that ran for days, pieces of hearsay and local news passed back and forth over meals and cups of tea to cover the bewildered quiet that had fallen upon us. It was awkward sometimes, but it did work, and it was better than any of the possible alternatives. For a moment, I thought of the boy on the road and wondered if it would ever come to this for him, if he would ever come home and find someone he cared for, but no longer loved, asleep in an armchair. It was a tender thought, I suppose, but it wasn’t sad, or sentimental, and it had nothing to do with death. It was just a notion, passing through my mind, while I waited for the kettle to stop whistling. Only it didn’t stop, and after a while I walked back inside and turned off the gas myself. At exactly the same moment, Sall came through, her eyes bleary, an odd, faraway look on her face. She seemed surprised to see me, as if she hadn’t heard the kettle at all but had just woken up in what she thought was an empty house—and it struck me, for the first time, how difficult it would be for her, having me die first. “You’re back,” she said. It sounded like an accusation. She glanced at the clock, but she didn’t say anything else. “It was a long run,” I said. “I just got in.” She nodded. “I haven’t made you anything,” she said. “I didn’t know when you’d be finished.” “It’s all right,” I said. “I’m not that hungry.” She gave me a quick, scared look. “You’ve got to eat,” she said. “I’ll have an omelette or something later,” I said. “I was just making coffee, if you want some.” “I’ll make it,” she said. “You sit down. You’ve had a long day.” I nodded, but I didn’t move. The door was still open, just enough that I could smell the cold outside, and I heard the dog barking—farther away now, it seemed, at the darker end of the road that ran past our house and into the hills, past the golden lights of farms and dairies and narrow sheep runs through the gorse, where snow was probably beginning to form—real snow this time, not the cold sleet I’d driven through in the woods where I met the boy. For a split second—no more—I wanted to get back in the rig and drive on, up into the darkness, into the origin of the approaching blizzard, just to be alone out there, the way that boy had been alone in the woods. Then, with Sall watching me curiously, and perhaps fearfully, I let go of that thought and went through to the living room, where the curtains were already drawn and the night was nothing more than a story to be told by a warm fire, with the radio humming quietly in the background, so that the world felt familiar and more or less happy, like the future that seemed possible when you didn’t think about dying, or the pastel-colored maps in a childhood atlas that you couldn’t help but go on trusting, even when you knew that they no longer meant what they said.
Among Animals and Plants In the gloom of nature, a man with a hunting rifle was walking through sparse forest. The hunter’s face was a little pockmarked, but he was handsome and, for the time being, still young. At this time of year, a whiff of mist hung in the forest—from the warmth and moisture of the air, the breath of developing plants, and the decay of leaves that had perished long ago. It was difficult to see anything, but it was good to walk alone, to think without meaning, or to do the opposite—to stop thinking altogether and just droop. The forest grew on the slope of a low hill; large boulders lay between the small thin birches, and the soil was infertile and poor—clay here, gray earth there—but the trees and grass had got used to these conditions, and they lived in this land as best they could. Sometimes the hunter would stop for a moment; then he would hear the many-voiced drone of the life of midges, small birds, worms, and ants, and the rustle of the lumps of earth that this population harried and shifted about, so as to feed itself and stay active. The forest was like a crowded city—not that the hunter had ever been to a city, but he had been trying to imagine one for a long time. Once, he had passed through Petrozavodsk, but even that had been only in passing. Screeches, squeaks, and a faint muttering filled the forest, perhaps indicating bliss and satisfaction, perhaps indicating that someone had perished. Moist birch leaves shone in the mist with the green inner light of their lives; invisible insects were rocking them in the steamy damp rising from the earth. Some far-off small animal began to whimper meekly in its hiding place; no one was doing it any harm there, but it was trembling from the fear of its own existence, not daring to surrender to its own heart’s joy in the loveliness of the world, afraid to make use of the rare and brief chance of inadvertent life, because it might be discovered and eaten. But then the animal should not really even have been whimpering: predators might notice and devour it. The whistle of a locomotive, thin, distant, shredded by the whirlwind of speed, sounded through the forest and the mist, like the plaintive voice of an exhausted running man. “The Polar Arrow!” the hunter said to himself. “What a distance it runs! There’s music playing in the coaches. Clever people are travelling in them. They drink pink water from bottles, and they talk in conversations.” The hunter began to feel bored in the forest. He sat down beside a tree stump and held his rifle between his legs, ready to hand; he wanted to kill some animal or bird, whatever appeared. It enraged him that he didn’t know science, that he didn’t travel in trains with electricity, that he hadn’t seen Lenin’s mausoleum and had only once smelled a whiff of perfume, from a bottle that belonged to the wife of his boss, the director of Section 10. It was his lot to wander about in a misty forest, among insects, plants, and a general absence of culture, while luxurious trains hurtled into the distance. “Animal or bird—whatever shows up, I’ll kill it!” the hunter resolved. But, as before, there was nothing around—only the rustle and hum of petty, frail creatures that weren’t worth a battle. Beneath the hunter crawled diligent ants, burdened like respectable little people with heavy loads for their households. They are vile creatures, he thought, with the character of kulaks. They spend all their lives dragging goods into their kingdom; they exploit every solitary animal, big and small, that they can dominate; they know nothing of the universal common interest and live only for their own greedy, concentrated well-being. Once, the hunter had happened to see two ants dragging an iron filing from the railway line: it seems that ants even need iron. The hunter stamped on some of the nearest ants, then moved away, so as not to enrage himself further. He was like his father: his father also got angry whenever he went out hunting, waging war on the birds and the beasts as if they were ferocious enemies, expending every last bit of malice in his heart while he was in the forest, and then returning home a kind, sensitive family man. Other hunters weren’t like this at all; they wandered tenderheartedly through the grass, killing animals with love and caressing flowers and trees with trembling pleasure, while at home, among people, they lived lives of irritation, longing to be back in nature, where they could feel that they were the ones in charge, thanks to their rifles. “A man hunts, Ivan Alekseyevich, either out of stupidity or out of poverty!” his father would say to him. (When Fyodorov reached the age of eighteen, his father had begun to call him by his name and patronymic.) “You know—a man sits by a lake with a rod, all on his own. The bastard hooks a worm onto a line and deceives some mindless creature that lives in the water, while another man takes his rifle and goes off into the forest. ‘I don’t need anyone,’ he says. ‘You carry on without me—I’ll fend for myself. I’m all right on my own, thank you very much.’ That man’s friend is his dog, not you or me.” Fyodorov picked up his rifle. Something had stirred in the short grass nearby. He walked a little way in that direction and found a small hare—still a baby. He was sitting there almost humanly, rapidly chewing a blade of grass and using his tiny front paws to steady it. Then he wiped his face and began to take quick breaths of the clean, healthy air. Most likely, he was exhausted from having to find nourishment for himself; probably his parents were dead and he was living alone, an orphan. The hare did not notice the hunter, or did not understand his significance. He urinated, leaped up, and disappeared. Fyodorov didn’t kill him; the hare was too small, almost useless as food, and it would have been a shame, because the hare was only a child, yet already a true worker. Let him go on breathing. Soon afterward, Fyodorov came out into a clearing. The same chubby little baby hare was burrowing in the earth with his paws, trying to dig up some rootlets or a cabbage leaf that had been dropped on the ground last year. The hare’s concern for his own life was inexhaustible, and his desire for food was constant. After eating whatever was there in the ground, the hare defecated a little and played with his tail. He then began to bat one of his paws with the other three; after that he played with the remains of some dead bark, with bits of his own droppings, and even with empty air, trying to catch it between his front paws. Finding a puddle, the hare had a good drink, looked all around with moist, conscious eyes, then lay down in a little pit to one side, curled up into the warmth of his own body, and dozed off. He had already tasted all the delights of life: he had eaten, drunk, breathed, inspected the locality, felt pleasure, played a bit, and fallen asleep. Sleep was good, too: animals nearly always have happy dreams. Fyodorov still remembered the surprise he had felt when, as a child, he had cautiously watched sleeping dogs, cats, and chickens. They had made chewing motions with their mouths and produced blissful sounds, sometimes half opening eyes blind with sleep and then closing them again, stirring a little, and moaning because of the sweetness of their own existence. The hunter approached the little hare, picked him up, and tucked him against his chest. The hare let out a squeak but did not wake; he just curled up tighter and pressed himself against the man’s body for warmth, even though he was hot and damp already. On Lobskaya Hill, like a constellation of impoverished stars, stood a hamlet of four little huts. The huts were small, poor, and unpainted, but they were cozy to live in, and so they seemed adequate, even spacious. The hunter went into the poorest, humblest hut. Its wooden roof had rotted and was covered with ancient moss. The lowest logs were now buried in the earth, as if returning to their birthplace, and from these logs, from the very lowest part of the hut, were growing two new weak branches, which would one day turn into mighty oaks and eat with their roots the dust of this dwelling that had been exhausted by the wind, the rain, and the human race. The hut stood on its own patch of land, which was walled off by stakes, stones brought from the shore of Lake Onega and piled up haphazardly, and rusty sheets of roof iron, probably carried here from some distant town by a gale. But this wall no longer held; the stones were falling down and the stakes had keeled over. One might have thought that this was the home of a struggling widow with small children, but, no, not at all—a complete and healthy family lived here. Were they slovenly, then, or always quarrelling? Far from it: the oldest man in the house, Aleksey Kirillovich, Fyodorov’s father, was making a career for himself at the sawmill and hoping to build a new home soon; then he would leave the hut to be consumed by the roots of the young oak. The old man was counting on life’s taking a turn for the better; he had resolved to say a fond farewell to the past and forget it. Inside, the whole family was sitting together. The old father was putting the radio into action—a single-valve wireless he had won about a month before. In actual fact, he was buying it from the trade-union committee, paying for it in installments, but at home, for the sake of his wife, he’d said that it had been given to him as a prize. The old man worked as a guard at the mill, yet even he wanted honor from his family and dreamed of becoming renowned throughout the nation. But his old woman soon discovered just how honorably her husband had been awarded his radio—how can you keep the truth from an experienced wife? Fyodorov put the little hare down by the stove and took his ten-month-old daughter in his arms. She could already stand up and was learning to move around on her own feet: in fifteen years’ time she would be ready to marry and would get down to having children herself—but for now let her just rest and grow in her parents’ arms. “One little hare—is that all you’ve brought?” Fyodorov’s young wife asked. “You’ve got a family—you need to think a little when you’re out and about. There are squirrels in the forest now, there’s grouse, there’s blackcock—and what do you bring back for us? A baby hare for us to play with! Pah! Wasting cartridges when you could be buying something we need!” “Women have loved prosperity since time immemorial,” Fyodorov’s father observed. “They want everything, and lots of it—squirrels, grouse, and trunks full of cloth. Today they’d be called Socialists.” And he turned on the wireless straightaway, so as to hear that other world that lay beyond them, where universal history was happening and you could listen to the voices of the movers of fate. First, an old man spoke, then a young man. Then a band played a mysterious song; a pipe from the steppe sang out; a bell was ringing. Next, a choir of young girls began a song about heroic Socialism, about happy people, about interesting life. The girls were singing far away, but the sense of the music remained clear: people should live in bliss, not in need and torment. Fyodorov caressed his little daughter, stroking her head, her chest, and her tummy, where one day her own children would be conceived and do their growing. They would be higher people, although he himself—their grandfather—was a nobody, just a switchman on a section of double track in a forest. The child was also listening to the music, but his wife, laboring at the stove, was drawing economic and cultural conclusions: “The life people live—you can hear it even from here! They buy new clothes, and they build houses, and they eat sweetly and well, and they go to theatres. They dance and sing and study science, and they swim in the Black Sea—while here we’ve got nothing but work and worry.” “All too true!” the old woman said. “Other men do a bit of this, a bit of that, and, before you know it, there’s another kopek in the house. But you two don’t know the meaning of work. You get back home and what do you do? You just sit about. Go and float logs! Ask in the barracks—there are new stoves to be made, tree stumps to be dug up, and they always need someone to skivvy in the kitchens. If you don’t do something soon, it’ll be the end of us!” By now, the old woman had hit her stride, her whole body shaking with rage in the middle of the hut. “But you two just sprawl about! Or you take your rifles and it’s off into the forest! What for? What good does it do, wandering about under oak trees? Are there hens and piglets out there? Are the branches hung with cloth? Pah! And as for your tiny hares and baby grouse—if you brought them back by the cartload, well and good, but what’s the use of just one or two? Not even a mouthful for an old woman like me! And don’t you listen there to that trumpet of yours when I’m speaking—make it shut up!” The old man turned off the wireless, and went on listening affectionately to his wife. He couldn’t be bothered to argue with her; it was best to let her run out of steam on her own. Then she’d turn kinder again. But the old woman went into action. She grabbed the hare baby, who was huddling against the oven fork beneath the stove, and began dragging him across the floor with her left hand as she beat him with her right, first on the behind and then on the ribs—it hurt more there, so venting her rage was all the sweeter. The hare trailed along the floor, suffering this calamity in silence, until the old woman came to the end of her dark strength. Then she picked the hare up and flung him outside—he was no use to them, and she did not want him soiling the hut. The hare hid in the grass, lamented a little in his own way, then tidied his fur, crept through a gap in the fence, and disappeared into the forest, putting aside his recent grief for the sake of future life. Fyodorov’s wife took the little girl from him—it was time to feed her. She was already dozing. She had watched the hare long enough. “Comrade Kaganovich is in charge of transport. Yes—Lazar Moiseevich,” the old woman said. “I listen to the radio and I know everything. You know how people live these days? People everywhere are living with pleasure. But look at you—just look at the two of you!” she went on, turning toward her husband and son. “Sitting there with faces like plucked chickens!” The old man and his son felt their faces, which were indeed a bit pockmarked. Not that this would cost them anything: they didn’t lack people who loved them. Should Aleksey Kirillovich die, there would be at the very least two people weeping for him: his wife and his son. And that was enough. “Turn on the wireless,” the old woman ordered her husband. “I need to listen—otherwise I’ll miss something and I’ll carry on living in darkness, and all the benefit will go flying by.” The head of the family turned on his machine. First, the wireless came out with a moral admonition, then tender music began to play. The old woman put her right hand to her cheek and looked wistful; then she began to smile. She would have liked to be kind all the time, but that was not possible—everything would get eaten up, drunk, or worn out, the men would stop working, and the whole family would die of want. The hut and its land would be taken over by forest, and the hare would come out of the bushes and soil what had once been a dwelling of the human race. It was night, and Ivan Alekseyevich Fyodorov was beginning his day’s work. Section 10 was in the middle of nowhere, and there was little to be done in the way of loading or unloading. Fyodorov examined and cleaned his switches and inspected the crossovers with his lantern. He was always afraid for them—the locomotives gave them quite a pounding, and one day the metal might crack. If Fyodorov could have become an engineer, he would have invented some better kind of switch—a switch that a train would pass over smoothly. He knelt down and crawled from the switch rails to the frog of the crossover, sliding his hand along the running surface and the head of the rail and feeling for possible corrugations or dents, or burrs shaved off by the wheels of the locomotives. He could find no damage—one small indentation, but nothing dangerous. Fyodorov cleaned off the old grease and applied generous quantities of new grease to all the areas of friction, the thicker the better. He had noticed that, when a heavy train passes over, a well-greased switch rail has some play, as if swimming in the grease. Let it play, then—play protects! If something isn’t stressed, it won’t be tormented and it won’t break. When he first began to work on the railway, Fyodorov had treated metal and machines as he treated animals and plants—with caution and foresight, trying not only to get to know them but also to outwit them. Then he had realized that such a relationship was insufficient. Being with metal and machines required a great deal more sensitivity than being with wild animals or with plants and trees. You can outwit something living and it will yield to you; you can wound it and, being alive, it will heal. But machines and rails don’t yield to cunning—they can be won over only by pure goodness—and you can’t afford to wound them, because they don’t heal. A break is mortal. And so Fyodorov behaved sensitively and carefully at work; he even avoided slamming the door of his little cabin, closing it silently and delicately, so as not to disturb the iron hinges or loosen their screws. The railwayman on duty phoned the cabin: Fyodorov was to check the switches and signal “Line clear” so that the express could pass. Fyodorov knew the time of the train, anyway. He was already looking into the forest, along the dark cut where the track lay. There was no moon, and the stars were high and faint, but the rails shone clear and far, as if they were gathering, out of the poverty of darkness, the light that had been scattered in the gloom. Fyodorov lay down with his ear to the rail and heard the metal’s eternal song—its response to the flow of the air and to the noise of leaves and branches. The rails were singing in tune—the whole stretch was intact and healthy. But gradually this steady wavelike hum was joined by a vague extraneous mutter. Then this mutter grew more distinct and insistent; it was almost articulating words. This language was being sung by a young voice, and there were no false notes, no sounds of jangling irritation—proof that there were no cracks in the rails and that the metal had not been worn away at the joints. The switchman lifted his head from the rail, blew his nose, brushed the dirt off his clothes, and adopted a serious, dignified expression. Bound for Murmansk, an express was hurrying through from the south. The locomotive’s calm light rose up from the horizon, chasing the darkness forward through the forest, lighting up deep-blue living trees, bushes, mysterious objects invisible during the day, and the figure of a switchman, watching over the track in darkness and solitude. Fyodorov played a long welcoming note on his horn to signal that the section was ready for the train to enter, and respectfully held his lantern out toward the engineer, his unknown friend, the only person who was aware of him at that moment, and who would be pleased that all was as it should be. He’s really tearing along, Fyodorov thought. I won’t hear any music. He’s four minutes late and he’s going full steam ahead, the devil! If the Polar Arrow or some other fast train went by slowly, Fyodorov could sometimes make out the sound of the radio or a portable gramophone. For a few seconds, he’d listen intently to the melody, oblivious of all other noise. If there was no music playing, he was happy just to catch sight of some strange or handsome face looking out the window at the region’s unfamiliar forests. It was all the same to the switchman whether the face belonged to a man, a woman, or a child; nor did it matter where the person was going—just as long as the face was interesting and incomprehensible. Occasionally, after a train had passed, Fyodorov would discover some object on the track and try at length to fathom its significance. Then he would try to imagine the person it had belonged to, and he would feel at peace only when he had formed in his imagination a clear picture of the unknown passenger who had hurtled by. Once, he’d found a lady’s handkerchief; it had had a pleasant smell, and there was fresh blood in the middle of it. He’d touched the damp cloth with his tongue; the moisture was salty—probably tears. Then he’d had to rack his brain for a long time in order to imagine fully for himself the mysterious, pretty woman who had dropped this handkerchief from the back of the coach, crying and yearning for the man she loved, coughing blood into the handkerchief because of the consumption that burned in her chest. Afterward, Fyodorov had dreamed of this woman. Her little daughter had bitten her tongue and made it bleed; the girl had started to cry and the mother had wiped away her tears and blotted up the blood with the handkerchief, looked out through the open window of the carriage, thrown the handkerchief outside, and smiled at the switchman. “Wind up your gramophone!” Fyodorov had called to the woman. “On the way back!” the passenger had answered. “All right,” the switchman had agreed. “But make it nice and loud!” Sucking up all the air behind it, the train gave the switch a merciless working over. “Aha! Kaganovich really has given you a fright. Four minutes late out of the forest—and only three at the switch!” Fyodorov calculated. “Dramatic stuff!” But there was no chance now of hearing music from the train or being able to make out a human being. Formerly, the water from the toilets had flowed out in a stream, but now it was thin vapor—the speed of the train tore it into prickly spray. The thought of not hearing music made Fyodorov sad for the rest of the night. His section of track had no theatre and no library; there was only the track inspector’s accordion, and the track inspector seldom visited this section and when he did he often forgot to bring his accordion, even though he had given a written promise to the local trade-union committee to take it with him wherever he went and to go to all the Red Corners and play the new repertoire, omitting the chaos that had been condemned in the Moscow newspapers. One summer, a member of the Writers Union had come and given a talk about the current state of creative dialogue among writers. Fyodorov had asked sixteen questions and had been given “The Travels of Marco Polo” as a present; the writer had then left. The book was extremely interesting; Fyodorov had at once begun reading, from page 26. At the start of a book, a writer is just thinking, and that makes it dull; the most interesting part is the middle, or the end, which was why Fyodorov preferred to choose pages at random—now page 50, now page 214. And although every book is interesting, reading this way makes it even better, and still more interesting, because you have to imagine for yourself everything you have skipped, and you have to compose anew passages that don’t make sense or are badly written, just as if you, too, were an author, a member of the Soviet Union’s Writers Union. Fyodorov had been so carried away by one book—“Lime,” or was it “Stone”?—that he had read it from the end all the way to the beginning and had realized that it was a good book but that if you began at the beginning it would be false and ideologically suspect. For three hours that night, there were no trains; somewhere there had been a delay or an accident. The switchman examined the switch again, checking that the express had done no damage, then went into his cabin, pulled the door to, and played a few notes on his signal horn. But this was unsatisfying. Fyodorov wanted to hear a melody in an orchestra and to watch a spectacle in a theatre, so as to have some understanding in his soul about the truth of life and to see the universal horizon. In the morning, his wife, Katerina Vasilievna, came out to him. “Let me clean the switch for you!” she said. “Maybe someone will notice. Nowadays, these things do get noticed. You must try your hardest.” “There’s no need,” Fyodorov said. “The relief will be here soon. He doesn’t need a soubrette!” “What do you mean, soubrette?” his wife exclaimed furiously. “Who taught you that word? You didn’t know it yesterday. Have you been seeing someone here during the night?” Fyodorov felt a little frightened. “I read it a year ago in a book. There was this king’s daughter—” “I know, I know about you and your king’s daughter. And who was it getting friendly with junior switchwoman Fedotova the other day—right here at the switch? Along comes lover boy, and he sits down on the counterweight and takes her in his arms!” “It wasn’t me!” Fyodorov said. “How could it have been? I was on duty.” “I know it wasn’t you!” Fyodorov’s wife informed him. “As if I’d let you carry on like that and cause a disruption to transport!” Katerina Vasilievna took a broom and began to sweep the track around the switch. Then she cleaned every speck of dirt off the switch itself and wiped the crossover and the two blades. The switch looked spick-and-span now, like a pot or a pan belonging to a fastidious old woman. “I’m going to make an application. I want to be transferred to Bear Hill,” Fyodorov informed his wife. “There’s a big station there. There’s a theatre, a club, and a cinema. A man can develop himself there.” “That’s all I need! You’ll develop yourself there—and then what’ll I do? Nowadays, there are fine clothes in the shops; the young girls look beautiful. You’ll leave me—you’ll leave me and the family here in Lobskaya Hill.” Fyodorov reached out to his wife and carefully stroked her gleaming, pretty hair, so that she wouldn’t grieve in advance. “Don’t,” she said, gently taking his hand away. “You might be seen by a supervisor on a flatcar. He’ll say you’re careless and negligent. There’s nothing to stop you stroking my hair at home—but you never remember.” The switchman carried on trying to talk his wife round: “People have merry lives in Bear Hill. One can get oneself educated there, and it’s easier to be noticed.” In her mind, his wife calculated all the mysteries, losses, and gains, trying to imagine how everything would turn out. “Could you become a renowned transport worker?” she asked. “Yes,” Fyodorov answered obediently. “All right, then,” she agreed. “Only I’m frightened you’ll stop loving me. What will become of me and our little girl then? I’m getting on now—I’m twenty-four.” She fingered a button on her husband’s shirt. In answer, Fyodorov touched his wife on the shoulder. “I won’t stop loving you,” he said. “I’ve got a small heart. It hasn’t got room for anyone except you. And then you can start studying—you’ll like it. You’ll become a famous woman.” “But it’s a long way to Bear Hill,” his wife said. “You’ll wear yourself out!” “I’ll manage,” Fyodorov said. His wife sat down on the rail and thought everything over once more. “All right,” she agreed. “Write an application. And get them to give you a raise. And don’t go spilling ink on the paper again—if they think you’re illiterate, they’ll subtract your raise.” Fyodorov looked at his wife and wondered, Is she beautiful or not? Her hair’s still black, she’s young. She’s not so bad. The section director did not try too hard to hold Fyodorov back: Let the man go to a big station, let him develop himself. You can deny a man an extra ruble or one of life’s comforts, but you can’t deny him what he needs for his soul. You’ll end up with nothing—no man and no worker. The switchman began travelling to Bear Hill. He would be away from his family for two or three days at a time—he would stay on after his shift to watch a show, or he would go to the library and read books in the hall of culture, glancing admiringly now and then at the portraits of great writers and their various hangers-on. He would begin a book in the middle or at the end; he would read every other page or every third page, taking pleasure in the lofty thoughts of others and his own supplementary imagination. If his mind tired, he would go outside to air his head—but somewhere or other music would always be playing, either an accordion in a workers’ hostel or a gramophone in the window of a room belonging to a prosperous office worker. And Fyodorov would stand there for a long time, or perhaps sit down on some nearby rock, and hear the music through to the end; he would feel happy and ready for heroic deeds. But sometimes the music or what he was reading would all of a sudden cease to act on him—or, worse, he would fall into despair or irritation, no longer able to see the bright horizon promised to him by music, by reading, by the art of imagination and the excitement of a sensitive heart. It was as if he had become stupid and his soul had stopped caring about anything. Then, after reading a book on dialectical materialism, Fyodorov understood that a contradiction was at work inside him, and this was why he was sometimes gripped by a dark, alien sadness. But, insofar as that was the truth, how sad that there was no way out from the truth. Eventually, having worked, read books, and listened to music to his heart’s content, Fyodorov would go home to Lobskaya Hill, to the hut that was turning into the roots of an oak. Katerina Vasilievna would meet him, filled with anguish and zealous fury: it was clear that her husband loved another woman, a better woman, a beautiful stranger of a wicked woman. The switchman tried to explain to his wife that a wicked woman was still a woman—and therefore not so very different from a wife. “All the same,” his wife began, and Fyodorov was unable to guess just what was going to be the same as what. “Maybe there is pleasure in Bear Hill,” she went on angrily, “but just look at the state of your switch! It’s filthy. And when are you going to make your mark in the world? When’s life going to get easier for us? I’d rather you’d stayed in Section 10 for the rest of your life—at least I could keep an eye on you here.” Aleksey Kirillovich, after listening to scenes like this between his son and his daughter-in-law, would usually suggest to his son that they go out hunting, to be with animals and plants. A child is always precious, even when he’s no longer young. And sometimes women are a real burden on your soul—they make you want to give up. But who knows? Perhaps that’s how things have to be: after all, women are the ones who give birth to people. They’re in charge of humanity; they know best. “You should find some disaster to prevent, Ivan Alekseyevich,” the old man once said to his son. “Heroism’s quite the thing these days.” “Blockhead!” the old woman said. “Do you want our boy to die?” “It’s not yet time for him to die,” the old man said. “And it could be a small disaster, nothing too serious.” The old woman sighed and said, “When I look at you, old man, I wonder what on earth can have got into me when I was a girl and I chose you for my husband!” “Find someone else, then!” the old man advised her. “I may have to!” she agreed. “But first I need to plump up a bit. I had a fine figure once. I had curves. I was quite a woman. I only had to go out onto the street and stamp my foot and you men would all be filled with longing. I’ve wasted my life—I wish I could have it over again. Then you’d see me living it up! Still, why sit and moan? It’s not too late—I can have the life of a young woman now! Isn’t that what Soviet power’s all about?” At Bear Hill, Fyodorov worked even more conscientiously and thoughtfully than he had done on Section 10. Here life had more culture and there was more supervising authority, so Fyodorov’s sense of himself was modest and shy—and this shyness increased his diligence. Constantly seeing powerful locomotives and precise signalling mechanisms, listening to the roar from the engines of heavy freight trains, the switchman felt that his reason had triumphed, as if he, too, were to blame for all this universal technological power and its charm. Secretly and hazily, he perceived the correspondence or kinship between music, books, and locomotives; machines and music seemed to him to have been invented by one and the same heart, a heart like his own. The stationmaster had known his new switchman for a long time, ever since Fyodorov was a boy and used to go hunting with him. He kept him back awhile, then promoted him to senior switchman. Fyodorov was now in charge of a number of switches and the junior switchmen who operated them. Not knowing how to be in command of others, he began by doing all their work for them; he cleaned and greased the switches himself and went out to meet every train, even though the train was already being met by a junior switchman. The junior switchmen lived in bewilderment. “What is it, Ivan Alekseyevich? Aren’t we working-class enough for you? Why are you greasing the switches yourself? We haven’t been put here for nothing, you know.” “But can you do everything the way I do?” Fyodorov asked. “The way you do?” one elderly junior switchman said. “Not likely. We’ll do things better.” “That’s as may be,” Fyodorov said gloomily. “You do a job. I work by feeling.” Fyodorov spent some time checking the work of his juniors and realized that they did things well, but not better than he did. They had no idea that machines and mechanisms are orphans and that you need to keep them constantly close to your heart. Otherwise, you won’t notice when they’re ill and shivering—and then before you can do anything you’ll hear the sound of a crack in the switch and death. After long hours of listening to the single-valve radio, Fyodorov’s mother ceased to hope for anything from her husband or her son. She had been feeling envious for a long time of the higher life of the state, where there was now heroism, renown, and vigor, and where the youth and strength of an old woman, vainly expended in deprivation and horror in the old days, were in demand again. With the diligence and reason she’d acquired through the hard task of managing a poor-peasant homestead, the switchman’s mother began work of state importance at the small tarworks five kilometres away. She sensed at once that it was not so very difficult to make tar, and her careful labor really did help the tarworks. It began to overfulfill its plan a little, and that autumn Fyodorov’s mother received a prize: a gramophone, along with twenty records, and a jacket. (The management promised to give her a skirt later, when their quota of woollen cloth was delivered.) Aleksey Kirillovich fell into melancholy when his old woman was given a gramophone and a jacket. He tested his muscles, stroked his head thoughtfully, and felt the rest of his body: did he still have the strength for some powerful fame- and prize-winning action? Not that his old woman had been bragging, but he could hear her unspoken reproach: “Yes, there are important things going on in the world today. And you never take anything seriously!” The old man sighed, picked up his rifle, and went off to the forest to shoot something. “Where are you going?” his wife called out. “Off through the bushes again, getting your clothes torn? You’d do better to join a club and learn something or other. I suppose you’ll be back with a squirrel or a baby hare. A fine feast that’ll be!” “Let me at least have a breath of oxygen!” the old man replied. “I want to supplement my strength so there’ll be more work capacity.” “What do you mean, oxygen?” the old woman exclaimed in surprise. “I’ve never breathed oxygen in all my life—and look at me now! You can’t keep up with me.” “I’m a backward old man,” Aleksey Kirillovich said. “Backward? Come home empty-handed and I’ll really make you backward! Out there in the forest you’ve got to keep one step ahead—or you’ll get yourself eaten!” Just then the son, who had come home from Bear Hill, asked his mother to wind up the gramophone. “The old ones do the work, the young ones give the orders!” the mother said. She wound up the gramophone and put on a record of some merry music. She already understood all about the workings of the mechanism. Katerina Vasilievna gazed wistfully at her husband. “What’s the matter with you?” Fyodorov asked. “Nothing. Only that I’ve got a man who’s good for nothing.” His wife turned away and began to cry. Other people had gramophones and jackets and husbands who were supervisors, but what did she have? Just a hut—and shared with her mother-in-law at that. She bent down over her baby daughter’s cradle and fell silent in the sorrow of her fate. Fyodorov looked out the window, into the forest: maybe he should run away. He was certainly never going to become any kind of supervisor himself—to be a supervisor you have to think special thoughts. But then one day the forest would be cut down. And it was getting better and better, more and more enigmatic, to be a part of humanity. Great machines and prefabricated palaces for the people were being transported along the railway on flatcars; thick books lay on the shelves of the library; splendid people were travelling in trains. During his next shift, Fyodorov read an order from the stationmaster: from now on, senior switchman comrade Fyodorov was to receive an additional fifty rubles a month, and he was temporarily being appointed a coupler—a responsible position that many aspired to. On a quiet, brief day well into autumn, crossties were being loaded onto flatcars at a dead-end siding. A dozen men and women were carrying crossties up little plank ramps, stacking them on cars, then going back down to lift another load onto their shoulders. Thus continued the circulation of labor. The line out from the dead-end siding climbed straight up a hill, at a steep gradient; to pull fully loaded cars out of the siding, an engineer needed to have the regulator wide open and to use the sandbox, so that the driving wheels wouldn’t slip. At the siding itself, a whole team—six men and women—were lying beneath some closed cars and dozing; this team had not yet been given any cars. They had nothing to do and did not want to fritter away their strength with empty living. Fyodorov was doing what he could for them at the station. He got an engine to bring an empty flatcar to the top of the slope that ran down to the siding, and he ordered the driver to stop; from there the car would freewheel down, and at the bottom he would stop it by placing a wedge between the rails. To keep the car from running away, Fyodorov stuck an old abandoned crosstie, which happened to be lying beside the track, beneath one pair of wheels and started to unhook the coupling and free the locomotive. But the car had rolled away from the locomotive, and the coupling was taut. Fyodorov called out to the driver, “Move up a bit!” The locomotive moved up, the coupling slackened, and Fyodorov easily slipped it off the hook. The car began to pull Fyodorov away from the engine and down the slope. He grabbed the coupling with both hands to stop the car, but the moving wheels had cracked the crosstie he had put beneath them and the iron of the coupling was starting to burn his hands; the car was now poised at the top of the slope—and at the bottom of the slope people were working. Fyodorov dug in his heels, bracing his feet against one of the working crossties. His hands didn’t matter: the skin would burn, but it would heal again afterward. His legs began to ache from the effort. He was being dragged after the car. He understood that it was no good and let go of the coupling. Down below him, people were working—and the population of the country was small enough as it was. Who would be left to live, who would remain for him to be friends with, who would play music if the runaway car were to crush these people to death? Fyodorov knew that there were women down there, too, and that they might give birth to people who would know how to write books, or to people with good characters and fine hearts, who one day would sing an unknown song or imagine in their souls a pockmarked switchman from Bear Hill and say, “Long ago there lived in the world a poor man.” He had to stop the car or else there would be fewer people, less humanity. There were animals and plants aplenty, but animals and plants were boring. The car was gathering speed, and Fyodorov was running along beside it. He picked up planks and stakes from beside the track and flung them under the front wheels, but the car was going so fast that it crushed the wood to nothing and sped up even more. The world will be awful without them, Fyodorov thought, as he imagined the fate of the workers below him. They’ll be buried in coffins with flowers. There’ll be music, terrible music! He grabbed an iron crowbar that was lying on the ballast and, with precise aim, thrust it between the spokes of one of the rapidly revolving front wheels. The crowbar swung up into the air and the free end knocked Fyodorov off his feet and out of his senses, then threw him into the second wheel and smashed his head against the axle box. During the second or third revolution of the wheel, the crowbar began to twist and bend; the free end had caught against the ballast and the crossties. After digging into the sand between the crossties, it jammed between two of the spokes, went blue from the heat and tension at the point of flexion, and brought the car to a stop. Fyodorov was lying in the sand. He could hear the engineer saying, “Fyodorov’s had it.” No, Fyodorov thought. That’s not true. And he stood up to see what had happened. “Are you alive—or what?” the engineer asked. “What about you?” Fyodorov asked, and felt that his right arm was all cold, as if ice had been tied to it and, instead of melting, was sucking the warmth out of his body, reaching with its cold to the very center of his heart. “Let’s get on the engine and go back!” the engineer said. But Fyodorov wanted something to drink. He turned on the tap in the tender and water began to pour into his mouth, while the blood from his right arm poured into his mitten and down the inside of his jacket; it was even making its way down his leg, inside his trousers and down to his foot. He realized that he was bleeding horribly—soon he might be completely empty—and he told the fireman to lift his right arm up into the air, so that it would not all flow out onto the earth. They brought a stretcher and Fyodorov was laid down on it. He realized that they were having trouble getting his boots off; the right boot was full of blood, and his foot cloths had swollen up. “It’ll go dry and stiff in the coffin and then it will squeeze my foot,” Fyodorov said to himself. And he fell asleep in order not to know his death. His father, his mother, and his wife all went to the hospital and stood by Fyodorov, but he did not notice them gathered around him. “Ivanushka, what have you gone and done to yourself?” his mother kept saying. “We could have carried on as we were. We’re all right—we don’t need anything.” It was some time before Fyodorov woke up. It was quiet, he was in a big bed, and everything around him felt cultured and scientific. He did not know whether he had a right arm or not. He could see it lying beside him, but he didn’t know if it was part of him or if it was lying there separately. He decided to experiment with it, and he made a small movement with his fingers. The fingers were alive: that meant that he would keep his hand and arm, and that death had been and gone long ago. Soon afterward, all kinds of people came to visit him—the stationmaster, the Party organizer, Katerina Vasilievna, a photographer, the engineer, and two of the women who had been loading crossties at the siding. One of them brought Fyodorov a bouquet of flowers and two little cakes. “He gets more than enough to eat here!” Katerina Vasilievna said to the women. “Why waste your money and disturb a sick man?” The women went off in embarrassment. When Fyodorov left the hospital, his right hand and arm functioned only feebly and partially. “You’ve crippled yourself!” his family said. “How will you work now?” “I’ll learn with my head!” Fyodorov said. But most of the time his wife and his mother treated him kindly. The village soviet and the railway authorities gave him a thousand rubles and granted him a pension for life. The stationmaster came to Lobskaya Hill every three or four days to visit Fyodorov and help him to study for a new job as a station duty officer. One day, a car climbed up to Lobskaya Hill and six people all arrived together, bringing him a telegram from Moscow and congratulating him on the medal he was to be awarded. Fyodorov was unable to sleep the next two nights because of a strong flow of thought. On the third day, the stationmaster once again made the sixteen-kilometre journey to him. But, instead of getting down to the science of efficient utilization of the railway network, he said, “Pack your things—we’re off to Moscow.” Fyodorov did not even have anything to eat; he just drank a glass of milk, kissed his wife and daughter outside the hut, and set off. During the days that followed, Katerina Vasilievna felt very unhappy in Lobskaya Hill; she missed her husband terribly and often wept, hiding her grief from her parents-in-law. He’ll fall in love with a young parachutist! she thought. After all, they fly through the air, and I’ve heard they have such sweet little faces. Or maybe Comrade Kaganovich won’t want to let him go—and then what will become of me? Then she remembered that her husband’s right arm barely functioned and began to feel consoled: nobody would fall in love with a cripple; today’s young ladies weren’t stupid. But what about the medal? A medal was more important than an arm, and, anyway, her husband’s hand and arm were still whole! And Katerina Vasilievna once again forfeited her hope. Fyodorov came back a month later. He was wearing a black flannel suit; he was all serene, like a stranger, and he was driven into the village in a car. His wife sat down in front of him and put her hands out to touch her husband and the cloth he was wearing. “Was it good there?” she asked. “Yes!” Fyodorov said. “I saw an American woman in the metro. She was brown.” “Was she beautiful?” his wife asked. “Nothing special,” the husband answered. “So what are you now?” Katerina Vasilievna went on questioning. “A supervisor?” “A senior switchman. Supervisors are learned people, and I’m not.” He took out a medal in a box and showed it to his wife. Katerina Vasilievna took the medal and hid it in her trunk. “I’m supposed to wear it. Why are you hiding it?” Fyodorov asked. His wife gave him back the empty box. “You can show people the box! Who do you want to go flaunting your medal to? We all know, anyway, and you don’t want to make people envious.” His mother came out with his daughter. Fyodorov took the girl in his arms to caress her and to leave his mother free to weep a little from joy. “Some man in Bear Hill has been given a medal, too,” his mother began, getting the better of her tears. “He brought back seven suits, two gramophones, and three watches. He had heaps of stuff with him—he needed a cart to get home from the station.” “I was given five suits, too,” Fyodorov said. “But he got seven!” the old woman repeated. “Anyway, where are these five suits of yours?” “I only took one. You can’t wear five suits all at once—first you have to wear one of them out.” His mother sat down on the floor, and his wife on the trunk. “And how many gramophones were you given?” the old woman asked plaintively. “I was given one, but I didn’t take it. We’ve got one already.” “What about wristwatches?” his mother went on flatly. “I was offered a wristwatch. But what do we want one for? Here at home we’ve got the pendulum clock, and at work I know the time from the trains—we’ve got a written timetable now!” Mother and wife began to cry; Fyodorov wound up the gramophone, to entertain his little daughter with some music and because he wanted to have a listen himself. “Where’s Father?” he asked. “Wasting cartridges in the forest,” his mother answered without expression, through hot tears. Fyodorov sat the child on his wife’s knees, took out a clean handkerchief, and wiped Katerina Vasilievna’s face. “Don’t cry,” he said. “I’ve brought you eight hundred grams of Moscow chocolates and a complete library for the beginner reader.” Then Fyodorov left the house and went into the forest to look for his father among animals and plants.
Sin Dolor He came into the world like all the rest of them—like us, that is—as brown as an iguana and flecked with the detritus of afterbirth, no more remarkable than the date stamped on the morning newspaper, but when I cleared his throat and slapped his infant buttocks he didn’t make a sound. Quite the contrary. His eyes snapped open with that searching myopia of the newborn and he began to breathe, calmly and quietly, with none of the squalling or fuss of the others. My nurse, Elvira Fuentes, who had spent fifteen years working on the cancer ward at the hospital in Guadalajara before coming home to devote herself to me, both as a lover and a helpmate, frowned as I handed the infant to his mother. She was thinking exactly the same thing I was: there must have been some constriction or deformation of the child’s vocal apparatus. Or perhaps he’d been born without it. We’d seen stranger things, all manner of defects and mutations, especially among the offspring of the migrant workers, what with the devil’s brew of herbicides, pesticides, and genetically engineered foodstuffs to which they’ve been routinely exposed. There was one man I won’t name here who came back from the cotton fields of Arizona looking like one of Elvira’s oncological ghosts, and whose wife gave birth nine months later to a monster without a face—no eyes, ears, mouth, or nose, just a web of translucent skin stretched tightly over a head the size of an avocado. Officially, we labelled it a stillbirth. The corpse—if you could call it that—was disposed of with the rest of the medical waste. But that’s neither here nor there. What I mean to say is that we were wrong. Happily—at least, as it appeared. The child—he was born to Francisco and Mercedes Funes, street venders whose tacos de chivo are absolutely poisonous to the digestive tract, and I advise all who read this to avoid their stall, at the corner of Independencia and Constitución, if you value your equilibrium—was soon groping at his mother’s breast and making the usual gurgling and sucking noises. Mercedes Funes, twenty-seven years old at the time, with six children already to her credit, a pair of bowlegs, the shoulders of a fullback, and one continuous eyebrow that made you think of Frida Kahlo (stripped of artistry and elegance, that is), was back at her stall that evening, searing goat over a charcoal grill for the entertainment of the unwary, and, as far as Elvira and I were concerned, that was that. One more soul had entered the world. I don’t remember what we did that night, but I suppose it was nothing special. Usually, after we closed the clinic, we would sit in the courtyard, exhausted, and watch the doves settle on the wires while the serving girl put together a green salad and a caldereta de verduras or a platter of fried artichoke hearts, Elvira’s favorite. Four years slipped by before I next saw the child or gave more than a glancing thought to the Funes clan except when I was treating cases of vomiting and diarrhea, and as a matter of course questioning my patients as to what and where they’d eaten. “It was the oysters, doctor,” they’d tell me, looking penitent. “Onions, definitely the onions—they’ve never agreed with me.” “Mayonnaise, I’ll never eat mayonnaise again.” And my favorite: “The meat hardly smelled at all.” They’d blame the Chinese restaurant, the Mennonites and their dairy, their own wives and uncles and dogs, but more often than not I was able to trace the source of the problem to the Funes stall. My patients would look at me with astonishment. “But that can’t be, doctor—the Funeses make the best tacos in town.” At any rate, Mercedes Funes appeared at the clinic one sun-wracked morning with her son in tow. She came through the door tugging him awkwardly by the wrist (they’d named the boy Dámaso, after her husband’s twin brother, who sent small packets of chocolate and the occasional twenty-dollar bill from Los Angeles when the mood took him) and settled into a chair in the waiting room while Elvira’s parrot gnawed at the wicker bars of its cage and the little air-conditioner I kept in the front window churned out its hyperborean drafts. I was feeling especially good that morning, at the top of my game, certain real-estate investments having turned out rather well for me, and Elvira keeping her eye on a modest little cottage at the seashore, which we hoped to purchase as a getaway and perhaps, in the future, as a place of retirement. After all, I was no longer as young as I once was and the Hippocratic frisson of healing the lame and curing the incurable had been replaced by a sort of repetitious drudgery—nothing a surprise anymore and every patient who walked through the door diagnosed before they’d even pulled up a chair. I’d seen it all. I was bored. Impatient. Fed up. But, as I say, on this particular day my mood was buoyant, my whole being filled with an inchoate joy over the prospect of that little frame cottage at the seashore. I believe I may even have been whistling as I entered the examining room. “And what seems to be the problem?” I asked. Mercedes Funes was wrapped in a shawl despite the heat. She’d done up her hair and was wearing the shoes she reserved for Sunday Mass. In her lap was the child, gazing up at me out of his father’s eyes, eyes that were perfectly round, as if they’d been created on an assembly line, and which never seemed to blink. “It’s his hands, doctor,” Mercedes said in a whisper. “He’s burned them.” Before I could say “Let’s have a look” in my paternal and reassuring tone, the boy held out his hands, palms up, and I saw the wounds there. The burns were third degree, right in the center of each palm, and involved several fingers as well. Leathery scabs—eschars—had replaced the destroyed tissue and were seeping a deep wine-colored fluid around the margins. I’d seen such burns before, of course, on innumerable occasions, the result of a house fire, smoking in bed, a child blundering against a stove, but these seemed odd, as if they’d been deliberately inflicted. I glanced up sharply at the mother and asked what had happened. “I was busy with a customer,” she said, dropping her eyes as if to summon the image, “a big order, a family of seven, and I wasn’t watching him—and Francisco wasn’t there. He’s out selling bicycle tires now, you know, just so we can make ends meet. Dámaso must have reached into the brazier when my back was turned. He took out two hot coals, doctor, one in each hand. I only discovered what he’d done when I smelled the flesh burning.” She gave me a glance from beneath the continuous eyebrow that made her look as if she were perpetually scowling. “It smelled just like goat. Only different.” “But how—?” I exclaimed, unable to finish the question. I didn’t credit her for a minute. No one, not even the fakirs of India (and they are fakers), could hold onto a burning coal long enough to suffer third-degree burns. “He’s not normal, doctor. He doesn’t feel pain the way others do. Look here”—and she lifted the child’s right leg as if it weren’t even attached to him, rolling up his miniature trousers to show me a dark raised scar the size of an adult’s spread hand—“do you see this? This is where that filthy pit bull Isabel Briceño keeps came through the fence and bit him, and we’ve gone to the lawyer over it, too, believe me, but he never cried out or said a word. The dog had him down in the dirt, chewing on him like he was a bone, and if my husband hadn’t gone out into the yard to throw his shaving water on the rosebushes I think he would have been torn to pieces.” She looked out the window a moment, as if to collect herself. The boy stared at me out of his unblinking eyes. Very slowly, as if he were in some perverse way proud of what had befallen him or of how stoically he’d endured it, he began to smile, and I couldn’t help thinking that he’d make a first-rate soldier in whatever war we were prosecuting when he grew up. “And do you see this?” she went on, tracing her index finger over the boy’s lips. “These scars here?” I saw a tracery of pale jagged lines radiating out from his mouth. “This is where he’s bitten himself—bitten himself without knowing it.” “Señora Funes,” I said in my most caustic tone, the tone I reserve for inebriates with swollen livers and smokers who cough up blood while lighting yet another cigarette, right there in my office, no less, “I don’t think you’re telling me the whole truth here. This boy has been abused. I’ve never seen a more egregious case. You should be ashamed of yourself. Worse: you should be reported to the authorities.” She rolled her eyes. The boy sat like a mannequin in her lap, as if he were made of wood. “You don’t understand: he doesn’t feel pain. Nothing. Go ahead. Prick him with your needle—you can push it right through his arm and he wouldn’t know the difference.” Angry now—what sort of dupe did she take me for?—I went straight to the cabinet, removed a disposable syringe, prepared an injection (a half dose of the B12 I keep on hand for the elderly and the anemic), and dabbed a spot on his stick of an arm with alcohol. They both watched indifferently as the needle slid in. The boy never flinched. Never gave any indication that anything was happening at all. But that didn’t prove a thing. One child out of a hundred would steel himself when I presented the needle (though the ninety-nine others would shriek as if their fingernails were being pulled out, one by one). “Do you see?” she said. “I see nothing,” I replied. “He didn’t flinch, that’s all. Many children—some, anyway—are real little soldiers about their injections.” I hovered over him, looking into his face. “You’re a real little solider, aren’t you, Dámaso?” I said. From the mother, in a weary voice: “We call him Sin Dolor, doctor. That’s his nickname. That’s what his father calls him when he misbehaves, because no amount of spanking or pinching or twisting his arm will even begin to touch him. Sin Dolor, doctor. The Painless One.” The next time I saw him he must have been seven or eight, I don’t really recall exactly, but he’d grown into a reedy, solemn boy with great devouring eyes and his father’s Indian hair, still as thin as a puppet and still looking anemic. This time the father brought him in, carrying the boy in his arms. My first thought was worms, and I made a mental note to dose him before he left, but then it occurred to me that it must only have been his mother’s cooking and I dismissed the idea. A stool sample would do. But of course we’d need to draw blood to assess hemoglobin levels—if the parents were willing, that is. Both of them were notoriously tight-fisted, and I rarely saw any of the Funes clan in my offices unless something was seriously amiss. “What seems to be the problem?” I asked, rising to take Francisco Funes’s hand in my own. With a grunt, he bent down to set the boy on his feet. “Go ahead, Dámaso,” he said, “walk for the doctor.” I noticed that the boy stood unevenly, favoring his right leg. He glanced first at his father, then at me, dipped his shoulder in resignation and walked to the door and back, limping as if he’d dislocated his knee. He looked up with a smile. “I think something’s wrong with my leg,” he said in a voice as reduced and apologetic as a confessor’s. I cupped him beneath his arms and swung him up onto the examining table, giving the father a look—if this wasn’t child abuse, then what was?—and asked, “Did you have an accident?” His father answered for him. “He’s broken his leg, can’t you see that? Jumping from the roof of the shed when he should know better.” Francisco Funes was a big man, powerfully built, with a low but penetrating voice, and he levelled a look of wrath on his son, as if to say that the truth of the matter was evident and the boy would have a whipping when he got home, broken leg or no. I ignored him. “Can you stretch out here for me on your back?” I said to the boy, patting the examining table. The boy complied, lifting both his legs to the table without apparent effort, and the first thing I noticed were the scars there, a constellation of burns and slashes uncountable, running from his ankles to his thighs, and I felt the outrage come up in me all over again. Abuse! The indictment flared in my head. I was about to call for Elvira to come in and evict the father from my offices so that I could treat the son—and quiz him, too—when I ran my hand over the boy’s left shin and discovered the swelling there. He did indeed have a broken leg—a fractured tibia, from the feel of it. “Does this hurt?” I asked, putting pressure on the spot. The boy shook his head. “Nothing hurts him,” the father put in. He was hovering over me, looking impatient, expecting to be cheated, and wanting only to extract the pesos from his wallet, as if his son’s injury were a sort of tax, and then get on with the rest of his life. “We’ll need X-rays,” I said. “No X-rays,” he growled. “I knew I should have taken him to the curandero, I knew it. Just set the damn bone and get it over with.” I felt the boy’s gaze on me. He was absolutely calm, his eyes like the motionless pools of the rill that brought the water down out of the mountains and into the cistern behind our new cottage at the seashore. For the first time, it occurred to me that something extraordinary was going on here, a kind of medical miracle: the boy had fractured his tibia and should have been writhing on the table and crying out with the pain of it, but he looked as if there were nothing at all the matter, as if he’d come into the friendly avuncular doctor’s office just to have a look around at the skeleton on its stand and the framed diplomas on the whitewashed walls and to bask in the metallic glow of the equipment Elvira polished every morning before the patients started lining up outside the door. It hit me like a thunderclap: he’d walked on a broken leg. Walked on it and didn’t know the difference but for the fact that he was somehow mysteriously limping. I couldn’t help myself. I gripped his leg to feel the alignment of the bone at the site of the fracture. “Does this hurt?” I asked. I felt the bone slip into place. The light outside the window faded and then came up again as an unseen cloud passed overhead. “This?” I asked. “This?” After that day, after I’d set and splinted the bone, put the boy in a cast, and lent him a couple of old mismatched crutches before going out to the anteroom and telling Francisco Funes to forget the bill—“Free of charge,” I said—I felt my life expand. I realized that I was staring a miracle in the face, and who could blame me for wanting to change the course of my life, to make my mark as one of the giants of the profession, to be studied and revered through the ages instead of fading away into the terminal ennui of a small-town practice, of the doves on the wire, the caldereta in the pot, and the cottage at the seaside? The fact was that Dámaso Funes must have harbored a mutation in his genes, a positive mutation, superior, progressive, nothing at all like the ones that had given us the faceless infant and all the other horrors that paraded through the door of the clinic day in and day out. If that mutation could be isolated—if the genetic sequence could be discovered—then the boon for our poor suffering species would be immeasurable. Imagine a pain-free old age. Painless childbirth, surgery, dentistry. Imagine Elvira’s patients in the oncology ward, racing around in their wheelchairs, grinning and joking to the last. What freedom! What joy! What an insuperable victory over the afflictions that twist and maim us and haunt us to the grave! I began to frequent the Funes stall in the hour before siesta, hoping to catch a glimpse of the boy, to befriend him, take him into my confidence, perhaps even have him move into the house and take the place of the child Elvira and I had never had because of the grinding sadness of the world. I tried to be casual. “Buenas tardes,” I would say in my heartiest voice as Mercedes Funes raised her careworn face from the grill. “How are you? And how are those mouthwatering tacos? Yes, yes, I’ll take two. Make it three.” I even counterfeited eating them, though it was only a nibble and only of the tortilla itself, while whole legions of my patients past and present lined up for their foil-wrapped offerings. Two months must have gone by in this way before I caught sight of Dámaso. I ordered, stepped aside, and there he was, standing isolated behind the grill, even as his younger siblings—there were three new additions to the clan—scrabbled over their toys in the dirt. His eyes brightened when he saw me, and I suppose I said something obvious, like “I see that leg has healed up well. Still no pain, eh?” He was polite, well bred. He came out from behind the stall and took my hand in a formal way. “I’m fine,” he said, and paused. “But for this.” He lifted his dirty T-shirt (imprinted with the logo of some North American pop band, three sneering faces and a corona of ragged hair) and showed me an open wound the size of a fried egg. Another burn. “Ooh,” I exclaimed, wincing. “Would you like to come to the office and I’ll treat that for you?” He just looked at me. The moment hovered. The smoke rose from the grill. “Gratis?” He shrugged. It didn’t matter to him one way or the other—he must have felt himself immortal, as all children do until they become sufficiently acquainted with death and all the miseries that precede and attend it, but of course he was subject to infection, loss of digits, limbs, the sloughing of the flesh, and corruption of the internal organs, just like anyone else. Though he couldn’t feel any of it. He shrugged again. Looked to his mother, who was shifting chunks of goat around the cheap screen over the brazier as the customers called out their orders. “I need to help my mother,” he said. I was losing him. It was then that I hit on a stratagem,the sort of thing that comes on a synaptical flutter like the beating of internal wings: “Do you want to see my scorpions?” I watched his face change, the image of a foreshortened arachnid with its claws and pendent stinger rising miasmic before him. He gave a quick glance to where his mother was making change for Señora Padilla, an enormous woman of well over three hundred pounds whom I’d treated for hypertension, adult-onset diabetes, and a virulent genital rash that no standard medication seemed able to eradicate, and then he ducked behind the brazier, only to emerge a moment later just up the street from where I was standing. He signalled impatiently with his right hand, and I gave up the ruse of lunching on his mother’s wares, turned my back on the stall, and fell into step with him. “I keep one in a jar,” he said, and it took me a moment to realize he was talking of scorpions. “A brown one.” “Probably Vaejovis spinigerus, very common in these parts. Does it show dark stripes on its tail?” He nodded in a vague way, which led me to believe that he hadn’t looked all that closely. It was a scorpion—that was enough for him. “How many do you have?” he asked, striding along without the slightest suggestion of a limp. I should say, incidentally, that I’m an amateur entomologist—or, more specifically, arachnologist—and that scorpions are my specialty. I collect them the way a lepidopterist collects butterflies, though my specimens are very much alive. In those days, I kept them in terraria in the back room of the clinic, where they clung contentedly to the undersides of rocks and pottery shards I’d arranged there for their benefit. “Oh, I don’t know,” I said. We were just then passing a group of urchins goggling at us from an alleyway, and they all, as one, called out his name—and not in mockery or in play but reverentially, in homage. He was, I was soon to discover, a kind of hero among them. “Ten?” he guessed. He was wearing sandals. His feet shone in the glare of the sunlight, kicking out ahead of him on the paving stones. It was very hot. “Oh, a hundred or more, I’d say. Of some twenty-six species.” And then, slyly: “If you have the time, I’ll show you them all.” Of course, I insisted on first treating the burn, as a kind of quid pro quo. It wouldn’t do to have him dying of a bacterial infection, or of anything else for that matter—for humanitarian reasons, certainly, but also with respect to the treasure that he was carrying for all mankind. His excitement was palpable as I led him into the moist, dim back room, with its concrete floor and its smell of turned earth and vinegar. The first specimen I showed him—Hadrurus arizonensis pallidus, the giant desert scorpion, some five inches long and nearly indistinguishable in color from the sand it rested on—was clutching a cricket in its pedipalps as I lifted the screen at the top of the terrarium. “This is the largest scorpion in North America,” I told him, “though its venom is rather weak compared with what Centruroides exilicauda delivers. The bark scorpion, that is. They live around here, too, and they can be very dangerous.” All he said was “I want to see the poison one.” I had several specimens in a terrarium set against the back wall, and I turned off the lights, pulled down the shades, and used a black light to show him how they glowed with their own natural phosphorescence. As soon as I’d flicked on the black light and he’d had a moment to distinguish the creatures’ forms as they crawled around their home, he let out a whoop of delight and insisted on shining the light into each of the terraria in succession until he finally led me back to the Centruroides. “Would they sting me?” he asked. “If I reached in, I mean?” I shrugged. “They might. But they’re shy creatures and like most animals they want to avoid any sort of confrontation—and they don’t want to waste their venom. You know, it takes a great deal of caloric resources to make the toxin—they need it for their prey. So that they can eat.” He turned his face to me in the dark, the glow of the black light erasing his features and lending a strange blue cast to his eyes. “Would I die?” he asked. I didn’t like where this was leading—and I’m sure you’ve already guessed what was to come, the boy who feels no pain and the creatures that come so well equipped to inflict it—so I played up the danger. “If one were to sting you, you might become ill, might vomit, might even froth at the mouth. You know what that is, frothing?” He shook his head. “Well, no matter. The fact is, a sting of this species might kill someone very susceptible, an infant maybe, an old person, but probably not a boy of your age, though it would make you very, very sick—” “Would it kill my grandfather?” I pictured the grandfather. I’d seen him dozing behind the stall on occasion, an aggregation of bones and skin lesions who must have been in his nineties. “Yes,” I said, “it’s possible—if he was unlucky enough to step on one on his way to the bathroom one night . . .” It was then that the bell sounded in the clinic, though we were closed, except for emergencies, during the afternoon. I called for Elvira, but she must have been taking her lunch in the garden or dozing in the apartment upstairs. “Come with me,” I said to the boy and I led him out of the back room, through the examining room, and into the office, where I found one of the men of the neighborhood, Dagoberto Domínguez, standing at the counter, his left hand wrapped in a bloody rag and a small slick gobbet of meat, which proved to be the tip of his left index finger, clutched in the other. I forgot all about Dámaso. When I’d finished bandaging Señor Domínguez’s wound and sent him off in a taxi to the hospital with the tip of his finger packed in ice, I noticed that the door to the back room stood open. There, in the dark, with the black light glowing in its lunar way, stood little Dámaso, his shirt fluorescing with the forms of my scorpions—half a dozen at least—as they climbed across his back and up and down the avenues of his arms. I didn’t say a word. Didn’t move. Just watched as he casually raised a hand to his neck where my Hadrurus—the giant—had just emerged from the collar of his shirt, and I watched as it stung him repeatedly, while he held it between two fingers and then tenderly eased it back into its cage. Was I irresponsible? Had I somehow, in the back of my mind, hoped for just such an outcome—as a kind of perverse experiment? Perhaps so. Perhaps there was that part of me that couldn’t help collapsing the boundary between detachment and sadism, but then did the term even apply? How could one be sadistic if the victim felt nothing? At any rate, from that day on, even as I wrote up my observations and sent them off to Boise State University, where Jerry Lemongello, one of the world’s premier geneticists and an old friend from my days at medical school in Guadalajara, had his state-of-the-art research lab, Dámaso became my constant companion. He seemed to revel in the attention that Elvira and I gave him, coming as he did from a large and poor family, and in time he began to dine with us frequently, and even, on occasion, to spend the night on a cot in the guest bedroom. I taught him everything I knew about scorpions and their tarantula cousins, too, and began to instruct him in the natural sciences in general and medicine in particular, a subject for which he seemed to have a special affinity. In return, he did odd jobs about the place, sweeping and mopping the floors of the clinic, seeing that the scorpions had sufficient crickets to dine on and the parrot its seed and water and bits of fruit. In the meantime, Jerry Lemongello pressed for a DNA sample and I took some scrapings from inside the boy’s mouth (which had been burned many times over—while he could distinguish hot and cold, he had no way of registering what was too hot or too cold) and continued my own dilatory experiments, simple things like reflex tests, pinpricks to various parts of the anatomy, even tickling (to which he proved susceptible). One afternoon—and I regret this still—I casually remarked to him that the paper wasps that had chosen to build a massive nest just under the eaves of the clinic had become a real nuisance. They were strafing my patients as they ducked through the screen door and had twice stung poor Señora Padilla in a very tender spot when she came in for her medication. I sighed and wished aloud that someone would do something about it. When I glanced out the window fifteen minutes later, there he was, perched on a ladder, shredding the nest with his bare hands while the wasps swarmed him in a roiling black cloud. I should have interfered. Should have stopped him. But I didn’t. I simply watched as he methodically crushed the combs full of pupae underfoot and slapped the adults dead as they futilely stung him. I treated the stings, of course—each of them an angry, swollen red welt—and cautioned him against ever doing anything so foolish again, lecturing him on the nervous system and the efficacy of pain as a warning signal that something is amiss in the body. I told him of the lepers whose fingers and toes abrade away to nothing because of the loss of feeling in the extremities, but he didn’t seem to understand what I was driving at. “You mean pain is good?” he asked. “Well, no,” I said. “Pain is bad, of course, and what we do in my profession is try to combat it so that people can go on with their lives and be productive and so on.” “My mother has pain,” he said, running a finger over the bumps on his forearm as if they were nothing more than a novelty. “In her back. From bending over the grill all day, she says.” “Yes,” I said—she suffered from a herniated disk—“I know.” He was quiet a moment. “Will she die?” I told him that everyone would die. But not today and not from back pain. A slow smile bloomed on his lips. “Then may I stay for dinner?” It was shortly after this that the father came in again and this time he came alone, and whether his visit had anything to do with the wasp adventure or not, I can’t say. But he was adamant in his demands, almost rude. “I don’t know what you think you’re doing with my boy, but I want him back.” I was sitting at my desk. It was eleven in the morning, and beyond the window the hummingbirds were suspended over the roseate flowers of the trumpet vine, as if sculpted out of air. Clouds bunched on the horizon. The sun was like butter. Elvira was across the room, at her own desk, typing into the new computer while the radio played so softly I could distinguish it only as a current in the background. The man refused to take a seat. “Your son has a great gift,” I said after a moment. And though I’m an agnostic with regard to the question of God and a supernatural Jesus, I employed a religious image to reinforce the statement, thinking that it might move a man like Francisco Funes, imbued as he was with the impoverished piety of his class: “He could redeem mankind—redeem us from all the pain of the ages. I only want to help.” “Bullshit,” he snarled, and Elvira looked up from her typing, dipping her head to see over her glasses, which slipped down the incline of her nose. “It’s the truth,” I said. “Bullshit,” he repeated, and I reflected on how unoriginal he was, how limited and ignorant and borne down under the weight of the superstition and the greed that afflict all the suffering hordes like him. “He’s my son,” he said, his voice touching bottom, “not yours. And if I ever catch him here again I’ll give him such a whipping—” He caught himself even as I flashed my bitterest smile. “You don’t know, but I have my ways. And if I can’t beat him I can beat you, doctor, with all respect. And you’ll feel it like any other man.” “Are you threatening me? Elvira”—I turned to her—“take note.” “You bet your ass I am,” he said. And then, quite simply, the boy disappeared. He didn’t come into the clinic the following morning or the morning after that. I asked Elvira about it, and she shrugged as if to say, “It’s just as well.” But it wasn’t. I found that I missed having him around, and not simply for selfish reasons (Jerry Lemongello had written to say that the DNA sample was unusable and to implore me to take another) but because I’d developed a genuine affection for him. I enjoyed explaining things to him, lifting him up out of the stew of misinformation and illiteracy into which he’d been born, and, if I saw him as following in my footsteps as a naturalist or even a physician, I didn’t think I was deluding myself. He was bright, quick-witted, with a ready apprehension of the things around him and an ability to observe closely, so that, for instance, when I placed a crab, a scorpion, and a spider on a tray before him he was able instantly to discern the relationship between them and apply the correct family, genus, and species names I’d taught him. And all this at nine years of age. On the third morning, when there was still no sign of him, I went to the Funes stall in the marketplace, hoping to find him there. It was early yet, and Mercedes Funes was just laying the kindling on the brazier while half a dozen slabs of freshly (or, at least, recently) slaughtered goat hung from a rack behind her (coated, I might add, with flies). I called out a greeting and had begun, in a circuitous way, to ask about her health, the weather, and the quality of her goat, when at some point she winced with pain and put her hand to her back, slowly straightening up to shoot me what I can only call a hostile look. “He’s gone off to live with his grandmother,” she said. “In Guadalajara.” And that was that. No matter how hard I pressed, Mercedes Funes would say no more, nor would her donkey of a husband, and when they had the odd medical emergency they went all the way to the other side of the village, to the clinic of my rival, Dr. Octavio Díaz, whom I detest heartily, though that’s another story. Suffice it to say that some years went by before I saw Dámaso again, though I heard the rumors—we all did—that his father was forcing him to travel from town to town like a freak in a sideshow, shamelessly exploiting his gift for the benefit of every gaping rube with a few pesos in his pocket. It was a pity. It was criminal. But there was nothing that I or Jerry Lemongello or all the regents of Boise State University could do about it. He was gone and we remained. Another generation of doves came to sit on the wires, Elvira put on weight around the middle and in the hollow beneath her chin, and as I shaved each morning I watched the inevitable progress of the white hairs as they crept up along the slope of my jowls and into my sideburns and finally colonized the crown of my head. I got up from bed, ran the water in the sink, and saw a stranger staring back at me in the mirror, an old man with a blunted look in his reconstituted eyes. I diagnosed measles and mumps and gonorrhea, kneaded the flesh of the infirm, plied otoscope, syringe, and tongue depressor, as if the whole business were some rarefied form of punishment in a Sophoclean drama. And then one afternoon, coming back from the pet shop with a plastic sack of crickets for my brood, I turned a corner and there he was. A crowd of perhaps forty or fifty people had gathered on the sidewalk outside the Gómez bakery, shifting from foot to foot in the aspiring heat. They seemed entranced—none of them so much as glanced at me as I worked my way to the front, wondering what it was all about. When I spotted Francisco Funes, the blood rushed to my face. He was standing to one side of a makeshift stage—half a dozen stacked wooden pallets—gazing out on the crowd with a calculating look, as if he were already counting up his gains, and on the stage itself, Dámaso, shirtless, shoeless, dressed only in a pair of clinging shorts that did little to hide any part of his anatomy, was heating the blade of a pearl-handled knife over a charcoal brazier until it glowed red. He was stuck all over like a kind of hedgehog with perhaps twenty of those stainless steel skewers people use for making shish kebab, including one that projected through both his cheeks, and I watched in morbid fascination as he lifted the knife from the brazier and laid the blade flat against the back of his hand so that you could hear the sizzling of the flesh. A gasp went up from the crowd. A woman beside me fainted into the arms of her husband. I did nothing. I only watched as Dámaso, his body a patchwork of scars, found a pinch of skin over his breastbone and thrust the knife through it. I wanted to cry out the shame of it, but I held myself in check. At the climactic moment I turned and faded away into the crowd, waiting for my chance. The boy—he was an adolescent now, thirteen or fourteen, I calculated—performed other feats of senseless torture that I won’t name here, and then the hat went around, the pesos were collected, and father and son headed off in the direction of their house. I followed at a discreet distance, the crickets rasping against the sides of the bag. I watched the father enter the house—it was grander now, with several new rooms already framed and awaiting the roofer’s tarpaper and tiles—as the boy went to a yellow plastic cooler propped up against the front steps, extracted a bottle of Coca-Cola, and lowered himself into the battered armchair on the porch as if he were a hundred and fifty years old. I waited a moment, until he’d finished his poor reward and set the bottle down between his feet, and then I strolled casually past the house as if I just happened to be in the neighborhood. When I drew even with him—when I was sure he’d seen me—I stopped in my tracks and gave him an elaborate look of surprise, a double take, as it were. “Dámaso?” I exclaimed. “Can it really be you?” I saw something light up in his eyes, but only the eyes—he seemed incapable of forming a smile with his lips. In the next moment he was out of the chair and striding across the yard to me, holding out his hand in greeting. “Doctor,” he said, and I saw the discoloration of the lips, the twin pinpoints of dried blood on either cheek amid a battlefield of annealed scars, and I couldn’t have felt more shock and pity if he were indeed my own son. “It’s been a long time,” I said. “Yes,” he agreed. My mind was racing. All I could think of was how to get him out of there before Francisco Funes stepped through the door. “Would you like to come over to the clinic with me—for dinner? For old times’ sake? Elvira’s making an eggplant lasagna tonight, with a nice crisp salad and fried artichokes, and look”—I held up the bag of crickets and gave it a shake—“we can feed the scorpions. Did you know that I’ve got one nearly twice as big as Hadrurus—an African variety? Oh, it’s a beauty, a real beauty—” And there it was, the glance over the shoulder, the very same gesture he’d produced that day at the stall when he was just a child, and in the next moment we were off, side by side, and the house was behind us. He seemed to walk more deliberately than he had in the past, as if the years had weighed on him in some unfathomable way (or fathomable, absolutely fathomable, right down to the corrosive depths of his father’s heart), and I slowed my pace to accommodate him, worrying over the thought that he’d done some irreparable damage to muscle, ligament, cartilage, even to the nervous system itself. We passed the slaughterhouse where his mother’s first cousin, Refugio, sacrificed goats for the good of the family business, continued through the desiccated, lizard-haunted remains of what the city fathers had once intended as a park, and on up the long sloping hill that separates our village by class, income, and, not least, education. The holy aroma of Elvira’s lasagna bathed the entire block as we turned the corner to the clinic. We’d been talking of non-consequential things, my practice, the parrot—yes, she was well, thank you—the gossip of the village, the weather, but nothing of his life, his travels, his feelings. It wasn’t until I’d got him into the back room under the black light, with a glass of sweetened iced tea in his hand and a plate of dulces in his lap, that he began to open up to me. “Dámaso,” I said at one point, the scorpions glowing like apparitions in the vestibules of their cages, “you don’t seem to be in very high spirits—tell me, what’s the matter? Is it . . . your travels?” In the dark, with the vinegary odor of the arachnids in our nostrils and the promise of Elvira’s cuisine wafting in the wings, he carefully set down his glass and brushed the crumbs from his lap, before looking up at me. “Yes,” he said softly. And then, with more emphasis, “Yes.” I was silent a moment. Out of the corner of my eye I saw my Hadrurus probing the boundaries of its cage. I waited for him to go on. “I have no friends, doctor, not a single one. Even my brothers and sisters look at me like I’m a stranger. And the boys all over the district, in the smallest towns, they try to imitate me.” His voice was strained, the tones of the adult, of his father, at war with the cracked breathy piping of a child. “They do what I do. And it hurts them.” “You don’t have to do this anymore, Dámaso.” I felt the heat of my own emotions. “It’s wrong, deeply wrong. Can’t you see that?” He shrugged. “I have no choice. I owe it to my family. To my mother.” “No,” I said. “You owe them nothing. Not your own self, your own body, your heart—” “She brought me into the world.” Absurdly, I said, “So did I.” There was a silence. After a moment, I went on, “You’ve been given a great gift, Dámaso, and I can help you with it—you can live here with us, with Elvira and me, and never have to go out on the street and . . . and damage yourself again, because what your father is doing is evil, Dámaso, evil, and there’s no other word for it.” He raised a wounded hand and let it fall again. “My family comes first,” he said. “They’ll always come first. I know my duty. But what they’ll never understand, what you don’t understand, is that I do hurt, I do feel it, I do.” And he lifted that same hand and tapped his breastbone, right over the place where his heart constricted and dilated and shot the blood through his veins. “Here,” he said. “Here’s where I hurt.” He was dead a week later. I didn’t even hear of it until he was already in the ground and Jerry Lemongello was buckled in for the long flight down from Boise with the hope of collecting a DNA sample himself, too late now, Mercedes Funes inhaling smoke and tears and pinning one hopeless hand to her lower back as she bent over the grill while her husband wandered the streets in a dirty guayabera, as drunk as any derelict. They say that the boy was showing off for the urchins who followed him around as if he were some sort of divinity, the kind of boys who thrive on pain, who live to inflict and extract it as if it could be measured and held, as if it were precious, the kind of boys who carve hieroglyphs into their skin with razor blades and call it fashion. It was a three-story building. “Jump!” they shouted. “Sin Dolor! Sin Dolor!” He jumped, and he didn’t feel a thing. But what I wonder—and God, if He exists, have mercy on Francisco Funes and the mother, too—is if he really knew what he was doing, if it was a matter not so much of bravado but of grief. We will never know. And we will never see another like him, though Jerry Lemongello tells me he’s heard of a boy in Pakistan with the same mutation, another boy who stands in town squares and mutilates himself to hear the gasps and the applause and to gather money at his feet. Within a year, Dámaso was forgotten. His family’s house had burned to ashes around the remains of a kerosene heater, the goats died and the brazier flared without him, and I had closed up the clinic and moved permanently, with Elvira and her parrot, to our cottage by the sea. I pass my days now in the sunshine, tending our modest garden, walking the sugar-white beach to see what the tide has brought in. I no longer practice medicine, but of course I’m known here as El Estimado Doctor, and on occasion, in an emergency, a patient will show up on my doorstep. Just the other day, a little girl of three or four came in, swaddled in her mother’s arms. She’d been playing in the tide pools down by the lava cliffs that rise up out of the sand like dense distant loaves and had stepped on a sea urchin. One of the long black spikes that the animal uses for defense had broken off under the child’s weight and embedded itself in the sole of her foot. I soothed her as best I could, speaking softly to distract her, speaking nonsense, really—all that matters in such circumstances is the intonation. I murmured. The sea murmured along the shore. As delicately as I could, I held her miniature heel in my hand, took hold of the slick black fragment with the grip of my forceps, and pulled it cleanly from the flesh, and, I have to tell you, that little girl shrieked until the very glass in the windows rattled, shrieked as if there were no other pain in the world.
Married Love Lottie announced that she was getting married. This was at the breakfast table at her parents’ house one weekend. The kitchen in that house was upstairs, its windows overlooking the garden below. It was a tall, thin, old house, comfortably untidy, worn to fit the shape of the family. The summer morning was rainy, so all the lights were on, the atmosphere close and dreamy, perfumed with toast and coffee. “Whatever for?” Lottie’s mother, Hattie, said, and carried on reading her book. She was an English teacher, but she read crime novels at weekends: this one was about a detective in Venice. Lottie was nineteen, but she looked more like thirteen or fourteen. She was just over five feet tall, with a tight little figure and a barrel chest; she insisted on wearing the same glasses with thick black frames that she had chosen years earlier, and her hair, the color of washed-out straw, was pulled into pigtails. Everyone happened to be at home that weekend, even Lottie’s older brother, Rufus, and her sister, Em, who had moved away. “Have you got a boyfriend at last?” Em asked. Lottie was always pale, with milky translucent skin behind an arc of ghost freckles across her snub nose, but she seemed to be even whiter than usual that morning, blue veins standing out at her temples; she clenched her hands on either side of the placemat in front of her. They were improbable hands for a violinist: pink and plump, with short blunt fingers and bitten cuticles. “You’re not taking me seriously!” she cried. A squall of rain urged against the steamed-up windowpanes, the kettle boiled, toast sprang from the toaster for no one in particular. Vaguely, they all looked at her, thinking their own thoughts. Lottie emanated intensity; her personality was like a demon trapped inside a space too small. Even as a baby she had been preternaturally perceptive and judgmental. Her talent for the violin, when it was discovered, had seemed an explanation for her surplus strength, or a solution to it; she had begun on an instrument so tiny that it looked like a Christmas-tree decoration. Now she was living with her parents while she studied for her music degree at the university. “Why ever would you want to get married?” Hattie said reasonably. “Dad and I have never felt the need.” “I’m not like you,” Lottie said. This was one of her battle cries. “Of course, you’re not like anybody, sweetheart. You’re just yourself.” “For a start, I happen to have religious beliefs. I believe that marriage is a holy sacrament.” “No, you don’t,” Rufus said. “You’ve never said anything about them before.” “So when, exactly, are you getting married?” Em asked skeptically. “And who to?” “How could I possibly know yet when? That’s exactly what I want to talk to you about. I want to sort out a date. I want you all to be there. I want it to be a proper wedding. With a dress and everything. And bridesmaids, probably.” “So you have got a boyfriend!” Em said. Em was gracefully loose-jointed, with her mother’s hooded, poetic eyes; she worked in the toxicology department of the city hospital. “My husband, he’s going to be.” Hattie put down her book and her coffee mug in concern. “Poppet, you’re so young. There’s no hurry about the marrying part. Of course, you can have a proper wedding one day if that’s what you want, but there’s no need to rush into anything.” Sullen white dents appeared in Lottie’s cheeks where her jaw was set. “You forget that I have a whole life of my own now, as an adult, outside of this house, about which you know nothing, absolutely nothing. You don’t warn Emily not to rush into anything.” “To be fair,” Em said, “I’m not the one who just said I was getting married.” “Have we met him?” Hattie asked. “Is he on your course?” “Is it the one with the stammer in your string quartet?” asked Noah, Lottie’s younger brother, who was still at school. “Tristan?” “How could you think I’d want to marry Tristan?” “Personally, I’d warn against anyone in a string quartet,” Rufus said. “Shut up, Rufus. It isn’t anything to do with Tristan.” “So what’s his name, then?” Noah persisted. Duncan, the children’s father, arrived from his morning ritual with the Guardian in the bathroom upstairs. He was shorter than Hattie, stocky, densely and neatly made, with a wrinkled, ugly, interesting head; she was vague and languid, elegant, beginning to be faded. He taught special-needs kids at a local comprehensive, though not the same one where Hattie taught. “What is whose name?” Alarm took flight in Hattie. “Lottie, darling, you’re not pregnant, are you?” “I just don’t believe this family,” Lottie wailed. “There’s something horrible about the way your minds work.” “Because if you’re pregnant we can deal with that. It doesn’t mean that you have to get married.” “Is she pregnant?” Duncan asked. “Of course I’m not.” “She says she’s going to get married.” “Whatever for?” “Also that she has religious beliefs, all of a sudden.” This seemed to bother Rufus more than the marrying. He was an ironic pragmatist; he worked as a research analyst for the Cabinet Office. “The reason,” Lottie said, “is that I’ve met someone quite different from anyone I’ve ever known before, different from any of you. He’s a great man. He’s touched my life, and transformed it. I’m lucky he even noticed I exist.” She had a gift of vehemence, the occasional lightning flash of vision so strong that it revealed to others, for a moment, the world as it was from her perspective. “And who is he?” Em asked her, almost shyly. “I’m not going to tell you now,” Lottie said. “Not after this. Not yet.” “When you say ‘great man,’ ” her father considered, “I get the feeling that you’re not talking about one of your fellow-students.” Hattie saw what he meant, after gaping at him for half a second. “One of your teachers! Is it?” Lottie, blinking behind her glasses, turned her round white face toward her mother, precarious, defiant. “Does this teacher know that you feel this way about him?” “You seriously think I’m making it all up? I told you, he loves me. He’s going to marry me.” Duncan wondered if it wasn’t Edgar Lennox. “He’s some kind of High Anglican, isn’t he? I believe he writes religious music.” “And so?” Lottie challenged. “If it was him?” “Oh, no!” Hattie stood up out of her chair, uncharacteristically guttural, almost growling. “That’s out of the question. Edgar Lennox. That’s just not thinkable, in any way, shape, or form.” “I hate it when you use that phrase,” Lottie shouted, standing up, too. “Way, shape, or form. It’s so idiotic. It’s exactly the sort of thing you would say. It just goes to show your mediocrity.” “Let’s try to talk about this calmly,” Duncan said. Edgar Lennox was old enough to be Lottie’s grandfather. Forty years older than she was, Hattie shrieked; later, it turned out to be more like forty-five. His already being married, to his second wife, was only a minor difficulty compared with this. Duncan and Hattie had met him twice: once when they went to the university Open Day with Lottie, and once, before that, at a private viewing of paintings by one of Hattie’s friends. He had seemed, at the time, Hattie’s ideal of an elderly creative artist: tall, very thin, with a shock of upstanding white hair, a face whose hollows seemed to have been carved out by suffering, tanned skin as soft as leather, a charcoal-gray linen shirt. “When you say he’s touched your life, could we be quite specific about this?” Duncan said. “Has he actually, in the ordinary, non-transcendent sense of the word, touched you?” Em protested in disgust. “Dad, you can’t ask her that!” Em had been crying; her eyelids were swollen and puffy, and her face was blotched. Hattie’s and Lottie’s eyes were hot and dry. Hattie turned on him. “How can you put it like that? How could you make it into one of your clever remarks?” “If you’re asking,” Lottie said, “whether we’ve consummated our relationship, then, yes, of course we have. What do you think we are? We’re lovers.” “Naturally, I’m making a formal complaint to the university,” Hattie said. “He’ll lose his job. There’s no question about that.” “That’ll be sensible, won’t it?” Em said. “Then if they are married he won’t be able to support her.” “You’re sure she isn’t making all this up?” Rufus suggested. “Think what you like,” Lottie said. “You’ll soon know.” She sat with her mouth primly shut, shining with a tragic light. Beyond the kitchen windows, veils of gray rain drove sideways into the sodden skirts of the horse-chestnut tree, darkening the pink flowers. Hattie said that the whole thing reminded her of when she was at art college, and a friend of hers had heard suddenly that her sister was on the point of entering a convent, a closed order that allowed no contact with family or friends. “We all piled onto a train and went up to Leeds together on the spur of the moment, six or seven of us who were close then, and met this sister in a tea shop, and tried to convince her of everything in the world that was worth staying for.” “Don’t be ridiculous, Mum. I’m not going into a convent.” “Did it work?” Noah asked. “Did you convince her?” Hattie frowned and pressed her knuckles to her forehead. “I can’t remember whether she went into the convent or not in the end. Perhaps she did. I can only remember the tea shop, and after that a pub, and trying to think of all the things we couldn’t bear to leave behind, and getting gradually drunker and drunker.” “This isn’t the same thing,” Duncan said firmly. “And we aren’t at anything like that stage yet, anyway.” Lottie stared at them in genuine bewilderment. “I don’t understand you all,” she said. “How can you not want for me what I want?” Noah saw his parents leave the house late in the evening. His bedroom was in the attic. He was sitting on the sill of his little casement window, his feet in the lead-lined gutter that ran like a trough the length of the Georgian terrace, looking down over the stone parapet into the street, four stories below. Though it was strictly forbidden, he had liked to sit this way ever since he was given this bedroom, when he was eight; he used to fit into the small space perfectly, but now he had to squeeze, and his knees were jackknifed up in front of his face. Rain was sluicing down the gray slate roof into the gutter. In the light of the street lamps, the road shone black; parked cars were plastered with wet leaves from the beeches and horse chestnuts in the muddy triangle of public garden opposite. His mother’s high heels scraped fiercely in the empty street as she crossed to the car: she must have dressed up in her teaching clothes for the occasion. She was hanging on tightly to the strap of the bag slung over her shoulder. She and Duncan dithered around the car under the half-globes of their umbrellas, probably quarrelling about who should drive; they seemed as small as dolls from where he watched. He supposed they were going to try to find Edgar Lennox at his house; they had been calling him on the phone all day, without getting through. It was strange to think of the two households, more or less unknown to each other before tonight, connected by this drama, awake in the city when everyone else was getting ready for sleep. Hours later—he wasn’t sure how many hours, as he’d fallen asleep at his desk while revising for the geography G.C.S.E. exam he had on Monday morning—Noah woke to the sound of his mother’s voice in the house again. She sounded like she did when she’d had too much wine at parties: rash and loud, extravagantly righteous. He went out to listen, leaning over the bannister and sliding noiselessly down, a few steps at a time. The steep and narrow staircase, the core of the skinny house, drew sound upward. Above his head, an ancient skylight as wide as the stairwell rattled under the rain, leaking into a strategically placed bucket. His parents and Rufus and Em were crowded at the foot of the stairs, in the hallway’s jumble of boots and bikes and baskets, junk mail, umbrellas dripping on the gray and white tiles. His mother still had her fawn mac on. “I thought he’d be ashamed,” she was saying, “if I told him that Lottie was marrying him because she thinks he’s a great man. But it was obvious that he thinks he is one, too.” “Is he one?” Rufus asked. “Don’t be ridiculous. What would he be doing teaching in a second-rate music department at a provincial university?” “I thought you said the department was something wonderful.” “That was before this.” “He does some film and television work if he can get it,” Duncan said. “All fairly high-toned. And he writes for the cathedral choir. Greatness, of course, wouldn’t necessarily make him any better, as far as Lottie’s concerned.” “He said that he could see how it must look from our point of view, from what he called ‘any ordinary perspective.’ ” “How dare he think we’re ordinary?” Em raged. “He said that the erotic drive was a creative force he felt he had to submit to.” “Oh, yuck! Hideous!” “Hattie, he didn’t say that, exactly.” “And what was his wife like? Was she there? What’s her name?” “Valerie. Val, he calls her. She was frosty. She said, ‘Whatever happens, I keep this house,’ as if that were something we were after. The house wasn’t at all what you’d expect, anyway, not arty: stuffy and old-fashioned. I should think the wife’s about my age, but she’s let herself go—gray ponytail, no makeup, one of those girlish dowdy skirts with an elastic waistband.” “She was fierce,” Duncan said. “I’d have been frightened of her, in his shoes.” “She wouldn’t sit down; she stood up with her back against the wall, as if she were mounting guard over something. All she said was that Lottie would soon learn. They have a son, about the same age as Noah.” “Did she know about it all already?” “She hadn’t known for long—he’d just told her.” “We walked in on it all. We were the aftershock.” “Where is Lottie, anyway?” “It has to run its course,” Duncan said. “We’re not in a position to prevent anything.” “It can’t be allowed to run its course, Duncan! What if they actually went through with this crazy wedding?” He groaned consolingly. “She’s an adult—she’s nineteen. Worse things happen at sea.” Noah turned and saw that Lottie was standing in her nightdress on the stairs just behind him. She put her finger to her lips. Her eyes behind her glasses were black pits. She was shaken with waves of violent trembling, gripping the bannister to steady herself, probably because she had swallowed too many of the caffeine tablets she claimed she was addicted to; and, no doubt, also because she was exalted and frightened at her ability to raise this storm in adult lives. Noah felt a familiar irritation with her exaggerations, mixed with protectiveness. He and Lottie had grown up very close, adrift from the rest of the family in their bedrooms in the attic. He knew how passionately she succumbed to the roles she dreamed up for herself. She won’t be able to get out of this one, he thought. She can’t stop now. The wedding was held in a registry office, with a blessing at a church afterward; Edgar insisted on the Elizabethan prayer book and the Authorized Version of the Bible. He composed, for the occasion, a setting for Spenser’s “Epithalamion” and one of his students sang it at the reception, which was in a sixteenth-century manor house with a famous garden that belonged to the university. Hattie refused to have anything to do with it all; she shut herself in at home with her detective novels. Noah drank a lot and befriended Edgar’s son, Harold, who had floppy pale hair and a choral scholarship at a cathedral school; he jumped like a shot bird if anyone spoke to him unexpectedly. Emily said that Lottie’s white suit looked like a child’s nurse costume—all it needed was a sewn-on red cross. Lottie was wearing contact lenses and, without her glasses, her face seemed weakly, blandly expectant. A white flower fastened behind her ear slid gradually down her cheek during the course of the afternoon until it was bobbing against her chin. She clung to Edgar with uncharacteristic little movements, touching at his hand with her fingertips, dropping her forehead to rest against his upper arm while he spoke, or throwing back her head to gaze into his face. “It won’t last,” Duncan reassured his other children. To Edgar’s credit, he seemed sheepish under the family’s scrutiny, and did his best to jolly Lottie along, circulating with her arm tucked into his, playing the gentle public man, distinguished in his extreme thinness, his suit made out of some kind of rough gray silk. You would have picked him out in any gathering as subtle and thoughtful and well informed. But there weren’t really quite enough people at the reception to make it feel like a success: the atmosphere was constrained; the sun never came out from behind a mottled thick lid of cloud. After the drink ran out and the students had melted away, too much dispiriting white hair seemed to show up in the knots of guests remaining, like snow in the flower beds. Duncan overheard someone, sotto voce, refer to the newlyweds as “Little Nell and her grandfather.” Valerie phoned Lottie a week or so after the wedding to ask whether she knew that Edgar had tried the same thing the year before with the student who had sung at the reception, a tall beautiful black girl with a career ahead of her: she’d had the sense to tell him where to go. “To fuck off,” Valerie enjoyed enunciating precisely, as if she hadn’t often used that word. Everyone knew about this because Valerie had also telephoned Hattie. When Hattie asked Lottie about it, Lottie only made one of her horrible new gestures, folding her hands together and letting her head droop, smiling secretively into her lap. “It’s all right, Mum,” she said. “He tells me everything. We don’t have secrets. Soraya is an exceptional, gifted young woman. I love her, too.” Hattie hated the way every opinion Lottie offered now seemed to come from both of them: we like this; we always do that; we don’t like this. They didn’t like supermarkets; they didn’t like Muzak in restaurants; they didn’t like television costume dramas. As Duncan put it, they generally found that the modern world came out disappointingly below their expectations. Hattie said that she wasn’t ready to have Edgar in her house yet. The university agreed that it was acceptable for Lottie to continue with her studies, as long as she didn’t take any of Edgar’s classes; but, of course, he carried on working with her on her violin playing. Her old energy seemed to be directed inward now; she glowed with the promise of her future. She grew paler than ever, and wore her hair loose, and bought silky indeterminate dresses at the charity shops. Hattie saw her unexpectedly from behind once and thought for a moment that her own daughter was a stranger, a stumpy little child playing on the streets in clothes from a dress-up box. Edgar and Lottie were renting a flat not far from Hattie and Duncan, tiny, with an awful galley kitchen and the landlord’s furniture, but filled with music. Edgar had to pay about half his salary to Valerie to cover his share of the mortgage on the house and the part of Harold’s schooling that wasn’t paid for by the scholarship, so he and Lottie were pretty hard up, but at first they carried this off, too, as if it were a sign of something rare and fine. “God knows what they eat,” Hattie said. “Lottie doesn’t know how to boil an egg. Probably Edgar doesn’t know how to boil one, either. I’ll bet he’s had women running around him all his life.” Noah reported that they often had Chinese takeaway. Then Lottie began to have babies. Familiarity had just started to silt up around the whole improbable idea of her and Edgar as a couple—high-minded, humorless, poignant in their unworldliness—when everything jolted onto this new track. Three diminutive girls arrived in quick succession, and life at Lottie and Edgar’s, which had seemed to drift with eighteenth-century underwater slowness, snapped into noisy, earthy, and chaotic contemporaneity. Lottie in pregnancy was as swollen as a beach ball; afterward, she never recovered her neat boxy little figure, or that dreamily submissive phase of her personality. She became bossy, busy, cross; she abandoned her degree. She chopped off her hair with her own scissors, and mostly wore baggy tracksuit bottoms and T-shirts. Their tiny flat was submerged under packs of disposable nappies, cots, toys, washing, nursing bras and breast pads, a playpen, books on babies, books for babies. The tenant below them left in disgust, and they moved downstairs for the sake of the extra bedroom. As soon as the girls could toddle, they trashed Edgar’s expensive audio equipment. He had to spend more and more time in his room at the university, anyway—he couldn’t afford to turn down any commissions. Now Lottie spoke with emotion only about her children and about money. The girls were all christened, but Lottie was more managerial than rapt during the ceremonies: Had everyone turned up who had promised (Rufus wouldn’t)? Was Noah capturing the important moments on his video camera? Why was Harold in a mood? With the fervor of a convert to practicality, she planned her days and steered through them. Duncan taught her to drive, and she bought a battered old Ford Granada, unsubtle as a tank, and fitted it with child seats, ferrying the girls around from nursery to swimming to birthday parties to baby gym. She was impatient if anyone tried to turn the conversation around to art or music, unless it was Tiny Tots ballet. She seemed to be carrying around, under the surface of her intolerant contempt for idleness, a burning unexpressed message about her used-up youth, her put-aside talent. “She ought to be abashed,” Hattie said once. “We warned her. Instead, she seems to be angry with us.” Hattie had been longing for early retirement, but she decided against it, fearing that the empty days might only fill up with grandchildren. She believed that in the mirror she could see the signs in her face—like threads drawn tight—of the strain of these extra years of teaching that she had not wanted. “Poor old Lottie,” Duncan said. “Lottie isn’t old. Poor Edgar.” At weekends, Duncan sometimes came home to find Edgar taking refuge at his kitchen table, drinking tea while the children made scones or collages with Hattie. Edgar didn’t do badly with them, considering, but it could take him three-quarters of an hour to get all three little girls stuffed into coats and mittens and boots and pushchairs, ready to go. Physically, he was rather meticulous and pedantic. If Lottie was with him, she would push his fine long fingers brusquely aside and take over the zipping and buttoning. “Here, let me do it,” she’d snap. To his credit, Edgar didn’t seem to resent the intrusion of the babies into his life, or even to be wiped out by them, exactly: he gave himself over to their existence with a kind of bemused wonder. He drew himself down to their level, noticing everything they noticed, becoming involved in their childish chatter and speculation, as Lottie didn’t have time to be. They adored him—they ran to cling to his legs whenever their mummy was cross. Edgar’s appearance was diminished, though, from what it had once been: his white hair had thinned and was cut shorter and lay down more tamely on his head; his clothes were the ordinary dull things anyone could buy in a supermarket. Hattie realized with surprise that it must have been Valerie who was behind the charcoal-gray linen shirts, the silk suits, the whole production of Edgar as exceptional and distinguished. When Emily got pregnant with her first child, Lottie’s youngest was nine months old, and Charis, her eldest, was five. Lottie dumped sacks of used baby things on Emily one evening without warning. “Chuck them out if you don’t want them,” she said. “I’ve got no more use for them. I’ve had my tubes tied.” After he finished his degree, Noah went to London and found work intermittently as an assistant cameraman on small film projects. He dropped in at Lottie’s whenever he came home, and they fell easily into their old, companionable closeness. She fed him whatever awful mush she had cooked for tea. He was useful for swinging his nieces about and throwing them in the air, all the rough play that Edgar had to be careful of. Often, Edgar wasn’t there; Noah assumed that he was working in his room at the university. One summer evening, Noah was lying on his back on the floor in Lottie’s front room. Two floor-length sash windows opened from this room onto a wrought-iron balcony; Lottie had made Edgar fix bars across, to stop the girls from getting out there. A warm incense of balsam poplar mingled with petrol fumes breathed from the street. They had drunk the bottle of wine that Noah had brought with their teatime mush; while they were giving the girls a bath, Lottie had produced triumphantly from the back of a cupboard a sticky bottle half full of Bacardi that nobody liked, and now they were drinking that, mixed with black-currant cordial, because that was all she had. “We’ll be horribly, pinkly, sick,” Lottie predicted. The girls were asleep at last. While Noah lay supine, Lottie crawled around him on her hands and knees, grunting with the effort, putting away in primary-colored plastic boxes the primary-colored toys that were strewn like strange manna all around the carpet. “I’m gray,” she complained. “My life’s so gray.” “When does Edgar get back from work?” “Don’t be thick, Noah. Ed’s retired. The university couldn’t keep on employing him forever. He’s seventy-two this year. Why d’you think I’ve been going on to you about how hard up we are?” “Where is he, then?” “At Valerie’s, I expect.” Noah opened his eyes in surprise, angling his head up from the floor to get a look at her. “Oh!” “That’s where he usually is.” “Is that all right?” “Why shouldn’t he? When we’ve been paying half the mortgage for all these years—at least that’s finished at last, thank Christ. There’s a room there where he can work; it’s impossible here. And we don’t have space for a piano. He still likes to write at a piano, before he puts it on the computer.” “So they get on O.K., him and Valerie?” “She brings him coffee and plates of sandwiches while he’s working. She unplugs the phone in the hall, in case it disturbs him. He plays things to her. I expect that sometimes while he’s in the throes of composition he forgets he doesn’t live there anymore, in that quiet house.” “Mum said the house was old-fashioned.” “It is old-fashioned. Full of antiques, from Valerie’s mother, but Valerie wouldn’t know how to show them off. Valerie doesn’t have a showing-off bone in her body. She’s all complications. She’s a gifted cellist, apparently, but she can’t play in public.” “I suppose you’ve got to know her.” Lottie aimed bricks at a box. “Not in the face-to-face sense. Occasionally she and I do have to talk, about Harold’s allowance or whatever.” “He doesn’t still have an allowance?” “Not after we had the talk. On my wedding night, I tell you, it was like Bartók’s ‘Bluebeard’s Castle.’ My metaphorical wedding night—I don’t actually mean that one night in particular. Behind the first door, the torture chamber; behind the second door, a lake of tears, and so on. Behind the last door were his other wives, alive and well. Well, the first one isn’t exactly alive, but I could tell you all about her.” “I’d forgotten there was a first one.” “Danish, actress, had problems with her abusive father, drank.” “He goes on about them?” “Not really. They’re just his life—they crop up, as you can imagine. There’s a lot of life behind him to crop up. Don’t forget, once Valerie was the one he ran away with.” “I’d never thought of it like that.” “Were the babies my revenge? Poor Ed, I’ve nearly killed him.” Lottie lay down on the floor, head to toe with Noah, holding her glass on the soft mound of her stomach, tilting the viscous red drink backward and forward as she breathed. “Do you know what I did the other week? I was so angry about something—can’t remember what—that I drove up to the recycling depot with the babies in the back of the car to throw my violin into the skip for miscellaneous household waste.” Noah sat upright. “The one Mum and Dad bought for you? Didn’t that cost loads of money? Thousands?” “I didn’t actually do it. I looked down into the skip and got the violin out of the case to throw, and then I put it away again. Apart from anything else, I told myself, I could always sell it. And it’s possible I might want to start again, when this is over. But probably I won’t, ever.” “Is Edgar any good?” Noah demanded drunkenly, suddenly aggressive. “I mean, is his music really, actually any good?” “Noah, how can you ask that? You’re not allowed to ask that.” Although Lottie protested, the question seemed intimately known to her, as if she had thrown herself too often against its closed door. “How can I judge? I can’t tell. I think he’s good. He’s writing something at the moment, for strings. It’ll get a première at the Festival. It’s something new, different. Actually, I think it might be lovely.” Just then they heard Edgar’s deliberate slow step on the stairs, his key in the door to the flat. “He pretends this new piece is for me. But I know it’s not about me.” Edgar stood squinting at them from the doorway, getting used to the light; his khaki hooded waterproof and stooped shoulders gave him, incongruously, the toughened, bemused aura of an explorer returned. Noah imagined how infantile he and Lottie must look, lying on the floor among the toys with their bright-red drinks, and how uninteresting youth must sometimes seem. “We’re finishing up that Bacardi, Ed,” Lottie said, enunciating too carefully. “Do you want some?” Edgar’s eyes these days had retreated behind his jutting cheekbones and sprouting eyebrows; something suave had gone out of his manner. He said that he would rather have a hot drink. Forgetfully he waited, as if he expected Lottie to jump up and make it for him. When he remembered after a moment, and went into the kitchen to do it himself, he didn’t imply the least reproach; he was merely absorbed, as if his thoughts were elsewhere. Noah saw how hungrily from where she lay Lottie followed the ordinary kitchen music—the crescendo of the kettle, the chatter of crockery, the punctuation of cupboard doors, the chiming of the spoon in the cup—as if she might hear in it something that was meant for her.
The Insufferable GauchoIn the opinion of those who knew him well, Héctor Pereda had two outstanding virtues: he was a caring and affectionate father and an irreproachable lawyer with a record of honesty, in a time and place that were hardly conducive to such rectitude. As evidence of the first virtue, his son and daughter, Bebe and Cuca, whose childhood and adolescent years had been happy, later accused him of having sheltered them from the hard realities of life, focussing particularly on his handling of practical matters. Of his work as a lawyer, there is little to be said. He prospered and made more friends than enemies, which was no mean feat, and when he had the choice between becoming a judge or a candidate for a political party he chose the bench without hesitation, although it obviously meant passing up the opportunities for greater financial gain that would have been open to him in politics. After three years, however, disappointed by his judicial career, he gave up public life and spent some time, perhaps even years, reading and travelling. Naturally, there was also a Mrs. Pereda, née Hirschmann, with whom the lawyer was, as they say, madly in love. There are photos from that era to prove it: in one of them, Pereda, in a black suit, is dancing a tango with a blond woman, almost platinum blond, who is looking at the camera and smiling while the lawyer’s eyes remain fixed on her, like the eyes of a sleepwalker or a lamb. Unfortunately, Mrs. Pereda died suddenly, when Cuca was five and Bebe was seven. The young widower never remarried, although there were various women in his social circle with whom he was known to be on friendly (never intimate) terms, and who, moreover, had all the qualities required to become the new Mrs. Pereda. When the lawyer’s two or three close friends asked him why he remained single, his response was always that he didn’t want to impose the unbearable burden (as he put it) of a stepmother on his offspring. In Pereda’s opinion, most of Argentina’s recent problems could be traced to the figure of the stepmother. We never had a mother, as a nation, he would say; or, she was never there; or, she left us on the doorstep of the orphanage. But we’ve had plenty of stepmothers, all sorts, starting with the great Peronist stepmother. And he would conclude: Of all the countries in Latin America, we’re the experts on stepmothers. In spite of everything, his life was happy. It’s hard not to be happy, he used to say, in Buenos Aires, which is a perfect blend of Paris and Berlin, although if you look closely it’s more like a perfect blend of Lyons and Prague. Every day, he got up at the same time as his children, had breakfast with them, and dropped them off at school. He spent the rest of the morning reading at least two newspapers; and, after a snack at eleven (consisting basically of cold cuts and sausage on buttered French bread and two or three little glasses of Argentine or Chilean wine, except on special occasions, when the wine was, naturally, French), he took a siesta until one. His lunch, which he ate on his own in an enormous, empty dining room while reading a book under the absentminded gaze of the elderly maid, and the black-and-white gaze of his deceased wife looking out from photographs in ornate silver frames, was light: soup and a small portion of fish and mashed potatoes, some of which he would allow to go cold. In the afternoon, he helped his children with their homework, or sat through Cuca’s piano lessons in silence, or Bebe’s English and French classes, given by two teachers with Italian surnames, who came to the house. Sometimes, when Cuca had learned to play a whole piece, the maid and the cook would come to listen, too, and the lawyer, filled with pride, would hear them murmur words of praise, which struck him at first as excessive, but then, on reflection, seemed perfectly apt. After saying good night to his children and reminding his domestic staff for the umpteenth time not to open the door to anyone, he went to his favorite café, on Corrientes, where he would stay until one at the very latest, listening to his friends or friends of theirs discussing issues that he suspected he would find supremely boring if he knew anything about them, after which he went back home, where everyone was asleep. Eventually, the children grew up. First Cuca got married and went to live in Rio de Janeiro; then Bebe started writing and indeed became a highly successful writer, which was a source of great pride to Pereda, who read each and every word his son published. Bebe went on living at home for a few more years (where else could he have had it so good?), after which, like his sister, he flew the nest. At first, the lawyer tried to resign himself to solitude. He had an affair with a widow, went on a long trip through France and Italy, met a girl named Rebeca, and finally contented himself with organizing his huge, chaotic library. When Bebe came back from the United States, where he had spent a year teaching at a university, Pereda had aged prematurely. Bebe was worried and tried not to leave his father alone too much, so sometimes they went to the movies or the theatre, where the lawyer would usually fall into a deep sleep, and sometimes Bebe dragged him along to the literary gatherings that were held at the Black Pencil Café, where authors, basking in the glory of some municipal prize, held forth at length on the nation’s destiny. When they talked about literature, Pereda was completely bored. In his opinion, the best Argentine writers were Borges and Bebe; any further commentary on the subject was superfluous. But when they started talking about national and international politics, the lawyer’s body grew tense, as if charged by an electric current. From then on, his daily habits changed. He began to get up early and look through the old books in his library, searching for something, though he couldn’t have said what. He decided to give up wine and heavy meals, because he realized that they were dulling his intellect. His personal hygiene also underwent a change. He no longer spruced himself up when he was going out. He soon stopped taking a daily shower, and even went to the park to read the paper without putting on a tie. His old friends hardly recognized this new Pereda as the lawyer they had known, who had been irreproachable in every respect. One day he woke up feeling more nervous than usual. He had lunch with a retired judge and a retired journalist, and laughed all the way through the meal. Afterward, as they were drinking Cognac, the judge asked him what he found so funny. Buenos Aires is collapsing, Pereda replied. The journalist thought that the lawyer had gone crazy and recommended some time by the sea, that invigorating air. The judge, less given to speculation, simply thought that Pereda had gone off on a tangent. A few days later, however, the Argentine economy went into meltdown. Accounts in American dollars were frozen, and those who hadn’t moved their capital (or their savings) offshore suddenly discovered that they had nothing left, or only a few bonds and bank bills the mere sight of which was enough to give them goosebumps, vague promises inspired in equal parts by some forgotten tango and the words of the national anthem. I told you so, the lawyer said to anyone willing to listen. Then, accompanied by his cook and his maid, he stood in long lines, like many other inhabitants of Buenos Aires, and entered into long conversations with strangers (who struck him as utterly charming) in streets thronged with people swindled by the government or the banks, or whomever. When the President resigned, Pereda was there among the protesters as they banged their pots and pans. Sometimes it seemed as if the elderly had taken control of the streets, old people of all social classes, and he liked that, although he didn’t know why; it seemed like a sign that something was changing, that something was moving in the darkness, although he was also happy to join in the wildcat strikes and blockades that quickly degenerated into brawling. In the space of a few days, Argentina had three different Presidents. It didn’t occur to anyone to start a revolution or mount a military coup. That was when Pereda decided to go back to the country. Before leaving, he explained his plan to the maid and the cook. Buenos Aires is falling apart; I’m going to the ranch, he said. They talked for hours, sitting at the kitchen table. The cook had been to the ranch as often as Pereda, who had always said that the country was no place for a man like him, a cultivated family man, who wanted to make sure that his children got a good education. His mental images of the ranch had blurred and faded, leaving only a house with a hole in the middle, an enormous, threatening tree, and a barn flickering with shadows that might have been rats. Nevertheless, that night, as he drank tea in the kitchen, he told his employees that he had hardly any money left to pay them (it was all frozen in the bank—in other words, as good as lost) and the only solution he had come up with was to take them to the country, where at least they wouldn’t be short of food, or so he hoped. The maid and the cook listened to him compassionately. At one point, the lawyer burst into tears. Trying to console him, they told him not to worry about the money; they were prepared to go on working even if he couldn’t pay them. The lawyer definitively rejected any such arrangement. I’m too old to become a pimp, he said with an apologetic smile. The next morning, he packed a suitcase and took a taxi to the station. The women waved goodbye from the sidewalk. The long, monotonous train trip gave him ample time for reflection. At first, the carriage was full. He observed that there were basically two topics of conversation: the country’s state of bankruptcy and how the Argentine team was shaping up for the World Cup in Korea and Japan. The press of passengers reminded him of the trains departing from Moscow in the film “Doctor Zhivago,” which he had seen some time ago, except that in the Russian carriages as filmed by that English director the talk had not been about ice hockey or skiing. What hope have we got, he thought, although he had to agree that on paper the Argentine selection looked unbeatable. When night fell, the conversations stopped, and the lawyer thought of his children, Cuca and Bebe, both of whom were abroad. He also thought of a number of women he had known intimately but had not expected to remember; silently, they emerged from oblivion, their skin covered with sweat, infusing his restless spirit with something like serenity, although it wasn’t altogether serene, perhaps not exactly a sense of adventure, but something like that. Then the train began to advance over the pampas, and the lawyer leaned his head against the cold glass of the window and fell asleep. When he woke, the carriage was half empty and there was a man who looked part Indian sitting beside him, reading a Batman comic book. Where are we? Pereda asked. In Coronel Gutiérrez, the man said. Ah, that’s all right, the lawyer thought, I’m going to Capitán Jourdan. Then he got up, stretched his legs, and sat down again. Out on the dry plain he saw a rabbit that seemed to be racing the train. There were five other rabbits running behind it. The first rabbit, running just outside the window, had wide-open eyes, as if the race against the train required a superhuman effort (or, rather, super-leporine, the lawyer thought). The rabbits in pursuit seemed to be running in tandem, like cyclists in the Tour de France. With a couple of big leaps, the rabbit bringing up the rear relieved the front-runner, which dropped back to last position, while the third rabbit moved up to second place, and the fourth moved up to third; and all the while the group was closing in on the solitary rabbit running beside the lawyer’s window. Rabbits, he thought, how wonderful! On the plains, there was nothing else to be seen: a vast, boundless expanse of scant grass under massive, low clouds, and no indication that a town might be near. Are you going to Capitán Jourdan? Pereda asked the Batman reader, who seemed to be examining every panel with extreme care, scrutinizing every detail, as if he were visiting a portable museum. No, he replied, I’m getting off at El Apeadero. Pereda tried to remember a station of that name but couldn’t. And what’s that, a station or a factory? The Indian-looking guy stared back at him fixedly: A station, he replied. He seems annoyed, Pereda thought. It wasn’t the sort of question he would normally have asked, given his habitual discretion. The pampas had made him inquire in that frank, manly, and down-to-earth way, he decided. When he rested his forehead against the window again, he saw that the rabbits in pursuit had caught up with the lone racing rabbit, and were attacking it ferociously, tearing at its body with their claws and teeth—those long rodents’ teeth, Pereda thought with a horrified frisson. He looked back and saw an amorphous mass of tawny fur rolling beside the rails. The only passengers who got off at Capitán Jourdan were Pereda and a woman with two children. The platform was half wood, half concrete, and in spite of his best efforts Pereda couldn’t find a railway employee anywhere. The woman and the children set off walking on a cart track, and although they were clearly moving away and their figures were visibly shrinking, it took more than three-quarters of an hour, by the lawyer’s reckoning, for them to disappear from the horizon. Is the earth round? Pereda wondered. Of course it is, he told himself, sitting down on an old wooden bench against the wall of the station, preparing to kill some time. Inevitably, he remembered Borges’s story “The South,” and when he thought of the store mentioned in the final paragraphs his eyes brimmed with tears. Then he remembered the plot of Bebe’s last novel, and imagined his son writing on a computer, in an austere room at a Midwestern university. When Bebe comes back and finds out I’ve gone to the ranch . . . , he thought in enthusiastic anticipation. The glare and the warm breeze gusting off the plain made him drowsy; he fell asleep. A hand shook him awake. A man as old as he was, wearing an old railway uniform, asked him what he was doing there. Pereda said he was the owner of the Álamo Negro ranch. The man stood there looking at him for a while, then said, The judge. That’s right, Pereda replied, there was a time when I was a judge. Don’t you remember me, Mr. Judge? Pereda scrutinized the man: he needed a new uniform and a haircut, urgently. Pereda shook his head. I’m Severo Infante, the man said. We used to play together when we were kids. But, che, that’s ages ago—how could I remember, Pereda retorted, and his voice, not to mention the words he had used, sounded odd, as if the air of Capitán Jourdan had invigorated his vocal cords or his throat. Of course, you’re right, Mr. Judge, Severo Infante said, but I feel like celebrating anyway. Bouncing like a kangaroo, the station employee disappeared into the ticket office, then came out with a bottle and a glass. Your health, he said, handing Pereda the glass, which he half filled with a clear liquid that seemed to be pure alcohol. Pereda took a sip—it tasted of scorched earth and stones—and left the glass on the bench. He said that he had given up drinking. Then he got up and asked the way to his ranch. They went out the back door. Capitán Jourdan is over there, Severo said, just beyond the dry pond. Álamo Negro is the other way, a bit farther, but you can’t get lost in the daylight. You look after yourself, Pereda said, and set off in the direction of his ranch. The main house was almost in ruins. That night it was cold, and Pereda tried to gather some sticks and light a campfire, but he couldn’t find anything to burn, and in the end he wrapped himself up in his overcoat, rested his head on his suitcase, and fell asleep, telling himself that tomorrow would be another day. He woke with the first light of dawn. The well still had water in it, although the bucket had disappeared and the rope was rotten. I need to buy a rope and a bucket, he thought. For breakfast, he ate what was left of a packet of peanuts he had bought on the train. He inspected the multitudinous low-ceilinged rooms of the ranch house. Then he set off for Capitán Jourdan, and was surprised to see rabbits but no cattle on the way. He observed them uneasily. Occasionally, they would hop toward him, but he had only to wave his arms to make them disappear. Although he had never been particularly keen on guns, he would have been glad of one then. Apart from that, the walk did him good: the air was fresh, the sky was clear; it was neither hot nor cold. From time to time he spotted a tree all alone out on the plain, and the vision struck him as poetic, as if the tree and the scenery of the deserted countryside had been arranged just for him and had been awaiting his arrival with an imperturbable patience. None of the roads in Capitán Jourdan were paved, and the housefronts were thickly coated with dust. As he entered the town, he saw a man asleep beside some flowerpots containing plastic flowers. My God, what a dump! he thought. The main square was broad, and the town hall, built of brick, gave the collection of squat, abandoned buildings a slight air of civilization. He asked a gardener who was sitting in the square smoking a cigarette where he could find a hardware store. The gardener looked at him curiously, then accompanied him to the door of the only hardware store in town. The owner, an Indian, sold him all the rope he had in stock: forty yards of braided hemp, which Pereda examined at length, as if looking for loose threads. Put it on my account, he said. The Indian looked at him, nonplussed. Whose account? he asked. Héctor Pereda’s, Pereda said, as he piled up his new possessions in a corner of the store. Then he asked the Indian where he could buy a horse. There are no horses left here, he said, only rabbits. Pereda thought it was a joke and responded with a quick, dry laugh. The gardener, who was looking in from the threshold, said that there might be a strawberry roan to be had at Don Dulce’s ranch. Pereda asked him how he could get there, and the gardener walked a couple of blocks with him, to a vacant lot full of rubble. Beyond lay open country. The ranch was called Mi Paraíso, and it didn’t seem as run-down as Álamo Negro. A few chickens were pecking around in the yard. The door to the shed had been pulled off its hinges and someone had propped it against a wall nearby. Some Indian-looking kids were playing with bolas. A woman came out of the main house and said good afternoon. Pereda asked her for a glass of water. Between mouthfuls, he asked if there was a horse for sale. You’ll have to wait for the boss, the woman said, and went back into the house. Pereda sat down beside the well and kept himself busy brushing away the flies that were buzzing around everywhere, as if the yard were used for pickling meat, Pereda thought, although the only pickles he had encountered were the ones he used to buy many years ago at a store that imported them directly from England. After an hour, he heard the sound of a jeep and stood up. Don Dulce was a little pink-faced guy, with blue eyes, wearing a short-sleeved shirt, although by the time he arrived it was starting to get cool. An even shorter guy got out of the jeep as well: a gaucho attired in baggy bombachas and a diaperlike chiripá, who threw Pereda a sidelong glance and started carrying rabbit skins into the shed. Pereda introduced himself. He said he was the owner of Álamo Negro, and that he was planning to do some work on the ranch and needed to buy a horse. Don Dulce invited him to dinner. Around the table sat the host, the woman who had appeared earlier, the children, the gaucho, and Pereda. There was a fire in the hearth, not to heat the room but for grilling meat. The bread was hard and unleavened, the way the Jews make it, Pereda thought, remembering his Jewish wife with a touch of nostalgia. But no one at Mi Paraíso seemed to be Jewish. When it came to buying the horse, everything went smoothly. Choosing was not a problem, because there was only one horse for sale. When Pereda said he might need a month to pay, Don Dulce made no objection, although the gaucho, who hadn’t said a word all through the meal, stared at him warily. Afterward, they saddled the horse, showed him the way, and said goodbye. How long has it been since I rode a horse? Pereda wondered. For a few seconds he worried that his bones, accustomed to the comfort of Buenos Aires and its armchairs, might break under the strain. The night was dark as pitch or coal. Stupid expressions, thought Pereda. European nights might be pitch-dark or coal-black, but not South American nights, which are dark like a void, where there’s nothing to hold on to, no shelter from the elements, just empty, storm-whipped space, above and below. May the rain fall soft on you! he heard Don Dulce shout. God willing, he replied from the darkness. On the way back to his ranch, he dozed off a couple of times. He woke up from his second nap on one of the streets of Capitán Jourdan. He saw a corner store that was open. He heard voices, and someone strumming a guitar, tuning it but never settling on a particular song to play, just as he had read in Borges. For a moment, he thought that his destiny, his screwed-up American destiny, would be to meet his death like Dahlmann in “The South,” and it seemed unfair, partly because he now had debts to repay and partly because he wasn’t ready to die, although Pereda knew that death is an occurrence for which one is never ready. Seized by a sudden inspiration, he entered the store on horseback. Inside, he found an old gaucho, strumming the guitar, the owner, and three younger guys sitting at a table, who started when they saw the horse come in. Pereda was inwardly satisfied by the thought that the scene was like something from a story by di Benedetto. Nevertheless, he set his face and approached the zinc-topped bar. He ordered a glass of aguardiente, which he drank with one hand, while in the other he held his riding crop discreetly out of view, since he hadn’t yet bought himself the traditional sheath knife. He asked the owner to put the drink on his account, and on his way out, as he passed the young gauchos, he told them to move aside because he was going to spit. This was meant as affirmation of his authority, but before the gauchos could grasp what was happening the gob of phlegm had flown from his lips; they barely had time to jump. May the rain fall soft on you, he said, before disappearing into the darkness of Capitán Jourdan. From then on, Pereda went into town each day on his horse, which he named José Bianco. He often went to buy tools with which to repair the ranch house, but he also passed the time of day chatting with the gardener, or with the keepers of the general store and the hardware store, whose livelihoods he diminished day by day, as he lengthened the accounts he had with each of them. Other gauchos and storekeepers soon joined in these conversations, and sometimes even children came to hear the stories Pereda told. Naturally, he always cut an impressive figure in those stories, although they weren’t exactly cheerful. For example, he told them how he had once owned a horse very like José Bianco, which had been killed in a confrontation with the police. Luckily, I was a judge, he said, and when the police come up against a judge or an ex-judge they usually back off. Police work’s about order, he said, while judges defend justice. Do you see the difference, boys? The gauchos would usually nod, although they weren’t at all sure what he was talking about. Sometimes he went to the station, where his friend Severo would reminisce at length about their childhood pranks. Although Pereda was privately convinced that he couldn’t have been as silly as he seemed in those stories, he let Severo talk until he got tired or fell asleep, then walked out onto the platform to wait for the train and the letter it was supposed to bring. Finally, the letter arrived. In it his cook explained that life was hard in Buenos Aires, but that he shouldn’t worry, because both she and the maid were going to the house every two days, and it was in perfect order. As for sending him money, they were looking into it, she assured him; the problem was, they still hadn’t found a way to make sure it wouldn’t be filched by some racketeer on the way. In the evening, as he was returning to Álamo Negro at a gallop, the lawyer could sometimes see a ruined village in the distance that seemed not to have been there before. Sometimes a slender column of smoke rose from the village and dissipated in the vast sky over the plains. Occasionally, he encountered the vehicle in which Don Dulce and his gaucho got around. They would stop to talk and smoke for a while, Don Dulce and the gaucho sitting in their jeep, the lawyer still mounted on José Bianco. Don Dulce was out after rabbits. Pereda once asked him how he hunted them, and Don Dulce told his gaucho to show the lawyer one of the traps, which was halfway between a birdcage and a rat trap. Pereda never saw a single rabbit in the jeep, only the skins, because the gaucho skinned them on the spot, beside the traps. After those chats, Pereda always felt that Don Dulce was somehow diminishing the stature of the nation. Rabbit hunting! What sort of job is that for a gaucho? he asked himself. Then he would give his horse an affectionate pat. Come on, che, José Bianco, let’s go, he’d say, and head back to the ranch. One day, the cook turned up. She had brought money for him. She rode behind him on José Bianco halfway from the station to the ranch, then they walked the rest of the way, in silence, contemplating the plain. By this time, the ranch house was more comfortable than it had been when Pereda arrived; they ate rabbit stew, and then by the light of an oil lamp the cook handed over the money she had brought, and explained where it had come from, which objects from the house she had been forced to sell off at a fraction of their value. Pereda didn’t even bother to count it. The next morning, when he woke up, he saw that the cook had worked all night cleaning some of the rooms. He reproached her gently. Don Héctor, she said, it’s like a pigsty here. Two days later, in spite of the lawyer’s entreaties, she took the train back to Buenos Aires. Away from Buenos Aires I feel like another person, she explained to him as they waited on the platform, just the two of them. And I’m too old to become someone else. Women, they’re all the same, Pereda thought. Everything is changing, the cook explained to him. The city was full of beggars, and respectable people were organizing neighborhood soup kitchens just to have something to put into their stomachs. There were at least ten different kinds of currency, not counting the official money. No one was bored. People were desperate, but not bored. As she spoke, Pereda watched the rabbits that had appeared on the other side of the tracks. The rabbits looked at them, then bounded away across the plain. Sometimes it’s as if this country were full of lice or fleas, the lawyer thought. With the money the cook had brought, he paid his debts and hired a pair of gauchos to repair the roof of the ranch house, which was falling in. The problem was that although he knew next to nothing about carpentry, that was more than the gauchos knew. One was called José and must have been around seventy. He didn’t have a horse. The other was called Campodónico and was probably younger, although he could also have been older. Both wore the traditional baggy bombachas, but their headgear consisted of caps that they had made themselves from rabbit skins. Neither had a family, so after a while they both came to live at Álamo Negro. At night, by the light of a fire out in the open, Pereda whiled away the time recounting adventures that had taken place exclusively in his imagination. He spoke to them of Argentina, Buenos Aires, and the pampas, and he asked them which of the three they would choose. Argentina’s a novel, he said, so it’s make-believe at best. Buenos Aires is full of crooks and loudmouths, a place like Hell, with nothing going for it except the women, and the writers, some of them, not many, though. But the pampas—the pampas are eternal. A limitless cemetery, that’s what it’s like. Can you imagine that, boys, a limitless cemetery? The gauchos smiled and confessed that it was actually pretty hard to imagine something like that, since cemeteries are for humans, and although the number of humans is big, there’s a limit to it. Ah, but the cemetery I’m talking about, Pereda said, is an exact copy of eternity. With the money he had left, he went to Coronel Gutiérrez and bought himself a mare and a colt. The mare would let itself be ridden, but the colt was not much use for anything, and had to be treated with extreme caution. Sometimes, in the evening, when he was sick of working or of doing nothing, Pereda went into Capitán Jourdan with his gauchos. He rode José Bianco; the gauchos rode the mare. When he entered the store, a respectful hush fell over the clients. Some were playing cards, others were playing checkers. When the mayor, who was prone to depression, turned up, there would always be four brave volunteers for a game of Monopoly that would last until dawn. This habit of playing games (not to speak of Monopoly) seemed ill-bred and dishonorable to Pereda. A store is a place where people converse or listen in silence to the conversations of others, he thought. A store is like an empty classroom. A store is a smoky church. Some nights, especially when gauchos from out of town or some disoriented travelling salesman turned up, Pereda felt a powerful desire to start a fight. Nothing serious, just a scrap, but with real knives, not chalked sticks, like kids use. Other nights, he would fall asleep between his two gauchos and dream that his wife was leading their children by the hand and scolding him for the way he had let himself lapse into brutishness. And what about the rest of the country? the lawyer replied. But that’s no excuse, che, rejoined Mrs. Pereda, née Hirschmann. At which point the lawyer would have to agree, and tears would well up in his eyes. In general, however, his dreams were peaceful, and when he woke up in the morning he was in good spirits and keen to start work. Although, to tell the truth, not a lot of work was done at Álamo Negro. The repairing of the ranch-house roof was a disaster. In order to start a kitchen garden, the lawyer and Campodónico bought seeds in Coronel Guttiérrez, but the earth, it seemed, would accept no foreign seed. For a time, the lawyer tried to get the colt, which he called “my stud horse,” to cover the mare. If the mare had a filly, all the better. That way, he imagined, he could soon build up a breeding stock that would lead the recovery; but the colt didn’t seem to be interested in covering the mare and, although he searched for miles around, Pereda couldn’t find a sire, since the gauchos had sold their horses to the slaughterhouse, and now got around on foot, or on bicycles, or hitched rides on the endless dirt tracks of the pampas. We have fallen, we’re down, Pereda would say to his audience, but we can still pick ourselves up and go to our deaths like men. He, too, had to set rabbit traps to survive. In the evenings, when he left the house with his men, he would often let José and Campodónico empty the traps, along with a new recruit known as the Old Guy, while he set off alone for the ruined village. There he found some young people, younger than his gauchos, but so disinclined to converse and so nervous that it wasn’t even worth inviting them for a meal. Occasionally, he would go to the railway line and spend a long time there waiting for the train to pass, mounted on José Bianco, both of them chewing grass stalks. Often enough, no train would pass, as if that part of Argentina had been erased from memory as well as from the map. One afternoon, as Pereda was vainly attempting to get his colt to mount the mare, he saw a car driving over the plain, coming directly toward Álamo Negro. The car pulled up in the yard, and four men got out. At first, he didn’t recognize his son. Nor did Bebe realize that the old man in bombachas with a beard, long tangled hair, and a bare chest tanned by the sun was his father. Son of my soul, Pereda said, hugging him, blood of my blood, vindication of my days, and he would have gone on like that if Bebe hadn’t stopped him to introduce his friends, two writers from Buenos Aires and the publisher Ibarrola, who loved books and nature, and had financed the trip. In honor of his son’s guests, the lawyer had a big bonfire built in the yard that night, and sent for the foremost of Capitán Jourdan’s guitar-strumming gauchos, warning him beforehand that he was to do strictly that: strum, without playing any song in particular, in accordance with the country way. Campodónico and José were dispatched to fetch ten litres of wine and a litre of aguardiente, which they brought back from Capitán Jourdan in the mayor’s van. A good stock of rabbits was laid in, and one was roasted for each person present, although the visitors from the city didn’t seem particularly keen on rabbit meat. That night, there were more than thirty people gathered around the fire, besides Pereda’s gauchos and the guests from Buenos Aires. By three in the morning, the elders had set off back to Capitán Jourdan, and there were just a few young men left at the ranch, wondering what to do, since the food and drink had run out, and the guys from the city had gone to sleep a while ago. The next morning, Bebe tried to persuade his father to return to Buenos Aires with him. Things are gradually settling down, he said. Personally, he was doing all right. He gave his father a book, one of the many gifts he had brought, and told him that it had been published in Spain. Now I’m a well-known author all through Latin America, he explained. But the lawyer had no idea what his son was talking about. He asked if he was married yet and, when Bebe said no, suggested he find himself an Indian woman and come to live at Álamo Negro. An Indian woman, Bebe repeated in a tone of voice that the lawyer thought was wistful. Among the gifts his son had brought was a Beretta 92 pistol with two clips and a box of ammunition. The lawyer looked at the pistol in amazement. Do you honestly think I’m going to need it? he asked. You never know, Bebe said. You’re really on your own here. They saddled up the mare for Ibarrola, who wanted to take a look at the countryside, and Pereda, riding José Bianco, spent the rest of the morning showing him around. For two hours, the publisher held forth in praise of the idyllic, unspoiled life led, as he saw it, by the inhabitants of Capitán Jourdan. When he spotted the first of the ruined houses, he broke into a gallop, but it was much farther away than he had thought, and before he got there a rabbit leaped up and bit him on the neck. The publisher’s cry vanished at once into the vast open space. From where he was, all Pereda could see was a dark shape springing from the ground, tracing an arc toward the publisher’s head, then disappearing. Dumb-ass Basque, he thought. He spurred José Bianco, and as he approached he saw that Ibarrola was holding his neck with one hand and covering his face with the other. Without saying a word, Pereda removed the hand from Ibarrola’s neck. There was a bleeding scratch under his ear. Pereda asked him if he had a handkerchief. The publisher replied in the affirmative, and only then did Pereda realize that he was crying. Put the handkerchief on the wound, he said. Then he took the mare’s reins, and they made their way to the ruined house. There was no one there; they didn’t dismount. As they returned to the ranch, the handkerchief that Ibarrola was holding against the wound gradually turned red. They said nothing. When they got back, Pereda ordered his gauchos to strip the publisher to the waist, and they flung him onto a table in the yard. Pereda washed the wound, which he proceeded to cauterize with a knife heated until the blade was red-hot, then made a dressing with another handkerchief, held in place with a makeshift bandage: one of his old shirts, which he soaked in aguardiente, what little was left, more as a ritual than as a sanitary measure, but it couldn’t do any harm. When Bebe and the two writers came back from a walk around Capitán Jourdan, they found Ibarrola unconscious on the table, and Pereda sitting beside him in a chair, observing him intently, like a medical student. Behind Pereda, equally absorbed by the sight of the wounded man, stood the ranch’s three gauchos. The sun was beating down mercilessly in the yard. Son of a bitch! shouted one of Bebe’s friends. Your dad’s gone and killed our publisher. But the publisher wasn’t dead, and made a full recovery, except for the scar, which he would later display with pride, explaining that it had been caused by the bite of a jumping snake. From then on, there were often visitors from the city. Sometimes Bebe came on his own, with his riding clothes and his notebooks, in which he wrote vaguely melancholy stories with vaguely crime-related plots. Sometimes he would come with luminaries from Buenos Aires, usually writers, but quite often a painter, to Pereda’s satisfaction, since painters, for some reason, seemed to know much more about carpentry and bricklaying than the bunch of gauchos who hung around Álamo Negro all day like a bad smell. On one occasion, Bebe came with a psychiatrist. She was blond and had steely blue eyes and high cheekbones, like an extra from the “Ring” cycle. The only problem with her, Pereda thought, was that she talked a lot. One morning, he invited her to go for a ride. The psychiatrist accepted. He saddled up the mare, mounted José Bianco, and they headed west. As they rode, the psychiatrist told him about her job in a Buenos Aires mental hospital. She told him (and the rabbits that sometimes surreptitiously accompanied the riders) that people were becoming more and more unbalanced: studies had proved it, which led the psychiatrist to conjecture that perhaps mental instability was not so much a disease as a stratum of normality, just below the surface of normality as it was commonly conceived. All this sounded like Chinese to Pereda, but, intimidated as he was by the beauty of his son’s guest, he refrained from saying so. At midday, they stopped for a lunch of rabbit jerky and wine. The wine and the meat, a dark meat that shone like alabaster when touched by light and seemed to be literally seething with protein, brought out the psychiatrist’s poetic streak, and, as Pereda noticed out of the corner of his eye, prompted her to let her hair down. At about five in the afternoon, they spotted the shell of a ranch house on the horizon. Excited, they spurred their mounts in that direction, but at six they were still not there, which led the psychiatrist to remark on how deceptive distances could be. When they finally arrived, five or six malnourished children came out to greet them, along with a woman wearing a very wide skirt that bulged voluminously, as if there were some kind of animal under it coiled around her legs. The children kept their eyes fixed on the psychiatrist, who adopted a maternal attitude, though not for long, since she soon noticed, as she later explained to Pereda, a malevolent intention in their gaze, a mischievous plan formulated, so she felt, in a language full of consonants, shrieks, and resentment. Pereda, who was coming to the conclusion that the psychiatrist was not entirely in her right mind, accepted the skirted woman’s invitation to dinner, and during the meal, which they ate in a room full of old photographs, learned that the owners of the ranch had gone off to the city a long time ago (the woman couldn’t say which city) and the laborers, having ceased to receive their monthly pay, had gradually drifted away, too. The woman also told them about a river and flooding, although Pereda had no idea where the river could be, and no one in Capitán Jourdan had mentioned any kind of flood. Predictably, they ate rabbit stew, which their hostess had prepared with an expert hand. As they were getting ready to go, Pereda pointed out the way to Álamo Negro, his ranch, in case they ever got tired of living out there. I don’t pay much, but at least there’s company, he said seriously, as if explaining that death came after life. Then he gathered the children around him and proceeded to dispense advice. When he had finished speaking, he saw that the psychiatrist and the skirted woman had fallen asleep on their chairs. Day was about to break when Pereda and the psychiatrist left. The light of a full moon shimmered on the plain, and from time to time they saw a rabbit jump, but Pereda paid no attention, and after a long spell of silence he softly began to sing a song in French that his late wife had liked. The song was about a pier and mist, and unfaithful lovers, as all lovers are in the end, he thought indulgently, and places that remain utterly faithful. Sometimes, as he walked or rode José Bianco around the dubious boundaries of his ranch, Pereda thought that nothing would ever be the same unless the cattle returned. Cows, where are you? he shouted. In winter, the skirted woman turned up at Álamo Negro with the children in tow. Some people in Capitán Jourdan knew her and were pleased to see her again. The woman didn’t talk much, but she certainly worked harder than the six gauchos Pereda now had on the payroll, to use the expression liberally, since he often went for months without paying them. And, indeed, some of the gauchos had what could be called an idiosyncratic concept of time. They could adapt to a forty-day month without any major headaches. Or to a four-hundred-and-forty-day year. None of them, in fact, Pereda included, wanted to think about time. By the fireside, some of the gauchos talked about electroshock therapy, while others spoke like professional sports commentators, except that they were commenting on a match played long ago, when they were twenty or thirty and belonged to some gang of hooligans. Sons of bitches, Pereda thought tenderly, with a manly sort of tenderness, of course. One night, he asked them about their political opinions. At first the gauchos were reluctant to talk about politics, but when he finally got them to open up it turned out that, in one way or another, they were all nostalgic for General Perón. This is where we part company, Pereda said, and pulled out his knife. For a few seconds he thought that the gauchos would do the same and his destiny would be sealed that night, but the old guys recoiled in fear and asked what he was doing, for God’s sake. What had they done? What had got into him? The flickering fire threw tigerlike stripes of light across their faces, but as he gripped his knife, trembling, Pereda felt that Argentina’s shame or the shame of Latin America had turned them into tame cats. That’s why the cattle have been replaced by rabbits, he thought as he turned around and walked back to his room. I’d slaughter the lot of you if you weren’t so pathetic! he shouted. The next morning, he was afraid that the gauchos might have gone back to Capitán Jourdan, but they were all still there, working in the yard or drinking maté by the fire, as if nothing had happened. A few days later, the skirted woman arrived from the ranch out west and Álamo Negro began to change for the better, starting with the food, because the woman knew ten different ways to cook a rabbit, where to find herbs, how to start a kitchen garden and grow some fresh vegetables. One night the woman walked along the veranda and went into Pereda’s room. She was wearing only a petticoat; the lawyer made space for her in his bed, and spent the rest of the night looking up at the canopy, feeling that warm and unfamiliar body against his ribs. Day was breaking by the time he fell asleep, and when he woke up the woman was gone. Got yourself shacked up, Bebe said when his father informed him. Only technically, the lawyer pointed out. By that stage, with money borrowed here and there, he had been able to enlarge the stables and acquire four cows. When he was bored in the afternoons, he would saddle up José Bianco and take the cows out for a walk. The rabbits, who had never seen a cow, stared in amazement. It seemed that Pereda and the cows were bound for the end of the world, but they had just gone out for a walk. He spoke to the gauchos gathered in the general store one evening. I believe we are losing our memory, he said. And about time, too. For once, the gauchos looked at him as if they grasped the significance of his words even better than he did himself. Shortly afterward, he received a letter from Bebe summoning him to Buenos Aires in order to sign some papers so that his house could be sold. What should I do, Pereda wondered, take the train or ride? That night he could hardly sleep. He imagined people thronging the sidewalks as he made his entry mounted on José Bianco. His entry into Buenos Aires, as he imagined it, had the ambience of Christ’s entry into Jerusalem or Brussels as depicted by Ensor. All of us make our entry into Jerusalem sooner or later, he thought as he tossed and turned. Every single one of us. And some never come out again. But most do. And then we are seized and crucified. Especially poor gauchos. He also imagined a downtown street, the quintessential Buenos Aires street, with all the charms of the capital; he was riding along it on his trusty José Bianco, while from the windows above white flowers began to rain down. Who was throwing the flowers? He couldn’t tell, since, like the street itself, the windows of the buildings remained empty. It must be the dead, Pereda supposed drowsily. The dead of Jerusalem and the dead of Buenos Aires. The next morning, he spoke with the gauchos and told them that he would be away for a while. None of them said anything, although that night at dinner the skirted woman asked if he was going to Buenos Aires. Pereda nodded. Then take care and may the rain fall soft on you, the woman said. Two days later, he took the train and went back the way he had come more than three years before. When he arrived at Constitución Station, a few people stared as if he were wearing fancy dress, but most were not particularly perturbed by an old man attired like a cross between a gaucho and a rabbit trapper. The taxi-driver who took him to his house inquired where he was from, and when Pereda, lost in his own ruminations, failed to answer, he asked if he spoke Spanish. By way of reply, Pereda pulled out his knife and proceeded to cut his nails, which were as long as a wild cat’s. No one answered the door. The keys were under the mat; he went in. The house seemed clean, perhaps too clean—it smelled of mothballs. Feeling exhausted, Pereda trudged to his bedroom and flopped onto the bed without taking off his boots. When he woke up, it was dark. He went into the living room without switching on any lights, and telephoned his cook. First, he spoke to her husband, who wanted to know who was calling, and didn’t sound convinced when he identified himself. Then the cook came on. I’m in Buenos Aires, Estela, he said. She didn’t seem surprised. Something new happens every day here, she replied when he asked if she was happy to know that he was back home. Then he tried to call his maid, but an impersonal female voice informed him that the number he had dialled was not in service. Feeling dispirited and perhaps also hungry, he tried to remember the faces of his employees, but the images he could summon were vague: shadows moving in the corridor, a commotion of clean laundry, murmurs and hushed voices. The amazing thing is that I can remember their phone numbers, Pereda thought, sitting in the dark living room of his house. Shortly afterward, he went out. Wandering aimlessly, or so he thought, he ended up at the café where Bebe used to meet his artistic and literary friends. From the street, he looked into the spacious, well-lit, bustling interior. Bebe and an old man (An old man like me! Pereda thought) were presiding over one of the most animated tables. At another, closer to the window through which Pereda was spying, he saw a group of writers who looked as if they worked in advertising. One of them, who had an adolescent air, although he was over fifty and maybe even over sixty, kept putting a white powder up his nose and holding forth on world literature. Suddenly, the eyes of the fake adolescent met Pereda’s. For a moment, their gazes locked, as if, for each of them, the presence of the other were a gash in the ambient reality. Resolutely and with surprising agility, the writer with the adolescent air sprang to his feet and rushed out into the street. Before Pereda knew what was going on, the writer was upon him. What are you staring at? he demanded, brushing remnants of white powder from his nose. Pereda looked him up and down. The writer was taller and slimmer and possibly stronger than he was. What are you staring at, you rude old man? What are you staring at? The fake adolescent’s gang was looking on, following the scene as if something similar happened every night. Pereda realized that he had grasped his knife, then let himself go. He took a step forward and, without anyone noticing that he was armed, planted the point of the blade, though not deeply, in his opponent’s groin. Later, he would remember the look of surprise on the man’s face, in which terror blended with something like reproof, and the writer’s words as he groped for an explanation (Hey, what did you do, asshole?), as if there could be an explanation for fever and nausea. I think you need a napkin, Pereda remarked in a strong, clear voice, pointing at his adversary’s bloodstained crotch. Mother, the cokehead said, looking down. When he looked up again, he was surrounded by friends and colleagues, but Pereda was gone. What should I do, the lawyer wondered as he roamed through his beloved city, finding it strange and familiar, marvellous and pathetic. Do I stay in Buenos Aires and become a champion of justice, or go back to the pampas, where I don’t belong, and try to do something useful. I don’t know . . . maybe something with the rabbits, or the locals, those poor gauchos who accept me and put up with me and never complain. The shadows of the city declined to provide an answer. Keeping quiet, as usual, Pereda thought reproachfully. But when the day began to dawn he decided to go back.
The Maserati Years It was a very cold day. He hadn’t closed the balcony door overnight, and when he breathed out a small cloud of vapor rose from his mouth. He lay in bed with only his face outside the covers, making clouds of vapor. Another five, no, another ten of them, and he’d get up. She hadn’t kissed him when she awoke at dawn. She had simply reached for him, and when he’d been lying on top of her she hadn’t given him any help, but it had been quite easy all the same. She hadn’t kissed him before she left, either, and he’d fallen back asleep straightaway and dreamed of a bottle of Corona as large as the water pump in Monbijouplatz. Then he woke up again—it was afternoon—and he thought of the big bottle of Corona. He’d have liked a cigarette, but he didn’t have any left. He went to the bathroom, came back, turned his cell phone on, and put it down again. “Hi, Tom-Cat, I’m pregnant. Sorry to tell you this way. Going to my parents.” Two other text messages had arrived, both from someone at the production company, who had also left messages on his voice mail, sounding angrier each time, asking where he was. There’d been a rehearsal at one o’clock, someone would be there until six. “Hi, Tom-Cat, I’m pregnant. Sorry to tell you this way. Going to my parents.” Oh, go to hell, he thought, breathing out another little cloud. No. 4. The movie was about three friends meeting again after many years. One was now a singer, one was a doctor, and the third, the part he played, was nothing much. His character had never left home—he still lived with his family—and he wasn’t as handsome as he used to be, but you could see that he once had been. During the single night depicted in the film everything would change for all of them. “The Lost Night.” Not a bad title, if a little too American. He still had the cooking sherry his mother had bought the last time she visited, and maybe there was a bottle of wine somewhere. A cigarette would be better. He imagined the smoke filling his lungs, slowly making him dizzy, but then the smoke would have to leave them again, although he’d prefer not to breathe it out at all. Little cloud No. 5. I’ll have to sell the car, he suddenly thought. He was surprised to find himself thinking that, but it was exactly what he thought. I’ll have to sell the car. I can’t afford it anymore if I have to pay up every month. Not this car, anyway. Step on the gas too hard and something goes off, bang, and the guy from Brunnenstrasse has to come and tow it away, and then you have to take taxis until he’s got hold of a new engine, and an engine like that costs a bundle. So there go the Maserati years, he thought, and for a moment he felt sad. Then he felt furious, and then he closed his eyes and went to sleep. When he woke up, it was getting dark again. Not entirely dark yet, but pretty dark. It was gray, blue-gray outside—the kind of light you get only at the end of November, the beginning of December, at around three or half past in the afternoon, when Berlin might as well be in Finland. Three or half past—right. He got up, went to the bathroom, and on the way back he looked in the big kitchen drawer to see if there were any cigarettes there. He didn’t find any, so he picked up the sherry bottle, but then he put it down again. He felt for a moment the way he used to as a child, walking around the apartment on a Sunday while everyone else was still asleep. Since no one wanted to play with him, he would go back to bed, and the sheets were as perfectly cool as they felt now. They had never discussed it. He hadn’t asked any questions, and she hadn’t said anything. He’d thought, If she doesn’t say anything, then there’s nothing to discuss, nothing can happen. It was that way with other women. If there’d been anything to discuss, she would surely have said something, he’d thought, and now he was thinking that of course that had been stupid of him. She would have said something only if she didn’t want any problems. So either there was nothing to discuss or she did want problems. When he first met her, in the Casolare, he’d thought, This is going nowhere, and if it does go somewhere then it won’t be for long. He had looked out at the canal and ordered successive glasses of wine for her, thinking the same thing the whole time. Presumably, she had been thinking something quite different. She had black hair, blue eyes, and a look that could bring you to tears. He’d thought, That’s how it is when they’re a little older. They aren’t ashamed of anything in bed, though, and you don’t have to feel ashamed of anything with them, either. His phone rang, and he jumped up at once. When he saw that it was someone from the production company, he let it ring. It stopped, and then a text came in from the wardrobe supervisor, but he deleted it without reading it and went back to bed. Then he got up again and closed the balcony door. He put some music on, lay down, and listened to Al Green, and thought of how he’d never listen to Al Green in his beautiful car anymore. It was still rather cold in the room. He’d pulled the quilt right up to his chin, and the cold air was like the wind that blew in his face in the Maserati. He drove up Leipziger Strasse to Potsdamer Platz and continued on west. He listened to “La-La for You,” and the white winter sun danced between the buildings ahead of him. The Biturbo really was a beautiful car. Its engine had a pleasant, stern sound, it sat five people, and it was as angular as a chocolate box. And now all that was over, because she hadn’t told him he had to take precautions. They’d done it ten or perhaps twelve times, even when she’d had her period. They’d been good together—he’d enjoyed himself and so had she—and now he’d have to get rid of his beautiful car. He breathed out through his mouth, but nothing happened. He tried again, but the room wasn’t cold enough anymore. He could feel the warmth of the radiator behind the bed. You could almost touch that warmth, and when he thought of the cold weather outside he didn’t want to go out at all. They wouldn’t be shooting without him anyway. They couldn’t shoot without him! Niklas had written the part specially for him—his character in the film was a little like his real self. Niklas had often said so, and he hadn’t always liked that, but mostly it was O.K. Now he was glad, because they really couldn’t do without him, even in rehearsal. Anyway, at the moment everyone wanted to make films featuring him. Or, no, of course they could manage without him. And who in fact did still want to make films featuring him? Exactly—people who hadn’t worked with him before. He was always offered the same kind of part, but that was his own doing—he could say no. The directors he’d started out with worked with other people now, just throwing him the occasional bone out of charity. A small part in the film, large letters in the opening credits: “Guest appearance by our old friend Feri, and, no, we don’t know why we’re doing this, either.” Shit, I want to make more little clouds, he thought. He got up, opened the balcony door, and crawled back into bed. It was dark in the room, but he didn’t switch a light on. It wasn’t gray or blue-gray outside the window anymore; it was almost black. From outside, a little of the ugly orange East Berlin street lighting filtered in, and the objects in the room seemed to quiver slightly. His breath turned immediately to vapor outside his mouth, and he felt as if the air in his lungs were lost forever. No. 7, he thought. Then he made the other three and closed his eyes. He fell asleep, woke up ten minutes later, and went into the kitchen. He drank his mother’s sherry, went to the bathroom, lay back down, and dropped off to sleep again. He slept half the night, and then there was a text message. “Hi, had a fright? Just wanted to see how cold you really are. Don’t ever call me again. Meow.” He switched off his phone, went into the bathroom, and showered. He took a very long, very hot shower, and he kept thinking: Go to hell. Then he lay down and tried to sleep, and it worked better than he’d expected.
Mr. Bones Whenever I get sentimental and tell people how my father used to read to me and encourage me, I realize that I’m lying. Is it a gesture of kindness toward him—like “You look marvellous!” (something he used to say), or “Pretty as a picture!” (seldom true), or “Looks good enough to eat!” (of my mother’s gristly meat loaf)? Generosity, I suppose, can often verge on the satirical. My father, apparently a simple, cheery soul, was impossible to know. In his lifetime, I found it hard to see him through his niceness, and now, ten years after his death, he seems more enigmatic than ever. There he stands, at a little distance, jingling coins in his pocket, waiting for someone to need him: a satisfied man, with the sort of good humor and obliging manner I associate with an old-fashioned servant. A smile is the hardest expression to fathom. He must have known that. In the period I am thinking of, around 1956, he lost his job. Never mind, he said, and found another one. Did he like it? “I’m tickled to death!” he said. He didn’t drink. He didn’t smoke. He never went out at night, except to church. Bowling and the movies he abandoned after becoming a father. He had few friends, no close ones, no confidants—he wasn’t the confiding type. I was eleven. With two older brothers and a younger sister, I was invisible, in the lower middle of the pack, always a few steps behind, unnoticed. And my father was the insubstantial presence he wished to be, merely a man who lived in the house. Dramatic entrance, and then silence. Dramatic departure, and then silence again. This all sounds harmonious, yet there was disorder and tension and conflict in our household. It bristled like the angular splinters in the woodwork; it pulsed in the air, a disturbance that was deep, subtle, and voiceless, the vibrant presence of low-pitched rivalries, masked by politeness, or sometimes by hostile displays of affection. The quiet household is often more turbulent than the household of the tyrant or the drunkard. One of the unspoken conflicts in our house concerned the house itself. My mother’s version of the story—the blaming version, the one she wouldn’t let him live down—was that my father, having decided that we had to move (four kids in a tiny house and a fifth on the way), was appointed house-hunter. My mother was pregnant and busy, but she was also the sort of person who provoked others to make decisions, so that if they made the wrong ones she could say, “Well, whose fault is that?” She greeted a good choice with silence, a bad one with loud reproach. Deniability was a defense she mastered long before the word was coined. Dad was like hired help: the house-hunter. Unused to spending large sums of money or to making big decisions on his own, he became more affable, more genial than I’d ever seen him. He did so out of sheer nervousness, a kind of helpless hilarity, like that of an almost ruined gambler at the blackjack table, risking everything on the turn of a card. He saw three or four houses. They were all unsuitable, though he liked them. My mother was vexed. This was our dinner-table talk. (We children were discouraged from speaking at mealtime, so we listened.) “What’s good about it?” my mother would say. “It’ll be hard to heat,” or “It’s not on a bus line,” or “That’s a bad neighborhood.” One winter night, she was in tears. Dad had seen a house that he liked. He had been told the price. In his anxiety, he had not bargained; he had not said, “My wife will have to see it,” or “We’ll think it over.” He had said, “We’ll take it!,” with a sudden flourish of cash that startled even the seller of the house, a cranky old woman in a soiled apron. At least, that was my mother’s version, and, in the oral tradition of our family, the only version that was allowed. In a matter of an hour or so, my father had seen the house and agreed to buy it. Another detail to his discredit was that he had seen it only in the dark. It was January, and he worked until five-thirty; he had driven there after work, tramped through the snow, and looked it over, and by seven the deal was done. The reason for my mother’s distress was that, in anticipation of finding the right house, Dad had been carrying five hundred dollars in small bills around with him. The papers he’d signed that night had specified a deposit of that very amount, nonrefundable. “Our whole life’s savings!” my mother cried, thumping the table. “How could you?” Obviously, he’d liked the house; he hadn’t wanted to risk losing it; he wasn’t a bargainer; and he had been pressed for time, house-hunting after work. Now the situation was: buy the house and pay the rest of the money with a mortgage or lose the deposit. “Our life’s savings—wasted!” “Life’s savings” was probably an exaggeration, but not by much; my father’s new job was menial, as a shoe salesman. He was grateful for the work, but a man selling shoes spends a great deal of time on his knees. Dad suffered, smiling sheepishly through a number of scenes at the dinner table—and at other times, too. I heard bedroom recriminations, which were rare in our household. But, in a short time, the mortgage was granted, the house was bought, and we moved—a hugely disruptive event in a family that experienced few, almost no, events that involved a substantial outlay of money. It was the only time we moved in the course of my childhood, and what made it most memorable was the fact that my mother was briefly shocked into silence. The house was large but odd-shaped—bony and tall and narrow, like a cereal box, with the narrow side to the street, the wide side a wall of windows. It seemed somehow unfinished, the kitchen not quite right, the doors either poorly fitting or missing, the varnished cabinets made of thin wood, the floors creaky and uneven. But it had four bedrooms. My brothers, Fred and Floyd, shared a room with bunk beds. “There’s room for the piano,” my father said, in a tone of hollow enthusiasm. That winter, my father never stopped smiling. His smile said, All’s well. Mother banged the kitchen cabinets to demonstrate the loose hinges, the broken latches. She tugged at the front door, exaggerating the effort it took to open it. She told everyone that she was coming down with a cold because of the drafts. She sighed loudly—all the sounds and gestures of discontent. Dad’s only response was to say, “I’ll see to that.” He was imperturbable—not so chummy as to cause offense, but deferentially amiable: “How can I help?” The kind of submissiveness you’d see in the wan demeanor of a field hand or an old retainer. Spring came. The roof began to leak; the drains erupted; the nailed-on storm windows proved hard to take down. Now that we were less confined by the weather, we could see that the house needed paint. Dad began to paint it, with a borrowed ladder and a gallon of yellow paint. A neighbor saw him and said in an outraged tone, “You’re not going to paint that house yellow!” So Dad returned the yellow and bought some cans of gray. “That’s better,” the neighbor said. My mother pointed out that he’d dripped gray paint onto the white trim. He repainted the trim. Mother said, “Now you’ve gone and dripped white paint on the shingles.” Dad smiled and repainted, never quite getting it right. Anticipating insects, he put up screens. The screens were flimsy and rusted; holes had been poked through them. The stove was unreliable, and the fuel oil in the heater gurgled and leaked from the pump, which had to be replaced by a plumber, Dad’s fellow choir member Tony Martello. Tony worked for nothing, or for very little, groaning in wordless irritation as he toiled. My father’s new job was a problem, too: long hours and low pay, while my mother was pregnant, home with small children. She was heavy and walked with a backward-leaning gait, supporting her belly with one hand, seeming to balance herself as she moved. “I lost a child two years ago,” she said, as though threatening to lose this one, too. Dad said, “It’s going to be fine.” “How would you know?” He smiled; he had no reply. As a sort of penance, he washed the dishes, calling out, “Who’s going to dry for me?,” and, because of the tension, each of us said, “I’ll do it!,” and pushed around trying to be helpful. I said that my father had no recreations, but he had one—the choir, legitimate because it was church-related. His voice was confident and rather flat, with a gravelly distinction. “He prays twice who sings to the Lord” was printed on the hymnal. My father believed that. Choir practice was more than a form of devotion, an expression of piety; it was a spiritual duty. Dad always went alone, and he always came back happy. His happiness wasn’t audible in anything he said, but his mood was improved—you could tell by his movements, his breathing, the way he listened, with a different sort of smile, a relaxed posture. April came. “The house is full of flies.” “I’ll take care of it.” He patched the screens with little glued-on squares of screen. “The faucet drips.” “Say, I’ll pick up some washers on the way home from choir.” “This is the second time I’ve mentioned it.” Dad was putting on his hat, snapping the brim, looking jaunty. “You never listen.” In fact, all he did was listen, but a certain sort of nagging repetition can deafen you. We didn’t realize then that we’d come to the end of a chapter, that we were starting a new one. After it was over, we knew Dad much better than we had before, and were more bewildered; we’d had a glimpse of what was beneath his smile. The wickedest episodes of revelation can have the most innocent beginnings. This one began with a song. Looking back, it all seems even weirder and scarier than it did at the time; I remember it with reluctance, embarrassed and ashamed. My father came home one afternoon carrying a large envelope. Trying to look casual, he got his fingers inside it and, with a self-conscious flourish, took out some pages of sheet music. The illustration on the cover showed a black man in a gleaming top hat, white gloves, mouth open in the act of singing. I could see from his features that he was a white man wearing makeup. “Say”—Dad was ruffling the pages—“could you play this, Mother?” Asking a favor always made him shy. Being asked a favor always made Mother ponderous and powerful. Oh, so now you want something, do you? she seemed to reply, with the upward tilt of her head and her triumphant smile. She looked with a kind of distaste at the sheet music, holding it with unwilling fingers, as though it were unclean—and it was rather grubby, worn at the edges, torn at the crease where it folded. It had a limp, clothlike look, as though it had been propped on many music stands. After a while, Mother took herself and her big belly to the piano. She spun the stool to the right height and, balancing herself on it, reached over her pregnancy as though across a counter. Frowning at the music, she banged out some notes. I could tell from her playing that she was angry. Dad leaned in with his bifocals. Mandy, there’s a minister handy And it sure would be dandy . . . He gagged a little, cleared his throat, and began again, in the wrong key. He could not read music, but he could carry a tune if he heard it enough. In this first effort, he struggled to find the melody. “You’re not listening,” Mother said. “Just trying to—” he said, and clawed at the song sheet instead of finishing the sentence. He started to sing again, but too fast, and Mother pounded the keys and tramped on the pedals, as though she were at the wheel of some sort of vehicle, a big wooden bus that she was driving down a steep hill with her feet and hands. Mandy, there’s a minister handy . . . Hearing the blundering repetitions of someone learning something from scratch was unbearable to me. Probably out of exasperation, I knew the song before they did. I was in a fury for it to be over. I left the room, but even two rooms away I heard: So don’t you linger, Here’s the ring for your finger. Against my will I listened until the song was in my head, not as it was meant to be sung but in Dad’s halting rendition. Later, over dinner, in reply to a question I didn’t hear, Dad said, “Fella gave it to me—loaned it. I’ll have to give it back afterward.” “Who loaned it?” “Joe Buffalino.” “Why?” “Tony Martello loaned it to him.” “What’s it for?” “Minstrel show.” Mother made a face. As though to avoid further questions, Dad filled his mouth with food and went on eating, with the faraway, thoughtful look he assumed when he didn’t want to be questioned. Then, out of the side of his mouth, he said, “Pass the mouse turd, sonny.” We stared at him. He was chewing. “Tell you a great meal,” he said. “Lettuce. Turnip. And pea.” He winked. We had no idea what he was talking about. The words “minstrel show,” he seemed to feel, explained everything—and perhaps they did, though not to me. Words I had never heard before had a significance for him, and a private satisfaction. Mouse turd? After that, he practiced “Mandy” every night, singing with more confidence and tunefulness, as Mother played and thumped her pedalling feet. Within a week, he grew hoarse, and from the next room it was as though another man were singing—not Dad but a growly stranger. Around this time, Dad revealed his new name. This was at the dinner table, Mother at one end, Dad at the other, Fred, Floyd, Rose, and me in between. “Fella says to me, ‘Wasn’t that song just beautiful? Didn’t it touch you, Mr. Bones?’ I says, ‘No, but the fella that sang it touched me, and he still owes me five bucks.’ ” “Who’s Mr. Bones?” I asked. “Yours truly.” “No, it’s not,” Fred said. “Only one thing in the world keeps you from being a barefaced liar,” he said to Fred. We were shocked at his suddenness. “Your mustache,” Dad said, and wagged his head and chuckled. “I don’t have a mustache,” Fred said. Mother got flustered when she heard anyone telling a joke. She said, “Don’t be stupid.” “You think I’m stupid?” Dad said eagerly. “You should see my brother. He walks like this.” He got up from the table and bent over and hopped forward. He did have a brother—that was the confusing part. “You’re so pretty and you’re so intelligent,” he said, striking a pose with Mother, using that new snappy voice. “I wish I could say the same for you,” she said. Dad laughed, a kind of cackle, as though it were just what he’d wanted to hear. He said, “You could, if you told as big a lie as I just did.” He nudged me and added, “She was too ugly to have her face lifted. They lowered her body instead.” With that, he skipped out of the room, his hands in the air, and I thought for a moment that Mother was going to cry. He had become a different man, and it had happened quickly, just like that, calling himself Mr. Bones and teasing us, teasing Mother. She was confused and upset. Once he mastered the song, he kept humming it, and his jokes, not really jokes, were more like taunts. “Maybe it’s his new job,” Fred said in the bedroom, after lights-out. “It’s this house,” Floyd said. “Ma hates it. It’s Dad’s fault. He’s just being silly.” “What’s a minstrel show?” I asked. No one answered. Mother, trying to be friendly, asked Dad about his job a few days later. “They said I’d be a connoisseur, but I’m just a common sewer.” There was that gesture with the hands—waggling his fingers. “Said I’d be a pretty good physician, but I said, ‘I’m not good at fishin’.’ Or a doctor of some standing. I says, ‘No, I’m sitting—in the shoe department.’ ” Mother said coldly, “We need new linoleum in the upstairs bathroom.” “And you need new clothes, because your clothes are like the two French cities: Toulouse and Toulon.” “Don’t be a jackass.” “Mr. Jackass to you.” “I wish Joe Buffalino hadn’t given you that music.” “Lightning said I needed it. Tambo gave it to him. Play it for me again. I need a good physic.” Mother began to clear the table. “I love work,” Dad said. “I could watch it all day.” Mother went to the sink and turned on the water. She kept her back to us, but I associated the water running into the dishpan with her tears. Mr. Bones was at his friskiest in the evening. He had swagger and assurance, and if we tried to get his attention or asked him a question he began to sing “Mandy.” He had somehow learned two other songs as well: “Ma Blushin’ Rosie” and “Rock-a-Bye Your Baby with a Dixie Melody,” Lightning’s song and Tambo’s, so he said. I was used to my father singing, but not these songs; used to his good humor, but there was anger in these jokes. And he, who never went out at night except to Benediction or choir practice, was now out most nights. He stopped asking Mother to play the piano for him; he would simply break into a song, drawling it out of the side of his mouth. When you croon, Croon a tune From the heart of Dixie. He didn’t look any different—he dressed the same, in a gray suit and a white shirt and a blue tie and the topcoat he disparaged as “too dressy.” One day, one of his sleeves was limp. He flapped it at Mother as though his arm were missing and said, “I know what you’re thinking—World War Two.” Then he shot the arm out of the sleeve and said, “Nope. Filene’s Basement. Bad fit!” The variation that night—and for nights to come—was the tambourine he had acquired. When he made a joke or a quip, he shook it and rapped it on his knee and elbow and shook it again. Shika-shika-shika. “R.S.V.P.,” he said, holding up a piece of mail. “Remember Send Vedding Present,” and he jingled the tambourine. One day after school, I went to the store where he worked. Instead of walking in, I kept my head down and crept to the side window to get a glimpse of Dad. He was sitting in one of the chairs in the shoe department, his chin in his hand, looking not like Mr. Bones but sad and silent, like a man trying to remember something. The other clerks had gathered at the back of the store and were laughing, but not Dad. Were they ignoring him? He paid no attention. He was reading—unusual, a shoe clerk reading. I didn’t know this man, either. I began to be glad that he was out most nights. At the house we’d moved from, he had spent every evening in his chair in the corner, dressed in flannel pajamas and a fuzzy bathrobe, reading the Globe. Now he sometimes didn’t even come home for supper, and if he did it was “Pass the mouse turd,” or, holding the pepper shaker, “This is how I feel, like pulverized pepper—fine!” “The oil burner’s back on the fritz,” Mother said. Any mention of a problem with the house these days made Dad smile his Mr. Bones smile and roll his eyes. “Heard about the King of England? He’s got a royal burner.” “We’ll have to get Tony to look at it.” “Tambo is a busy man, yes, he is. Says to me, ‘What is the quickest way to the emergency ward?’ I says, ‘Tambo, just you stand in the middle of the road.’ ” Mother did not react, except to say, “It’s giving off a funny smell.” “Giving off a funny smell!” Dad said, and put one finger in the air—what I now recognized as a Mr. Bones gesture. He was about to say something and wanted attention. “Mr. Interlocutor, what is the difference between an elephant passing wind and a place where you might go for a drink?” “I don’t think you understand,” Mother said, in a strained voice. “This house hasn’t been right since the day we moved in. First it was the roof, then the paint, then the plumbing. Now it’s the heat. We’re not going to have any hot water. Everything’s wrong.” Dad thought a moment, then looked around the table and said, “Mr. Interlocutor, the difference between an elephant passing wind and the place where you might go for a drink is: one is a barroom and the other is a barroom! ” He said it so loud we jumped. He didn’t laugh. He drew his chair next to Mother and sang: Rosie, you are my posey, You are my heart’s bouquet. Come out here in the moonlight, There’s something, sweet love, I wanna say. Mother looked awkward and sad. He snatched a bowl from the table. “Why is my thumb in your soup, Madam?” he asked. “To keep it warm, Madam.” In a way, by clowning, Dad took her mind off the problems of the house. But she could not get his attention. And who was he, anyway? He wouldn’t refer to Tony Martello as anything but Tambo, and Joe Buffalino was always Lightning. They had never been close friends before. “Morrie Daigle said he’d help you fix the roof.” “Mr. Interlocutor is too hot to do that. He is so hot he will only read fan mail.” That was how we found out who Mr. Interlocutor was. “Have you lost your wallet?” Dad said to Floyd. “No,” Floyd said, and clapped his hand to his pocket. “Good. Then give me the five dollars you owe me.” Floyd made a face, looked helpless, thrashed a little. It was true that Dad had given him five dollars, but he had not brought it up before. Dad said, “Hear about the Indian who had a red ant?” I didn’t understand that one at all. I pictured an Indian with an insect. It made no sense. There was something abrupt and deflecting in his humor. Whenever he made a joke, he seemed to expand, pushing the house and his job aside. Mother appeared to be afraid of him now. Before, she had always made a remark, or nagged, or blamed. These days, she just became very quiet and watched him. Floyd was on the basketball team, Fred played hockey, so they were out most evenings—at practice, they said. I knew it was just an excuse to stay away from home and Mr. Bones. Rose was a little kid of seven, and she actually found him funny, and let him tickle her. But I had nowhere to go. Mr. Bones was a stranger to me, and for the first time, lying in bed at night, I began to think, Who are you? What do you want? The light went on and I had the answer. Most of the lights in our house were bare bulbs with no shades, hanging on frayed black cords from the ceiling—another source of Mother’s complaints—and the brightness of the one dangling in my bedroom only made things worse. Emerging from sleep, I was half-blinded. Yet I could see enough to be terrified. A disfigured villain from a horror comic was bending over my bed—only after a few minutes did I realize that it was Dad—his whole face a sticky black, a white oval outline around his lips. He wore a wig like a big woolly hat, a red floppy bow tie, a yellow speckled vest, and a black coat, and he was emphatically gesturing with white-gloved hands. He was smiling under the blackness that shone on his face, and he leaned over me and seemed to shriek. “Give us a kiss, sonny boy!” Then he laughed and stood up and waved his gloved hands again and jerked the light chain, bringing down darkness. His voice had matched his face. He was so black that I assumed he was still in my bedroom, standing there invisible in his floppy tie: Mr. Bones. I had not heard the door close. I said into the menacing gloom, “Dad—are you there?” No answer. I said again, “Dad?,” and, in a trembly voice, “Mr. Bones?” In the morning, the room was empty. When I went down for breakfast, he was eating oatmeal as usual. He had a decorous way of holding his spoon. I looked closely at him and saw some streaks of black makeup caked in the creases of his neck. I sprinkled raisins on my oatmeal. “Pass me the dead flies, sonny,” he said in his Mr. Bones voice. By then, his remarks usually silenced the room. We all felt the effect of his angry humor. Floyd and Fred pretended to find it funny and occasionally they teased back. When Dad made his “Toulouse and Toulon” joke, Floyd said, “Well, you’re like a town in Massachusetts—Marblehead.” Instead of being insulted, Dad smiled and said, “I like that.” He began to come home every night in blackface. Hearing his jokes again and again, I at last understood the one about the Indian and the red ant—red aunt was the point of it, though we never pronounced the word that way. We were afraid to ask him about his job these days. If Mother mentioned the house—the drips to be fixed, the oil burner to be mended, the linoleum to be laid—I didn’t hear it. In response to almost any question, he began singing. A million baby kisses I’ll deliver, If you will only sing that “Swanee River.” The rhythm was there, a confident drawl, yet his voice was strained from overuse, gargly and cross, as though he were in pain. The weeks of rehearsals had taken away his real voice and given him this new one. He lifted his knees and did dance steps as he sang, and he raised his white gloves. It seemed so wrong. I was always glancing at the door, embarrassed and scared that someone—a neighbor, the Fuller Brush man, Grandpa—might come in and see him swaying and singing, with that black face and that wig. He had another song, too: When life seems full of clouds and rain And I am full of nothin’ but pain, Who soothes my thumpin’ bumpin’ brain? He would always pause after that, then bend over and stick out his head and say, “Nobody!” When all day long things go amiss, And I go home to find some bliss, Who hands to me a glowin’ kiss? Nobody! The next time I sneaked up to the window of the store after school and looked in, I saw him sitting where he’d sat before, in the chairs reserved for customers, reading. He was not in blackface, yet his assurance, his posture, the way he sat, like the owner of the store, made him seem more than ever like Mr. Bones. He looked thoughtful, his fist against his mouth, a knuckle against his nose. The other clerks seemed to avoid him, talking among themselves. Louie Buffalino said, “You going to the minstrel show?” “I don’t know,” I said. “Are you?” “My old man’s in it. So’s yours.” “I don’t even know what it’s supposed to be.” “It’s a pisser. Just a bunch of old guys singing, like a talent show,” Louie said. This big event was just a talent show to Louie; and his white-haired father, who worked on the M.T.A. buses, was just an old guy singing. Yet in our house Mr. Bones had intimidated everyone. He was now someone to fear, saying the things that he normally avoided saying. In his minstrel-show costume, he could be as reckless as he wanted. It was true that Fred told fibs and didn’t want to go to college; true that Floyd owed Dad money and hated trumpet lessons. And it was easy to see that Mother’s nagging was what caused him to tease her and change the subject. His jokes were more than jokes; they were ways of telling us the truth. The yellow mustard in big quart jars that we stocked was cheap and tasteless; “mouse turd” was a good name for it. The stale raisins that Mother bought cheap in the dented-package aisle were like dead flies. But it was so odd, hearing these things from his white-outlined mouth, to the accompaniment of his tambourine. “Dad,” we said, pleading. “Dad done gone. ‘That was prior to his decease, Mr. Bones.’ I says, ‘He had no niece.’ ” Shika-shika-shika, went the tambourine. He was happy, defiantly happy, powerfully happy, talking to us, teasing us in ways I’d never heard before. He had once been remote, with a kindly smile that made him hard to approach; now he was up close and laughing at us and he wouldn’t go away. It was as though he’d been turned inside out, and the true Dad was showing. Swanking in the role of a cartoon slave, he’d become a frightening master to us. Something else I discovered one day, because I kept going to the store to spy on him, was that instead of sitting silently alone in the shoe department he now had company: Tony Martello, Joe Buffalino, Morrie Daigle, and two men I’d never seen before, all of them with their heads together, sitting in the customers’ chairs, whispering, as though they were cooking something up. So odd to see this in a store where everyone else was either working or shopping or being loudly busy. That was his secret—mine, too. These men were like conspirators, with a single plan in their minds, and the sight of them impressed me, because Dad was clearly in charge. I could see it in his posture, as he sat upright, wagging his finger at them like a conductor with a baton, giving directions, issuing energetic commands. Mr. Bones was their leader. That same night, he came home after dinner, in his blackface and floppy tie and wig, and said, “Listen to Mr. Bones.” Fred was fiddling with the radio. Mother was at the sink with Floyd. I was looking at a comic book. “I says, listen to Mr. Bones!” He spoke so loud we jumped, and, as we did, he banged and clicked his tambourine. He was like a drunk you couldn’t talk back to, yet he hadn’t had a drink. I ain’t never done nothin’ to nobody, I ain’t never got nothin’ from nobody, no time, And until I get somethin’ from somebody sometime, I’ll never do nothin’ for nobody no time! He searched our faces, shaking his head, and moaned, “Nobody, no time!” Was it a song? Was it a poem? Was it a speech? It was too furious to be entertainment. Even though it was painful to hear, it was being spoken by a man who had our full attention. We had to listen; we couldn’t look away. That proved that he was the opposite of the poor soul he was describing—he was stronger than we were, though I recognized the “nobody” he spoke of: it wasn’t Mr. Bones; it was Dad. After that, he went over to Fred and said, “What are you going to do for Mr. Bones?” “College,” Fred said, blinking fiercely. “Know the difference between a college professor and a railway conductor?” “No.” “No what?” “No, Mr. Bones.” “One trains minds and the other minds trains. Which one do you want to be?” “College professor, Mr. Bones.” Mr. Bones turned to Floyd. “What are you going to do for Mr. Bones?” “Trumpet lessons, Mr. Bones.” “You always were good at blowing your own trumpet. Ha!” Then he had me by the chin and was lifting it, as Dad had never done. “Who was that lady you saw me with last night?” With his white-gloved hand gripping my chin, I couldn’t speak. “That was no lady. That was my wife!” Mother muttered as he shook his tambourine. “You’ll need some Karo syrup for that throat,” she said, and handed him a bottle and a spoon. He took a swig straight from the bottle, then said to Fred, “Here, want to keep this bottle up your end?” I didn’t know it was a joke until he lowered his shoulders and shook his tambourine. I dreaded the show, which was just a week away, and when the day came I said, “I don’t want to go. I’ve got a wicked bad stomach ache.” “Everyone’s going,” Mother said, with a kind of nervous insistence that I recognized: if I defied her, she might start screaming. It was a wet Saturday night in May. We went together to the high-school auditorium in our old car, Mother driving. I could tell she was upset from the way she drove, riding the brake, stamping on the clutch the way she stamped on the piano pedals. Dad had gone separately. “Tambo’s stopping by for me,” he’d said. I hurried into the auditorium, and slid down in my seat so that no one would see me. When the music began and the curtain went up, I covered my face and peered through my fingers. Dad—Mr. Bones—and the other men were sitting onstage, their chairs in a semicircle. Mr. Bones looked confident and happy; he was dressed like a clown, in his shiny vest and big bow tie, but he looked powerful. All of them were in blackface, except Morrie Daigle, in the center, who wore a white suit and a white top hat. “Mr. Bones, wasn’t that music just beautiful? Didn’t it touch you?” Morrie said. I pressed my fingers to my ears, and closed my eyes and groaned, so that I wouldn’t hear the rest. I wanted to disappear. I was so slumped in my seat that my head wasn’t even showing, but although I kept my hands to my ears I heard familiar phrases—doctor of good standing and that was prior to his decease. The songs I knew by heart penetrated me as I sat there trying to deafen myself. Mr. Bones sang “Mandy.” “Rosie,” “Rock-a-Bye Your Baby,” and “Nobody” were sung by others. You should see my brother, he walks like this, I heard, and knew it was Mr. Bones. I heard barefaced liar. Even so, I kept my eyes shut, my palms against my ears. There was much more, skits and songs. People laughing, people clapping, the loud music, the shouts. It was silly and embarrassing, yet the same jokes and songs had intimidated us at home, and Mr. Bones had been different at home, too, not this ridiculous man clowning, far away on the stage, but someone else, someone I didn’t want to think of as Dad, making fools of us and getting us to agree with him and make decisions. That was who he was—Dad as Mr. Bones. At the end of the show, while the men were still taking bows onstage, I said, “I have to go to the bathroom,” and ran out and hid in the car. Back home, afterward, no one said anything about the show. Dad was in his regular clothes, with the faint greasy streaks of black on his neck and behind his ears. He was excited, breathless, but he didn’t speak. The strange episode was over. Later, I got anxious whenever he hummed “Mandy” or “Rosie” while shaving in the kitchen, but he didn’t make any more jokes; he didn’t tease or taunt us anymore. Watching him through the side window of the store, I saw him standing near the cash register, smiling at the front door, as though to welcome a customer. The following year, there was talk of another minstrel show, but nothing happened. We had a TV set by then, and the news was of trouble in Little Rock, school integration, black children protected by National Guardsmen, and white crowds shouting abuse at the frightened students who were being liberated. Our bald-headed President made a speech on TV. Dad watched with us, saying nothing, perhaps thinking about how Mr. Bones had been liberated, too, or banished. It was not what Dad had expected. The expression on his face was vacant, stunned with sorrow, but before long he was smiling.
Luda and Milena Milena had large blue eyes, an elegant nose, and olive skin covered with a graceful network of fine wrinkles. “Her face is a battlefield for anti-aging creams,” Luda said of Milena, adding that she wouldn’t want youth that came from bottles and jars. Once, Luda brought old photographs of herself to class to show Milena that she, too, had been a real beauty. The photographs revealed an attractive woman with a sturdy hourglass figure, imposing dense brows, and very dark eyes. Some people saw a striking resemblance to the young Elizabeth Taylor, but Milena didn’t. Milena said that the young Luda looked like Saddam Hussein with bigger hair and a thinner mustache. The two women met on the first day of a free E.S.L. class held in one of the musty back rooms of Brooklyn College. Luda was late. She had been babysitting her two grandchildren, and her son-in-law had failed to come home on time. Angry and flustered, Luda had had to run all the way to the college, pushing through the rush-hour subway crowd, cutting through the meat market on Nostrand Avenue, and having the following exchange with a large woman in a pink jacket: WOMAN: “Watch it, asshole!” LUDA: “No, it is you asshole!” By the time Luda opened the classroom door, the students had already started their introductions. “My wife and I love America. We want to show it our respect by learning to speak its language,” a short man with a shiny nose and shinier forehead was telling the class. A young woman across the room nodded enthusiastically as he spoke. Luda guessed that she was the teacher. “Angela Waters—Angie—endji” was written on the board. Luda headed for the only empty seat, against the wall, squeezing her large body between the flimsy chairs that sagged under the weight of the E.S.L. students. “I’m sorry. Excuse me,” she said when she brushed against somebody with the stretched-out flaps of her cardigan. “I apologize,” she whispered to a thin, well-dressed older woman in the next seat as she sat down. “Don’t worry,” the woman whispered back in Russian. “Actually, I was afraid that some country bumpkin would sit next to me.” Luda was about to answer with a sympathetic smile, but the smile died in midair. Had the woman just expressed relief or confirmation of her fears? She couldn’t possibly have taken her for a country bumpkin, could she? You old bitch! Luda thought, just in case. “Ludmila Benina, Luda, seventy-two years old, been in the U.S. for four years,” she introduced herself, in rough but confident English, when Angie pointed at her with her chin. “I came to this class to improve my grammar and communication skills. I am a widow, I have a daughter and two grandchildren. I used to be a professor of economics in Moscow. I have written three college textbooks. One of my articles was translated into Hindi and appeared in a magazine in India. I used to participate in conferences all over the Soviet Union, and once in Bulgaria.” She threw a sideways glance at her seatmate, checking to see if she was impressed. If she was, her expression didn’t betray it. “Milena from St. Petersburg,” she said when her turn came. Nothing else. Luda felt stupid. She wished she hadn’t brought up the conferences. It would have been enough just to tell about her professorship and her books. She could have mentioned the conferences later, in future classes, in a casual way. Her unease lasted through the introductions of two elderly Russian couples, two elderly Chinese couples, three middle-aged Dominican couples, one handsome young Haitian man, one very tall, very old, and very loud Haitian woman with a funny name—Oolna—and one dark-skinned woman who spoke so fast and with such a heavy accent that nobody could understand what she said or where she came from. Then a man sitting in the back stood up and cleared his throat. “Aron Skolnik, seventy-nine. I used to live in Brooklyn with my wife. She died four years ago. Now I live in Brooklyn alone.” Luda raised her eyes and peered at Aron. The expression on his face was strange, uncertain, as if he weren’t sure whether living alone was a bad or a good thing, as if he both welcomed the solitude and found it stifling. Luda had a sudden urge to reach over and touch the thin wisp of hair that stuck to his forehead. Milena glanced at Aron, straightened her shoulders, removed her Versace sunglasses, shook out her hair, and positioned the glasses on top of her head. Luda snorted and thought, Look at the old slut! That night, as she lay in bed on her rock-hard mattress, Luda continued to think about Milena. There had been a moment, after Luda took off her cardigan and hung it over her chair, when Milena actually sniffed the air and moved farther away in her seat. It was true that Luda hadn’t bathed in a while, but this was not because she was lazy or disliked cleanliness; it was simply because she disliked being cold. After being submerged in a bath that was warmer than the air, she found getting out unbearable. Freezing. Freezing. Shivering. Groping for a towel. Shaking. For some reason, the cold always filled her with panic. If only there were a way not to freeze afterward, she wouldn’t mind taking a bath. Really. If, for example, there were somebody waiting for her with a large, thick towel held out in his arms. She had a fleeting image of Aron standing in her bathroom, wearing silly shorts. The image was both touching and ridiculous. Luda groaned as she turned onto her side. “It’s a Sealy Posturepedic mattress, Mother, very expensive,” Luda’s daughter had said. She had given it to Luda after her husband had tried it and hated it. Luda’s apartment was almost entirely furnished by her daughter. There was a rickety kitchen table that Luda’s daughter had used when she first came to America. There was a flowery sofa that Luda’s daughter’s friends had found too tacky. There was a black bookcase that had appeared in Luda’s apartment after her daughter bought a set of light-brown shelves. Only one thing was Luda’s own acquisition—a leather armchair with scratched legs and a big slash across the back. Luda had found it next to a pile of garbage about six blocks from her home. She had called a taxi and paid the driver five dollars for delivery and another five for dragging the thing upstairs. By the time he got it to her apartment, Luda was feeling happy and generous, so she added two more dollars and half of an Entenmann’s apple pie. The armchair had been Luda’s prized possession ever since. She especially enjoyed the low groan it made when she sat down. This was the groan of somebody who was profoundly annoyed with Luda but still loved her very much. Milena’s apartment was barely furnished at all. She slept on a narrow sofa that she had bought from her brother for sixty dollars. Her TV stood on the floor, and her VCR sat right on top of it, which caused the VCR to overheat, as Milena’s brother repeatedly pointed out. He’d sold her his VCR after buying a DVD player for himself, and he felt it was his duty to insure that the VCR was used correctly. Milena ignored his warnings, just as she ignored his offer to sell her a large chest of drawers. Her favorite pieces of furniture were her chairs. She had nine of them, all different, all bought at one garage sale or another, the prices ranging from eight dollars to fifty cents (that one didn’t have a seat). She used her chairs as stands for large photographs and posters, as shelves for vases, and sometimes as hangers for dresses, because the sight of good clothes never failed to cheer her up. One chair served as a nightstand. It was a wooden chair with a square seat, the perfect size and shape to hold a couple of books and the large shoebox where she kept her pills, some squeezed-out tubes of expensive anti-wrinkle cream, some smaller photographs, and a pencil sketch of the man who had been her lover for more than twenty years—which included several breakups, other lovers, his never-ending marriage to another woman, and her short-lived marriage to another man. Milena opened the shoebox and started looking for her sleeping pills. She wondered if Luda really had been as famous and successful as she claimed. So many people lied. That old Haitian hag had claimed to own a chain of expensive boutiques. A chain! Or that pathetic little man who claimed that he used to be the most famous psychiatrist in Minsk—“You won’t believe the bribes they were willing to pay just to get an appointment with me.” But Milena didn’t really blame them for lying. In fact, when the teacher asked them to introduce themselves, Milena, too, had been tempted to lie. The other students’ introductions had made her whole life seem like a risible string of “none”s, ”never”s, “no”s, and “so-so”s. She didn’t have a husband. She didn’t have children. She’d graduated from a mediocre college. She’d worked at the same boring job for thirty years. Once, she had been offered a very promising position in Moscow, but she hadn’t been able to leave St. Petersburg, because her lover was in St. Petersburg, and, besides, Moscow was known for being populated by pushy, conceited, obnoxious people. Just look at Luda, with her conferences in Bulgaria! Then Milena remembered that she had lied in class after all. Her documents stated that her first name was Ludmila. It was her lover who had started calling her Milena, claiming that her real name didn’t suit her. Luda and Mila, the usual diminutives of Ludmila, were too common for her, he’d said. Milena sounded just right. An exotic name, light, nimble, and unique. She had enjoyed that name. She had enjoyed being a small, elegant, irritating puzzle. Now she was too tired to enjoy it. Now she wished she could slump in somebody’s arms, and be easy and reachable, and be stroked on the head with tenderness and pity. “The International Feast,” Angie wrote on the whiteboard the next day. “We’re going to start this Friday, and then we’ll have it every week.” She had a large blue marker stain on her cheek, but it didn’t prevent her from looking enthusiastic. “We’ll create a wonderful informal atmosphere, so that you can all improve your conversational skills and get acquainted with your diverse cultures. You don’t have to bring expensive or complicated dishes. Something simple, typical of your country.” Luda wrote it down: “Fri, feast. Bring Rus. food. Diversity. Culture. Simple.” She looked over Milena’s shoulder and saw that Milena had put a fat red star over Friday in her calendar. Of course, Luda thought. An International Feast, with its food, culture, and informal atmosphere, would be a perfect opportunity to get a man to notice you, and Milena knew this as well as Luda. That Friday, the students pushed some of the desks against the wall to create an open space, and put their foil, plastic, and paper containers on the teacher’s desk, in the center. The diverse cultures were represented by fried plantains, duck gizzards, pastelitos, tostones, corn fritters, shrimp spring rolls, two kinds of Russian potato salad, a package of hard ring-shaped Russian pretzels, and an extra-value meal from McDonald’s, brought by the couple who wanted to show their respect for the United States by learning its language. “Our country is America now—we eat American food,” the man explained with a proud expression. But Angie wouldn’t allow her students to eat yet. “Mingle, guys, mingle, you have to mingle first,” she kept saying. So they all crowded around the desk, sipping soda from plastic cups and trying to make conversation. Luda studied the room, trying to think of a way to approach Aron. She was wearing a bright scarf, stolen the day before from her daughter’s drawer, and dark lipstick that she had found at the bottom of the same drawer. “Wipe it off, Grandma,” her six-year-old granddaughter had said. “You look stupid.” Now she was afraid that her granddaughter had been right. Luda couldn’t figure out how to mingle. The Chinese wouldn’t mingle with anybody but the Chinese, the Dominicans clearly preferred other Dominicans, and the two Russian couples stuck together, with the wives expressing visible displeasure whenever Luda tried to approach them. She had experienced this kind of displeasure before. Her very presence seemed to irk married women of her age, not because they saw her as a threat but, rather, because her widowhood and loneliness reminded them that they could end up like her. They looked at Luda with wary squeamishness, as if she were a mangy dog. Oolna was the only person who didn’t mind talking to Luda, but she was too old, and Luda didn’t want to appear old by association. As for Aron, he clearly preferred the company of Jean-Baptiste, the handsome young Haitian, perhaps finding kinship in the fact that they were the only two single guys in the class. “So tell me, Jean-Baptiste, do they try to fix you up?” Aron asked. “They try to fix me up a lot. But I don’t know, I don’t know. You know what they say: Marry a dancer when you’re in your twenties, a masseuse when you’re in your forties, and a nurse when you’re in your sixties. But what about me, my friend? I’m seventy-nine.” Luda sighed. There was no way she could break into this conversation. Milena wasn’t mingling, either. She had flitted in like a summer breeze, put a package of square Russian biscuits on the table, and sat down on the edge of one of the desks, not looking at anybody, her legs crossed. Summer breeze with creaking joints, Luda thought, but she was worried. One passing glance from Milena told her that she did look stupid in her scarf and her lipstick. Luda knew that look very well. Mocking, condescending, pitying. She had seen it all too often on the faces of her husband’s countless secretaries, all attractive single women. Milena smoothed the folds of her skirt and looked out the window. She thought she’d just sit and wait until Aron noticed her. “Impress and ignore” had been her strategy for years, but she wasn’t sure if it still worked. It had been a while since she’d had the ability to turn heads, and sometimes she thought that the saddest thing about this was that she couldn’t say exactly when it had gone. Men had looked at her, and now they didn’t. Something had been there, and now it wasn’t; it was as if a part of her had died and she hadn’t even noticed. Still, she couldn’t think of any other strategy. She knew that trying to approach other couples was pointless—married women of her age looked at her as if she were a disease. Their warning stares reminded her of the expression on the face of her lover’s wife in the photograph he kept on his desk. Every time Milena had seen it, she’d felt that the wife was staring directly at her. Luda looked a little like that wife. The same heavy features, the same stupid scarf. Respectable, boring, the very picture of righteousness. Oh, really? Luda thought, having caught Milena’s stare. Respectable? Boring? For your information, I have had lovers, too. “Lovers” was stretching it a bit, but Luda had had one encounter, with a colleague, on the last night of the three-day conference in Bulgaria. The man’s name was Stoyan. He was solid and dark, with jet-black hair spurting above his collarbone. He had offered to see her to her hotel, and on the way, as they discussed the problems of the advanced socialist economic system, Luda couldn’t help but marvel at the similarity of his name to the Russian word for erection. Later, in bed, he asked her to call out his name, but she wouldn’t—she was too bashful. I’m not as innocent as you think, Luda thought, defiantly fixing her scarf. Let’s just see, let’s just see. But then Angie announced that it was time to eat, and the students ditched their conversation partners and rushed toward the food. Plastic tops were removed, foil peeled off, paper containers unclasped, and the room filled with a happy clatter, the air with culturally diverse aromas: curry, ginger, garlic, basil. The spring rolls were the first to go. One moment there was a whole plateful of them, and the next there was nothing but oily stains on the students’ fingers and a wonderful shrimp-and-scallion aftertaste in their mouths. The tostones and pastelitos followed. The Dominicans and the Russians were a little skeptical about duck gizzards but soon learned to appreciate them. Nobody was particularly enthusiastic about the two varieties of potato salad, so the two Russian couples who had brought them ate each other’s offering. The extra-value-meal couple ate their extra-value meal. By the end of the feast, there were only two items left: the hard round pretzels and the hard square biscuits. Angie ate one of each and politely pronounced them authentic and interesting, but nobody appeared to share her interest. Both Luda and Milena realized that they had made a mistake. As soon as they saw how Aron’s face changed when the food was uncovered, they knew that they should have brought something more exciting. At first, his expression was hopeful but uncertain, as if he were a child who spied a longed-for toy but wasn’t sure if it was meant for him. As he filled his plate, the cautious grin disappeared into the deep furrows of a beaming smile. He chewed slowly, with his eyes closed, making sounds similar to the drone of a happy electric appliance. His cheeks became flushed and tiny beads of sweat gathered on the bridge of his nose. “Who made this? This is divine!” he would exclaim from time to time. He finished the last spring roll, crinkled his nose, and laughed. He looked radiant, he looked twenty years younger, he looked—Luda couldn’t think of the word right away, then it hit her—he looked inspired. You couldn’t help but smile, watching Aron eat. And so Luda smiled. And Milena smiled, too. Luda and Milena had, of course, heard that the way to a man’s heart was through his stomach, but they had never believed it. Aron Skolnik convinced them. The problem was that neither Luda nor Milena liked to cook. Milena had a particularly tortured relationship with food. For years and years, her life had been structured around her lover’s visits. He’d come to her place after work, twice a week, and spend about an hour with her. “No, no,” he would say when she offered him food. “Let’s not waste time. Anyway, my wife is waiting for me with dinner.” Milena attempted to cook for herself at times, out of defiance. She’d mix the ingredients in a bowl, telling herself that she didn’t care, that she could cook and enjoy a good meal by herself. “I don’t care, I don’t care,” she would say as she scooped the contents of the bowl into the garbage pail. And Luda—Luda had always been too busy working. Moreover, for most of her married life she had lived with her mother-in-law, who cooked a lot and enjoyed it, especially if she came up with a dish that Luda couldn’t stand. Once Luda figured this out, she learned to fake her culinary preferences. To confuse her mother-in-law, she would feign great enthusiasm for food that she hated (“Zucchini pancakes!”), asking for seconds, and appear indifferent to things that she really liked. She mastered the art of faking so well that by the time her mother-in-law died, and she could finally start eating according to her real preferences, she found that she no longer had preferences. Her sense of taste had been ruined; her interest in food was gone. But that didn’t mean that she couldn’t learn how to cook, Luda thought, the Thursday before the second feast, while flipping through the TV channels at home. Learning how to cook was a challenge, and she was used to meeting challenges head on. The first three shows she watched on the Food Network were a complete waste of time. Luda couldn’t have cared less about the chili cook-off, nor did she need information on candymaking. On the third show, the host explained how to make tiramisu, which might have been helpful were it not for the host’s cleavage—so prominent that Luda couldn’t concentrate on the movements of her hands. The fourth show, however, was better. The host was making a Greek feta-and-spinach pie, and she seemed to know what she was doing. Plus, her cleavage, if she had any, was well hidden under her chef’s jacket. Luda opened a notebook and wrote down the instructions. The pie worked! Luda herself was surprised at how well it came out. She’d had some doubts as she was spreading the filling over the dough. To make the pie seem authentically Russian, she had substituted cabbage for spinach and boiled eggs for feta cheese, and she had got rid of the pine nuts altogether. She’d had a moment’s worry about those stupid pine nuts—perhaps they were the key ingredient after all. But when Luda took the pie out of the oven—not as perfect as on TV, far from perfect, but warm and gleaming and fragrant—all her doubts disappeared. She closed her eyes and imagined Aron’s smile, and then—and this was the most delicious image—the stunned and furious expression on Milena’s face. Aron actually moaned when he tried the first piece. When he finished a second piece, he took a napkin, wiped his lips, and looked at Luda. Looked at her and saw her. It had been such a long time since a man had seen her. “So good. I could eat it every day and not get tired of it,” he said. But even this didn’t give her as big a thrill as the lost expression on Milena’s face. Poor Milena, Luda thought. Poor Milena, who had worn a low-cut blouse and brought store-bought eggplant caviar and to whom Aron had said, “Did you buy it at the International on Fifth and Brighton? They make a much better one at the Taste of Europe in Bensonhurst.” Poor, poor Milena. I wonder what the fat pig will make today, Milena thought as she entered her bathroom the next Friday morning with a steaming mug of coffee and a pack of cigarettes, and a book tucked under her arm. She sat down on the toilet, put her coffee and the book on top of the laundry hamper, and lit a cigarette. People like Luda resembled battering rams—they pummelled and pummelled, patiently, without taking a break, for as long as it took them to get what they wanted. Milena’s lover’s wife had been the same way, and she had got her prize in the end. She had kept her husband, who had finally become a really good husband, now that he was too old, too worn out, too scared, and too beaten down to cheat. And Milena, stupid, proud Milena, who had always thought that it was beneath her to fight for a man, what did she have? Nothing. She had wound up with nothing. Just look at her now, old and alone, sitting on a toilet with a coffee mug and a cigarette! Well, she wouldn’t be above fighting for a man this time. She took a sip of coffee and started leafing through her book, an old cookbook, with thin yellowed pages and elaborate drawings, a legacy from her allegedly aristocratic grandmother. There had been countless long mornings when Milena’s grandmother had sat little Milena—Ludmila then—at the kitchen table to teach her how to make pozharskie kotlety or rasstegai. Afterward, she had graded Milena’s work, usually poorly. How Milena had hated those mornings! But she had learned how to cook. Surprise, surprise, fat pig! “Look, guys, we have something new from one of our Russian students today,” Angie said, taking a blue cotton napkin off Milena’s porcelain plate. There, under the napkin, were more than a dozen perfect golden square cheese puffs that smelled as if they had been taken out of the oven a second ago. There was a secret to that, which Milena’s grandmother had shared with Milena as a gift on her sixteenth birthday. (Milena would have preferred earrings.) The puffs were so beautiful that the students couldn’t bring themselves to just grab them as they did the other food at the feast. They picked up the cheese puffs with two fingers and chewed slowly and didn’t talk while they chewed, so that all you could hear was the sound of small crunchy bites. When all the puffs were gone, Aron flicked a few golden crumbs off his shirt and asked Milena what her name was. “Beautiful and unusual,” he commented when she replied. Luda didn’t know much about medicine, so she wasn’t sure if extreme frustration could cause an immediate heart attack. The worst thing was the look on Milena’s face when Luda unpeeled the foil from her offering. The bitch actually chuckled. Yes, Luda had brought another Greek-Russian cabbage pie. So what? It had worked the last time—what was so stupid about assuming that it would work again? Luda loosened her scarf and sat down. She tried telling herself that Milena’s offering wasn’t better than hers—it was simply new—but this thought failed to console her, as it had failed to console her over the years, every time she had sniffed yet another whiff of new perfume on her husband’s shirt. A big heavy arm on her shoulder made Luda flinch. “I didn’t like her puffs,” Oolna said. “Showoff—not real food.” Luda wanted to bury her face in Oolna’s soft boundless chest and weep with gratitude. And then the wife from one of the Russian couples sidled over and whispered that she hadn’t liked the puffs, either. “Too salty, didn’t you think? And she is wearing way too much makeup for her age.” In the weeks to come, Luda understood that she wasn’t just an annoying old woman anymore—she was the star of the show. The whole network of clumsy alliances was quickly spinning around her. There was Oolna, the oldest and truest of her fans. There was the Russian wife, and there was the Dominican couple who didn’t like feeling intimidated by Milena’s clothes and haughty demeanor. The husband even made a show of mocking Milena’s manner of entering the room, and all the members of Luda’s fan club laughed eagerly. But Milena, too, found herself surrounded by allies. First, there was the Chinese woman who had nursed a grudge against Luda since the day Luda’s pie managed to outshine her spring rolls. And there was the second Chinese couple, who joined her camp simply because they always sided with the first Chinese couple. All of them had laughed happily when Milena compared Luda to Saddam Hussein. The husband of the second Chinese couple was deaf in one ear, so his wife had to retell the joke loudly and in Chinese, and then he laughed, too. But while both camps acknowledged that there was a contest going on, and while everybody knew what the prize was, nobody ever mentioned Aron. If he knew about the contest, he never showed it. He seemed to be bent on preserving his independence and his right to favor the weekly winner. There were Fridays when Luda’s dish would come out too sloppy (either the fault of a Food Network host or of Luda’s zeal). And there were Fridays when Milena’s offering was just a bit too subtle or too bland. And since Aron’s romantic gestures always went strictly in synch with the competition, Luda’s and Milena’s gains and losses in intimacy fluctuated as well. There were Fridays when Aron seemed to have formed a special connection with Luda. He’d sit and talk with her in the corner (after the best food was gone, never before); he’d joke with her, ask her about her life, and make vague suggestions for the future, such as “Do you like Manhattan Beach? It’s nice down there. I go for a stroll sometimes. Not too often.” And sometimes he would walk her most of the way home. Once, Aron even kissed Luda on the cheek. His lips felt warm and dry and vaguely disappointing. And then there were Fridays that belonged to Milena. Aron would walk with her, and brush his arm against her sleeve, or touch the flaps of her jacket. Once, he even attempted to play with her necklace. And sometimes he would share his memories. One time, for example, he told her about a lovely woman with whom he’d had a brief but passionate affair and who had looked just like Milena. “Seriously, the same eyes, the same cheekbones, even the same oval mole on her neck.” But, just as with Luda, Aron never walked Milena all the way home. He’d stop a few blocks away from her building, and say that walking was getting harder and harder for him and that he needed to head back. No matter who won, come Monday all of Friday’s intimacy was gone. On Mondays, Aron never gave any sign that he had formed a connection with either of them, never spoke to them before or after class, hardly even looked at them. There was no indication that he wanted either of them, or that he ever would. On Mondays, Luda and Milena felt deflated and tired, too, and perhaps even a little ashamed of their Friday excitement. But as the week drew to an end, their fantasies about Aron grew more and more intense. And as their fantasies flourished so did their fear and fury at the thought that he might pick the other as the ultimate winner. The afternoon before the last International Feast, Luda plugged in her food processor, pushed cubes of beef and lamb down the tube, and pressed the button. The food processor, a discard from her daughter’s pantry, was a bulky old thing with a crack on the side that was covered by a piece of duct tape. It whirred and vibrated and jumped all over the table, but it did its job well. Luda smiled as she watched the meat cubes crumble under the blades. The onion got stuck in the tube, and she had to push on it with a wooden spoon handle to get it down. Milena moved about her kitchen quickly and gracefully. She prodded the bread in a bowl of milk with her finger to see if it was soggy enough. She knew that when you make meatballs you should never put the bread into a food processor. First of all, it was soft enough to be easily mashed with a fork, but, more important, coarsely mixed bread was essential to make the meatballs fluffy and plump. She put the bread into a bowl with the ground veal, added some crushed garlic (a lot of it) and a couple of eggs, and started working the mixture with a fork, enjoying the squelching sound. And now for the secret ingredient, Luda thought, throwing some small cubes of pancetta into the hissing skillet. “Pancetta!” the Food Network host had moaned. “So good, your guests won’t know what hit them!” Fat, Milena thought, all the flavor is in the fat, and people are just kidding themselves when they try to believe otherwise. She put a chunk of nice sweet butter and a smaller chunk of lard in the middle of the skillet and swirled them around. The rest was easy. No, this wasn’t hard at all, Luda decided. Especially if you found the perfect method. She shaped the balls and threw them onto the skillet with her right hand, while holding the spatula with her left. When the meat got all warm and sticky in her fingers, she rinsed her right hand under cold running water and started again. Her small kitchen quickly filled with smoke and the smell of burning fat, but Luda didn’t pay any attention to that. She worked very fast. So did Milena. It was amazing how soon the bowl was empty. As she was shaping the last meatball, Milena had a sudden urge to squeeze it. And she did just that, so hard that bits of soggy meat oozed between her fingers. She wiped her hand and went to open the window. On the Monday after the last International Feast, Angie’s hands trembled so much that she had to grip the wrist of her right hand with her left in order to write on the board. Her legs were shaking as well, so she sat down in the low chair by her desk. She said that it would be nice if everybody could say a few words about Aron. One of the Dominicans said that it was too bad that Aron hadn’t had a family. “That’s a wonderful observation,” Angie noted. A man from one of the Chinese couples said that Aron had taught everybody a lesson. “That’s an excellent point.” Angie nodded and reached into her purse for a tissue. She had never had a student die during class before. Nobody she knew had ever had a student die during class. She had been plagued by ghastly flashbacks the whole weekend. Bright and loud, the images of the last feast had kept spinning and spinning in her head, as if she were caught in a horror movie. And now the movie was starting again. She tunes the radio to some nasty Latino music. They uncover the food. The smell! She is so sick of that smell. The students stomp their feet to the beat of the music. Poor Aron, as happy as a child. Moving closer to the table. Filling his plate. Gorging. Starting to choke. They all step away in horror. Angie pushes buttons on her phone. For the life of her, she can’t remember which buttons to push. Jean-Baptiste rushes forward. Grabbing Aron from behind. His fist thrusts into Aron’s stomach. Thrusts again. Again and again. Finally! That fucking Russian meatball is out! Sighs of relief all over the room. Angie snaps her phone closed. And then Aron’s legs go slack and Jean-Baptiste starts to sway under his weight. For a moment, it looks as if they are dancing together to the loud beats of the music. Old Oolna starts to laugh, a horrible cackling laugh. And then, only then, do they realize what has happened. Angie blew her nose and looked at her silent class. “Do you want to say something, Jean-Baptiste?” “Yeah. Aron was a funny man.” “Good, Jean-Baptiste, good,” Angie agreed. Luda said that they would all miss Aron, and Milena said that his was an enviable death. Angie raised her eyebrows. “Quick and easy. And he died happy, didn’t he?” Milena explained in a calm, patient voice. Angie shuddered and dismissed the class.
Nawabdin Electrician He flourished on a signature ability: a technique for cheating the electric company by slowing down the revolutions of its meters, so cunningly performed that his customers could specify to the hundred-rupee note the desired monthly savings. In this Pakistani desert, behind Multan, where the tube wells pumped from the aquifer day and night, Nawab’s discovery eclipsed the philosopher’s stone. Some thought he used magnets, others said heavy oil or porcelain chips or a substance he found in beehives. Skeptics reported that he had a deal with the meter men. In any case, this trick guaranteed Nawab’s employment, both off and on the farm of his patron, K. K. Harouni. The farm lay strung along a narrow and pitted farm-to-market road, built in the nineteen-seventies, when Harouni still had influence in the Islamabad bureaucracy. Buff or saline-white desert dragged out between fields of sugarcane and cotton, mango orchards and clover and wheat, soaked daily by the tube wells that Nawabdin Electrician tended. Beginning the rounds of Nurpur Harouni on his itinerant mornings, summoned to a broken pump, Nawab and his bicycle bumped along, decorative plastic flowers swaying on wires sprouting from the frame. His tools, notably a three-pound ball-peen hammer, clanked in a greasy leather bag suspended from the handlebars. The farmhands and the manager waited in the cool of the banyans, planted years earlier to shade each of the tube wells. “No tea, no tea,” Nawab insisted, waving away the steaming cup. Hammer dangling from his hand like a savage’s axe, Nawab entered the oily room housing the pump and its electric motor. Silence. The men crowded the doorway till he shouted that he must have light. He approached the offending object warily but with his temper rising, circled it, pushed it about a bit, began to take liberties with it, settled in with it, called for a cup of tea next to it, and finally began disassembling it. With his long, blunt screwdriver he cracked the shields hiding the machine’s penetralia, a screw popping loose and flying into the shadows. He took the ball-peen and delivered a crafty blow. The intervention failed. Pondering the situation, he ordered one of the farmworkers to find a really thick piece of leather and to collect sticky mango sap from a nearby tree. So it went, all morning and into the afternoon, Nawab trying one thing and then another, heating the pipes, cooling them, joining wires together, circumventing switches and fuses. And yet somehow, in fulfillment of the local genius for crude improvisation, the pumps continued to run. Unfortunately or fortunately, Nawab had married early in life a sweet woman of unsurpassed fertility, whom he adored, and she proceeded to bear him children spaced, if not less than nine months apart, then not that much more. And all daughters, one after another after another, until finally the looked-for son arrived, leaving Nawab with a complete set of twelve girls, ranging from toddler to age eleven, and one odd piece. If he had been governor of the Punjab, their dowries would have beggared him. For an electrician and mechanic, no matter how light-fingered, there seemed no question of marrying them all off. No moneylender in his right mind would, at any rate of interest, advance a sufficient sum to buy the necessary items for each daughter: beds, a dresser, trunks, electric fans, dishes, six suits of clothes for the groom, six for the bride, perhaps a television, and on and on and on. Another man might have thrown up his hands—but not Nawabdin. The daughters acted as a spur to his genius, and he looked with satisfaction in the mirror each morning at the face of a warrior going out to do battle. Nawab of course knew that he must proliferate his sources of revenue—the salary he received from K. K. Harouni for tending the tube wells would not even begin to suffice. He set up a one-room flour mill, run off a condemned electric motor—condemned by him. He tried his hand at fish-farming in a pond at the edge of one of his master’s fields. He bought broken radios, fixed them, and resold them. He did not demur even when asked to fix watches, although that enterprise did spectacularly badly, and earned him more kicks than kudos, for no watch he took apart ever kept time again. K. K. Harouni lived mostly in Lahore and rarely visited his farms. Whenever the old man did visit, Nawab would place himself night and day at the door leading from the servants’ sitting area into the walled grove of ancient banyan trees where the old farmhouse stood. Grizzled, his peculiar aviator glasses bent and smudged, Nawab tended the household machinery, the air-conditioners, water heaters, refrigerators, and pumps, like an engineer tending the boilers on a foundering steamer in an Atlantic gale. By his superhuman efforts, he almost managed to maintain K. K. Harouni in the same mechanical cocoon, cooled and bathed and lighted and fed, that the landowner enjoyed in Lahore. Harouni, of course, became familiar with this ubiquitous man, who not only accompanied him on his tours of inspection but could be found morning and night standing on the master bed rewiring the light fixture or poking at the water heater in the bathroom. Finally, one evening at teatime, gauging the psychological moment, Nawab asked if he might say a word. The landowner, who was cheerfully filing his nails in front of a crackling rosewood fire, told him to go ahead. “Sir, as you know, your lands stretch from here to the Indus, and on these lands are fully seventeen tube wells, and to tend these seventeen tube wells there is but one man, me, your servant. In your service I have earned these gray hairs”—here he bowed his head to show the gray—“and now I cannot fulfill my duties as I should. Enough, sir, enough. I beg you, forgive me my weakness. Better a darkened house and proud hunger within than disgrace in the light of day. Release me, I ask you, I beg you.” The old man, well accustomed to these sorts of speeches, though not usually this florid, filed away at his nails and waited for the breeze to stop. “What’s the matter, Nawabdin?” “Matter, sir? Oh, what could be the matter in your service? I’ve eaten your salt for all my years. But, sir, on the bicycle now, with my old legs, and with the many injuries I’ve received when heavy machinery fell on me—I cannot any longer bicycle about like a bridegroom from farm to farm, as I could when I first had the good fortune to enter your service. I beg you, sir, let me go.” “And what is the solution?” Harouni asked, seeing that they had come to the crux. He didn’t particularly care one way or the other, except that it touched on his comfort—a matter of great interest to him. “Well, sir, if I had a motorcycle, then I could somehow limp along, at least until I train up some younger man.” The crops that year had been good, Harouni felt expansive in front of the fire, and so, much to the disgust of the farm managers, Nawab received a brand-new motorcycle, a Honda 70. He even managed to extract an allowance for gasoline. The motorcycle increased his status, gave him weight, so that people began calling him Uncle and asking his opinion on world affairs, about which he knew absolutely nothing. He could now range farther, doing much wider business. Best of all, now he could spend every night with his wife, who early in the marriage had begged to live not in Nawab’s quarters in the village but with her family in Firoza, near the only girls’ school in the area. A long straight road ran from the canal headworks near Firoza all the way to the Indus, through the heart of the K. K. Harouni lands. The road ran on the bed of an old highway built when these lands lay within a princely state. Some hundred and fifty years ago, one of the princes had ridden that way, going to a wedding or a funeral in this remote district, felt hot, and ordered that rosewood trees be planted to shade the passersby. Within a few hours, he forgot that he had given the order, and in a few dozen years he in turn was forgotten, but these trees still stood, enormous now, some of them dead and looming without bark, white and leafless. Nawab would fly down this road on his new machine, with bags and streamers hanging from every knob and brace, so that the bike, when he hit a bump, seemed to be flapping numerous small vestigial wings; and with his grinning face, as he rolled up to whichever tube well needed servicing, with his ears almost blown off, he shone with the speed of his arrival. Nawab’s day, viewed from the air, would have appeared as aimless as that of a butterfly: to the senior manager’s house in the morning, where he diligently paid his respects, then to one or another of the tube wells, kicking up dust on the unpaved field roads, into the town of Firoza, zooming beneath the rosewoods, a bullet of sound, moseying around town, sneaking away to one of his private interests—to cement a deal to distribute ripening early-season honeydews from his cousin’s vegetable plot, or to count before hatching his half share in a flock of chickens—then back to Nurpur Harouni, and out again. The maps of these days, superimposed, would have made a tangle, but every morning he emerged from the same place, just as the sun came up, and every evening he returned there, tired now, darkened, switching off the bike, rolling it over the wooden threshold of the door leading into the courtyard, the engine ticking as it cooled. Nawab leaned the bike on its kickstand each evening and waited for his girls to come, all of them, around him, jumping on him. His face at this moment often had the same expression—an expression of childish innocent joy, which contrasted strangely and even sadly with the heaviness of his face and its lines and stubble. He would raise his nose and sniff the air to see if he could guess what his wife had cooked for dinner, and then he went in to her, finding her always in the same posture, making him tea, fanning the fire in the hearth. “Hello, my love, my chicken piece,” he said tenderly one evening, walking into the dark hut that served as a kitchen, the mud walls black with soot. “What’s in the pot for me?” He opened the cauldron, which had been displaced by the kettle onto the beaten-earth floor, and began to search around in it with a wooden spoon. “Out! Out!” she said, taking the spoon and, dipping it into the curry, giving him a taste. He opened his mouth obediently, like a boy receiving medicine. The wife, despite having borne thirteen children, had a lithe strong body, her vertebrae visible beneath her tight tunic. Her long mannish face still glowed from beneath the skin, giving her a ripe ochre coloring. Even now that her hair was thin and graying, she wore it in a single long braid down to her waist, like a young woman in the village. Although this style didn’t suit her, Nawab saw in her still the girl he had married twenty years before. He stood in the door, watching his daughters playing hopscotch, and when his wife went past he stuck out his butt, so that she rubbed against it as she squeezed through. Nawab ate first, then the girls, and finally his wife. He sat out in the courtyard, burping and smoking a cigarette, looking up at the crescent moon just visible on the horizon. I wonder what the moon is made of? he thought, without exerting himself. He remembered listening to the radio when the Americans said they had walked on it. His thoughts wandered off onto all sorts of tangents. The dwellers around him in the hamlet had also finished their dinners, and the smoke from cow-dung fires hung over the darkening roofs, a harsh spicy smell, like rough tobacco. Nawab’s house had numerous ingenious contrivances—running water in all three rooms, a duct that brought cool air into the rooms at night, and even a black-and-white television, which his wife covered with a doily that she had embroidered with flowers. Nawab had constructed a gear mechanism so that the antenna on the roof could be turned from inside the house to improve reception. The children sat inside watching it, with the sound blaring. His wife came out and sat primly at his feet on the sagging ropes of the woven bed, swinging her legs. “I’ve got something in my pocket—would you like to know what?” He looked at her with a pouting sort of smile. “I know this game,” she said, reaching up and straightening his glasses on his face. “Why are your glasses always crooked? I think one ear’s higher than the other.” “If you find it, you can have it.” Looking to see that the children were still absorbed in the television, she kneeled next to him and began patting his pockets. “Lower . . . lower . . . ,” he said. In the pocket of the greasy vest that he wore under his kurta she found a wrapped-up newspaper holding chunks of raw brown sugar. “I’ve got lots more,” he said. “Look at that. None of this junk you buy in the bazaar. The Dashtis gave me five kilos for repairing their sugarcane press. I’ll sell it tomorrow. Make us some parathas. For all of us? Pretty please?” “I put out the fire.” “So light it. Or, rather, you just sit here—I’ll light it.” “You can never light it. I’ll end up doing it anyway,” she said, getting up. The smaller children, smelling the ghee cooking on the griddle, crowded around, watching the brown sugar melt, and finally even the older girls came in, though they stood haughtily to one side. Nawab, squatting and huffing on the fire, gestured to them. “Come on, you princesses, none of your tricks. I know you want some.” They began eating, pouring the brown crystallized syrup onto pieces of fried bread, and after a while Nawab went to his motorcycle and pulled from the panniers another hunk of the sugar, challenging the girls to see who would eat most. One evening a few weeks after his family’s little festival of sugar, Nawab was sitting with the watchman who kept guard over the grain stores at Nurpur Harouni. A banyan planted alongside the threshing floor only thirty years ago had grown a canopy of forty or fifty feet, and all the men who worked in the stores tended it carefully, watering it with cans. The old watchman sat under this tree, and Nawab and the other younger men would sit with him at dusk, teasing him, trying to make his violent temper flare up, and joking around with one another. They would listen to the old man’s stories, of the time when only dirt tracks led through these riverine tracts and the tribes stole cattle for sport, and often killed each other while doing it, to add piquancy. Although spring weather had come, the watchman still kept a fire burning in a tin pan to warm his feet and to give a center to the group that gathered there. The electricity had failed, as it often did, and the full moon climbing the sky lit the scene indirectly, reflecting off the whitewashed walls, throwing dim shadows around the machinery strewn about, plows and planters, drags, harrows. “Here it is, old man,” Nawab said to the watchman. “I’ll tie you up and lock you in the stores to make it look like a robbery, and then I’ll top off my tank at the gas barrel.” “Nothing in it for me,” the watchman said. “Go on, I think I hear your wife calling you.” “I understand, sire. You wish to be alone.” Nawab jumped up and shook the watchman’s hand, making a bow, touching his hands deferentially to the old man’s knee, as he would to the feudal K. K. Harouni—a running joke, lost on the watchman these last ten years. “Be careful, boy,” the watchman said, standing up and leaning on his bamboo staff, clad in steel at the tip. Nawab leapt on the kick-starter of his motorcycle, and in one smooth motion flicked on the lights and shot out of the threshing-floor gates, onto the quarter-mile driveway leading from the heart of the farm to the road. He felt cold and liked it, knowing that at home the room would be baking, the two-bar heater running day and night on pilfered electricity, the family luxuriating in excess warmth, even though the spring weather had come. Turning onto the dark main road, he sped up, outrunning the weak headlight, obstacles appearing faster than he could react, feeling as if he were racing forward in the flame of a moving lantern. Nightjars perching on the road as they hunted moths ricocheted into the dark, almost under his wheel. Nawab locked his arms, fighting the bike as he flew over potholes, enjoying the pace, standing on the pegs. Among low-lying fields, where the sugarcane had been heavily watered, mist rose and cool air enveloped him. He slowed, turning onto the smaller road running beside the canal, hearing the water rushing over the locks of the headworks. A man stepped from beside one of the locks, waving down at the ground, motioning Nawab to stop. “Brother,” the man said, over the puttering engine, “give me a ride into town. I’ve got business, and I’m late.” Strange business at this time of night, Nawab thought, the tail-light of the motorcycle casting a reddish glow around them on the ground. They were far from any dwellings. A mile away, the village of Dashtian crouched beside the road—before that there was nothing. He looked into the man’s face. “Where are you from?” The man looked straight back at him, his face pinched and therefore overstated, but unflinching. “From Kashmor. Please, you’re the first person to come by for over an hour. I’ve walked all day.” Kashmor, Nawab thought. From the poor country across the river. Every year, those tribes came to pick the mangoes at Nurpur Harouni and other nearby farms, working for almost nothing, let go as soon as the harvest thinned. The men would give a feast, a thin feast, at the end of the season, a hundred or more going shares to buy a buffalo. Nawab had been several times, and was treated as if he were honoring them, sitting with them and eating the salty rice flecked with bits of meat. He grinned at the man, gesturing with his chin to the seat behind him. “All right, then, get on the back.” Balancing against the weight behind him, which made driving along the rutted canal road difficult, Nawab pushed on, under the rosewood trees. Half a mile from the headworks, the man shouted into Nawab’s ear, “Stop!” “What’s wrong?” Nawab couldn’t hear over the rushing wind. The man jabbed something hard into his ribs. “I’ve got a gun. I’ll shoot you.” Panicked, Nawab skidded to a stop and jumped to one side, pushing the motorcycle away from him, so that it tipped over, knocking the robber to the ground. The carburetor float hung open, and the engine raced for a minute, the wheel jerking, until the engine sputtered and died, extinguishing the headlight. “What are you doing?” Nawab babbled. “I’ll shoot you if you don’t stand back,” the robber said, rising up on one knee, the gun pointed at Nawab. They stood obscured in the sudden woolly dark, next to the fallen motorcycle, which leaked raw-smelling gasoline into the dust underfoot. Water running through the reeds in the canal beside them made soft gulping sounds as it swirled along. His eyes adjusting to the dark, Nawab saw the man sucking at a cut on his palm, the gun held in his other hand. When the man went to pick up the bike, Nawab approached a step toward him. “I told you, I’ll shoot you.” Nawab put his hands together in supplication. “I beg you, I’ve got little girls, thirteen children. I promise, thirteen. I tried to help you. I’ll drive you to Firoza, and I won’t tell anyone. Don’t take the bike—it’s my daily bread. I’m a man like you, poor as you.” “Shut up.” Without thinking, a flash of cunning in his eyes, Nawab lunged for the gun, but missed. For a moment the two men grappled, until the robber broke free, stepped back, and fired. Nawab fell to the ground, holding his groin with both hands, entirely surprised, shocked, as if the man had slapped him for no reason. The man dragged the bike away, straddled it, and tried to start it, bobbing up and down, pitching his weight onto the lever, the engine whirring but not catching. It had flooded, and he held the throttle wide open, which made it worse. At the sound of the shot, the dogs in Dashtian had begun to bark, the sound fitful in the breeze. Lying on the ground, at first Nawab thought the man had killed him. The pale moonlit sky, seen through the branches of the rosewood tree, tilted back and forth like a bowl of swaying water. He had fallen with one leg bent under him, and now he straightened it. His hand came away sticky when he touched the wound. “O God, O Mother, O God,” he moaned, not very loudly, in a singsong voice. He looked at the man, whose back was turned, vulnerable, kicking wildly at the starter, not six feet away. Nawab couldn’t let him take it away—not the bike, his toy, his freedom. He stood up again and stumbled forward, but his injured leg buckled and he fell, his forehead hitting the rear bumper of the motorcycle. Turning in the seat, holding the gun at arm’s length, the robber fired five more times, one two three four five, with Nawab looking up into his face in disbelief, seeing the repeated flame in the revolver’s mouth. The man had never used weapons, had fired this unlicensed revolver only one time, to try it out when he bought it from a bootlegger. He couldn’t bear to point at the torso or the head, but shot at the groin and the legs. The last two bullets missed wildly, throwing up dirt in the road. The robber rolled the motorcycle forward twenty feet, grunting, and again tried to start it. From Dashtian a torch jogged quickly down the road. Throwing the bike to the ground, the man ran into a stand of reeds that bordered a field. Nawab lay in the road, not wanting to move. When the bullets first hit him, they didn’t so much hurt as sting, but now the pain grew worse. The blood felt warm in his pants. It seemed very peaceful. In the distance, the dogs kept barking, and all around the cicadas called, so many of them that they blended into a single gentle sound. In a mango orchard across the canal, some crows began cawing, and he wondered why they were calling at night. Maybe a snake up in the tree, in the nest. Fresh fish from the spring floods of the Indus had just come onto the market, and he kept remembering that he had wanted to buy some for dinner, perhaps the next night. As the pain grew worse, he thought of that, the smell of frying fish. Two men from the village came running up, one much younger than the other, both of them bare-chested. The elder, potbellied, carried an ancient single-barrelled shotgun, the butt mended crudely with wire. “Oh God, they’ve killed him. Who is it?” The younger man kneeled down next to the body. “It’s Nawab, the electrician, from Nurpur Harouni.” “I’m not dead,” Nawab said insistently, without raising his head. He knew these men, a father and son—he had arranged the lighting at the son’s wedding. “The bastard’s right there in those reeds.” Stepping forward, aiming into the center of the clump, the older man fired, reloaded, and fired again. Nothing moved among the green leafy stalks, which were head high and surmounted by feathers of seed. “He’s gone,” the young man said, sitting next to Nawab, holding his arm. The father walked carefully forward, holding the gun to his shoulder. Something moved, and he fired. The robber fell forward into the open ground. He called, “Mother, help me,” and got up on his knees, holding his hands to his waist. Walking up to him, the father hit him once in the middle of the back with the butt of the gun, and then threw down the gun and dragged him roughly by his collar onto the road. Raising the bloody shirt, he saw that the robber had taken half a dozen buckshot pellets in the stomach—black angry holes seeping blood in the light of the torch. The robber kept spitting, without any force. The son got up and started the motorcycle by pushing it down the road with the gears engaged, until the engine came to life. Shouting that he would get some transport, he raced off, and Nawab winced, hearing the man, in his hurry, shifting without using the clutch. “Do you want a cigarette, Uncle?” the old villager said to Nawab, offering the pack. Nawab rolled his head back and forth. “Fuck, look at me.” In the silence, a forgotten thought kept bothering Nawab, something important. Then he remembered. “Find the guy’s revolver, Bholay. You’re going to need it for the cops.” “I can’t leave you,” he said. But after a minute he threw away his cigarette and got up. The old man was still searching in the reeds when the lights of a pickup materialized at the canal headworks and bounced wildly down the road. The driver, doubtful of the whole affair, stood by while the father and son lifted Nawab and the motorcycle thief into the back. They drove to Firoza, to a private clinic there, run by a mere pharmacist, who nevertheless kept a huge clientele because of his abrupt and sure manner and his success at healing all the prevalent diseases with the same few medicines. The clinic smelled of disinfectant and of bodily fluids, a heavy sweetish odor. Four beds stood in a room, dimly lit by a fluorescent tube. As the father and son carried him in, Nawab, alert to the point of strain, observed blood on some rumpled sheets, a rusty blot. The pharmacist, who lived above the clinic, had come down wearing a loincloth and undershirt. He seemed perfectly unflustered, if anything slightly cross at having been disturbed. “Put them on those two beds.” “As salaam aleikum, Dr. Sahib,” said Nawab, who felt as if he were speaking to someone very far away. The pharmacist seemed an immensely grave and important man, and Nawab spoke to him formally. “What happened, Nawab?” “He tried to snatch my motorbike, but I didn’t let him.” The pharmacist pulled off Nawab’s shalwar, got a rag, and washed away the blood, then poked around quite roughly, while Nawab held the sides of the bed and willed himself not to scream. “You’ll live,” he said. “You’re a lucky man. The bullets all went low.” “Did it hit . . .” The pharmacist dabbed with the rag. “Not even that, thank God.” The robber must have been hit in the lung, for he kept breathing up blood. “You won’t need to bother taking this one to the police,” the pharmacist said. “He’s a dead man.” “Please,” the robber begged, trying to raise himself up. “Have mercy, save me. I’m a human being also.” The pharmacist went into the office next door and wrote the names of drugs on a pad, sending the villager’s son to a dispenser in the next street. “Wake him and tell him it’s Nawabdin the electrician. Tell him I’ll make sure he gets the money.” Nawab looked over at the robber for the first time. There was blood on his pillow, and he kept snuffling, as if he needed to blow his nose. His thin and very long neck hung crookedly on his shoulder, as if out of joint. He was older than Nawab had thought, not a boy, dark-skinned, with sunken eyes and protruding yellow smoker’s teeth, which showed whenever he twitched for breath. “I did you wrong,” the robber said weakly. “I know that. You don’t know my life, just as I don’t know yours. Even I don’t know what brought me here. Maybe you’re a poor man, but I’m much poorer than you. My mother is old and blind, in the slums outside Multan. Make them fix me, ask them to and they’ll do it.” He began to cry, not wiping away the tears, which drew lines on his dark face. “Go to hell,” Nawab said, turning away. “Men like you are good at confessions. My children would have begged in the streets.” The robber lay heaving, moving his fingers by his sides. The pharmacist seemed to have gone away somewhere. “They just said that I’m dying. Forgive me for what I did. I was brought up with kicks and slaps and never enough to eat. I’ve never had anything of my own, no land, no house, no wife, no money, never, nothing. I slept for years on the railway-station platform in Multan. My mother’s blessing on you. Give me your blessing, don’t let me die unforgiven.” He began snuffling and coughing even more, and then started hiccupping. Now the disinfectant smelled strong and good to Nawab. The floor seemed to shine. The world around him expanded. “Never. I won’t forgive you. You had your life, I had mine. At every step of the road I went the right way and you the wrong. Look at you now, with bubbles of blood stuck in the corner of your lips. Do you think this isn’t a judgment? My wife and children would have wept all their lives, and you would have sold my motorbike to pay for six unlucky hands of cards and a few bottles of poison home brew. If you weren’t lying here now, you would already be in one of the gambling camps along the river.” The man said, “Please, please, please,” more softly each time, and then he stared up at the ceiling. “It’s not true,” he whispered. After a few minutes, he convulsed and died. The pharmacist, who had come back in by then and was cleaning Nawab’s wounds, did nothing to help him. Yet Nawab’s mind caught at this, at the man’s words and his death, like a bird hopping around some bright object, meaning to peck at it. And then he didn’t. He thought of the motorcycle, saved, and the glory of saving it. Six shots, six coins thrown down, six chances, and not one of them had killed him, not Nawabdin Electrician.
Swimming People say to me, “Didn’t you hear anything?,” or “Why didn’t you stop when you felt something hit the bumper?” But I don’t know how to answer either question. He was just there with us, alive, one minute, as we were eating barbecue and watching the Super Bowl on TV at my brother-in-law’s house, and then the next minute he was dead—very dead—under our car. I sold the car after that. My wife strongly suggested I do so, and that was when I was still trying to do pretty much anything she strongly suggested. In the end, I suppose that’s what made it possible for me to come to Cambodia. I got something like twelve grand, cash, for that car. I’ve been living in Kep for a year and a half now, in a crappy little two-room bungalow I rent on the beach. It’s fifty dollars a month, and it’s literally on the beach, the wild gray Gulf of Thailand chop not twenty feet from where I lay my head at night. I think I fit in pretty well here, as well as a white guy can. A haole, or cracker, not that those names apply here. The Cambodians don’t seem to have a derogatory name for “white person.” In Thailand, there’s farang, but that’s not really derogatory—they’ll say it to your face. And I don’t think there’s an equivalent in Khmer. At least, if there is one I don’t know it. Only two people in town know that I killed my son. There’s the expat Colin, who runs the coffee shop and guesthouse in Kampot, and there’s Veata, but I never know how much of what I tell her she really understands. It came up not long after I learned that she had a son, a fact that she had been keeping from me because—you know what? I don’t know why she was keeping it from me. I think her mother had told her to. But I’m no smitten soldier boy—I’m not going to take Veata home with me and send money back to her family every month. So I didn’t really care that she had a son—it didn’t matter either way. Which is also why I can admit that Angel’s actually kind of cute. He’s named after Veata’s patron saint, Angelina Jolie. Veata says, “He handsome like Maddox,” and she styles his hair in a faux hawk. He’s the only five-year-old running around Kampot with a faux hawk and trendy camouflage pants. The day I learned who Angel was, Veata and I had just finished having sex, when her parents burst into the front room of my house with Angel wrapped in a blanket. He was bleeding from his nose, listless. I’d seen him a couple of times before, when Veata was looking after him, but she’d told me that he was her sister’s son and that she was just babysitting. Veata threw on my robe, and I quickly pulled on some boxers and scrub bottoms and went out to the other room, shirtless, to see what the problem was. Veata’s father stared at the tattoo on my chest. I assumed that he wanted to kill me. If I were him, I would’ve wanted to kill me, too. But he didn’t. When you have next to nothing, I guess it’s not so insane to pin your hopes to a silly daughter’s fantasies and faux hawks. Veata’s father put Angel on the floor, and I knelt over him. Veata and her parents spoke in Khmer, very softly and quickly, so as to prevent me from understanding. I can speak very rudimentary Khmer, but I can understand a great deal more after living here for so long, so I knew that Veata was telling her parents not to reveal that Angel was her son, and her mother was replying that Angel was very sick and they needed my help. During my first week in town, I witnessed a really brutal motorcycle-versus-truck accident on the road between Kampot and Kep. One person—the driver of the motorcycle—died, and his passenger’s leg snapped in half. I temporarily set this guy’s open-femur fracture and stabilized him so that he could get on the bus to the hospital in Phnom Penh, three hours away. Word got around, and after that ailing villagers sometimes showed up at my door. I generally just directed them to the clinic in town, which has I.V.s and antibiotics and basic first-aid stuff that I don’t have. But if they were really poor, and I could handle the problem, I’d do it myself. I didn’t take their money, and the clinic took a lot. So there was Angel on the ground, bleeding from his little nose, and Veata’s mother started to cry in little muffled hiccups, and then Veata started to cry even louder, and all I wanted her to do was go back into the bedroom and put some clothes on so that she wouldn’t be standing there with her titties hanging out of my robe in front of her father. I took the kid’s pulse and counted his respirations. He was very hot to the touch. “Why did you bring him all the way here instead of to the clinic?” I asked. Nobody said anything. “Clinic? Kampot town?” I repeated. Veata’s father shook his head twice, quickly, like he was saying no to a price in a negotiation. “I don’t have what he needs,” I said. I didn’t feel anything looking at that kid. Not one thing beyond the clinical. It was obvious by then that he was Veata’s child. I could see it just by looking at his pretty face. Veata’s parents didn’t speak a word of English, so I asked her, “What do they want?” “They walk here” is all she said. I tried to get Angel to drink some water from a glass, but he wouldn’t take any, and the blood from his upper lip dripped into the glass of water, dispersing into a puff of maroon haze. I picked him up, rewrapped the blanket around him, and passed him over to Veata. I pulled on a T-shirt in the bedroom, and then came back out and took Angel again, nodding toward the bedroom for Veata to go in and get dressed. Veata’s parents just stood there staring at me while she was gone. A storm was coming in off the gulf; you could feel a change in the humid wind. The waves lapped more frequently on the sand behind my house, rocks rolling noisily over themselves. The wrinkles in Veata’s father’s face were positively elephant-like. He’d seen a lot. It was probably a miracle that he was alive. But I didn’t want to hear the story of his hiding out in some cave for years while Pol Pot killed the rest of his family or any crazy shit like that. I didn’t want to have to care, to have to marry his daughter and have a little half-American, half-Khmer kid who’d play soccer really well and have a funky haircut and be especially popular at the prep school we’d send him to in Connecticut or Vermont. Mercifully, Veata came back clothed and we headed out front to my motorcycle. I told her to hold onto Angel and get on the back. Her parents followed us out and wordlessly watched us go. I looked back over my shoulder, pretending to check for cars—which never come by here—and caught a glimpse of them standing a couple of feet apart in front of my little house off the main dirt road. At the clinic, I asked the nurse to start Angel on an I.V. drip, just basic Ringer’s lactate, and then to push some antibiotics as soon as we realized he had an infection going on. He was burning up: 105. Kids can die with that kind of fever. When I was a boy, I used to get fevers like that, and my mother would sit me in an ice-cold bath and pretend to make different outfits out of washcloths (tuxedo, tank top, wetsuit), draping the freezing wet cloths over my chest, arms, and head in hope of bringing down my temperature and avoiding a trip to the emergency room. Angel had to stay at the clinic overnight. I left Veata there and drove the fifteen miles back to my place, shuttling first her mother and then her father back to the clinic to be with her. I didn’t say anything to either of them the whole time. Except once, when I gestured to Veata’s mother to watch out for the muffler on the bike, which was searing hot, just millimetres away from her thigh. When all three of them were at the clinic together, I turned to head back home, but Veata came out onto the deck and grabbed my elbow with her bony, birdlike fingers. “I have to get my swim in,” I said to her. “Swim?” I had to get my swim in. My daily swim that I paid good money at a good exchange rate to insure. She looked at me with those full eyes, the kind that peek out of the tourist brochures for Southeast Asian cruises that stop in seven countries in seven days. I wanted to see hatred in those eyes, but all I saw was my own reflection. “I had a son,” I said then. “You have son?” she asked. “Yes,” I said, looking across the street, over the Kampot River and up at Bokor Mountain. Fog was hanging from the places where the jungle protruded from the dark-green mountain. “I killed him, though. I killed him.” I don’t know why I always said things twice around her. Ostensibly it was because she didn’t understand English very well, but I’m sure that there was some other reason. Some sort of superiority thing. I have that. Doctors have that. Even doctors in training, like I was. “I hit him with my car—accident,” I said. “He ran in front of the car. I hit him. Accident.” Veata’s mother came out onto the deck then, the torn screen door slamming shut behind her. She spoke softly to her daughter, and I stepped aside and lit a cigarette to give them some privacy. After a few exchanges with her mother, Veata turned to me and said, “Cockroach go in Angel nose.” This was something I’d heard about in med school. I remember the textbook for my pediatrics course saying something to the effect of “If a child presents with an infection and is a resident of a lower-income neighborhood, such as a housing project or other state- or city-subsidized environment, suspect an insect as a potential aggravating factor.” Insects tend to crawl into small, dark, moist spaces. Seals crawl up onto land. Whales beach themselves. But I did not want to miss my daily swim. It was my right. For killing my child I had earned the right to swim once a day in the beautiful and sometimes smelly Gulf of Thailand. The right to fuck the youngest, hottest girl with the tightest pussy in town and make her fall in love with me and yet bear no responsibility toward her or her family beyond shuttling them to the clinic when their grandchild was ill. My God-given rights. I missed my swim that day. The nurse-practitioner sedated Angel, extracted the roach from his nose, and amped up his antibiotics. He would soon be fine, back running around Kampot’s red-mud streets with his black hair spiked and newly shorn, just like Maddox Jolie’s. It started raining while I was on the road to my house, and my rear brake stopped working. I pulled to the side of the road, where some kids were playing in the three inches of water that filled the small, square rice paddy in front of their house. It was a one-ox, two-story household, and there were a bunch of crusty chickens huddling under a tree to escape the rain. The boys looked up at me and laughed, pointing. Muddy water dripped from my hair into my eyebrows, lashes, and eyes, as I knelt to unscrew the lever that activated the rear brake. It had been wailing like crazy as I drove, metal on metal, but I didn’t have the time to deal with it then. Nor the tools. So I drove about five miles per hour the rest of the way back to Kep, using only my front brake—and sparingly at that. Stuck in second gear with a squirrelly front brake, I finally gave up all hope of a swim. It was dark, and it wasn’t worth risking a jellyfish crossing my path. The next day, I went for my swim the minute I woke up. My swim. I wanted to make up for having missed the day before. I wondered momentarily about Angel’s infection, but as quickly as the thought had entered my consciousness it was gone again, and I was pulling on my trunks, swallowing a couple of little starchy bananas, and stepping out onto the bright beach. The storm had passed during the night, and there was some debris on the shore, a few stray coconuts and palm branches. The water was uncharacteristically glassy. I waded out up to my waist, pulled my goggles on, and dived in, staying submerged and swimming as long as I could before my first breath ran out. The water was too warm, but I pumped away freestyle, going as hard as I could for probably fifteen minutes before I felt even remotely winded. I felt as if I could sprint like that for hours. You know that feeling when you can’t get enough breath and every time you turn up for air you don’t know if you’re going to get a salty mouthful down your gullet or not? That feeling where you’re pushing so hard that you understand how a body could just as easily die as live, that living is just the absence of death, and thus always in a relationship with death? That’s what it had felt like fucking Veata that morning, too—like, bring it on, I don’t care—and then there was the frantic knock on the door and her parents were in my front room, and I thought I’d derive at least some satisfaction from staring that man, her father, in the face when he knew full well I’d been pounding away at his daughter seconds before. But you know what? There was nothing there. I felt more sorry for him than anything else, standing there all skinny and no taller than my own mother, holding his limp little camouflaged grandson in his arms. I was swimming around the other side of the point and saw a long purple jellyfish in front of me, a few feet below. I turned toward the beach in case he had friends. I was in unfamiliar water, but I didn’t slow my stroke. I kept going, around the next bend and past the abandoned cinder-block house with no roof where a pack of dogs live with their pups. I kept cutting through that thick water, my shoulders burning in the water-magnified sun, and then all of a sudden I got this acute feeling that I’d forgotten something, something really big—that jittery flutter running the length of my musculature which I used to get sometimes even before Jake died. Even the water tasted different, as if something metallic were making all the particles buzz. I stopped my stroke, pulled up, and trod water. I pushed my goggles up onto my forehead, and as my vision un-blurred I saw that there were three or four guys on the beach, standing around a massive, bloated dead animal. As I paddled closer I realized that it was a whale shark, its head and mouth smashed in, trailing thick blood into the water from the beach. Tiny waves lapped at the creature’s wide mouth. I swam all the way in to shore, and when I stepped onto the sand I looked at my arms and legs, a red film hewing to the hair and the skin. I stood on the edge of the scene, but only one of the guys noticed me at first. He just turned and looked with no discernible expression on his face. He was beautiful like a woman. He turned back and said something to the two men who were on the other side of the fish, hacking away at the connective tissue around its liver. It was gigantic, the liver—blood-purple—and the two guys were covered in bloody entrails. The man who’d noticed me walked up the fish’s tail then and stood on top of the creature, cockily resting an elbow on the dorsal fin as if he were bellying up to a bar. The thing had to be thirty or forty feet long. I wasn’t angry when Jake died. But those guys’ girlish little necks—I pictured my hands gripping them each tightly, and then snap, snap, snap. I walked closer, still catching my breath from the workout or the panic attack or both. None of the men smiled or really acknowledged me at all, though I vaguely recognized the one who was standing on top of the fish from the market in Kampot. The others just kept sawing away at the creature, whose spotted skin was now dull and rubbery in the sunlight. Dime-size flies had moved in, a swarm of them in the heat, and a few of the neighboring stray dogs sat in the shade on the perimeter, waiting to clean up. The men continued to ignore me, even when I stepped around behind them to get a closer look at the whale shark’s liver and chest cavity. When my wife asked me to take a temporary leave from the hospital to spend time with her, I took a leave from the hospital and spent all my time with her. When she asked me to move us to Vermont to be closer to her family, we moved to Vermont to be closer to her family. When she asked me to move us back to the city to get away from her family, I found us a condo in Chelsea. When she went off the pill and asked me to make love to her, I dropped everything and made love to her. When she asked me not to touch her again, I didn’t touch her. I slept on the couch and watched five straight seasons of “M*A*S*H” reruns on the Hallmark Channel from eleven to one every week night. On weekends I played Internet poker, against a guy from Wisconsin named Hal. When she asked me to do something—anything—to show that I was as destroyed by this as she was, I dragged her to a hipster tattoo studio in Williamsburg and squeezed her hand while a mook with Johnny Cash-black hair and dice tattooed on each of his knuckles carved Jake’s name into my chest in huge Gothic script. When she asked me to go back to work, I tried to get a residency in New York. And when I couldn’t get a residency in New York I got one in New Jersey and commuted to Trenton, making it back to sleep on the couch every off-duty night, without exception. When she said she needed to be distracted, to get a job of her own, I told her to get a job of her own, and she did, volunteering at a local public-radio station downtown. When she said that there was a paid opening at the station and she wanted to apply for it, I said, Great, apply for the paid position, and so she did, and she got the job and worked a hectic nonprofit schedule, sometimes six days a week. When she asked me to donate to the station and come to the holiday party, I donated to the station, put on a festive tie, and brought a fruitcake to the holiday party. When she said that she needed to spend time with the producer of the afternoon music show because he understood her, because he’d lost a child to cancer, I said, Great, spend time with the producer of the afternoon music show because he lost a child to cancer. And when she asked me to leave I left. The producer moved in, and I took a little chunk of cash, left the rest for her, and bought a ticket to Bangkok. I said that I was sorry. I’d thought he was inside. I wasn’t drinking. I was just tired. I didn’t even like football, or barbecue, or her brother’s wife, the frigid bitch. And I couldn’t say whether I’d heard something hit the bumper or not. I didn’t know I’d hit anything—hit him—until I finished parking the car and saw his little shoe by the tire. Obviously, if I’d heard something I would have stopped. I’ve stopped for less. I’ve stopped for a squirrel. I drove my bike to Colin’s coffeehouse in Kampot and researched whale sharks on the Internet. They were threatened and protected, but a set of fins went for five hundred dollars a kilo, in the right hands. And the liver was like gold. An Australian girl with a pink bandanna on her head was giggling loudly at the computer behind me as I read. She was instant-messaging her parents back home for more money, and detailing the conversation for her friend, loud enough so that everyone in the coffeehouse could hear. I fantasized about sending somebody to Phnom Penh to rob her when she visited the cash machine. Just to show her. Before getting off the computer, I logged onto my e-mail account, which I hadn’t checked in a couple of weeks. There were a few new messages there, one from my wife from a week before. I opened it and read the first line. She’d sent the divorce papers for me to sign months ago, but I hadn’t picked them up from general delivery, and they hadn’t been returned to her, either, so she didn’t know what to do. “Colin, can I use this address for some documents I need?” I called over my shoulder. “Sure.” I hit Reply and typed Colin’s name and business address, then skimmed over the rest of her note as an afterthought. She said that she was pregnant—with a girl—and wanted to get married to What’s His Face before she delivered, in a few months. I hit Return a few times after Colin’s address, and wrote, “I hope you feel better this time around,” before going back and erasing the line. When she was pregnant with Jake, she threw up for three months straight. I started typing again, “I hope you don’t get sick as much,” but then erased the “as much” and stared at the blinking cursor after “sick” for a few minutes. Colin brought my coffee and set it next to the keyboard. Espresso was apparently the one thing I truly couldn’t live without. “Here you go, man. Enjoy,” he said. I typed a period and hit Return, and then, “Enjoy it this time.” I quickly erased “this time,” hit the period key again, and left it at that. “Enjoy it.” I clicked Send, logged out, and took a sip of my coffee, which seared my tongue. I love that first sip. Driving back to Kep later that evening, I took the side road that hugs the coastline until I got to the house where the dogs live, which was surprisingly quiet and empty for that time of night. I pulled out onto the sand through the brush, and my back wheel got stuck a few times, but I walked the bike out of the holes and managed to get onto wetter sand. All that was left of the whale shark was a bunch of slop. There were about fifty dogs fighting over it in the bloody sand. I vomited a little from the smell. Indescribable. I covered my nose and mouth, straddling my idling bike. It was getting dark, but the moon was bright enough for me to see two very wide, deep tire tracks in the sand, leading all the way back up to the main road. I didn’t go back to Kampot town for a couple of days, or maybe a week, and I can’t honestly say what I did that whole time. I barely ate. I did swim every day, sometimes twice. I drank up my stash of warm beer, and when I ran out of food and water and was low on gas I headed to Kampot for supplies. I swear Veata can sense me coming from a mile away—she’s like a dog that way—because she was in front of the market before I could swing my leg over my bike seat and cut the engine. “Where you been?” she asked. “Home.” “Why you go to police? Why you go say Sopat do something wrong?” “Because he did—he did do something wrong.” “No, no, he didn’t do something wrong,” she said. It was the first time she had ever not been in complete agreement with me. “He say you do something wrong.” “Me? Me. I did something wrong,” I said. “That’s great. That’s just fucking great.” “Sopat say you make a hard time for him and all of them. Now they come and want more money from them. They take away the fins.” “Who? Who took the fins?” “You know who,” she said. “You—” “Well, whale sharks are protected,” I said. “They’re all dying, and nobody’s supposed to kill them. Not your cousin, nobody.” “Sopat, he is very angry.” “I don’t care if Sopat is angry.” “He say he just swim up on beach. The fish just swim right up on beach and he was very sick.” “He didn’t swim up onto the beach, Veata.” “He do that. Sopat say he do that.” “No, he didn’t. They killed that poor thing. They went out and killed it. Its face was bashed in!” I yelled. Veata flinched ever so slightly when I raised my voice, and with a swift kick to the fuel tank that came virtually out of nowhere she knocked my motorcycle over, and it crashed to the ground noisily, gasoline spilling into the dirt, spewing a little purple rainbow. “What the fuck are you doing?” I screamed, even louder than before, and a few people nervously looked my way from the outer edge of the market—the same outdoor market where I’d first spotted Veata, in my second week in town. She and her friends had giggled uncontrollably from behind her uncle’s vegetable stand, where they were helping out. They had continued to laugh when I came up and asked in English to buy a loaf of bread that Veata’s mother was selling. Alas, the flirty Veata smile was no different from the one she sported after kicking over my motorcycle. I picked up my bike and reset the kickstand. My left rearview mirror was broken. “You’re fucking crazy,” I spat. She just kept smiling. Out of the corner of my eye I saw Veata’s mother approaching, with Angel in tow. When Angel spotted his mother he ran up and hugged her around the thighs, the way little boys do. He eyed me suspiciously, but I could tell that he wanted me to pay attention to him. Veata’s mother said something in Khmer and then motioned toward me. “My mother say my father say he want to thank you for taking care of Angel,” Veata said. “I didn’t do anything for Angel.” “Well,” she said, her mother nodding and smiling behind her, “we have a special dinner tonight, and my father, he want you to come.” “No, I can’t,” I said. I knew full well how rude this was. Veata’s mother frowned. Veata looked like she hated me. Pure hatred, and I had to agree. “What do you want me to do?” I asked her. She didn’t answer. Her mother said something again, and Veata argued with her. Angel kept looking up at me from his mother’s leg, his little faux hawk crooked and flattened in the back. “My mother say you must come. My father, he will be very sad if you don’t come,” Veata said. “O.K., O.K.,” I said, and then, “Thank you, thank you very much,” to Veata’s mother. Veata’s family’s house was smaller than the one I was living in, but a pungent fishy coconut smell filled the place, and it seemed larger than it actually was. Angel ran around like a maniac as soon as I arrived, probably because his mother visibly stiffened at my presence. Veata’s father greeted me with a slight bow and led me to a table to sit. He poured me a whiskey, and sat only after I did. We drank in silence, nodding and smiling every so often until Veata’s cousin—Sopat, the whale-shark killer—showed up, eying me. “Maybe I should go?” I whispered to Veata. “Why you go?” Sopat asked politely. “We eat now,” Veata said. Her mother came out with two large bowls of coconut milk with garlic, onion, potatoes, and chunks of white flesh floating in it. It smelled wonderful. She put some rice in front of me on a small table and motioned for me to start eating, but I didn’t want to until everybody sat. Eventually, Sopat sat across from me, and after she put Angel to sleep on a mat on the floor Veata joined us, followed, finally, by her father. Her mother kept working by the stove. “You like?” Sopat asked. My cue to take a bite of rice drenched in the thick soup. The potatoes practically melted on my tongue, and the broth was spiced perfectly. But the fish was rubbery and oily when I got to chewing it. My gag reflex kicked in, and I looked for a napkin to spit. I could feel the sweat dripping under my arms. But soon the coconut milk counterbalanced the oil, and I swallowed. Veata’s father smiled at me expectantly, and as the partially chewed mixture went down my throat I managed a version of the same smile we had been exchanging over liquor before. Everybody started eating once I did, even Veata’s mother, who sat on a stool behind her nephew and her husband. We ate in silence for the most part, with Veata and Sopat speaking intermittently, I couldn’t catch what about, but it seemed to be small talk. Sopat stared at me unsmilingly between bites. I looked at Veata’s father there, rail-thin and stooped over his chipped bowl, chewing each bite for what seemed like ten minutes. He should’ve been Veata’s grandfather, not her father. In his face there was something I’d never seen in my own father’s—nor in my own, to be perfectly honest. He looked peaceful, happy even. Proud to be feeding a guest from whom he’d sought help just a week before. I’d had the nerve to pity him. All the while he could’ve been pitying me. Or should’ve been. He chewed and smiled, chewed and smiled, and against all my own rules I found myself wondering about him, so I said as much to Veata after I’d managed to swallow another oily, briny mouthful. She looked at me, stunned by the inquiry. She began, “Father lost his first family to Khmer Rouge. They kill his two son in front of his eye because he try to hide them in the house. His wife, she die working in the camp, and—” Veata stopped, searching my eyes for a sign that she’d said too much. Her father kept smiling between bites while Veata talked, telling me how he had found his way south to Kampot in 1980, during the famine. He had no idea what she was saying, but there he was, chewing his food full-cheeked as if he dined in this manner all the time. Dined like the King of Cambodia. Feasting upon the meat that kings eat.
Magda Mandela It is 4:30 A.M. and Magda would like us, her neighbors, to know that she is a very talented woman, a woman of accomplishments. Magda is a nurse, a qualified pilot, a businesswoman and a philanthropist, a gifted and sensitive lover, the holder of certificates in computing and English grammar, a semi-professional country singer, and a mother. Yes, a mother! Magda has a daughter. Who came out of this pussy right here. Right here, she says. Out of this pussy. RIGHT HERE. And all along the street we come to our windows to twitch the net curtains and face the awe-inspiring truth that is Magda in her lime-green thong. She’s standing on the top step, the lights of the house blazing behind her, a terrifying mash-up of the Venus of Willendorf and a Victoria’s Secret catalogue, making gestures with a beer can at the little knot of emergency-service personnel gathered on the pavement below. One of the younger and less experienced constables has obviously asked her to accompany him to a place where, as an agent of the state, he will feel less exposed. A police station, perhaps. Or a hospital. Anywhere that will tip the odds a little in his favor. Magda has met this suggestion with the scorn it deserves. She knows that she outnumbers these fools. YOU KNOW ME, she says. Then, with a sinister leer, AND I KNOW YOU. Being known by Magda is a messy and unavoidably carnal experience. All of us neighbors have been known by Magda. Last time she knew me, she pushed me up against the side of my car. I know you, she breathed huskily. And I knew I’d been known. In their big reflective jackets, the policemen appear crumpled and insubstantial. They are visibly trying to block out the knowledge of her knowledge, no doubt using the mental techniques they were taught at the training school: I am a powerful person. I control my own destiny. Behind the ambulance, one of the paramedics is taking a quick nip of oxygen. They clearly don’t realize what they’re up against. Magda is the daughter of Nelson Mandela, major world leader and savior of his country. Don’t these Day-Glo fools see the resemblance? If they have any doubts, ANY DOUBTS AT ALL, she tells them, they have only to consult the autobiography “Long Road to Freedom.” Read the autobiography! Read page 37 and page 475! They will see. THEN THEY WILL KNOW. Magda is coated in something that I suspect is coconut oil. She has the air of a woman who has roused herself from titanic erotic exertions to be here with us on Westerbury Road tonight. She has been INTERRUPTED. She has THINGS TO DO. There is no sign of Errol. I hope he’s all right. Errol is quite fragile. Magda lives in Errol’s house. This is a scandal on Westerbury Road, because Errol is a widower in his seventies, who brought up a family and was expected to eke away his twilight years on D.I.Y., Sunday church, and the occasional tot of Wray & Nephew rum. However, Errol likes Wray & Nephew more than he likes church, and last year (according to Lauren, at No. 20) he met Magda at a lock-in at the Victoria Arms, one of the least salubrious pubs in our little corner of East London. I’ve been to one of those lock-ins. They do get frisky. Magda is at least thirty, possibly forty years younger than Errol. For a while after she moved in, he pottered around with a smile on his grizzled face, raffishly touching the brim of his baseball cap to us neighbors and whistling as he swept the leaves off his front steps. These days, he wears the sour expression of a man who’s been cheated at cards. What Errol signed up for was a bit of bounce and warmth and comfort on cold nights. Instead, he’s been swept into a world of grand operatic passion. Between Magda and Errol there is a love that can spill out in many directions. It has left Magda sleeping in a rolled-up carpet on the pavement and Errol hobbling across the street to take refuge in my kitchen; during Old Testament times, Errol prefers to keep a door between the two of them—and who can blame him for that? Magda’s wrath is sharp and terrible. It involves a lot of casting out and smiting. The recently smitten include: Errol (obviously), Lauren at No. 20, the Meals on Wheels lady, and several council workmen whom Magda battered with one of the stock of road cones she keeps in the front yard. Magda leaves Errol at least once a month. Sometimes Errol throws her out. Frequently, instead of leaving him, she punishes him by going to the Victoria Arms and finding a young man to bring home and sit with on the steps. For a day or two, Errol will look grim and spend a lot of time in the betting shop. Then things will go back to normal. Magda must be excused her foibles, because she is wrestling with the great question of her life: old man or young man? Both have their pluses. Young men have more energy and are less scandalous, unless they smoke crack on the steps or go telling lies to Errol. Old men are more dignified and have houses. Old men are Magda’s weakness: I LIKE A OLD MAN. She mentioned her inclinations to my father (seventy this year) when he came to visit the other week. There was a commotion outside, and I found Magda knowing him against a lamppost. You are a old man, she purred appreciatively, rubbing up and down against his leg. I like a old man. Old man, young man. Which will it be? For all her turbulence, Magda is concerned about the proprieties. She values the good opinion of us neighbors. The other night, she came out onto the steps to explain her relationship with Errol. My neighbors, she said, I must tell you why I am here. We rose from our beds and came to our windows. I AM HIS NURSE. He is a old man. He can’t satisfy a woman like me. He is limp and goes to sleep. I need more of a man than such a one. I am a qualified nurse, a gifted woman. He is like a father to me. The problem with you people is this. I will tell you now: You all have dirty minds. Filthy dirty. I think I have said enough. Now fuck off. As neighbors, we often fail Magda in this way—with our prurience, our tendency to jump to conclusions. She frequently has to chastise us. Occasionally, she does a round of the street and casts us out one by one, which is effortful and very time-consuming. Tonight, before the arrival of emergency services, she was berating us for our pride and our materialism. I KNOW YOU, she told us. You think you have HOUSES. In Notting Hill they have HOUSES. I have seen them with my own eyes. In such a house is my friend. A young man, not old and worn out at all. Ten, twelve bathrooms at a time in such houses. Enough bathrooms. On nights such as tonight, Magda likes to sing. She particularly likes an audience in uniform. You’re my best friend, she sings. I love you, but you don’t love me. This song is freely adapted from her CD of country-music hymns, the one she plays to get into a churchgoing mood on Sunday mornings. Magda has built her own semi-professional singing career around such material. She has appeared in Cape Town and Tottenham and Dalston, she says. Musically speaking, Magda’s congregation must be more avant-garde than most: although her voice is an extraordinary phenomenon, it’s not tonal, at least not as we usually understand tonality. Sometimes when Magda comes out onto the steps and speaks, I sit bolt upright in bed. Sometimes it’s as if she were in the room with me. My girlfriend has the same experience. Magda’s voice is not simply loud. Loud, yes, but not just loud. It has the penetrative force of a piece of heavy industrial equipment, something with a diamond bit or tempered-steel blades. Often it seems disconnected from her body, as if it were emerging from the bathroom or from under the floorboards or the far end of Westerbury Road. When you look at Magda, who is quite short and (when dressed) usually looks neat and more or less conventionally contained inside herself, you’d never guess that she possessed such a voice. And, in a way, she doesn’t, or at least that’s what I believe. I think she’s merely the voice’s host, its point of entry into the continuum of Westerbury Road. Magda’s Voice Theory No. 1: Dimensionality. She is the portal through which the voice emerges. There must be some other world, unimaginably fraught and violent, contiguous to ours but not normally permeable. Magda’s Voice Theory No. 2: Concerning the Nature of Higher-Order Spaces. Its eerie ability to project into my thickly curtained bedroom is evidence of some force as yet unknown to science. Corollary: perhaps higher-order spaces are denser, more difficult as a medium for conversation. Magda is racked by tremendous passions. Wake up, my neighbors, she will often command. Wake up and listen. Tonight I love you. I love you, my neighbors. I am filled with love. But you do not love me, so I say to you this: I DON’T GIVE A FUCK ABOUT YOU. That is the truth. Fuck off now. Go. Magda loves us, but she spurns us just as we spurn her. She spurns us out of the vastness of her love. Sometimes she is unhappy, and then she will tell us, I am dying. Yes, I have a pain and I am dying, my neighbors. You don’t love me. I am dying, and you don’t even know. I love you, but I don’t give a fuck about you. Go now. Go away. Fuck off. Go. I love you. Go. Once she has delivered her tragic message, she will disappear inside to call an ambulance. When it comes, she will be ready on the steps with an overnight case. Having told the paramedics briefly about her pain, she will push past them and sit in the back, waiting to go, fuck off, go. Magda’s Voice Theory No. 3: Metaphysical Origins. After a recent row with Errol, Magda brought home a young Muslim to sit on the steps. He wore a dishdash and a white skullcap. He had a wispy beard and a cardboard suitcase and a bemused expression. I think she’d found him at the station. He looked about twenty-one. Magda waved her rum bottle and told him about the thieves who sometimes steal her parking space. She demonstrated her concern for parking security on Westerbury Road by making a few minor alterations to the construction of wooden planks and road cones she uses to protect the space outside Errol’s house. I wasn’t sure the boy spoke English. From the suitcase, I’d say he had just arrived in London. Still, he listened intently, ignoring the bottle in her hand. Even if he didn’t understand the words, he seemed to recognize something, something worth listening to. Could he have heard divinity in Magda’s voice? At one point that afternoon, I passed the steps on my way to the shops. She called out to me, Don’t worry, he’s my brother. He has very dirty ears. I’m just checking his ears. It’s gradually dawning on the policemen that they will have to effect an arrest. It will be a slippery business. I wonder if they train for this. Are there special holds? Written protocols? Magda can see the way their devious minds are working. She has the element of surprise. I KNOW YOU, she warns sportingly. Andy the drummer chooses this moment to drive down the road and park outside his house. He has been out late, gigging somewhere. He once told me that he gets a lot of work in Leeds. Andy is a favorite of Magda’s. All right, boy, she says. You. Yes, you with the red car. I love you. I’ve seen this car many a time. I’ve seen this car a lot of times, I tell you. Go away now. I’ve done with you. Go, O.K.? Fuck you. You probably have a small cock. Go. Andy waves to her and starts unloading his drum kit. YOU ARE A YOUNG MAN, she calls out, blowing him a kiss. Thinking she is distracted, the policemen advance up the steps. Magda emits a long high-pitched wail, which rattles the windows and pierces deep into the souls of us neighbors, watching from our upstairs windows. M.V.T. No. 4: A survival from the ancient world? Primal, atavistic. Greek mourner. Mammoth feller. She slithers out of their grasp, waddling down the street in the direction of the main road. Though she’s slow, she has a chaotic, lumbering motion that makes her hard to catch. At last, two of the policemen grab hold of her, one gripping her arms, the other circling her waist in a sort of static rugby tackle, his head pressed into the flesh of her stomach, so that he’s eyeballing the triangle of acid-green nylon that is all that stands between his nose and her most intimate zones. Magda’s fierce resistance reminds me of the time when her need for a young man led her to climb into the basement of No. 18, where a crew of builders were fitting a kitchen. As they cowered behind the sink unit, she wedged herself halfway through the sash window. I LIVE WITH A OLD MAN, she growled, wiggling and straining. I have a condom. Line up. I am ready. Walkie-talkies crackle. Doors slam. Magda is placed inside the police van, and I climb back into bed. For a few minutes, red and blue lights make flashing patterns on my ceiling, then all is quiet and dark on Westerbury Road. Magda will be back tomorrow. They never keep her for long. She’ll sulk for a day or two, listening to pirate radio in Errol’s back garden, then she’ll forgive us and return to her place on the front steps. What we her thieving-neighbors-so-smug-in-our-houses don’t know is the power of love. Love conquers all. One day we’ll discover that this is true, and then we’ll be sorry. Sometimes I wonder what would happen if we returned Magda’s love. If we believed in her, she could do great things for us. But our problem is that we are faithless. Our problem is that we are stupid. Our problem is that we just don’t listen.
Wasps Their Da was going away again, that’s all it was. Both boys had said nothing about it, but were awake at five and thumping downstairs and straight out to the garden, Jimbo still wearing pajamas and Shawn in yesterday’s clothes, probably no underpants—some objection he had at the moment to them, as if they were practically nappies and grownups never wore them. The first fight began as soon as they left the house: she has a memory of dozing through whole cycles of shouts and squealing and that odd, flat roar Shawn has started to produce whenever he truly loses himself and just rages. No tantrums for Shawn, not anymore. He is seven now. He has the real thing. He has rage. And the day had been out of kilter already, insistent. Orange-pink light was creeping forward and threatening by four; summer pushing everything earlier and earlier whether you wanted it to or not, and the bed too hot, and what might be called a real gale had been rising outside until her sleep was full of its pressure against the corner of the house, air leaning so hard at the window that she felt breathless and unsettled, searched by a hunger that needed, that pried. The house had grown disturbed—doors pestering at their frames whenever the weather drew breath, clatters on the roof, something twisting, searching overhead, and meanwhile she dreamed a little of being underwater, swimming the length of an obstacle course, both a game and an obstacle course, in some kind of terrible amusement park. She was fully dressed, heavy, but doing her best to thread a way along flooded passages, over ramps, gasping up into sudden pockets of lovely air and then driving herself back down to find this or that opening into caves, or water-filled dining rooms, church halls, or a place like a fishmonger’s shop, except all the fish in it were still alive—tethered by hooks through the bodies and heads, fluttering by the white tiled walls and hanging in strings of blood, staring at her while she kicked and wallowed past. All the time, she’d kept thinking, I shan’t bring the children here, it seems unsafe. There must surely be someone I could inform, a procedure to follow for complaints. What I need is a higher authority—then I’d ask them to have this set right. The sense of it faded as she woke, but she had been left with a definite shame, the embarrassed anticipation that she might drown, be lost somewhere in the game when nobody else had a problem with it, because it was in fact so simple and undemanding, like a tunnel of love, or a ghost train; a stroll round the fun-house mirrors and then back home. By the time she looked at the alarm, it was getting on for half past seven, and the boys were still noisy, loud against the weather. Which was how they dealt with it—the leaving—by giving each other reasons to cry and reasons to be angry. Their father was curled on his side, hands under his chin, and offering her that look—the one that always made her think he wasn’t sleeping, was only waiting until she had gone, or until something interesting happened, a surprise. Although as a couple they weren’t much prone to surprises. Predictable, was Ray. She dressed in a T-shirt and jogging bottoms—as if she were someone who took exercise and cared about her health—and then she went to the windowsill so that she could check on the wasps. There always were wasps. Always dead—or else weak and sleepy, crawling off to a permanent halt behind the chest of drawers. Five today. All goners. As if the house drew them and then destroyed them. Ridiculously fragile wings, perfect stripes and tapered bodies, altogether finely worked—they were like very tiny toys. Of course, you quite naturally worried that somebody would step barefoot on top of one by mistake. The boys were not really at risk, though, because they were not allowed into Mummy and Daddy’s bedroom. None of that letting the kids cuddle in between their parents for the night—could ruin a marriage, nonsense like that. And the bed wasn’t big enough for four. Not even for three. She cupped the wasps in her hand, the window frame shuddering beside her, as the storm sneaked in a draft to stir the dead wings, their stiffened weightlessness. She patted the glass, smiled, and left the room and let the corridor draw her along, then the stairs, another corridor, until she arrived in the kitchen, because she would forever and ever arrive in the kitchen—no will or effort necessary. There she would be in unironed clothes, nothing to show what was left of her shape: as scruffy as her children, an inadequate bloodline no doubt apparent in every fault the three of them displayed. But there was no time for morbid reflection. She walked to the back door, opened it and called her sons; opened it and opened her palm, let a pounce of clean breeze take the wasps and make them gone. And now. Sunday today, so she made a proper breakfast: a nice hearty sendoff for Ray. He’d be gone before lunch, and who knew what he’d be eating while he was away. Sausage, fried eggs, bacon, black pudding, toast and potato scones, ketchup, peanut butter, marmalade—enough finally to lure the boys into the kitchen on smell alone. As she could have guessed, they were not speaking: Jimbo was tearful and Shawn brooding, each of them, she knew, on the verge of telling her how badly he’d been treated by the other and how wrong everything was. She decided to get in first, to impose order. “Wash your hands, they’re horrible.” “I can’t.” Jimbo displaying a pretty much unscathed hand. “Shawn hit my thumb with a stone and made it bleed.” She settled her fingers on his forehead, felt the race of the storm still caught there: its lightness and its cold. “He hit me all morning. He always hits me. And you always let him.” Shawn washed his own hands very thoroughly, theatrically, with the air of a weary surgeon. As she watched, the weight of an older brother’s responsibilities and trials hardened his jaw enough for him to look very much like his father. “My foot is bleeding. But I never said.” She offered him a plateful of everything, but failed to catch his eye, Shawn having developed a habit of speaking to the floor. “I never said anything.” “Yes, well, you have said now.” It occurred to her that he’d be an appalling teen-ager. Quite possibly Ray had been, too. “He’s much smaller than you and you mustn’t hit him.” Maybe they had bad genes on both sides, then, her poor boys. “See!” Jimbo crowed, grasping a piece of toast in his wounded, filthy hand. “And you, little man, mustn’t annoy him until he hits you. Shawn is your brother and you have to take care of each other.” “I hate him.” “No, you don’t. Wash your hands. Now. Don’t put that toast back on the plate. We don’t want it. Come and sit down and join us, Shawn. Jimbo, you do go and wash. I mean it. And both of you behave. Da will be very upset if the last thing he sees of you is two dirty boys who can’t be at peace. Let’s have a good morning. Before your mother starts to scream and doesn’t stop and has to be taken away to the hospital for screaming people. Who would make your breakfasts then?” Her sons showed no sign of having heard her, and she wondered again which of her threats they would remember, which would be useful and which would scar. It never was easy to tell, she supposed, if your parenting was mostly beneficial or bound to harm. Ray. There was something in Ray that was almost dangerous. She had found him with Jimbo last night—the child with his hair curled and damp from the bath, clean pajamas, the face she strokes without thinking, cups with her palm while she stands behind him and he leans his shoulders back on her knees and she finds the tiny, narrow jolts of his vertebrae, rubs them up and down for luck, reassurance, delight. (She does the same with Shawn when he’ll let her, has no favorite. They are her two boys. Inescapable. Irreplaceable. Inescapable.) His father was sitting beside him on the bed, Jimbo snuffling, showing every sign of wanting to run up into a crying bout, a full-blown, wailing fit. But Ray had stalled him. Caught him. “You wouldn’t want to have no food, would you? Or no house? And none of your things. Juggy the bear over there . . .” “He’s not a bear.” Jimbo was using his smallest voice, the one to make you think he was still much younger. “Well, Juggy, anyway—there would be no money to buy him if I didn’t go off and work. Your mother doesn’t earn any money, she just works here. So I give her money and she spends some of that on you and I spend money on you and . . .” He’d smiled as if he’d just worked out something clever and now he could show it off. “Your brother and you are both very expensive.” Ray lifted Jimbo’s chin with his finger so that he could concentrate on the boy’s eyes: the soft, large target they made. “Would you want to be a homeless boy with nothing?” Jimbo with no answer to this. “Would you want to be cold and hungry?” Again there was no possible reply. And she wanted to feel that this kind of bullying might simply be what males did with each other—men with men, men with boys, boys amongst themselves. She aimed for the hope that it was natural, normal, a minor way of hardening the heart against later shocks. “That’s why I go away, Jimbo. For you.” Something in Jimbo, she could tell, decided then that his father left him because of his needing toys and wanting to play with Juggy. Jimbo’s hurt was gently becoming Jimbo’s fault while she watched, there it went, slipping, seeping in. Another year or so and he’d have noticed what Shawn has already figured out—that love and pain are names for the same thing. Give one, mean the other. Get one, want the other. Mean one, get the other back for it. Want one, want the other, want both. “Don’t tell them that.” She’d had to mention it in the evening. Although she was all for a quiet life, it wasn’t right to fortify the heart by killing it. “I said don’t tell them that—don’t make it seem like their fault that you go away.” “Well, it’s true.” “Then particularly don’t say it to them.” Ray looked out of the bedroom window, tilted his chin, opened his mouth just a touch, and tapped his fingernail against his bottom teeth. This meant he wouldn’t answer. She changed direction. “What are you going to do about the wasps?” And that sounded like nagging, when she absolutely didn’t want to nag—this their last night, last night together before he’s off, the two of them making the memory he’ll take away. “I mean, they’re still coming in. It’s odd.” “Mm.” He rubbed hard at his hair, made it stay lifted, disordered, so that when his hand fell he seemed younger, soft. He turned to her. “I’m sorry. What?” His expression was polite. Yes, that was the word for it: polite. “Wasps . . .” “Yes.” “Well, I did check. You saw me. I checked. And there wasn’t a nest, a colony, something like that. Not anywhere near. There was nothing.” “I wondered where they come from, that’s all.” “They’re getting in through a closed window—that’s what I don’t understand. All shut up tight, but still they get in at me. It shouldn’t be possible.” “But it is.” And this the point where it had happened again—still they get in at me—a safe conversation becoming unwieldy, changing its face. She’d tried not to consider if he thought this when he met the women, when he first saw in them whatever it was that he needed, wanted, and began the process, the arrangements, the exchanges found necessary. Did he look at them and decide, was there hesitation, wonderment—still they get in at me. Ray had grinned at her, winked. “Never mind the wasps, though. Let’s say goodbye.” “Goodbye.” It was his right to make this mean hardly anything or everything—goodbyegoodbyegoodbye—and her right to not know. “You know what I mean.” When she does not. His grin wider. “You do know.” It touches her, cold on her forehead and in her hair, lifting up. He’d extended his arms, very tender, happy, warm—the husband who wants to hug his wife and then take her to bed and croon damp words in her ear, small encouragements, as if she were an animal in need of guidance, liable to shy away at the more demanding drops and slopes and jumps. “Come on, love. It’ll all be O.K.” And she did almost fall toward him—it undoubtedly felt like falling—his long arms wrapping round her, friendly. “Hello.” Cheery, he’d sounded. She hadn’t answered, not being especially cheery herself. Now she waited for him in the kitchen as the boys hacked at their food and took too much ketchup because they could tell when she wasn’t paying enough attention to make them stop. In the garden, wind was clawing at the flowers, breaking things; the trees wild with it beyond the fence. “All right, then.” Behind her, Ray was standing, very neat. She shifted her chair round and saw the business suit, which she’d expected, and the coat, which wasn’t entirely unanticipated. He was already wearing his coat. He never did like hanging around. Shawn understood the situation as quickly as she did, shoving his chair back and rushing to hug his father’s legs. Jimbo followed, but was more hesitant—as if he might have the power to carelessly make something worse. “You’re not going yet.” Shawn muffled, his face pressed hard to the overcoat. “Too soon.” She found herself having to ask, “Yes, couldn’t you eat something? With us?” “Sorry.” He took hold of his children’s collars and began to tug them back and forth, play fighting, with easy strength in the thin forearms, wiry cunning. The boys squealed and he shook them more, going slightly too hard at it, the way that he usually did, until their faces were still pleased but their eyes were very mildly afraid. Ray shrugged. “Slept in. You should have woken me. I’ll be racing all the way now.” He glanced down at Shawn and Jimbo. “Racing . . . yes, I will be.” His own eyes comfortable, ready to see other faces, other people. She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “You should have let them be with you longer. You know how they’ll get once you’ve left. Actually, no, you don’t—you’re not here.” She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “I do believe that you still love me and I would have thought that would be the most important thing, but in fact you no longer respect me and that is the worst, is the very worst. You love me but I do not matter.” She could not say, because they had already discussed this issue, “This doesn’t work. You can’t keep telling me about the women, because this doesn’t work. You can’t say that I’m happy with your money and the house and that it’s easier for me this way and I get to stay with the children and everything is familiar and stable and fine and you’ll always come home and you’ll never stay, but you’ll always come home, but you’ll never stay, and I am here doing many, many things for which I do not respect myself. And you want impossible things and I can’t do them.” She did say, “Well, if you have to go.” The rising cold against her arms. He nodded, agreeing. “Come on, then.” He hustled the boys along with him up the passage and half turned so that he could see her face, reassure her. “I’ll call you.” She stood, followed. The door lunged open against him when he unlocked it, banging Jimbo on the head so that he started crying, howling. The hall full of weather. “No damage done, brave lad. Gotta go. Bye, now.” Ray kissed Shawn’s forehead and reached down for Jimbo, but the boy pulled away, ran to her and grabbed her T-shirt. She had to fight her son’s weight to reach the door, set a hand on Shawn’s shoulder, accept the brief squeeze of her arm that her husband left her. Ray stood clear of them all on the path for a moment and waved, then, spinning, leaned forward into the storm. It buffeted him, punched his tie against his face, slapped under his coat, and she watched him struggle and thought, This is how it should start: the timely intervention of some higher authority; the real force of everything; the rage. The coming rain should swing down like a blade while the storm takes him high and sets him right by shaking him apart. She stood on the doorstep preparing herself. This was a way to be happy when he finally didn’t come back.
Shauntrelle It isn’t just a husband you divorce but a life. A credit rating. Certain friends—sadly, some of them small children. A mother-in-law, that innocent bystander. And sometimes it seemed to Constance that she had divorced her own pronoun, I, and run away with another, she. She, she sometimes thought, of herself, and always in the present tense. As in Has she disconnected from her past so completely? She hadn’t, however, divorced her city. Houston was still hers, although this part of it was new to her. Along with the novelty of the South Loop, she’d acquired a roommate, this after many years of the known quantity: husband, daughter. Dogs. She guessed she’d divorced them, too. At the front desk of the Laventura, a disdainful blond woman provided her with a handful of devices for entry into her new life: apartment and mailbox keys, garage-gate remote, car tag, a code for accessing inner sanctums bearing keypads. Up the dizzying garage ramp Constance drove, around and around, seeking out her stall. On one side of it a racing bike was locked to a fire hose; on the other sat a vintage Mercedes with soft tires, mint green. One of these vehicles belonged to her new roommate, Fanny Mann. The voice on the phone and the affect over e-mail suggested the Mercedes: Fanny had used “y’all”; her cell-phone area code was from Louisiana. The apartment door had a lighted doorbell and a peephole, and was situated in a long hallway of such doors. The only distinguishing characteristic was the welcome mat. Some doorways had one; some did not. Fanny Mann’s was bright red, not a speck of dirt on it. “Hi there!” The voice sang out before the face appeared. This was perhaps to offset the effect of the startling bandages that covered some of it. “Don’t be frightened! Come on in! I’m your roomie—you’re at the right place! You didn’t know you were moving in with the Invisible Woman, did you?” The roommate wore lipstick under the antiseptic white strips; her eyes were outlined in kohl, hazel-colored, vaguely bloodshot. “Rhinoplasty,” she explained. “In case you were thinking battered wife.” Certain other details caught Constance’s attention—the manicure, the studded belt, the short denim skirt. “How smart is it,” Fanny Mann was saying as they jockeyed into the too-cool apartment, “to move in with someone you wouldn’t recognize on the street?” Was she drunk? No. This, Constance would learn, was her way—she worked hard to make people laugh. Or at least smile, if only at her effort. It was Fanny Mann’s most appealing characteristic; she was a flirt, down to the makeup and heels. The apartment smelled overwhelmingly of perfume, a familiar scent that happened to have been the favorite of Constance’s late mother: Shalimar. The Art Deco bottle flashed in Constance’s mind. Under the perfume, the odor of hospital, fresh paint, and air-conditioning, and the faint cigarette smell of someone who took her habit out to the balcony. The furniture was brand-new, tags still hanging from a few objects, and the art inoffensive—abstract landscapes, vases. The dining-room table was set for two: placemats, plates, polyester napkins blooming from industrial-strength wineglasses. “I should probably put those away,” Fanny Mann said. “But they amuse me. When I moved in, last week, all the lights were on and the stereo was blaring classical. I kept expecting somebody in a cummerbund to show up with dinner! I put the plastic plants out on the balcony, to spruce it up a bit, and, let me tell you, they’re flourishing!” She was older than Constance had guessed, younger than her mother would have been, yet older than her stepmother. Sixty-two? The body would reveal your secrets, given a chance. It was in the leathery arch of Fanny’s foot in its spike heel, the automatic lift of the chin so as to photograph well, the second-nature way she had with the unlit cigarette she held, as if she had been born with a wandlike object in her hand. Her accent was lazier than Constance’s, swampier, homier. She was only a temporary tenant in Houston, here for a forced vacation while her flooded house was under repair. She was taking advantage of the exodus to have her nose sculpted, her face lifted, her skin lasered and peeled, her fat vacuumed, her tummy tucked, her breasts bolstered, her neck tightened, her teeth veneered, and the spare skin around her eyes snipped away. Her goal, she told Constance, was to more closely resemble the personal ad she’d posted on the Internet. She was limping, she explained, because of liposuction, moving tenderly and somewhat unsteadily on stilettos. In New Orleans, she was a chiropractor. “I sure wish I could show you a ‘before’ picture,” she said regretfully. “So that you could fully appreciate what’s going to come ‘after.’ ” She never knows what to say to sudden intimacies from strangers. Fanny Mann’s revelations, and the expectant pause that followed, seemed coercive, as if Constance now owed the woman her own confession. But it was not Constance’s habit to make herself available to other people; strangers mistook her for cold. To get to know her, to grow fond of her, you had to spend a long time hanging around. Her marriage to William had lasted twenty-one years; their daughter was now eighteen and in college. The two dogs were also relatively old, brothers, a decade in Constance’s care. The boyfriend was her most recent kinship, a love affair of five years. Those beings had been her intimates, and now every one of them had found sudden, utter, devastating fault with her. Wouldn’t that send anybody to the third person? But Fanny Mann didn’t seem to mind Constance’s reticence; she may not even have noticed it. “I gab enough for two or three fools,” she said cheerfully. “I get along great with the quiet type. My husbands were all still-waters sort of guys.” They had located each other through a corporate-housing Web site, one in need of a room, the other in need of a roommate. Fanny Mann’s best friend from grade school—she was of the age and region and disposition to have had the same best friend for more than fifty years—who had originally promised to share the apartment and undergo similar improving procedures, had backed out at the last minute. “Cancer,” Fanny Mann said, with no less vibrancy. “Stage four, in her lungs.” “That’s awful.” These, apart from the initial mumbled pleasantries, were Constance’s first words to Fanny Mann. “It truly is.” Her eyes, bruised yellow above the bandages, briefly filled with tears. Her mascara was waterproof, perfect. “Bless her heart,” she added, covering her own chest with her hand. “Your room,” she went on, continuing the tour. The carpet was plush and caught at Fanny’s heels. “Your bath, your walk-in closet, your towels and sheets and butt-ugly bedspread. You ever lived in so-called corporate housing before?” The corporate-housing company they had used, which owned and rented out a few apartments in the Laventura, advertised that one needed only to show up—the rest awaited: appliances and their services, lamps and throw rugs and trash cans and kitchen gadgets. Sample-size containers of face and bath and dish and laundry soap. “Don’t answer the land line is my advice. Some gal named Felicia had this number before—all the calls ask for Felicia, and they leave messages on our machine, too, all P.O.ed, because Felicia is up to her eyeballs in debt. No wonder she got rid of the number. The thing is, the answering machine isn’t Felicia’s, or mine, either. The answering machine is Ray.” She poked the little unit to make it produce its former owner’s deep voice. “You’ve reached Ray,” he said enticingly. “And you know what I need.” Then a chuckle, followed by the beep. “Can’t hurt, can it? A man answering our phone? I like his sexy voice, too. I wonder where he went, anyway.” As if on cue, Fanny Mann’s cell phone buzzed on her hip. She squinted at the screen before declining to engage the line. “And we can get the Internet sometimes, not all the time, and always in a different room. Yesterday the kitchen, but only by the sink; today, who knows?” This accounted for the laptop blinking on the chopping block. The last stop on the tour was the balcony, from which you could see the Astrodome to the west, the hospitals to the north. Directly below, six floors down, people waiting for a bus. Constance could hear them talking, exclamations and murmurs and the occasional clear profanity. Scattered around the Laventura sat empty businesses, their doors padlocked, vines crawling over them, as if to reclaim them for nature, while on the street loitered a fleet of people pushing grocery carts. This detritus, man-made, earth-grown, was a kind of moat surrounding the building proper, this modern fortress, painted a yellow that was surely labelled Tuscan. “Laventura, Laventura!” Fanny Mann sang, finally lighting her cigarette, mindful of the flame so near her bandages. “I think it means ‘little wine bottles’ in Italian.” “I did notice some broken glass around the front door,” Constance said. “Yeah, very corporate, huh? The neighborhood’s gentrifying, but somebody forgot to tell the winos. See there? That fizzling blue light on the corner? That’s our local grocery. I call it the No Judgment Store. Everybody buying beer and condoms and lottery tickets and tubs of lard. Whack rags.” Fanny smiled, wincing a bit, either from the smoke or the sutures. “I’m usually the only white woman in the place. The bag boy thinks I’m fine. ‘You fine!’ Don’t you love that? Nobody bats an eye, you pick up a carton of smokes and a pack of pork rinds at nine in the A.M. On a Sunday, no less.” Constance returned her smile, relieved, relaxing suddenly, as if she had finished a challenging physical chore or swilled a stiff drink. Here was a woman with scruples less developed than her own, someone who had chosen to be not frightened but entertained by her new neighborhood, someone who soldiered on with her elective surgery even when her best friend got a diagnosis of cancer. Lung cancer—and Fanny Mann sucking on a cigarette. Constance felt lighter, as if Fanny had spirited away a sack of stones she’d been lugging around. “Maybe I’ll bum a smoke,” she said shyly. “There you go!” Fanny Mann crowed, expertly tapping the pack so that one jumped out. “There’s a carton in the freezer—you just help yourself.” Constance unpacked her clothing that first night in her strange chilly room, brushed her teeth, plumped the pillows on her new bed, set the alarm. Then what? Her ex-husband would be sleeping on what had for twenty-one years been her side of the bed; he’d always coveted it. Her boyfriend would be fiddling at his computer, the only source of light in his shabby duplex, likely stoned, busy in the virtual world where he was most comfortable. Constance held those images in her mind, staring through them at the wall, still able to smell the vanilla sweetness of Shalimar, which made her picture her mother, too, preparing for an evening out, back when her parents were the adults, and death and stepmothers were things that she had only read about in the Brothers Grimm. She hardly recognizes herself in the mirror. Now she tucked herself in and opened her book, a novel assigned, in a fashion, by her daughter. “There’s this book I really liked,” Lily had reluctantly offered when Constance asked how the semester was going. Lily was a secretive, serious girl, even more so now that her mother had been discovered to have her own serious secret. Constance wasn’t making good progress on the recommended book, however. Every night she tried to enter its world—the streets of Los Angeles, a city she had never actually visited. On those streets, two gay girls, runaways, were making their living as prostitutes. One, Jo, was a heroin addict. The other, Deezy, merely drank. They loved each other but had sex with men—graphic, angry sex—and sometimes weren’t even paid for the service. When they reconvened, after their separate desperate nights, they wanted only to abuse their respective substances and fall into a chaste embrace. The fact that her daughter had enjoyed this book alarmed Constance, interfered with her ability to simply read. Instead, she took it in as if she were in Lily’s presence—self-conscious and with a heightened attention. It was the way she’d felt when Lily was younger and they’d watched inappropriate movies together, averting their eyes as the clothes were peeled off, as the ravishing sex ensued. The book gave Constance nightmares. Although her dreamscape had nothing to do with the novel’s landscape, the book seemed to operate as a kind of portal. Through it she entered another world, which was neither Los Angeles nor Houston. It seemed to be a city on a hill, with unsteady buildings teetering up its sides, a body of water lapping at its base. There, a boy whom she’d loved as a teen-ager often appeared: Corey Forster. Like the girls in Lily’s novel, Corey had had bad habits, and also bad luck; the combination had killed him in a car crash when he was only nineteen. He’d driven off an unfinished highway overpass one night, heedless of the orange cones and flashing lights. He’d been drunk and high, and probably thrilled at the sudden absence of traffic, the secret shortcut home from a party where Constance had remained. In her dreams, Corey Forster was always on the verge of taking her hand, of leading her down a hallway, into a room where she could have him back. Why, then, did she think of these dreams as nightmares? Because they were difficult to leave, and that was somehow worse: being happy in a made-up place in the company of a ghost. The experience seemed insane. Constance was tormented by it. In the morning, she found her new roommate at the dining table, its elaborate setting enhanced by a plate of plump muffins. These were delivered daily, downstairs, Fanny Mann informed Constance. She was kind of a welcome sight, jolly and bathed, done up like a tropical bird in a vivid silk wrap. “These are blueberry and chocolate,” she said. “Some days we get croissants, some days zucchini loaf. Oh, not now,” she added, frowning down at her cell phone vibrating on the table. “Poor Lucille. A better friend might have cancelled her face-lift, esprit de corps and all. But, really, what could I do for her? To quote my daddy, I have no medical expertise and, furthermore, I’m not getting any younger.” She let the phone burr and buzz its way closer to the plate of muffins. “They got crappy reception over there at the cancer ward, anyway. Everyone else in my life left me but Lucille—first my son, then my daughter, next that maroon I married, and after that the other maroons, but never Lucille. Still, I’ve been waiting a long time to pimp this ride. She said to go ahead, the sight would cheer her up. She’s over there losing weight without even trying, bless her heart.” Finally, the phone ceased. “You are not wearing those shoes!” Fanny Mann said, in horror, when Constance was ready to leave for work. “What size are you?” “Eight and a half?” Fanny Mann tottered off to her room, returning with a pair of open-toed red heels for Constance. “It’s the least I could do for that poor black suit. You aren’t going to a funeral, are you?” “No. Work.” “Someday, when I can bend over again, I’ll give you a pedicure. We’ll have a day of beauty. Where do you work? I forget.” Constance mentioned the acronym for the energy office; everyone in Houston was in awe, but Fanny Mann looked nonplussed. She’d never heard of it, which made Constance smile. Her job was sometimes a trial to her; she’d got her position there because her father was a senior V.P. In the early days, her co-workers had called her the Princess, and so her reputation had been set: a pampered dilettante who didn’t deserve her status. If they’d known the truth, they would have understood the miracle of her having been hired at all: Constance’s stepmother, also a senior V.P., did not like her. Rather than take the belt loop to the office, she detoured on surface streets through her old neighborhood, just to catch a glimpse of the house. William had removed the leaded stained-glass windows she’d hung in their bathroom, she noticed, finally getting his way; she had shopped for months for those pretty panes, but he claimed that they weren’t opaque enough, that strangers could see him step from the shower. At her daughter’s bedroom window was a sponge head of Yao Ming, faded and stiff from the sunlight. Lily and William had gone to games together, coming home hoarse from cheering; now Lily was a freshman at Barnard. She had left home last fall, at which point Constance had understood that she was free: her daughter would most likely never live at home again, and therefore Constance did not have to remain there, waiting. The two dogs lay on the front porch, lifting their muzzles at the sight of the familiar car, some brief motion from each tail, but neither bothering to leave his spot. William would already be at his law office, downtown. The boyfriend was Kendall Kirkendoll; she avoided driving past his duplex, as he might be there. He had moved nearby last year so that they could see each other more often. She could walk those slathering dogs right to his alley door and into his home. Constance had left William in order to claim Kendall. For five years, she had believed that their secret life was building toward something, that they were preparing for a future, one that was presentable and public, substantial, painfully garnered but somehow worth the damage. However, it turned out that Kendall hadn’t been inhabiting that scenario with her. The day she told her husband about her affair, the day she released the tethers that held the safety net of her marriage, the day she showed up at Kendall’s door planning to stay not a feverish hour but the rest of her life—well, Kendall panicked. Before her eyes he transformed. Or, rather, he failed to transform. He had wanted nothing to change. He liked his autonomy, his bachelor life, his occasional trysts with Constance. Faced with his alarm, she felt herself shrivel, suddenly aware of how little she had traded her marriage for. This dirty rented space, its frightened occupant. She feels as if she’d got loose of her spaceship and were floating in space. Losing William to divorce felt to Constance exactly like losing her mother to death: she’d grown to resent the cloying, unconditional love, her own role as a spoiled child in its nonjudgmental vapor, and then, as soon as it was gone, she immediately wished to have it restored, around her like a force field. Kendall Kirkendoll was younger than Constance, but only occasionally had his youth worried her. Once, he’d made a comment about Lily, about her prettiness; he was of an age, his mid-thirties, that had sexual rights on either side of it—to both mother’s and daughter’s generation. Had his comment about Lily been the beginning of the end? The daughter no longer a child, Constance no longer the object of the male glance? Banished by William, she had insisted on staying with Kendall, lying in the bed she’d made. With her she took one of the dogs, Bruno, who came along gamely enough. But once he realized that this wasn’t merely a walk, that he wasn’t simply being given preferential treatment this evening (his brother, Bob, left at home, brooding in a corner), Bruno sidled up to the back door and sat there whisking his tail on the floor, whimpering, nosing the handle. Constance was furious beyond reason at his unflagging unhappiness. She finally dragged him the three blocks back to her old home, yanked open the front gate, and kicked him into the yard. He ran with glee, so glad to be rid of her, back where he belonged. She’d stayed at Kendall’s only slightly longer than Bruno, exhausted, in the end, by his reluctance to have her as his guest. Then she’d spent a night at her office, another few with her father and stepmother, then a month at a downtown hotel. She feels like a fickle princess in a fairy tale, trying out all the options—this door, that bed—and detecting flaws in each. And now she had landed here at the Laventura, with Fanny Mann. Fanny Mann’s face was unwrapped for exactly one day before she returned to the clinic for her next procedure. “I love Dr. Fondel’s office,” she said. “It’s perfect, like a cross between a spa and a hospital. Everyone’s real professional, all sanitary in their lab coats, but nobody’s dying.” Constance, accustomed to the bandages, was fascinated by Fanny’s exposed features. Her nose, petite and perfect, was very white, as if it had come from some other person’s face. When Fanny sneezed, it bled. “Don’t look, don’t look! I’m a work-in-progress!” Her cheeks and forehead were blurred beneath a thick application of Vaseline, only her eyes and mouth familiar. She warned Constance not to grow too attached to them, as she was having improvements made in both areas. She packed a set of soft chintz bags and waved with her fingertips at the door. That night, alone in the apartment for the first time, Constance hid in her room. She could have tuned in to one of the nighttime dramas that Fanny Mann had taught her to enjoy, but without Fanny there to provide backstory the shows seemed nearly indistinguishable from the commercials that interrupted them. This was why Constance had sought out a roommate—she had discovered during her time at the hotel that she did not like to be alone. When she couldn’t fall asleep—despite three chapters of Lily’s novel—she ransacked Fanny Mann’s medicine cabinet and took an OxyContin, letting its loopy undertow suck her down at last. A few hours later, she could hardly rouse herself when a persistent sound broke into her sleep—the doorbell, she eventually determined, never having heard it before. For a moment she simply sat on the edge of the bed, gathering together the strange place, the unfamiliar sound, and the drugged fog in which she was trying to operate. Finally, she remembered the peephole, and this allowed her to open her bedroom door and creep to the front of the apartment. Leaning on the other side of the peephole was an exasperated-looking young black woman. She’d been poking at the doorbell, but now she slapped her palm on the door, just below Constance’s blurred eye. “I know you in there, Shauntrelle!” Constance would not unlock or open up, but she put her face to the slit between the frame and the door and said, croakily, since she hadn’t spoken in hours, “I’m not who you think I am.” The woman abruptly ceased. “Shauntrelle?” “No.” The woman stepped back, then suddenly disappeared from the fish-eyed confines of the peephole. But Constance could hear the faint ring of another doorbell, down the hall, which set off a barking dog. Now completely awake, she lay in bed, agitated, wondering whether she should risk another pill. The woman’s determination to find Shauntrelle had made Constance aware of her own desire to be found, to be sought after. Kendall Kirkendoll had always complained that it was he who had the most at stake, in loving her; never mind her husband and daughter—he, he’d said, had nobody to fall back on, no Plan B. He would not hear her when she reminded him that he also had no one to injure, no one to fail. Yet, for all his declarations, it had seemed easy for him to let her go. Kendall Kirkendoll wasn’t breaking down her door, calling her name. And neither was her husband, who’d taken the news of her betrayal quietly, the infliction she made on him one of shock. Complete shock. When Fanny Mann returned, her chest was bound, her lips swollen, and her eyes hidden behind sunglasses. The Vaseline had given her a terrible case of acne, and she hadn’t tended to her hair, which was so thin and tortured that her scalp showed. “Don’t look at me!” she insisted, dropping her bags on the living-room floor and scurrying into her room. Later, after hours of restorative efforts, she joined Constance on the balcony. Constance had stopped by the No Judgment Store for cigarettes and cocktail-hour food: processed cheese and crackers, gherkins, olives, meat that did not require refrigeration. You took a risk, exiting the building on foot, walking in this neighborhood; men had catcalled, leered; everyone had asked her for spare change. But once she stepped back through the doors of the Laventura—mildly sweaty from apprehension, humidity—she was surrounded by chilled air, by the soft rock that played in the elevators and in the gym, in the cybercafé and the corporate meeting suite, even out by the pool and the hot tub, the soundtrack of safety. The contrast with the outside world was so extreme as to cause disorientation, dizziness. She made Fanny Mann a vodka gimlet—weak, in consideration of the painkillers—and told her about the nighttime visit from the woman seeking Shauntrelle. Fanny laughed delightedly, adding it to the names she had already begun calling Constance: Felicia, as in “Felicia, Columbia House is gonna garnishee your wages!,” or Ray (“I got bad news about that rubber, Ray”), and now Shauntrelle. These were the identities that occupied their apartment with them. “Lord knows nobody’s sniffing around here for me,” Fanny Mann pointed out. “Me, neither,” Constance said, sighing. “One thing about the Laventura is: who’d think to look for us here, even if they were looking?” Fanny said. She and Constance weren’t members of the Laventura’s typical demographic, and there was nothing “corporate” about the long-term residents. Next door to the east lived a night watchman who arrived at dawn to fall asleep; his newspaper lay on his threshold all day, then disappeared in the evening. Across the hall was an Indian medical student, married to another Indian medical student, the parents of a small baby who was handed off between shifts. Directly below Fanny and Constance lived somebody who took flash photographs from his or her balcony, the bright quiet blast of light below them every now and then like a spill of phosphorescence, fairy dust, at their feet. “It’s true,” Constance agreed. “This is not a likely place for me to be.” How, then, to explain her lingering hope that she would be rescued from it? Kendall Kirkendoll, if he put his mind to it, could locate her; surely William, with all his connections, could pull it off. The dedicated suitor could find a way. No matter the locked doors and security cameras or the smooth, unscalable surface of the building itself—a determined man could storm the castle. Gestures could be made. They both knew where she worked, of course, and could find her there. In expectation of this, she kept an eye out for them: William in one of his gray suits, with his polished bald head, sitting in his Audi. Or Kendall’s shaggy blond hair and vintage button-down shirts with old-fashioned patterns, checks or paisleys or chevrons. He didn’t drive a car, so he would have to ride his bike; her glance eagerly chased any bicycle that flew by. He worked at the public-radio station, and she listened to his jazz program, even though he never spoke during it, except to mention call letters and megahertz. He’d been the d.j. at William’s office Christmas party five years ago. His gig had ended at midnight, and Constance had offered him a ride, him and his equipment, when his friend with the van hadn’t shown up. It had felt good to separate herself from the group of lawyers and their spouses. She’d observed Kendall’s amused scorn toward them all evening, could read it in his eyes as he sat behind his elaborate table of machinery, spinning disks, poking buttons, insulated in headphones. But why should she expect him to put effort into finding her now, when there hadn’t been much, on his part, ever? As for William, he was proud. She had forsaken him foolishly; her father had been appalled and impatient, her daughter hurt and embarrassed. Her stepmother had seemed unsurprised; she’d taken a barely concealed pleasure in the news. At any rate, none of them had inquired about Constance’s corporeal location; apparently, having her cell number and e-mail address sufficed. In her dreams, ghostly Corey Forster visited and lured, but it didn’t matter to him where she lived. To them all, she is ethereal. For Fanny Mann the anonymity was temporary. She would occupy it only long enough to emerge like the phoenix, a brand-new version of herself. She consulted frequently with her hand mirror, another fixture on the dining-room table, alongside the pristine place settings. In it she gazed at her face, touching here and there, her expression critical. She applied this same critical glance to Constance’s face, then prescribed Botox and wax, nothing more. “Maybe we should try Sunday brunch,” she said now, feet crossed on the railing, one shoe rocking like a pendulum held by the fulcrum of her big toe. “That’s how you meet people. And we could go to Yappy Hour, out there in the courtyard, running round in circles, sniffing behinds with the rest of the mutts.” Under their balcony a bus stopped, brakes wheezing, its doors slapped open, then shut, engine roaring and sending up a plume of noxious smoke as it rumbled away. The people who had got off stepped, somewhat dazed, into the street, looking around as if unsure what was supposed to happen next. “Wouldn’t they have a cow if I dropped a shoe on their head?” Fanny Mann said. The next time Fanny Mann left for the night, it was to go to her friend Lucille’s bedside at M. D. Anderson. “How do I look?” she asked before leaving. She had dressed for the visit, generously spritzed herself with Shalimar, and done her best to cover the fresh bruises around her newly widened eyes. She carried a red silk hankie, because her nose still bled now and then. “You look great,” Constance said, wondering if Fanny had always seemed like a person built of incongruous parts, her calves too fine for her feet, her neck too brief, her chest too broad. Had surgery created the freakish appearance, or softened a more extreme original? She called her surgeons magicians, but Constance had no idea how to gauge that assessment. “Maybe I’ll meet a doctor,” Fanny said. “Well, of course you’ll meet a doctor, Fanny fool,” she scolded herself. “Maybe I’ll meet a man. If I do, I’ll see if he has a friend, for you.” “O.K.,” Constance agreed, but without enthusiasm. She knew how rare it was for her to fall in love. It had happened only three times in her life, less than once a decade. Corey Forster. William. And Kendall Kirkendoll. Dead, disappointed, and disappointing, respectively. Once again, in her roommate’s absence Constance felt irrationally vulnerable, aware of every sound. On the street below, screeching brakes, then horns and curses, slamming car doors; in the apartment next door, the dog barked, the night watchman yelled at the animal to shut the fuck up. The elevator bell kept pinging, children from another floor playing pranks. And then, hours later, when Constance had finally fallen asleep, the phone woke her. She listened as Ray’s chuckling, sexy voice took the call, which was not for Felicia but, surprisingly, for someone named Gerald. “Buzz me in, Gerald!” shouted the caller. He was on a street; Constance could hear traffic, wind, the man’s breathing, and a clicking as he pressed an intercom button. “Dude,” he pleaded, “it’s starting to rain!” Constance went to the balcony, opened the door, and stepped out, stuck her hand into the air over the edge. No moisture. Liar. Or maybe he was standing outside a building in some other part of town, some other town, even. Who knew how he’d managed to find Constance, mute audience to his manic anguish? “Motherfucker, let me in! Let me in, or call a motherfucking cab!” Constance picked up the phone then. “You have the wrong number,” she told the man who was looking for Gerald. On his end there was a long pause. “Do what?” “This isn’t Gerald’s house. I don’t think this is even Gerald’s neighborhood.” “Am I speaking with Gabrielle?” Now Constance paused; another person she wasn’t. “No,” she said, on the verge of giving her own name. She hadn’t said it for a while, to anyone. “This is Felicia.” “Well, hell, Felicia, can’t you open this door? It’s raining like a motherfucker. Hear that thunder?” From his end came a rumble, hissing, and squeaks. They sounded more like cheap acoustical imitations than like a real storm. “You aren’t anywhere near where I am,” Constance said. She was sitting now on the balcony, out in the balmy night. Not a drop of rain; in fact, she could make out a few stars, an odd occurrence in the Houston firmament. “Bitch,” he muttered before hanging up. Constance tried not to feel stung. Once more alert in the lonesome night, she took herself around the apartment, seeking an Internet connection, resorting to e-mail. This was how she met up with Lily, who sent messages only in reply to her mother’s, not even bothering to adjust the subject line. Constance tried not to burden her daughter with too many e-mails; it would take time to repair the damage she’d done to the girl, however vicarious, or what you might, in the current climate, call collateral. More than anything, what Constance wished was that she would open her computer and it would sparkle like a treasure chest, perched here on the windowsill of the living room. The screen would be radiant, flooding the dark apartment, and a hundred messages would await her. She longed for every single space to be filled with Kendall Kirkendoll, his repeating name scrolling down her in-box, “kendallkirkendoll” vibrating in nearly three-dimensional intensity, as if she might prick her finger if she touched the screen. But there was nothing new, not even spam. “Where can we go, to show off my new rack?” Fanny Mann asked. Her contractor had been putting the final touches on her home in New Orleans; her aestheticians had done the same to her body, here in Houston. Their time together, hers and Constance’s, was nearing its close. “My daughter thinks I’m vain,” Fanny Mann had confided. “She thinks all the money I’ve spent on cosmetic surgery should have gone to Oxfam. Her brother joined the Army when he was eighteen. You wouldn’t believe the scene I made when he came home in camo and a buzz cut. How’d I produce kids like that—a career soldier and a bleeding-heart hippie? They aren’t even on speaking terms. And,” she added, shuddering, “my daughter hasn’t shaved her legs in twenty years.” Constance was tempted to reply that the truly remarkable thing was Fanny Mann’s own capacity to keep caring—about anything, whether it was the size of her breasts or the state of the Union. Instead, she named an expensive restaurant, and—what luck!—they managed to score a reservation that very evening. In the middle of the main course—braised lamb, new potatoes—Fanny missed the burring of her cell phone, the call to notify her of Lucille’s death. It had happened that afternoon, but only now, in the early evening, had the hospital located her number, the person playing the role of next of kin. And only later still, in the quiet car retrieved from valet parking and en route back to the Laventura, Constance carefully blinking away her own drunkenness at the wheel, did the equally tipsy Fanny Mann squint at her flashing little screen, recover the message, and then phone the hospital to receive the news. “Now she’ll never see how it all turned out!” Fanny cried, meaning all these enhancements and rejuvenating procedures. She’d enjoyed dolling herself up for her début at Carlo’s Fine Dining, appearing there with décolletage and beckoning eyes, bruises kindly undetectable by candlelight—once more the object of that coveted male gaze—but the real audience for the metamorphosis had been Lucille, best friend and record keeper. Who else would so profoundly know how to care? “I’m so sorry,” Constance said. She can never offer a comforting hug automatically. She is a stilted, stunted person. “Oh, sugar, it’s terrible!” Fanny answered, slumped in the passenger seat. They’d reached Constance’s parking spot after the nauseating circling of the garage floors, and now neither opened her door. “I should have been there!” Fanny cried. Constance waited, weighing the two deaths that had mattered to her: her mother’s and Corey Forster’s. She was glad that her mother hadn’t lived to see what had become of her marriage, or, for that matter, what had become of her father, when he chose his next mate. Neither of those were destinies her mother would have approved of; her living would have prevented them. In the more distant past, Corey Forster had offered Constance a ride home the night he died, but she hadn’t been done with the party—it hadn’t yet ceased being an evening of enchantment and possibility. Had he driven her, his route would have been different, and he’d never have flown off that bridge to nowhere. “You were a good friend,” she chose to say to Fanny Mann. “You are a good friend.” “I am a selfish person,” Fanny said, wiping her cheeks, smearing her lipstick. “Selfish and ugly. Ugly ugly ugly, that’s what my daughter would say. And she’d be right.” “No,” Constance said. “No, she wouldn’t; you’re not. I’m sure your daughter loves you. You’re very kind.” Fanny Mann yanked open the door then, igniting the dome light. “You don’t know shit about me, Shauntrelle, but I do appreciate you trying to cheer me up.” Then she clacked across the garage, amazingly able, given the grief and alcohol and stilettos and still healing surgery. Constance sat behind the wheel for another few minutes, allowing Fanny time to enter their apartment, sequester herself in the privacy of her own room, and occupy her own solitary remorse. She closed her eyes to test her inebriation, now that she was safely out of traffic. She always thought of Corey Forster when she drove drunk. Now she recalled a more recent fatal evening, another party. Had she not felt the hour proper to flee that party she would never have fallen in love with Kendall Kirkendoll. She couldn’t have known that falling for him would mean never being able to reclaim an unfallen state. Constance’s time in the care of corporate housing would hang like a discrete interlude in her life. It wasn’t best measured by days or months; even the rent was prorated, down to the hour. It was a season of uncertain and drifting identity, of upheaval and limbo, of anxiety and laughter, of transience and transients, situated in the Laventura itself, and, more precisely, on the sixth floor of that establishment, in a two-bedroom apartment, with two roommates at a strange crossroads. Here, they were protected from the riffraff, the neighborhood, even from Mother Nature, in the form of floods or biting insects. The city of Houston floated and bobbed, sinkholes opening now and then to claim a piece of terra firma, and over this blighted terrain presided Fanny Mann and Constance, of different generations and stations, crises and wishes. Constance finished Lily’s novel a few nights before her chosen departure day. She packed the book, since it was hers, and the instructions from corporate-housing headquarters were firm about removing all personal belongings—God forbid that Constance should risk her and Fanny’s security deposit—but she would have preferred to forget that book. Deezy, the novel’s drunk, had had to mourn Jo, the heroin addict, who wasn’t dead but might as well have been. All along there’d been a growing rift between the girls, one of them more interested in her high than in her beloved, the other grieving over her lost love, over her powerlessness when faced with the other’s stubborn self-destruction. Constance wanted to reach in and turn Jo around, convince her of the correct course, crash her body against Deezy’s the way one manipulated dolls, making them hug, settling them into bed together in their dollhouse so that they could live happily ever after. Had this exquisite frustration moved Lily? Constance was desperate to know if her daughter felt like one of those fictional creatures—Deezy, lover of the living ghost, or Jo, the afflicted ghost herself—but it wasn’t a question that she was brave enough to ask. She was tempted to contact William, seek his opinion. But she already knew what he would say. He would default to the obvious: Lily’s liking the book merely meant that she was a lesbian. And he would be satisfied with that, both the obvious conclusion and the fact of his daughter’s sexuality. “You promise to visit?” Fanny Mann demanded on moving day. “I won’t leave till you swear.” She was set to drive away in her classic mint-colored and mint-condition Mercedes, having rallied from Lucille’s demise. She looked good in her new body, her bright outfit, her coiffed, honey-blond hair, ready for the road trip to her refreshed home in New Orleans. “You visit and I’ll introduce you to my future sugar daddy’s unmarried son. I have the whole fantasy all worked out!” “O.K.,” Constance agreed. They embraced—gently, since Fanny Mann was still on the mend. Fanny smelled, as always, of Constance’s mother’s too-strong perfume, an antique odor of romance, bravado, faith. Constance would still be able to smell it later on, as she drove down the winding ramp for the last time, pulling away from the closing electric gate and the saluting security guard, onto the gritty ground floor and out into traffic, en route to . . . Where is she, anyway, and where does she think she’s going?
If I Vanished “What if I were to vanish?” “Vanish? Under what circumstances?” “It doesn’t matter.” “You mean, like—poof!—suddenly you’re not there?” “I’m not there.” “But there’s always a reason, or at least a context. Were you kidnapped? Abducted by aliens? An extraordinary rendition by the C.I.A.? Did you fall down a rabbit hole? Was it amnesia? Vanishing cream? Did you meet someone else? Was there a note? A message on my answering machine saying, ‘ “Goodbye” ’s too good a word, babe, don’t worry, ciao’? Should I show up at the Department of Missing Persons? Or by ‘vanish’ do you mean that all trace of you would be wiped from my memory?” “Say I met someone else.” “Well, see, that’s a different question.” “You don’t have to answer that one. I can see the answer in your eyes. They’re more honest than you are.” “Where’d you come up with this?” “I heard it in a movie.” “What movie? Certainly not ‘The Vanishing.’ ” “It was a Western.” “Clint Eastwood? Duke Wayne? Roy Rogers?” “Kevin Costner.” “Costner a cowboy? Pauline Kael said in her review of ‘Dances with Wolves’ that Kevin Costner had feathers not only in his hair but in his head.” “It wasn’t Kevin Costner per se. It was Charley something, the character Kevin Costner plays, who gets asked the question—by Annette Bening.” “No, it wasn’t Charley something. Characters in American movies are just poor excuses to watch movie stars. Can you remember the name of any of the characters Marilyn Monroe played? They’re all Marilyn Monroe. Charlton Heston isn’t Moses, Moses is Charlton Heston.” “Answer the question.” “First, you have to tell me if you want me to answer it as if we’re starring in some movie. If we’re in an Ingmar Bergman film, then the answer’s going to be different than if we’re in something by Paul Verhoeven, say.” “You’re stalling.” “Because a question about vanishing is easy to answer in a movie where the good guys always win. I mean, if we were in a Western I reckon I’d say, ‘If you vanished, Ma’am, I’d mount my horse and ride after you to the ends of the earth. I’d ride to the silver mountains of the moon and back, gunning down Injuns and other swarthy Third World desperadoes until I found you again.’ ” “In other words, you’d make fun of me.” “I’m making fun of cowboy kitsch, of the Marlboro Man mythos of the genocidal, racist, anti-environmental, Heil Adolph Coors’s right-wing all-American West.” “No, you’re making fun of me. And you’re wrong, by the way. In the movie, he doesn’t answer anything like that. He doesn’t answer at all right away. He goes off to think about it, like you could have done, and he comes back with the answer.” “O.K., I give. Tell me the right answer.” “You want to know, go see the movie.” He doesn’t see the movie until two years later, after she has vanished. Clearly, by “vanish” she hadn’t meant that she’d be wiped from his memory. Jack doesn’t remember the title, if he ever knew it, but, one night, unable to concentrate on any book in the house, he Googles “Western Costner Bening,” and finds fifty thousand five hundred entries for a film called “Open Range.” Kevin Costner not only stars in it; he also directed it. According to the reviews that Jack skims, it’s a movie about the war between free grazers and landowners. The free grazers—Costner as the former gunslinger Charley Waite, and Robert Duvall as Boss Spearman—are the good guys. The evil rancher who controls the law is played by Michael Gambon. Their economic clash is a moral contest: greedy corporate America versus the don’t-fence-me-in values of the Old West. The conflict plays out against what many reviewers agree is a beautifully photographed “iconic vista”—Montana, 1882, a big-sky landscape that makes it look as if there were enough to go around for everyone, especially since the original free-grazing tribes have been decimated. The film was actually shot in Alberta. Reviews compare “Open Range” to classics like “High Noon.” Amateurs at Amazon rate it a four-star masterpiece. The Cleveland Sun News, where dollar signs, rather than stars, are awarded, agrees: 4 ½ $. It’s a “Hot Pick,” “a paean to the Old West,” for Boo Allen, of the Denton Record-Chronicle, and four and a half stars for Roger Ebert, who praises its defense of the values of a vanishing life style. The phrase “vanishing life style” catches Jack’s attention. He wonders if vanishing is a motif in the movie, a theme echoed in the love story between Costner and Bening, prompting the odd question: What if I were to vanish? Other reviews are less enthusiastic. The movie’s panned in the New York Times, the Chicago Tribune. Rolling Stone despises its “insufferable nobility,” and Newsday complains of “the man’s-gotta-do-what-a-man’s-gotta-do excesses” of the script. A couple of reviewers find that it mirrors Bush’s cowboy Presidency, with his bring-it-on war on terror and “Wanted Dead or Alive” rhetoric. It makes a Worst Movies of the Year list: “a Harlequin Romance with a gunfight at the O.K. Corral.” From the little that Ceil said, Jack had assumed that the movie was a love story, but the reviews mostly agree that Costner’s relationship with Bening seems superfluous. Bening plays Sue Barlow with what is described on Yahoo! UK as “the steely resolve” of “a spinster who has nearly given up on love.” Iggy’s Movie Reviews cautions, “The ties that bind these two lonely folks are . . . flimsy. Unless Sue placed a personal ad seeking a SWM, age 40-50, who loves dogs, cares about friends and has killed before and will kill again, the attraction between the two doesn’t make a lot of sense.” Jack decides to see for himself. Whatever the answer to the question about vanishing, Ceil must have experienced a shock of recognition at something in the film. Tonight, his missing her has assumed the guise of curiosity, and curiosity is preferable to feeling her absence. It’s late, already after eleven-thirty, but he knows a Blockbuster nearby that’s open until midnight. The street has vanished, been whited out. He was so absorbed in cyberspace, he hadn’t noticed. It seems to Jack that the snowfall should have a hiss of its own, something other than the swish of tires from the Dunkin’ Donuts-lit cross street at the end of the block. If it were true that Eskimos have a hundred words for snow, there’d be a word meaning snow-that-makes-the-familiar-unrecognizable. Jack can’t tell which of the plastered shapes lining the curb is his Saab. He imagines having to go car by car, brushing off snow to find his, and, when he realizes that he might not make it to Blockbuster in time, the intensity of his disappointment surprises him. Then he spots his car, dim under the only street light that has burned out. Rather than take the time to scrape the windows, he scoops the snow with his bare hands. When the engine turns over, the radio plays. He flicks on the defroster, the wipers, the headlights. It takes only that time for him to recognize the piano version of Mussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition,” the movement titled “Gnomus,” which is meant to evoke the picture of a nutcracker in the shape of a gnome promenading on deformed legs. Jack practiced this piece for a whole semester in college when he still studied piano. He hasn’t heard “Pictures” in years, and it occurs to him that sometimes one stops listening to a beloved masterpiece in order to continue to love it. Perhaps the pianist now is Sviatoslav Richter, at the legendary live recital. Jack remembers reading that after Richter’s possessed performance the Steinway he’d used had to be junked. He doesn’t wait for the engine to warm. The snow-paved Blockbuster lot is empty and Jack leaves the car running, wipers swiping, radio broadcasting the movement titled “Catacombae,” which echoes the spectral world beneath the streets of Paris. Ghosts seem to swirl across the deserted streets of Jack’s city as well. He rushes in and a white kid with rusty dreadlocks shoots him a dirty look from behind the counter, before directing him to the Action section. It only now occurs to Jack that the movie might be checked out, and he scans the rack feeling ridiculously frantic. He’s in luck—it’s there next to Steven Seagal’s “On Deadly Ground” and “Once Upon a Time in Mexico.” “Open Range” in hand, Jack opens the car door onto a blasting heater and the majesty of the final movement, “The Great Gate of Kiev.” With no more reason to hurry, he silences the heater and sits in the idling car, watching his tire tracks be obliterated by the snow gathering as it might in Kiev. The yellow Blockbuster sign subtracts itself from the night. Beneath the blurred street lights, ascending notes and falling flakes create the impression of a gossamer arch spanning Chicago Avenue. Jack slips the Saab into gear and drives slowly toward the gate of snow that retreats before his headlights. It’s a vision more imagined than hallucinated, and it makes Jack think how long it’s been since he was stoned for real. Not since a vacation when Ceil wanted to see what sex would be like on hashish. Instead of smoking it, they mixed it with honey and spices, based on a recipe for a sweetmeat supposedly served by Alice B. Toklas at Gertrude Stein’s soirées. That night ended in an emergency room, Ceil faint, terrified, hallucinating. She later said she’d had an out-of-body experience and seen herself dead. “Keep talking to her,” the doctor had told Jack. “Don’t let her slip away.” It’s not a scene that he wants to recall. He thinks instead of the first time he heard “Pictures at an Exhibition.” His best friend in high school, Rafael Rio, a self-proclaimed graffiti artist, had stolen a Lincoln so they could drive to Detroit to see the murals that Diego Rivera had done for Edsel Ford. High, joyriding after midnight, they’d cruised onto the Chicago Skyway, the city aglow beneath them. Jack had punched on the tape deck, and when the orchestral version of “Pictures at an Exhibition” blared out they began conducting wildly—not that either of them knew what was playing, but they knew that it was something. Jack turns off the radio, and makes a left into the Dunkin’ Donuts that has lit the end of his block for the three years he’s lived in the neighborhood. He’s never had the urge to stop there before. Ceil claimed they had good coffee. If he’s going to do something so peculiar as to stay up late watching a film that more than one critic complained was, at a hundred and thirty-five minutes, too long, a coffee is in order. He doesn’t want to drowse off and miss the answer to Bening’s question. A woman with lapis-lidded sleepy eyes, a gold-studded nostril, and a caste mark that looks like misapplied nail polish glances up expectantly when he enters. Her face appears to be disfigured by a mole on her cheek, but as he approaches the counter Jack realizes that the mole is the microphone of her headset. “The usual?” she asks. He isn’t sure whether the question is addressed to someone she’s speaking with through the headset or to him. She smiles, waiting for an answer. “Depends on what’s usual,” Jack says. In the hygienically bright lighting, the trays of frosted doughnuts look like replicas. He notices a surveillance camera and has a tactile sensation of being filmed. It’s as if he’d stepped into a scene of infinitely repeated takes. “Sorry, I thought you were someone else,” she says. Her singsong accent would be perfectly in character if she were playing an Indian woman who works nights at a Dunkin’ Donuts. “He always has a small black coffee and a Bavarian Kreme.” “Good by me,” Jack says. He’s impatient to step back out into the hypnotic night, but the woman takes her time selecting a doughnut, artfully creasing the bag, then fitting with inordinate care the lid on the coffee cup, which reads “America Runs on Dunkin’.” “Two-eighty-two,” she says, and, when Jack digs into his jeans pocket, she adds, “He always gives me a fiver. Tells me, ‘Keep the change, doughnut girl.’ ” “Maybe that handsome guy you thought was me will come by later,” Jack says, handing her a five. “No,” she says. “No cabs tonight.” “He takes a cab here?” “Drives a cab. He’s never come in, just goes through drive-through. He always jokes that I’m the most beautiful woman in the doughnut shop.” “Keep it,” Jack says, and she stuffs the change into a Styrofoam tip cup on the counter. He doesn’t call her doughnut girl. Their conversation feels scripted enough already. It was a mistake to stop here. Not only has the spell of what had come to seem like a quest been broken but a night that had felt spontaneous now seems manufactured. The snow is real, Jack thinks, and the music. “I told him it was my last night working here,” she says. “I just wanted to say goodbye.” Ceil was right about the coffee— strong with a hint of licorice—but the cab-driving double, whoever he is, doesn’t share Jack’s taste in doughnuts. Jack crushes the bag with the half-eaten Bavarian Kreme inside and lobs it into a wastebasket. He moves his laptop from the bedroom that serves as an office to an end table in the living room, inserts the DVD, and turns off the only lamp burning in his apartment. He tries to imagine Ceil alone in a dark movie theatre years earlier, gazing at a panoramic screen that properly conveyed the big-sky landscape. Or maybe she saw the film on a little seat-back screen, during a flight from London or Brussels. Back then, if she wasn’t travelling for her work with a human-rights organization, they’d spend every weekend together. It surprises him that he never asked her where she’d seen the movie. He’s watching it now to see it through her eyes. From its early scenes on, “Open Range” is a love story between cowboys. Driving longhorns before him, a grizzled Robert Duvall gallops across the landscape. One of the cowpokes remarks, “Old Boss sure can cowboy, can’t he?,” and Costner answers, “Yeah, broke the mold after him.” As the reviewers noted, the film’s dialogue is a rehash of other Westerns. Usually, Jack avoids reading reviews beforehand, so as not to ruin any surprises, but there aren’t any surprises in “Open Range,” unless its degree of sentimentality qualifies. Costner’s Charley Waite has a cute mutt that follows him on the trail. Jack knows from the reviews that the dog is marked for death, but he’d have guessed it anyway. It brings to mind “Hondo,” a movie Jack saw as a child, in which Apaches kill John Wayne’s dog, Sam. Jack still remembers the dog’s name. Despite all the people slaughtered in “Hondo,” the only loss Jack really felt was the dog’s. He wonders if a young Kevin Costner felt the same for Sam and never forgot the effect, both the loss and the justification of violence that went with it: clearly such savage dog-killers deserve extermination. Annette Bening doesn’t appear until partway through the film. When she does, Jack is suddenly, nervously alert. He listens for the question about vanishing to be posed in Bening’s voice rather than in Ceil’s. It’s not a question for the early stages of a relationship, but Jack knows that the film has reached the point when that question, and its answer, must be coming. In an interview that Jack came across while scanning reviews, Costner mentioned that he thought Bening was “very heroic” for playing her character without makeup. It gives her a mature, sympathetic look that’s fitting for the nurse she plays. Jack imagines that it’s a look Ceil could identify with, as she, too, was heroic about makeup. But, then, Ceil’s face was still unlined, except for a worry wrinkle across her forehead, visible when she wore her blond hair tied back. The corners of her eyes crinkled as if she were squinting against the wind when she smiled. Jack can visualize her pale-blue eyes but not her face. Ceil travelled regularly for work, and early in their relationship, when they didn’t see each other for a couple of weeks, he’d tell her that he’d forgotten what she looked like. She’d pretend to be exasperated that he could forget so easily. He was kidding, but only in part: her face was so lovely to him that he hadn’t yet allowed himself to gaze at her with the full force of recognition. That was true of her nakedness, too; it dazzled him, and he found he could take it in only in glimpses. He wonders now what else he didn’t look at, what else he didn’t see. Jack doesn’t have a photo of her. On the few occasions that they took pictures, it was Ceil who snapped them. He recalls her fiddling with a new digital camera as they walked out onto a wave-sloshed pier under bleaching blue sky. Ceil stopped before a small fish that looked as if a wave had flipped it onto the pier. Jack thought she was going to photograph it, but she gently slipped the fish back into the water. They’d gone only a step when an Asian man fishing from the pier turned and yelped, “Miss, you throw away my bait!” Ceil was annoyed when Jack laughed, but by the time they reached the end of the pier, where gulls swirled around a man cleaning salmon, they were both laughing. Ceil asked the man’s daughter to take a picture of them. They didn’t know then, smiling for the camera, that later that night, stoned on hashish, they’d end up in the emergency room. Jack asked for a copy of the picture taken on the pier, as he’d also asked for a picture of her for a present on his birthday. Ceil gave him instead an antique letter opener that she said would accrue in value. Ceil collected letter openers, pens, and paperweights, which she traded on eBay. It was that night, after Jack had talked Ceil through her near-death experience in the E.R., that she told him about a long-distance affair she’d had before they met, with a man named Dom, who sold used Italian cars in upstate New York. The affair had lasted for years—she was vague about when they’d broken it off. Ceil still owned a Fiat Spider she’d bought with Dom at an auction; she said it was accruing value. Dom had photographed her naked so that during phone sex he could summon what she called “non-vanilla” poses—Dom had a thing for women and bottles. Ceil said that spreading for him had been the peak sexual experience of her life. It was as if she’d met a reflection of her own sexuality, a male twin to a secret self she’d always felt was dirty. Dom, she said, had made it clean. She said that their sexual likeness had overrideen all their differences, including his right-wing politics. After she and Dom broke up, Ceil had asked if she could visit him one last time, to watch while he deleted the private porn show he’d directed, but he refused, claiming that it would be too painful for him to see her again. He promised to erase the photos. Still, Ceil wasn’t sure that they weren’t somewhere in cyberspace, posted on one or another of the Web sites Dom frequented. Listening to her, Jack understood how profoundly in love she’d been with the car salesman, and the authority that the relationship still had in her life. It brought to mind one of their first times in bed, when she’d called him “sir” in a little girl’s voice and then apologized. He wondered, but didn’t ask, what it had taken for her to break it off. Tonight, he wonders if perhaps Ceil had been sleeping with them both. It would have been easy, given her frequent travel. He wonders if she could have been that devious, if, in fact, he was the catalyst she needed to end her relationship with Dom, if he’d been a player in a romance that she was directing, one he didn’t know he had a part in. After Ceil told him about the photos, Jack had felt uncomfortable having to press her for what was, in her word—or was it Dom’s?—a simple “vanilla” photo, and he never brought it up again. It’s nearly 3 A.M. Costner and Bening have grown closer despite the lack of chemistry between them. As one reviewer remarked, “If the two of them were any more upstanding, they’d be trees.” Though Bening still hasn’t posed her question, she has revealed to Costner that she “always hoped somebody gentle and caring might come along.” The nurse she plays has up to this point in the film abhorred violence, but when Costner replies, “Men are gonna get killed here today, Sue, and I’m gonna kill them, you understand that?,” she submissively answers, “Yes.” After the climactic shoot-’em-up, modelled on the gunfight at the O.K. Corral, in which the bad guys are wasted, Costner asks her again, “Those killings, they don’t give you pause?” “I’m not afraid of you, Charley,” she answers. It’s the moment in the film that reviews found least credible, given Bening’s character. But Jack thinks that the film has finally got something right: Afraid? No, she’s turned on, thrilled, ready to brag about her gunslinger. She just wants to get laid. Jack wonders what Ceil, who regarded George Bush as a war criminal, would have said about Bening’s response. Often the best part of going to a movie together was the time afterward, when they’d stop for a drink and discuss the film. Tonight, Jack has carried on a one-way conversation with Ceil, as if she were watching it beside him. These conversations with her have continued since she vanished. He wishes he could make them stop, but they’re growing more frequent, as if the lengthening of her absence had made the phantom dialogue between them more compulsive. Costner shyly asks Bening for a kiss. Killing is easy; it’s smooching that’s embarrassing. The film is winding down, the time for asking is running out. But she doesn’t ask. Jack watches as they ride out of town together—Duvall, Costner, Bening—under the big sky. Jack listens for her question. She doesn’t ask it. After all that killing in support of a man’s right to the open range, Duvall says that he’s tired of the open range. He’d like to run a saloon in town, and maybe Costner could be his partner. Costner tells Bening he’ll be back. They exchange happily-ever-after smiles. She turns back toward town, and Costner and Duvall ride off toward the dogies they’ve left on the open range. Jack watches the credits roll. He feels confused, then tricked. He has an impulse to replay the whole dull film. Could he have somehow missed the line? He vividly remembers that the conversation with Ceil was predicated on that question about vanishing. He knows that he didn’t make it up. He can’t understand why Ceil would have invented that dialogue, why she would have ascribed it and the answer that supposedly followed to a second-rate movie. There must have been some mistake. Could she have conflated “Open Range” with some other film? He remembers her complaining that she wasn’t sleeping well; she used to wake beside him in the middle of the night from dreams that made her moan but dissolved before she could describe them. Maybe she had dreamed the question. It’s another thing about her that he’ll never understand. He ejects the DVD and logs off. Are you sure you want to shut down your computer now? The screen goes wordlessly blue, then blinks off, leaving the apartment lit only by the reflection of the street lights in the falling snow. The blank windowpanes are fogging from the bottom up. He isn’t tired. Ceil was right about the coffee at Dunkin’ Donuts. He tries again to summon her face. If the myth about a hundred words for snow were true, there’d be a word for snow-erasing-its-own-memory. He has an urge to open the window and let the wind and snow blow in. He tugs at the handles, hammers the sash, but the window won’t budge. The cold pane mists with his breath and body heat, and, when he wipes away the steam, his reflection peeps in darkly. He wonders if a person can forget his own face. He wonders if his cabbie look-alike ever showed up for the usual. All the windows but one are dark in the apartment building across the way. Lines he hasn’t thought about for years, from a poem in “Doctor Zhivago,” come to mind: It snowed and snowed, the whole world over . . . A candle burned on the table; A candle burned. It doesn’t seem incongruous that the window across the way is lit not by the halo of a candle but by a bluish glow—someone watching television in the middle of the night or working at a computer, perhaps surfing Web sites. What if, in the vastness of cyberspace, whoever is up across the street should encounter an image of Ceil? Is it snowing the world over, even in New York, where the used-car salesman may still be at his computer, filing through a gallery of pictures of old girlfriends, like a collector checking the inventory of his antiquities, assessing the value they’ve accrued, before settling on a photo of Ceil? Dom wasn’t fond of travel, Ceil told Jack—it was one of their many differences. So every few weeks she’d made the trip to the river town outside the city where he had his dealership. She marvelled aloud about the thousands of miles she had logged over the years to be with him. Between visits, they’d talked on the phone at least once a day. They had broken up over the phone, and she said she’d thought that going to see Dom one last time in person would be the “classy” thing to do. Suppose Dom had allowed that journey. Jack sees her travelling from Grand Central toward her beloved along a track she knows by heart. This time, Dom isn’t waiting at the station. She takes a cab along a familiar cobbled street, past the candy shop and their breakfast café, past the antique shop where she foraged for letter openers, to a Victorian house, where clothes of hers still hang in the closet of the ornate master bedroom, where on a velvet chair the photographs she asks him to delete were taken. He’s concealed them under the folder name “Bottles.” She expects him to simply delete the files, but he opens them, and there they are, preserved in digital light: Dom—though he’s not visible in the photo, she can see him—and herself, more real there than she feels at this moment, younger, naked, spreading her legs for the man she’s chosen to define her. Remember that afternoon, Ceil? What’s happened to us? We are halves of a whole. You said you knew it from the first time you saw me and had to leave because your body shook. You said I was the man you’d needed all your life to meet. What did you really come here for? I need to be sure you’ve erased them. But surely you know I could have hidden files and copies on disks and travel drives. You wouldn’t lie to my face. Would you lie to me? Is there someone else? This horseshit about differences—as if they ever mattered to you with your clothes off. You’re most devious to yourself. Do you think you’ll ever be as intimate? If you leave, you’ll always be lying. We’ll be, for each other, an absence, like a phantom limb. You’ll look for me in others and they’ll feel what you’re missing. Erase them. Say you love me. Say please. I’ll always love you. Please. Please who? Please, sir. That’s my girl. So, poof! Look, one gone. I was naked, too, remember? You think erasing a replica will erase reality? Will erase us? Will erase the me in you? Look, this one has always been my favorite. I’ve studied it a thousand times and still get hard. I’m going to close my eyes. You watch and tell me when you’ve disappeared. Like at those auctions you found so exciting: going . . . going . . . gone? Yes, sir. Satisfied? Thank you, sir. Now please erase me from Trash. “What would you do if I vanished?” “You mean like—poof!—suddenly you’re not there? So where are you? Lost in the ether? Travelling through time? In cyberspace?” “It doesn’t matter. Answer the question.” “O.K., I’ll play. I’d ride to the ends of the earth, to the silver mountains of the moon. Or maybe they’re borax.” “You think you’d find me there?” “I’d follow your footprints across borax craters, ford molten rivers that parted like mercury, a starry sky guiding the way. Or on a summer day I’d walk out on a pier whose perspective jutted toward infinity, and when I reached its end, if you weren’t there, over the laughter of gulls I’d call your name, and if you didn’t answer I’d follow the little fish you saved and he’d lead me to you.” “He’d lead you to nowhere.” “Then, on a night in winter, I’d pass through the arch of a Great Gate of Snow and on the other side I’d be back in time in the city when it was ours. I’d hail the only cab out late. The cabbie would study me in the rearview, and in the mirror I’d see that his eyes were mine. I wouldn’t have to tell him where to go. We’d drive from lighted corner to lighted corner for nights until I found the most beautiful woman in Dunkin’ Donuts. The coffee’s good here, you’d tell me.” “They do have good coffee, but I wouldn’t be there.” “I’d hire a hypnotist who specialized in negotiating the release of alien abductees. I’d search the secret records for all the secret prisons of the C.I.A. I’d wait in long lines at the Department of Missing Persons . . .” “That’s not the answer.” “After a while, I’d do nothing but go day by day without you. Sometimes I’d remember something you said, and have another one-way conversation. I’d walk around secretly talking to you, wondering where you were and what you were doing. I’d tell myself that wherever you’d gone I wanted you to be happy.” “You need to work on a better answer.” “What was the question again anyway?” “What would you do if I vanished?” “But life is never that simple. One doesn’t just vanish. There’s always a why, or at least a context. You suddenly moved away in the middle of the night. Changed your unlisted phone number. Left no forwarding address so that mail was returned and e-mails disappeared into whatever graveyard file they go to. Was it amnesia? An overdose of vanishing cream? Did you meet someone else? Another catalyst? You’re not the suicidal type, thank God, but still . . . or by ‘vanish’ could you really have thought that you’d be erased from my memory?” “Say I met someone else.” “Well, see, that’s a different question.”
The Mahogany Elephant He waited for her for three months. He sorted out his photos, rearranged his books, moved the furniture around, and then he went on waiting. After that, he read all the letters he had ever received and threw most of them away, and then he bought a large map of India and hung it above his bed. Or, rather, he didn’t buy a map of India, but that was what he really wanted to do while he was waiting. He waited and waited, and began to write a story about waiting for her, but he didn’t know how it would end, so he stopped. Finally, he did nothing at all; he didn’t even wait anymore. He was sleeping less and less, eating nothing but bread and tomatoes and yellow supermarket cheese, and then, at last, she came back. They sat together on his sofa, and she said, “It’s been a long time.” “Yes,” he said, although he had firmly made up his mind to say as little as possible. “It’s been a very long time.” She had lost weight on her travels, and he didn’t think she looked better than before. She was tired, but then she was always tired; she’d gone away to recover from feeling tired all the time, and now that she was back she was still tired. And she’d grown older. Older or harder or more serious—he wasn’t sure which. There was a gray tinge to her tanned skin, the kind you usually see only on older women. Her smile was much too grave and thoughtful, and her cheekbones were even more prominent than before. She rose to her feet and left the room. When she came back, she had a bright-colored bag in her hand. “This is for you,” she said. “Thank you, my love,” he said. He opened the bag. There was a small, fat black mahogany elephant in it. He put the elephant in his pocket. “Would you like a drink?” he asked. “Some water.” “I bought wine for you.” “No, water,” she said. He stood up slowly and grazed her leg with his. Apart from the fleeting kiss when she arrived, it was their first physical contact in three months. “Really just water?” he called from the kitchen, but she didn’t reply. “Chilled or room temperature?” he asked, and she called quietly back, “Room temperature.” He took a case of water out of the closet, then pushed it back in with his foot and opened the bottle of wine that had been standing on the kitchen table for the past six weeks. He picked up two glasses and the bottle, and before going back to the living room he took the elephant out of his pocket and threw it in the garbage. “Jordi,” she said, “I didn’t want wine.” “No,” he agreed. “It’s still too early for wine.” “I didn’t drink at all while I was there,” she said. “That’s a pity,” he said. “No, I don’t think so.” “I think it is.” He poured wine for himself, then for her, and they clinked glasses. She didn’t look into his eyes, and she drank only a tiny sip before going into the kitchen to fetch a bottle of water. She sat down on the sofa again, as far from him as she had been before, and began telling him about her travels—but he was barely listening. While she’d been away, he had kept trying to imagine where she was at any given time, and what it was like there, but now he couldn’t care less about India; he just wanted to know what her decision was. Of course, he knew already, but he wanted to hear it from her own mouth. He wanted her to suffer a little; he wanted her to have to say it and feel unhappy about hurting him. “No,” she would say. “We’re not going to get married, Jordi. I know that’s not what I want now, so we’ll never see each other again, the way we agreed.” “Did you miss me?” he said. “No, Jordi,” she said. “I didn’t.” “Of course not,” he said, and nodded. “Are you angry?” “No.” “I’m glad.” “Good.” “Are you sure you’re not angry?” “I’m sure.” He looked out the window. When she left, he had still been able to see across the square to the Church of Zion. Now the trees were in leaf and all he saw from the window was those wonderful large green leaves. The leaves swayed back and forth in the wind, reminding Jordi of seaweed drifting in the ocean. Perhaps it was because they hadn’t seen each other for so long. They hadn’t seen each other for almost as long as they’d known each other! He laid his arm on the back of the sofa behind her and left it there for a few minutes, but then he took it away again. The arm didn’t feel quite sure of itself. “What about you?” she asked. “Me?” “What have you been doing?” “Why didn’t you call?” he said. “Not once in three months!” “But you knew,” she said, taking alarm. “That was our agreement, wasn’t it?” She was right. She’d even said, “Suppose I stay there for good?” And he had said that would be O.K., she was a free agent, and if they never said another word to each other again that would be O.K., too. But he had said so only out of calculation, because he knew that she was an Aries—and just try keeping a ram captive. “There’s a story about that elephant,” she said. She paused, waiting for him to ask what the story was, but all he could think about was how to get the elephant out of the garbage without her noticing. “It was the fourth,” she said. “Honestly, it was the fourth, I swear it.” He didn’t say anything. Then he went into the kitchen, and before bending over the trash he turned around, to be on the safe side. “I lost the first three!” she called from the living room. “Can you imagine it—all three of them? Do you think that means something?” He was frantically searching through the garbage, but he couldn’t find the elephant. He dug his bare hands deeper and deeper into the damp, smelly trash, and then he took everything out and laid it on the floor. “I know this one’s ugly!” she called again. “I bought it at the airport in Bombay. You should have seen the others. They were really pretty!” He couldn’t find it. He knelt, sweating, with the trash of the past three days spread out on the floor around him, and suddenly he realized how crazy he was. He thought, If she sees this, she’ll think I’m totally crazy, and he began picking up the trash and stuffing it back in the garbage can. “Actually, that’s not true. I didn’t want to bring anything back for you.” There she was behind him. “I simply forgot about you.” He turned his head and looked up at her from below. She ran her hand through his hair and said, “And then I remembered you again in Bombay, at the airport. . . . What’s the matter? Have you thrown it away already?” “Yes,” he said. “Then we’re quits,” she said. She knelt down beside him and helped to pick up the trash. It was soon done, and then they washed their hands together in the bathroom, looked at each other in the mirror, and smiled. “Would you go out, please?” she said. She had never felt shy about sitting on the toilet in front of him before. Although he didn’t really like it, he would have given anything for her not to send him out now. He closed the door behind him and went into the living room. He sat down on the sofa, but got up again the next minute and put some music on. It was a CD they’d listened to together a couple of times, so he quickly turned it off. He sat down on the sofa again and looked out the window, watching the large green leaves swaying in the wind, and then he didn’t feel so bad after all. It was as if he himself had just come back from a journey, a very good one, but difficult, too; indeed, often simply tedious. And, now that he was back, he was glad not to be travelling, glad that he could just sit here where he had sat for years, looking out the window at the large green leaves and enjoying them, waiting for them to fall so that he could see the church behind them and be glad to think that they would soon be growing again. Before she went away, they’d tried it on the sofa once. No, he had tried it; she went along with him at first, but then she suddenly crossed her arms over her bare breasts. He ran his hand over her belly, and she pressed her legs firmly together. He turned away, disappointed, and she said it was horrible of him to punish her like that. After her flight had taken off, he sent her a text message apologizing, and perhaps she had seen it when the plane stopped over in Zurich, or perhaps not. How much longer would she stay on the toilet? She usually took very little time about it—he was always surprised by how little time she needed—but she went very often. He sometimes had to go frequently, too, but only when he was nervous, which maybe meant that she was always nervous. Today was different; this was the first time she’d gone to the bathroom since arriving, and she had been here for two hours. So today she wasn’t as nervous as usual! As soon as that thought occurred to him, he felt nervous and wanted to go to the bathroom himself. He sat there for a while, waiting. Ten minutes must have passed, and then he couldn’t wait any longer and went over to the bathroom. The door was closed, so he knocked, but there was no answer. He knocked again, louder, and now he heard her. “I’m here,” she said quietly. “Where?” “Here,” she said even more quietly. She was in the bedroom. She was lying in his bed fully clothed, and when he came in she said, “All right, let’s get married.” She lay there in his bed fully clothed, and then she turned on her side, laid her head on the pillow and put her hands under it, and looked at him gravely and sadly.

