Mrs. Quantrill lived in a beautiful old Prairie-style house built in the twenties, which she had restored to its original elegance with Mr. Quantrill, a patent attorney attached to Montana’s burgeoning natural-gas industry. Mrs. Quantrill had raised all kinds of hell getting the house listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The Quantrills were known for their philanthropy and for elegant parties, featuring such high jinks as horses in the living room and mock gunfights on the lawn. Hereditary landowners who no longer lived on their land, they plied it for energy leases. They hung on to their cattle brands long after the last cow had gone down the road, beautiful single-iron brands from territorial days. When their son, Spencer, inherited the house many years later, he demolished it and replaced it with storage units. Even these fell into disrepair, and it was hard to know if they produced any income, because Spencer, who’d temporarily lived in one of the units, had long since moved away. Such was Mrs. Quantrill’s standing that her appearance in the grade-school principal’s office, with the then nine-year-old Spencer in tow, required a bit of fanfare, which she provided by doffing her coat and abruptly removing her lovely gloves a finger at a time. Back then, before such people concealed their prominence, it was not unusual to dress up even for small occasions such as this one. Mrs. Quantrill was the tallest person in the room and very thin, with unblinking blue eyes. Spencer hovered beside her as Mr. Cooper, the principal, in a tan suit and referee’s whistle, directed them to two chairs, then sidled behind his desk and sat down, fingers laced under his chin. “Hi, Spencer.” “Hi.” “Thank you for coming, Mrs. Quantrill. Spencer’s struggling. Aren’t you, Spencer?” “I guess so.” Spencer sat with his tennis shoes one atop the other and pushed his hair across his forehead. He seemed not to know what to do with his feet, his eyes, or his hands. “Struggling how?” Mrs. Quantrill asked sharply. “You describe it, Spencer.” “Can’t pay attention?” He looked to his mother to see if that was the correct answer. “What’s the whistle for?” she asked the principal. Mr. Cooper fingered the whistle as though noticing it for the first time and declined to answer. “I think Spencer wants to participate and enjoy things, but he often seems . . . stunned.” “Stunned?” Mrs. Quantrill said. “Hardly.” Spencer reversed the order of his tennis shoes, placing his left foot on top of his right. “Anyway, I think it might be in Spencer’s best interest to let him enjoy a spell in special ed—get the pressure off him a bit and let him spread his wings.” “Special ed?” Mrs. Quantrill got to her feet, eyes flashing, plucked her coat from the back of her chair, and said, “Over my dead body.” “I see. What do you think is best?” “I’ll raise his standards in my own way. I have tickets to Bayreuth, and I shall take Spencer with me this year. No one leaves Wagner unimproved.” “Who?” “Wagner!” “Ah.” In the car, Mrs. Quantrill spoke non-stop. She glanced down Main Street and remarked, “What a hole.” It was nearly dark, and most of the small businesses there were being closed and locked by their owners. “Mr. Cooper means well, Spencer. He wants to help you, and he’s correct in noticing that your grades are not what they should be. That wretched water-bed outlet is finally going out of business! But we all develop at different speeds, and though I was tall and strong and popular at your age, your father was small and fearful, and just look how he turned out. The mighty oak, single acorn, et cetera. And, my angel, you’re going to love Bayreuth, this year especially, because we will see ‘Parsifal,’ and you’ll find out why Mommy calls you that, and you will be strengthened and return to school with something new that will be felt by everyone—students, teachers, and even nice Mr. Cooper, with that dopey whistle, who thought you should be in special ed. So let’s break the news to Daddy: it’s summer in Bavaria for all of us. Look, Spencer, there’s that place where Daddy bought those Italian snow tires. Why did Daddy think Italians would know how to make snow tires? When he slid off the road in front of the airport, he found out how much they know! You probably think I was pretty rude to the principal, what’s his name, but no, Spencer, I was only being direct. I’m not a bad person. I thought the faster he knew my feelings the better. I’m just going to let this policeman pass me. I don’t like feeling that I’m being followed, no matter who it is. Spencer, you’re too quiet, and it makes me think you’re disapproving. Are you asleep back there?” After watching his mother leave the school parking lot without him, Spencer first considered going back into the school, but trying to explain to Mr. Cooper or anyone else how his mother just got caught up in her thoughts seemed to be beyond him. He was sure that if he waited she would eventually realize she had forgotten him, but standing there alone would have people wondering about him, so he set out walking, though it was almost dark and getting cold. If she hadn’t driven off so fast, he would have been in his bedroom by now with his aquarium light turned on, the guppies and angelfish swimming around the bubbler or darting for the flakes of food he dropped. He hadn’t seen this street before. Of all the houses along it, only two had lights bright enough to show where the sidewalk was. Spencer looked back and tried to remember how many turns he had made and why he thought he had been heading toward more lights instead of fewer. He stopped. His hat was in his desk at school, and his head was getting cold, but the idea of knocking on a stranger’s door to ask for a hat swept him with shyness and desperation. A car turned onto the dark end of the street, and as its headlights hit Spencer it slowed to a crawl. Its lights were so bright that he covered his eyes until the car drew alongside him. Still blinded, Spencer could see no more than the outline of a man’s head in the driver’s window. It seemed a long time before the driver spoke. “Hello, son, you look like you could use a ride. Care to hop in?” When Spencer opened the door to get in, the interior light came on, showing an older man with a white crewcut that stood straight up, wearing a buttoned sweater with a picture of an elk in its wool. Spencer got only a quick look, because when he closed the door the light went off and the man was just an outline again. “Where are we headed, young man?” Spencer didn’t know what to say and so said nothing. “Better tell me where or I’ll run out of gas idling here like this.” Buy the print » Spencer felt anxious trying to come up with a plausible answer. The driver had put the car in gear but took it out again and sat back and crossed his arms. Under pressure, Spencer wanted to blink. Finally, he said, “Bayreuth.” “Buy-Rite? Jeez, that’s way on the other side of town. And it’s closed. Is someone picking you up at Buy-Rite?” Spencer couldn’t speak. “I wish you’d say something. You want to play the radio? You want me to play the radio? O.K., no radio.” It occurred to Spencer that this was like school: he was always tongue-tied just when people wanted to help him. It would all get worked out at Bayreuth, he told himself, even if it was closed at this hour. His mother would take over the situation. She hadn’t meant to forget him and would soon have him back with his aquarium. Today was Thursday, and sometimes on Fridays his father brought him a fish in a water-filled zip-lock bag. Last time, it had been a Siamese fighting fish upside down in the bag, and it had had to go down the toilet. Then his dad had done some research and explained to Spencer that until they got a better bubbler they really couldn’t get another fish. So they got one with a little deep-sea diver with bubbles coming out of his helmet, but so far no new fish. The car stopped under the “LIVE WELL—PHARMACY—PHOTO CENTER” sign. “Is this it?” No one in sight. The pulsing red neon reflected off the dashboard and lit the side of the driver’s face. Spencer needed his mother here to do the talking. He managed, “Maybe not.” “Son, you gotta help me. Where do you want to go? I was supposed to be at the Legion ten minutes ago.” “Maybe back to the school.” “School is closed, too! O.K., please don’t cry. I shouldn’t have raised my voice, but this is getting to be a problem. There’s a Buy Rite Auto on the frontage road. That sound like it? No?” The driver gripped the wheel hard, then rested his head on it. “Please tell me where to take you. Stop, don’t open the glove compartment!” “Is it loaded?” “Yes, yes, put it back now. I have a permit for that. I need it. I’m a travelling salesman. Thank you.” “Someday, I’ll have a gun.” And a big mustache, he thought. “When you’re old enough and have received proper training. So, now where are we headed? Son, tell me the truth, do you actually want to go home?” “There’s the road,” Spencer said, pointing to a road that angled off to the west, a road he had never seen before. “How far?” “It’s quite a ways.” Soon, all the houses dropped away into the dark. It was possible to see the shapes of bluffs and, well back from the road and barely different from the stars, the occasional yard light at a ranch. A jackrabbit paused, lit up in the headlights, then vanished. For a while, the only sound was the pop of bugs against the windshield. The car came to a stop in the middle of the road, and the driver scratched his crewcut frantically with both hands, then covered his face. “I can see it now—kidnapping, child molester, the whole nine yards. Son, you have to get out of the car.” When he uncovered his face, Spencer was playing with the gun again. “Oh, boy, how were you raised, anyway? That’s not a plaything.” The man reached over and took the gun from Spencer. “I tried to help you. My conscience is clear. Out you go.” Spencer gripped the seat and didn’t budge. He wanted to keep going down the road. The man’s voice came in a roar. “Get the fuck out now before I hit you over the head! You’re starting to scare me.” Spencer opened the door, hoping the driver would change his mind, then got out and closed the door. He had wanted to speak, but as he searched through his mind nothing came to him. It was wonderful how the night smelled and how huge the stars seemed as the car pulled slowly away, pushing open a strip of road with its headlights. Once the sound of its motor had faded, a roar of insects filled the emptiness. Spencer was very still as he followed his happiness to its source and smiled to think, No one knows where I am. The driver was a nice man, but maybe this is better. Then the lights of the distant car seemed to circle, and Spencer saw that it was coming back. He looked quickly to his left and to his right, but he couldn’t move. The driver leaned over to thrust open the passenger door. “Get in.” Spencer did so and closed the door. “Son, I can’t leave you out here by yourself. Something might happen to you.” “I wasn’t scared.” “You don’t know enough to be scared! God almighty!” As the car pulled forward, Spencer looked longingly into the dark. He thought of his mother and wondered if she would remember to feed the fish. He pictured them at the surface of the aquarium looking up at him, expecting to be fed. “As soon as we get to some town, I’m going to find a phone. Yes sirree, Bob, I’m gonna find me a phone and figure out where you belong.” They crossed a creek on a noisy bridge where telephone poles had been stacked. Just beyond was an empty house and a car on blocks, then the road climbed slowly on a straightaway toward the first lights they had seen in a long time. As they approached, the driver slowed down, holding the top of his head with one hand: a sheriff’s car was parked there, and several officers stood on either side of the road near it. “An accident? Doesn’t seem like there’s enough cars to have one.” The driver rolled his window down. “But this is good, son. Maybe you’ll talk to these fellers.” Two officers came to the driver’s door. They looked hard through the window at Spencer, glanced at each other, pulled open the door, dragged the driver onto the road, and handcuffed him behind his back. The opposite door opened, and Spencer was swept into the arms of a burly deputy. There were lights everywhere, and Spencer cried, but not for the reasons the worried lawmen believed. On the radio, in the papers, but mostly in people’s mouths, news of the kidnapper ballooned. In town, the driver’s relatives were dismayed to learn of this side of his character and anxious to put some distance between them and him. The interrogator from Helena was delayed by a passing hailstorm, and by the time he got to the town jail the driver had done away with himself, an expression that Spencer failed to understand and which his mother explained by using her hands to illustrate a bird flying off. Even so, he suspected that he was being misled. Now the newscasters were full of questions as to whether it had been mothball- or golf-ball-size hail. A widow up at Ten Mile went on TV with a hailstone the size of a grapefruit, but subsequent investigation revealed it to be something from her freezer.