Samsa in Love	Credit Illustration by Javier Jaén He woke to discover that he had undergone a metamorphosis and become Gregor Samsa. He lay flat on his back on the bed, looking at the ceiling. It took time for his eyes to adjust to the lack of light. The ceiling seemed to be a common, everyday ceiling of the sort one might find anywhere. Once, it had been painted white, or possibly a pale cream. Years of dust and dirt, however, had given it the color of spoiled milk. It had no ornament, no defining characteristic. No argument, no message. It fulfilled its structural role but aspired to nothing further. There was a tall window on one side of the room, to his left, but its curtain had been removed and thick boards nailed across the frame. An inch or so of space had been left between the horizontal boards, whether on purpose or not wasn’t clear; rays of morning sun shone through, casting a row of bright parallel lines on the floor. Why was the window barricaded in such a rough fashion? Was a major storm or tornado in the offing? Or was it to keep someone from getting in? Or to prevent someone (him, perhaps?) from leaving? Still on his back, he slowly turned his head and examined the rest of the room. He could see no furniture, apart from the bed on which he lay. No chest of drawers, no desk, no chair. No painting, clock, or mirror on the walls. No lamp or light. Nor could he make out any rug or carpet on the floor. Just bare wood. The walls were covered with wallpaper of a complex design, but it was so old and faded that in the weak light it was next to impossible to make out what the design was. The room had perhaps once served as a normal bedroom. Yet now all vestiges of human life had been stripped away. The only thing that remained was his solitary bed in the center. And it had no bedding. No sheets, no coverlet, no pillow. Just an ancient mattress. Samsa had no idea where he was, or what he should do. All he knew was that he was now a human whose name was Gregor Samsa. And how did he know that? Perhaps someone had whispered it in his ear while he lay sleeping? But who had he been before he became Gregor Samsa? What had he been? The moment he began contemplating that question, however, something like a black column of mosquitoes swirled up in his head. The column grew thicker and denser as it moved to a softer part of his brain, buzzing all the way. Samsa decided to stop thinking. Trying to think anything through at this point was too great a burden. In any case, he had to learn how to move his body. He couldn’t lie there staring up at the ceiling forever. The posture left him much too vulnerable. He had no chance of surviving an attack—by predatory birds, for example. As a first step, he tried to move his fingers. There were ten of them, long things affixed to his two hands. Each was equipped with a number of joints, which made synchronizing their movements very complicated. To make matters worse, his body felt numb, as though it were immersed in a sticky, heavy liquid, so that it was difficult to send strength to his extremities. Nevertheless, after repeated attempts and failures, by closing his eyes and focussing his mind he was able to bring his fingers more under control. Little by little, he was learning how to make them work together. As his fingers became operational, the numbness that had enveloped his body withdrew. In its place—like a dark and sinister reef revealed by a retreating tide—came an excruciating pain. It took Samsa some time to realize that the pain was hunger. This ravenous desire for food was new to him, or at least he had no memory of experiencing anything like it. It was as if he had not had a bite to eat for a week. As if the center of his body were now a cavernous void. His bones creaked; his muscles clenched; his organs twitched. Unable to withstand the pain any longer, Samsa put his elbows on the mattress and, bit by bit, pushed himself up. His spine emitted several low and sickening cracks in the process. My God, Samsa thought, how long have I been lying here? His body protested each move. But he struggled through, marshalling his strength, until, at last, he managed to sit up. Samsa looked down in dismay at his naked body. How ill-formed it was! Worse than ill-formed. It possessed no means of self-defense. Smooth white skin (covered by only a perfunctory amount of hair) with fragile blue blood vessels visible through it; a soft, unprotected belly; ludicrous, impossibly shaped genitals; gangly arms and legs (just two of each!); a scrawny, breakable neck; an enormous, misshapen head with a tangle of stiff hair on its crown; two absurd ears, jutting out like a pair of seashells. Was this thing really him? Could a body so preposterous, so easy to destroy (no shell for protection, no weapons for attack), survive in the world? Why hadn’t he been turned into a fish? Or a sunflower? A fish or a sunflower made sense. More sense, anyway, than this human being, Gregor Samsa. Steeling himself, he lowered his legs over the edge of the bed until the soles of his feet touched the floor. The unexpected cold of the bare wood made him gasp. After several failed attempts that sent him crashing to the floor, at last he was able to balance on his two feet. He stood there, bruised and sore, one hand clutching the frame of the bed for support. His head was inordinately heavy and hard to hold up. Sweat streamed from his armpits, and his genitals shrank from the stress. He had to take several deep breaths before his constricted muscles began to relax. Once he was used to standing, he had to learn to walk. Walking on two legs amounted to a kind of torture, each movement an exercise in pain. No matter how he looked at it, advancing his right and left legs one after the other was a bizarre proposition that flouted all natural laws, while the precarious distance from his eyes to the ground made him cringe in fear. He had to learn how to coördinate his hip and knee joints. Each time he took a step forward, his knees shook, and he steadied himself against the wall with both hands. But he knew that he could not remain in this room forever. If he didn’t find food, and quickly, his starving belly would consume his own flesh, and he would cease to exist. He tottered toward the door, pawing at the wall as he went. The journey seemed to take hours, although he had no way of measuring the time, except by the pain. His movements were awkward, his pace snail-like. He couldn’t advance without leaning on something for support. On the street, his best hope would be that people saw him as disabled. He grasped the doorknob and pulled. It didn’t budge. A push yielded the same result. Next, he turned the knob to the right and pulled. The door opened partway with a slight squeak. He poked his head through the opening and looked out. The hallway was deserted. It was as quiet as the bottom of the ocean. He extended his left leg through the doorway, swung the upper half of his body out, with one hand on the doorframe, and followed with his right leg. He moved slowly down the corridor, hands on the wall. There were four doors in the hallway, including the one he had just used. All were identical, fashioned of the same dark wood. What, or who, lay beyond them? He longed to open them and find out. Perhaps then he might begin to understand the mysterious circumstances in which he found himself. Or at least discover a clue of some sort. Nevertheless, he passed by each of the doors, making as little noise as possible. The need to fill his belly trumped his curiosity. He had to find something substantial to eat. And now he knew where to find it. Buy the print » Just follow the smell, he thought, sniffing. It was the aroma of cooked food, tiny particles that wafted to him through the air. The information gathered by olfactory receptors in his nose was being transmitted to his brain, producing an anticipation so vivid, a craving so violent, that he could feel his innards being slowly twisted, as if by an experienced torturer. Saliva flooded his mouth. To reach the source of the aroma, however, he would have to go down a steep flight of stairs, seventeen of them. He was having a hard enough time walking on level ground—navigating those steps would be a true nightmare. He grabbed the bannister with both hands and began his descent. His skinny ankles felt ready to collapse under his weight, and he almost went tumbling down the steps. And what was on Samsa’s mind as he made his way down the staircase? Fish and sunflowers, for the most part. Had I been transformed into a fish or a sunflower, he thought, I could have lived out my life in peace, without struggling up and down steps like these. When Samsa reached the bottom of the seventeen steps, he pulled himself upright, summoned his remaining strength, and hobbled in the direction of the enticing smell. He crossed the high-ceilinged entrance hall and stepped through the dining room’s open doorway. The food was laid out on a large oval table. There were five chairs, but no sign of people. White wisps of steam rose from the serving plates. A glass vase bearing a dozen lilies occupied the center of the table. Four places were set with napkins and cutlery, untouched, by the look of it. It seemed as though people had been sitting down to eat their breakfast a few minutes earlier, when some sudden and unforeseen event sent them all running off. What had happened? Where had they gone? Or where had they been taken? Would they return to eat their breakfast? But Samsa had no time to ponder such questions. Falling into the nearest chair, he grabbed whatever food he could reach with his bare hands and stuffed it into his mouth, quite ignoring the knives, spoons, forks, and napkins. He tore bread into pieces and downed it without jam or butter, gobbled fat boiled sausages whole, devoured hard-boiled eggs with such speed that he almost forgot to peel them, scooped up handfuls of still warm mashed potatoes, and plucked pickles with his fingers. He chewed it all together, and washed the remnants down with water from a jug. Taste was of no consequence. Bland or delicious, spicy or sour—it was all the same to him. All that mattered was filling that empty cavern inside him. He ate with total concentration, as if racing against time. He was so fixated on eating that once, as he was licking his fingers, he sank his teeth into them by mistake. Scraps of food flew everywhere, and when a platter fell to the floor and smashed he paid no attention whatsoever. By the time Samsa had eaten his fill and sat back to catch his breath, almost nothing was left, and the dining table was an awful sight. It looked as if a flock of quarrelsome crows had flown in through an open window, gorged themselves, and flown away again. The only thing untouched was the vase of lilies; had there been less food, he might have devoured them as well. He sat, dazed, in his chair for a long while. Hands on the table, he gazed at the lilies through half-closed eyes and took long, slow breaths, while the food he had eaten worked its way through his digestive system, from his esophagus to his intestines. A sense of satiety came over him like a rising tide. He picked up a metal pot and poured coffee into a white ceramic cup. The pungent fragrance recalled something to him. It did not come directly, however; it arrived in stages. It was a strange feeling, as if he were recollecting the present from the future. As if time had somehow been split in two, so that memory and experience revolved within a closed cycle, each following the other. He poured a liberal amount of cream into his coffee, stirred it with his finger, and drank. Although the coffee had cooled, a slight warmth remained. He held it in his mouth before warily allowing it to trickle down his throat. He found that it calmed him to a degree. All of a sudden, he felt cold. The intensity of his hunger had blotted out his other senses. Now that he was sated, the morning chill on his skin made him tremble. The fire had gone out. None of the heaters seemed to be turned on. On top of that, he was stark naked—even his feet were bare. He knew that he had to find something to wear. He was too cold like this. Moreover, his lack of clothes was bound to be an issue should someone appear. There might be a knock at the door. Or the people who had been about to sit down to breakfast a short while before might return. Who knew how they would react if they found him in this state? He understood all this. He did not surmise it, or perceive it in an intellectual way; he knew it, pure and simple. Samsa had no idea where such knowledge came from. Perhaps it was related to those revolving memories he was having. He stood up from his chair and walked out to the front hall. He was still awkward, but now, at least, he could stand and walk on two legs without clinging to something. There was a wrought-iron umbrella stand in the hall that held several walking sticks. He pulled out a black one made of oak to help him move around; just grasping its sturdy handle relaxed and encouraged him. And now he would have a weapon to fight back with should birds attack. He went to the window and looked out through the crack in the lace curtains. The house faced onto a street. It was not a very big street. Nor were many people on it. Nevertheless, he noted that every person who passed was fully clothed. The clothes were of various colors and styles. Men and women wore different garments. Shoes of stiff leather covered their feet. A few sported brightly polished boots. He could hear the soles of their footwear clack on the cobblestones. Many of the men and women wore hats. They seemed to think nothing of walking on two legs and keeping their genitals covered. Samsa compared his reflection in the hall’s full-length mirror with the people walking outside. The man he saw in the mirror was a shabby, frail-looking creature. His belly was smeared with gravy, and bread crumbs clung to his pubic hair like bits of cotton. He swept the filth away with his hand. Yes, he thought again, I must find something to cover my body. He looked out at the street once more, checking for birds. But there were no birds in sight. The ground floor of the house consisted of the hallway, the dining room, a kitchen, and a living room. As far as he could tell, however, none of those rooms held anything resembling clothes. Which meant that the putting on and taking off of clothing must occur somewhere else. Perhaps in a room on the second floor. Samsa returned to the staircase and began to climb. He was surprised to discover how much easier it was to go up than to go down. Clutching the railing, he was able to make his way up the seventeen steps at a much faster rate and without undue pain or fear, stopping several times along the way (though never for long) to catch his breath. One might say that luck was with him, for none of the doors on the second floor were locked. All he had to do was turn the knob and push, and each door swung open. There were four rooms in total, and, apart from the freezing room with the bare floor in which he had woken, all were comfortably furnished. Each had a bed with clean bedding, a dresser, a writing desk, a lamp affixed to the ceiling or the wall, and a rug or a carpet with an intricate pattern. Books were neatly lined up in their cases, and framed oil paintings of landscapes adorned the walls. Each room had a glass vase filled with bright flowers. None had rough boards nailed across the windows. Their windows had lace curtains, through which sunlight poured like a blessing from above. The beds all showed signs of someone’s having slept in them. He could see the imprint of heads on pillows. “Don’t look a gift horse in the ass, either.”Buy the print » Samsa found a dressing gown his size in the closet of the largest room. It looked like something he might be able to manage. He hadn’t a clue what to do with the other clothes—how to put them on, how to wear them. They were just too complicated: too many buttons, for one thing, and he was unsure how to tell front from back, or top from bottom. Which was supposed to go on the outside, and which underneath? The dressing gown, on the other hand, was simple, practical, and quite free of ornament. Its light, soft cloth felt good against his skin, and its color was dark blue. He even turned up a matching pair of slippers. He pulled the dressing gown over his naked body and, after much trial and error, succeeded in fastening the belt around his waist. He looked at himself in the mirror, clad now in gown and slippers. This was certainly better than walking around naked. It wasn’t as warm as it might have been, to be sure, but as long as he remained indoors it would stave off the cold. Best of all, he no longer had to worry that his soft skin would be exposed to vicious birds. When the doorbell rang, Samsa was dozing in the biggest room (and in the biggest bed) in the house. It was warm under the feather quilts, as cozy as if he were sleeping in an egg. He woke from a dream. He couldn’t remember it in detail, but it had been pleasant and cheerful. The bell echoing through the house, however, yanked him back to cold reality. He dragged himself from the bed, fastened his gown, put on his dark-blue slippers, grabbed his black walking stick, and, hand on railing, tottered down the stairs. It was far easier than it had been on the first occasion. Still, the danger of falling was ever present. He could not afford to let down his guard. Keeping a close eye on his feet, he picked his way down the stairs one step at a time, as the doorbell continued to ring. Whoever was pushing the buzzer had to be a most impatient and stubborn person. Walking stick in his left hand, Samsa approached the front door. He twisted the knob to the right and pulled, and the door swung in. A little woman was standing outside. A very little woman. It was a wonder she was able to reach the buzzer. When he looked more closely, however, he realized that the issue wasn’t her size. It was her back, which was bent forward in a perpetual stoop. This made her appear small, though, in fact, her frame was of normal dimensions. She had fastened her hair with a rubber band to prevent it from spilling over her face. The hair was a deep chestnut and very abundant. She was dressed in a battered tweed jacket and a full, loose-fitting skirt that covered her ankles. A striped cotton scarf was wrapped around her neck. She wore no hat. Her shoes were of the tall lace-up variety, and she appeared to be in her early twenties. There was still something of the girl about her. Her eyes were big, her nose small, and her lips twisted a little to one side, like a skinny moon. Her dark eyebrows formed two straight lines across her forehead, giving her a skeptical look. “Is this the Samsa residence?” the woman said, craning her head up to look at him. Then she twisted her body all over. Much the way the earth twists during a violent earthquake. He was taken aback at first, but pulled himself together. “Yes,” he said. Since he was Gregor Samsa, this was likely the Samsa residence. At any rate, there could be no harm in saying so. Yet the woman seemed to find his answer less than satisfying. A slight frown creased her brow. Perhaps she had picked up a note of confusion in his voice. “So this is really the Samsa residence?” she said in a sharp voice. Like an experienced gatekeeper grilling a shabby visitor. “I am Gregor Samsa,” Samsa said, in as relaxed a tone as possible. Of this, at least, he was sure. “I hope you’re right,” she said, reaching down for a cloth bag at her feet. It was black, and seemed very heavy. Worn through in places, it had doubtless had a number of owners. “So let’s get started.” She strode into the house without waiting for a reply. Samsa closed the door behind her. She stood there, looking him up and down. It seemed that his gown and slippers had aroused her suspicions. “I appear to have woken you,” she said, her voice cold. “That’s perfectly all right,” Samsa replied. He could tell by her dark expression that his clothes were a poor fit for the occasion. “I must apologize for my appearance,” he went on. “There are reasons. . . .” The woman ignored this. “So, then?” she said through pursed lips. “So, then?” Samsa echoed. “So, then, where is the lock that’s causing the problem?” the woman said. “The lock?” “The lock that’s broken,” she said. “You asked us to come and repair it.” “Ah,” Samsa said. “The broken lock.” Samsa ransacked his mind. No sooner had he managed to focus on one thing, however, than that black column of mosquitoes rose up again. “I haven’t heard anything in particular about a lock,” he said. “My guess is it belongs to one of the doors on the second floor.” The woman glowered at him. “Your guess?” she said, peering up at his face. Her voice had grown even icier. An eyebrow arched in disbelief. “One of the doors?” she went on. Samsa could feel his face flush. His ignorance regarding the lock struck him as most embarrassing. He cleared his throat to speak, but the words did not come. “Mr. Samsa, are your parents in? I think it’s better if I talk to them.” “They seem to have gone out on an errand,” Samsa said. “An errand?” she said, appalled. “In the midst of these troubles?” “I really have no idea. When I woke up this morning, everyone was gone,” Samsa said. “Good grief,” the young woman said. She heaved a long sigh. “We did tell them that someone would come at this time today.” “I’m terribly sorry.” The woman stood there for a moment. Then, slowly, her arched eyebrow descended, and she looked at the black walking stick in Samsa’s left hand. “Are your legs bothering you, Gregor Samsa?” “Yes, a little,” he prevaricated. Once again, the woman writhed suddenly. Samsa had no idea what this action meant or what its purpose was. Yet he was drawn by instinct to the complex sequence of movements. “Well, what’s to be done,” the woman said in a tone of resignation. “Let’s take a look at those doors on the second floor. I came over the bridge and all the way across town through this terrible upheaval to get here. Risked my life, in fact. So it wouldn’t make much sense to say, ‘Oh, really, no one is here? I’ll come back later,’ would it?” This terrible upheaval? Samsa couldn’t grasp what she was talking about. What awful change was taking place? But he decided not to ask for details. Better to avoid exposing his ignorance even further. Back bent, the young woman took the heavy black bag in her right hand and toiled up the stairs, much like a crawling insect. Samsa labored after her, his hand on the railing. Her creeping gait aroused his sympathy—it reminded him of something. The woman stood at the top of the steps and surveyed the hallway. “So,” she said, “one of these four doors probably has a broken lock, right?” Samsa’s face reddened. “Yes,” he said. “One of these. It could be the one at the end of the hall on the left, possibly,” he said, faltering. This was the door to the bare room in which he had woken that morning. “It could be,” the woman said in a voice as lifeless as an extinguished bonfire. “Possibly.” She turned around to examine Samsa’s face. “Somehow or other,” Samsa said. The woman sighed again. “Gregor Samsa,” she said dryly. “You are a true joy to talk to. Such a rich vocabulary, and you always get to the point.” Then her tone changed. “But no matter. Let’s check the door on the left at the end of the hall first.” The woman went to the door. She turned the knob back and forth and pushed, and it opened inward. The room was as it had been before: only a bed with a bare mattress that was less than clean. The floor bare as well. Boards nailed across the window. The woman must have noticed all this, but she showed no sign of surprise. Her demeanor suggested that similar rooms could be found all over the city. She squatted down, opened the black bag, pulled out a white flannel cloth, and spread it on the floor. Then she took out a number of tools, which she lined up carefully on the cloth, like a hardened torturer displaying the sinister instruments of his trade before some poor martyr. Buy the print » Selecting a wire of medium thickness, she inserted it into the lock and, with a practiced hand, manipulated it from a variety of angles. Her eyes were narrowed in concentration, her ears alert for the slightest sound. Next, she chose a thinner wire and repeated the process. Her face grew sombre, and her mouth twisted into a ruthless shape, like a Chinese sword. She took a large flashlight and, with a black look in her eyes, began to examine the lock in detail. “Do you have the key for this lock?” she asked Samsa. “I haven’t the slightest idea where the key is,” he answered honestly. “Ah, Gregor Samsa, sometimes you make me want to die,” she said. After that, she quite ignored him. She selected a screwdriver from the tools lined up on the cloth and proceeded to remove the lock from the door. Her movements were slow and cautious. She paused from time to time to twist and writhe about as she had before. While he stood behind her, watching her move in that fashion, Samsa’s own body began to respond in a strange way. He was growing hot all over, and his nostrils were flaring. His mouth was so dry that he produced a loud gulp whenever he swallowed. His earlobes itched. And his sexual organ, which had dangled in such a sloppy way until that point, began to stiffen and expand. As it rose, a bulge developed at the front of his gown. He was in the dark, however, as to what that might signify. Having extracted the lock, the young woman took it to the window to inspect in the sunlight that shone between the boards. She poked it with a thin wire and gave it a hard shake to see how it sounded, her face glum and her lips pursed. Finally, she sighed again and turned to face Samsa. “The insides are shot,” the woman said. “It’s kaput. This is the one, just like you said.” “That’s good,” Samsa said. “No, it’s not,” the woman said. “There’s no way I can repair it here on the spot. It’s a special kind of lock. I’ll have to take it back and let my father or one of my older brothers work on it. They may be able to fix it. I’m just an apprentice—I can only handle regular locks.” “I see,” Samsa said. So this young woman had a father and several brothers. A whole family of locksmiths. “Actually, one of my brothers was supposed to come today, but because of the commotion going on out there they sent me instead. The city is riddled with checkpoints.” She looked back down at the lock in her hands. “But how did the lock get broken like this? It’s weird. Someone must have gouged out the insides with a special kind of tool. There’s no other way to explain it.” Again she writhed. Her arms rotated as if she were a swimmer practicing a new stroke. He found the action mesmerizing and very exciting. Samsa made up his mind. “May I ask you a question?” he said. “A question?” she said, casting him a dubious glance. “I can’t imagine what, but go ahead.” “Why do you twist about like that every so often?” She looked at Samsa with her lips slightly parted. “Twist about?” She thought for a moment. “You mean like this?” She demonstrated the motion for him. “Yes, that’s it.” “My brassiere doesn’t fit,” she said dourly. “That’s all.” “Brassiere?” Samsa said in a dull voice. It was a word he couldn’t call up from his memory. “A brassiere. You know what that is, don’t you?” the woman said. “Or do you find it strange that hunchback women wear brassieres? Do you think it’s presumptuous of us?” “Hunchback?” Samsa said. Yet another word that was sucked into that vast emptiness he carried within. He had no idea what she was talking about. Still, he knew that he should say something. “No, I don’t think so at all,” he mumbled. “Listen up. We hunchbacks have two breasts, just like other women, and we have to use a brassiere to support them. We can’t walk around like cows with our udders swinging.” “Of course not.” Samsa was lost. “But brassieres aren’t designed for us—they get loose. We’re built differently from regular women, right? So we have to twist around every so often to put them back in place. Hunchbacks have more problems than you can imagine. Is that why you’ve been staring at me from behind? Is that how you get your kicks?” “No, not at all. I was just curious why you were doing that.” So, he inferred, a brassiere was an apparatus designed to hold the breasts in place, and a hunchback was a person with this woman’s particular build. There was so much in this world that he had to learn. “Are you sure you’re not making fun of me?” the woman asked. “I’m not making fun of you.” The woman cocked her head and looked up at Samsa. She could tell that he was speaking the truth—there didn’t seem to be any malice in him. He was just a little weak in the head, that was all. He was probably a few years older than she was. As well as being lame, he seemed to be intellectually challenged. But he was from a good family, and his manners were impeccable. He was nice-looking, too, though a little scrawny and pasty-faced. It was then that she noticed the protuberance pushing out the lower part of his gown. “What the hell is that?” she said stonily. “What’s that bulge doing there?” Samsa looked down at the front of his gown. His organ was really very swollen. He could surmise from her tone that its condition was somehow inappropriate. “I get it,” she spat out. “You’re wondering what it would be like to fuck a hunchback, aren’t you?” “Fuck?” he said. One more word he couldn’t place. “You imagine that, since a hunchback is bent at the waist, you can just take her from the rear with no problem, right?” the woman said. “Believe me, there are lots of perverts like you around, who seem to think that we’ll let you do what you want because we’re hunchbacks. Well, think again, buster. We’re not that easy!” “I’m very confused,” Samsa said. “If I have displeased you in some way, I am truly sorry. I apologize. Please forgive me. I meant no harm. I’ve been unwell, and there are so many things I don’t understand.” “All right, I get the picture.” She sighed. “You’re a little slow, right? But your wiener is in great shape. Those are the breaks, I guess.” “I’m sorry,” Samsa said again. “Forget it.” She relented. “I’ve got four no-good brothers at home, and since I was a little girl they’ve shown me everything. They treat it like a big joke. Mean buggers, all of them. So I’m not kidding when I say I know the score.” She squatted to put her tools back in the bag, wrapping the broken lock in the flannel and gently placing it alongside. “I’m taking the lock home with me,” she said, standing up. “Tell your parents. We’ll either fix it or replace it. If we have to get a new one, though, it may take some time, things being the way they are. Don’t forget to tell them, O.K.? Do you follow me? Will you remember?” “I’ll tell them,” Samsa said. She walked slowly down the staircase, Samsa trailing behind. They made quite a study in contrasts: she looked as if she were crawling on all fours, while he tilted backward in a most unnatural way. Yet their pace was identical. Samsa was trying hard to quell his “bulge,” but the thing just wouldn’t return to its former state. Watching her movements from behind as she descended the stairs made his heart pound. Hot, fresh blood coursed through his veins. The stubborn bulge persisted. “As I told you before, one of my brothers was supposed to come today,” the woman said when they reached the front door. “But the streets are crawling with soldiers and tanks. People are being rounded up. That’s why the men in my family can’t go out. Once you get arrested, there’s no telling when you’ll return. That’s why I was sent. All the way across Prague, alone. ‘No one will notice a hunchback girl,’ they said.” “Tanks?” Samsa murmured. “Yeah, lots of them. Tanks with cannons and machine guns. Your cannon is impressive,” she said, pointing at the bulge beneath his gown, “but these cannons are bigger and harder, and a lot more lethal. Let’s hope everyone in your family makes it back safely.” Samsa decided to take the bull by the horns. “Would it be possible to meet again?” he said. “I have the new list of approved tweets.”Buy the print » The young woman craned her head at Samsa. “Are you saying you want to see me again?” “Yes. I want to see you one more time.” “With your thing sticking out like that?” Samsa looked down again at the bulge. “I don’t know how to explain it, but that has nothing to do with my feelings. It must be some kind of heart problem.” “No kidding,” she said, impressed. “A heart problem, you say. That’s an interesting way to look at it. Never heard that one before.” “You see, it’s out of my control.” “And it has nothing to do with fucking?” “Fucking isn’t on my mind. Really.” “So let me get this straight. When your thing grows big and hard like that, it’s not your mind but your heart that’s causing it?” Samsa nodded in assent. “Swear to God?” the woman said. “God,” Samsa echoed. Another word he couldn’t remember having heard before. He fell silent. The woman gave a weary shake of her head. She twisted and turned again to adjust her brassiere. “Forget it. It seems God left Prague a few days ago. Let’s forget about him.” “So can I see you again?” Samsa asked. A new look came over the girl’s face—her eyes seemed fixed on some distant and misty landscape. “You really want to see me again?” Samsa nodded. “What would we do?” “We could talk together.” “About what?” the woman asked. “About lots of things.” “Just talk?” “There is so much I want to ask you,” Samsa said. “About what?” “About this world. About you. About me. I feel like there are so many things we need to talk about. Tanks, for example. And God. And brassieres. And locks.” Another silence fell over the two of them. “I don’t know,” the woman said at last. She shook her head slowly, but the chill in her voice was less noticeable. “You’re better brought up than me. And I doubt your parents would be thrilled to see their precious son involved with a hunchback from the wrong side of town. Even if that son is lame and a little slow. On top of that, our city is overflowing with foreign tanks and troops. Who knows what lies ahead.” Samsa certainly had no idea what lay ahead. He was in the dark about everything: the future, of course, but the present and the past as well. What was right, and what was wrong? Just learning how to dress was a riddle. “At any rate, I’ll come back this way in a few days,” the hunchbacked young woman said. “If we can fix it, I’ll bring the lock, and if we can’t I’ll return it to you anyway. You’ll be charged for the service call, of course. If you’re here, then we can see each other. Whether we’ll be able to have that long talk or not I don’t know. But if I were you I’d keep that bulge hidden from your parents. In the real world, you don’t get compliments for exposing that kind of thing.” Samsa nodded. He wasn’t at all clear, though, how that kind of thing could be kept out of sight. “It’s strange, isn’t it?” the woman said in a pensive voice. “Everything is blowing up around us, but there are still those who care about a broken lock, and others who are dutiful enough to try to fix it. . . . But maybe that’s the way it should be. Maybe working on the little things as dutifully and honestly as we can is how we stay sane when the world is falling apart.” The woman looked up at Samsa’s face. “I don’t mean to pry, but what was going on in that room on the second floor? Why did your parents need such a big lock for a room that held nothing but a bed, and why did it bother them so much when the lock got broken? And what about those boards nailed across the window? Was something locked up in there—is that it?” Samsa shook his head. If someone or something had been shut up in there, it must have been him. But why had that been necessary? He hadn’t a clue. “I guess there’s no point in asking you,” the woman said. “Well, I’ve got to go. They’ll worry about me if I’m late. Pray that I make it across town in one piece. That the soldiers will overlook a poor little hunchback girl. That none of them is perverted. We’re being fucked over enough as it is.” “I will pray,” Samsa said. But he had no idea what “perverted” meant. Or “pray,” for that matter. The woman picked up her black bag and, still bent over, headed for the door. “Will I see you again?” Samsa asked one last time. “If you think of someone enough, you’re sure to meet them again,” she said in parting. This time there was real warmth in her voice. “Look out for birds,” he called after her. She turned and nodded. Then she walked out to the street. Samsa watched through the crack in the curtains as her hunched form set off across the cobblestones. She moved awkwardly but with surprising speed. He found her every gesture charming. She reminded him of a water strider that had left the water to scamper about on dry land. As far as he could tell, walking the way she did made a lot more sense than wobbling around upright on two legs. She had not been out of sight long when he noticed that his genitals had returned to their soft and shrunken state. That brief and violent bulge had, at some point, vanished. Now his organ dangled between his legs like an innocent fruit, peaceful and defenseless. His balls rested comfortably in their sac. Readjusting the belt of his gown, he sat down at the dining-room table and drank what remained of his cold coffee. The people who lived here had gone somewhere else. He didn’t know who they were, but he imagined that they were his family. Something had happened all of a sudden, and they had left. Perhaps they would never return. What did “the world is falling apart” mean? Gregor Samsa had no idea. Foreign troops, checkpoints, tanks—everything was wrapped in mystery. The only thing he knew for certain was that he wanted to see that hunchback girl again. To sit face to face and talk to his heart’s content. To unravel the riddles of the world with her. He wanted to watch from every angle the way she twisted and writhed when she adjusted her brassiere. If possible, he wanted to run his hands over her body. To touch her soft skin and feel her warmth with his fingertips. To walk side by side with her up and down the staircases of the world. Just thinking about her made him warm inside. No longer did he wish to be a fish or a sunflower—or anything else, for that matter. He was glad to be human. For sure, it was a great inconvenience to have to walk on two legs and wear clothes. There were so many things he didn’t know. Yet had he been a fish or a sunflower, and not a human being, he might never have experienced this emotion. So he felt. Samsa sat there for a long time with his eyes closed. Then, making up his mind, he stood, grabbed his black walking stick, and headed for the stairs. He would return to the second floor and figure out the proper way to dress. For now, at least, that would be his mission. The world was waiting for him to learn. ♦ (Translated, from the Japanese, by Ted Goossen.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Bear Came Over the Mountain	Credit Photograph by Bryan Adams / Trunk Archive (This story originally appeared in the December 27, 1999, issue of the magazine.) Fiona lived in her parents’ house, in the town where she and Grant went to university. It was a big, bay-windowed house that seemed to Grant both luxurious and disorderly, with rugs crooked on the floors and cup rings bitten into the table varnish. Her mother was Icelandic—a powerful woman with a froth of white hair and indignant far-left politics. The father was an important cardiologist, revered around the hospital but happily subservient at home, where he would listen to his wife’s strange tirades with an absentminded smile. Fiona had her own little car and a pile of cashmere sweaters, but she wasn’t in a sorority, and her mother’s political activity was probably the reason. Not that she cared. Sororities were a joke to her, and so was politics—though she liked to play “The Four Insurgent Generals” on the phonograph, and sometimes also the “Internationale,” very loud, if there was a guest she thought she could make nervous. A curly-haired gloomy-looking foreigner was courting her—she said he was a Visigoth—and so were two or three quite respectable and uneasy young interns. She made fun of them all and of Grant as well. She would drolly repeat some of his small-town phrases. He thought maybe she was joking when she proposed to him, on a cold bright day on the beach at Port Stanley. Sand was stinging their faces and the waves delivered crashing loads of gravel at their feet. “Do you think it would be fun—” Fiona shouted. “Do you think it would be fun if we got married?” He took her up on it, he shouted yes. He wanted never to be away from her. She had the spark of life. Just before they left their house Fiona noticed a mark on the kitchen floor. It came from the cheap black house shoes she had been wearing earlier in the day. “I thought they’d quit doing that,” she said in a tone of ordinary annoyance and perplexity, rubbing at the gray smear that looked as if it had been made by a greasy crayon. She remarked that she’d never have to do this again, since she wasn’t taking those shoes with her. “I guess I’ll be dressed up all the time,” she said. “Or semi-dressed up. It’ll be sort of like in a hotel.” She rinsed out the rag she’d been using and hung it on the rack inside the door under the sink. Then she put on her golden-brown, fur-collared ski jacket, over a white turtleneck sweater and tailored fawn slacks. She was a tall, narrow-shouldered woman, seventy years old but still upright and trim, with long legs and long feet, delicate wrists and ankles, and tiny, almost comical-looking ears. Her hair that was as light as milkweed fluff had gone from pale blond to white somehow without Grant’s noticing exactly when, and she still wore it down to her shoulders, as her mother had done. (That was the thing that had alarmed Grant’s own mother, a small-town widow who worked as a doctor’s receptionist. The long white hair on Fiona’s mother, even more than the state of the house, had told her all she needed to know about attitudes and politics.) But otherwise Fiona, with her fine bones and small sapphire eyes, was nothing like her mother. She had a slightly crooked mouth, which she emphasized now with red lipstick—usually the last thing she did before she left the house. She looked just like herself on this day—direct and vague as in fact she was, sweet and ironic. Over a year ago, Grant had started noticing so many little yellow notes stuck up all over the house. That was not entirely new. Fiona had always written things down—the title of a book she’d heard mentioned on the radio or the jobs she wanted to make sure she got done that day. Even her morning schedule was written down. He found it mystifying and touching in its precision: “7 A.M. yoga. 7:30–7:45 teeth face hair. 7:45–8:15 walk. 8:15 Grant and breakfast.” The new notes were different. Stuck onto the kitchen drawers—Cutlery, Dish-towels, Knives. Couldn’t she just open the drawers and see what was inside? Worse things were coming. She went to town and phoned Grant from a booth to ask him how to drive home. She went for her usual walk across the field into the woods and came home by the fence line—a very long way round. She said that she’d counted on fences always taking you somewhere. It was hard to figure out. She’d said that about fences as if it were a joke, and she had remembered the phone number without any trouble. “I don’t think it’s anything to worry about,” she said. “I expect I’m just losing my mind.” He asked if she had been taking sleeping pills. “If I am I don’t remember,” she said. Then she said she was sorry to sound so flippant. “I’m sure I haven’t been taking anything. Maybe I should be. Maybe vitamins.” Vitamins didn’t help. She would stand in doorways trying to figure out where she was going. She forgot to turn on the burner under the vegetables or put water in the coffeemaker. She asked Grant when they’d moved to this house. “Was it last year or the year before?” “It was twelve years ago,” he said. “That’s shocking.” “She’s always been a bit like this,” Grant said to the doctor. He tried without success to explain how Fiona’s surprise and apologies now seemed somehow like routine courtesy, not quite concealing a private amusement. As if she’d stumbled on some unexpected adventure. Or begun playing a game that she hoped he would catch on to. “Yes, well,” the doctor said. “It might be selective at first. We don’t know, do we? Till we see the pattern of the deterioration, we really can’t say.” In a while it hardly mattered what label was put on it. Fiona, who no longer went shopping alone, disappeared from the supermarket while Grant had his back turned. A policeman picked her up as she was walking down the middle of the road, blocks away. He asked her name and she answered readily. Then he asked her the name of the Prime Minister. “If you don’t know that, young man, you really shouldn’t be in such a responsible job.” He laughed. But then she made the mistake of asking if he’d seen Boris and Natasha. These were the now dead Russian wolfhounds she had adopted many years ago, as a favor to a friend, then devoted herself to for the rest of their lives. Her taking them over might have coincided with the discovery that she was not likely to have children. Something about her tubes being blocked, or twisted—Grant could not remember now. He had always avoided thinking about all that female apparatus. Or it might have been after her mother died. The dogs’ long legs and silky hair, their narrow, gentle, intransigent faces made a fine match for her when she took them out for walks. And Grant himself, in those days, landing his first job at the university (his father-in-law’s money welcome there in spite of the political taint), might have seemed to some people to have been picked up on another of Fiona’s eccentric whims, and groomed and tended and favored—though, fortunately, he didn’t understand this until much later. There was a rule that nobody could be admitted to Meadowlake during the month of December. The holiday season had so many emotional pitfalls. So they made the twenty-minute drive in January. Before they reached the highway the country road dipped through a swampy hollow now completely frozen over. Fiona said, “Oh, remember.” Grant said, “I was thinking about that, too.” “Only it was in the moonlight,” she said. She was talking about the time that they had gone out skiing at night under the full moon and over the black-striped snow, in this place that you could get into only in the depths of winter. They had heard the branches cracking in the cold. If she could remember that, so vividly and correctly, could there really be so much the matter with her? It was all he could do not to turn around and drive home. There was another rule that the supervisor explained to him. New residents were not to be visited during the first thirty days. Most people needed that time to get settled in. Before the rule had been put in place, there had been pleas and tears and tantrums, even from those who had come in willingly. Around the third or fourth day they would start lamenting and begging to be taken home. And some relatives could be susceptible to that, so you would have people being carted home who would not get on there any better than they had before. Six months or sometimes only a few weeks later, the whole upsetting hassle would have to be gone through again. “Whereas we find,” the supervisor said, “we find that if they’re left on their own the first month they usually end up happy as clams.” They had in fact gone over to Meadowlake a few times several years ago to visit Mr. Farquhar, the old bachelor farmer who had been their neighbor. He had lived by himself in a drafty brick house unaltered since the early years of the century, except for the addition of a refrigerator and a television set. Now, just as Mr. Farquhar’s house was gone, replaced by a gimcrack sort of castle that was the weekend home of some people from Toronto, the old Meadow-lake was gone, though it had dated only from the fifties. The new building was a spacious, vaulted place, whose air was faintly, pleasantly pine-scented. Profuse and genuine greenery sprouted out of giant crocks in the hallways. Nevertheless, it was the old Meadowlake that Grant found himself picturing Fiona in, during the long month he had to get through without seeing her. He phoned every day and hoped to get the nurse whose name was Kristy. She seemed a little amused at his constancy, but she would give him a fuller report than any other nurse he got stuck with. Fiona had caught a cold the first week, she said, but that was not unusual for newcomers. “Like when your kids start school,” Kristy said. “There’s a whole bunch of new germs they’re exposed to and for a while they just catch everything.” Then the cold got better. She was off the antibiotics and she didn’t seem as confused as she had been when she came in. (This was the first Grant had heard about either the antibiotics or the confusion.) Her appetite was pretty good and she seemed to enjoy sitting in the sunroom. And she was making some friends, Kristy said. “They’ll be expecting adagio. Go with allegro.”Buy the print » If anybody phoned, he let the machine pick up. The people they saw socially, occasionally, were not close neighbors but people who lived around the country, who were retired, as they were, and who often went away without notice. They would imagine that he and Fiona were away on some such trip at present. Grant skied for exercise. He skied around and around in the field behind the house as the sun went down and left the sky pink over a countryside that seemed to be bound by waves of blue-edged ice. Then he came back to the darkening house, turning the television news on while he made his supper. They had usually prepared supper together. One of them made the drinks and the other the fire, and they talked about his work (he was writing a study of legendary Norse wolves and particularly of the great wolf Fenrir, which swallows up Odin at the end of the world) and about whatever Fiona was reading and what they had been thinking during their close but separate day. This was their time of liveliest intimacy, though there was also, of course, the five or ten minutes of physical sweetness just after they got into bed—something that did not often end in sex but reassured them that sex was not over yet. In a dream he showed a letter to one of his colleagues. The letter was from the roommate of a girl he had not thought of for a while and was sanctimonious and hostile, threatening in a whining way. The girl herself was someone he had parted from decently and it seemed unlikely that she would want to make a fuss, let alone try to kill herself, which was what the letter was elaborately trying to tell him she had done. He had thought of the colleague as a friend. He was one of those husbands who had been among the first to throw away their neckties and leave home to spend every night on a floor mattress with a bewitching young mistress—coming to their offices, their classes, bedraggled and smelling of dope and incense. But now he took a dim view. “I wouldn’t laugh,” he said to Grant— who did not think he had been laughing. “And if I were you I’d try to prepare Fiona.” So Grant went off to find Fiona in Meadowlake—the old Meadowlake— and got into a lecture hall instead. Everybody was waiting there for him to teach his class. And sitting in the last, highest row was a flock of cold-eyed young women all in black robes, all in mourning, who never took their bitter stares off him, and pointedly did not write down, or care about, anything he was saying. Fiona was in the first row, untroubled. “Oh phooey,” she said. “Girls that age are always going around talking about how they’ll kill themselves.” He hauled himself out of the dream, took pills, and set about separating what was real from what was not. There had been a letter, and the word “rat” had appeared in black paint on his office door, and Fiona, on being told that a girl had suffered from a bad crush on him, had said pretty much what she said in the dream. The colleague hadn’t come into it, and nobody had committed suicide. Grant hadn’t been disgraced. In fact, he had got off easy when you thought of what might have happened just a couple of years later. But word got around. Cold shoulders became conspicuous. They had few Christmas invitations and spent New Year’s Eve alone. Grant got drunk, and without its being required of him—also, thank God, without making the error of a confession—he promised Fiona a new life. Nowhere had there been any acknowledgment that the life of a philanderer (if that was what Grant had to call himself—he who had not had half as many conquests as the man who had reproached him in his dream) involved acts of generosity, and even sacrifice. Many times he had catered to a woman’s pride, to her fragility, by offering more affection—or a rougher passion— than anything he really felt. All so that he could now find himself accused of wounding and exploiting and destroying self-esteem. And of deceiving Fiona—as, of course, he had. But would it have been better if he had done as others had done with their wives, and left her? He had never thought of such a thing. He had never stopped making love to Fiona. He had not stayed away from her for a single night. No making up elaborate stories in order to spend a weekend in San Francisco or in a tent on Manitoulin Island. He had gone easy on the dope and the drink, and he had continued to publish papers, serve on committees, make progress in his career. He had never had any intention of throwing over work and marriage and taking to the country to practice carpentry or keep bees. But something like that had happened, after all. He had taken early retirement with a reduced pension. Fiona’s father had died, after some be-wildered and stoical time alone in the big house, and Fiona had inherited both that property and the farmhouse where her father had grown up, in the country near Georgian Bay. It was a new life. He and Fiona worked on the house. They got cross-country skis. They were not very sociable but they gradually made some friends. There were no more hectic flirtations. No bare female toes creeping up under a man’s pants leg at a dinner party. No more loose wives. Just in time, Grant was able to think, when the sense of injustice had worn down. The feminists and perhaps the sad silly girl herself and his cowardly so-called friends had pushed him out just in time. Out of a life that was in fact getting to be more trouble than it was worth. And that might eventually have cost him Fiona. On the morning of the day when he was to go back to Meadowlake, for the first visit, Grant woke early. He was full of a solemn tingling, as in the old days on the morning of his first planned meeting with a new woman. The feeling was not precisely sexual. (Later, when the meetings had become routine, that was all it was.) There was an expectation of discovery, almost a spiritual expansion. Also timidity, humility, alarm. There had been a thaw. Plenty of snow was left, but the dazzling hard landscape of earlier winter had crumbled. These pocked heaps under a gray sky looked like refuse in the fields. In the town near Meadowlake he found a florist’s shop and bought a large bouquet. He had never presented flowers to Fiona before. Or to anyone else. He entered the building feeling like a hopeless lover or a guilty husband in a cartoon. “Wow. Narcissus this early,” Kristy said. “You must’ve spent a fortune.” She went along the hall ahead of him and snapped on the light in a sort of pantry, where she searched for a vase. She was a heavy young woman who looked as if she had given up on her looks in every department except her hair. That was blond and voluminous. All the puffed-up luxury of a cocktail waitress’s style, or a stripper’s, on top of such a workaday face and body. “There now,” she said, and nodded him down the hall. “Name’s right on the door.” So it was, on a nameplate decorated with bluebirds. He wondered whether to knock, and did, then opened the door and called her name. She wasn’t there. The closet door was closed, the bed smoothed. Nothing on the bedside table, except a box of Kleenex and a glass of water. Not a single photograph or picture of any kind, not a book or a magazine. Perhaps you had to keep those in a cupboard. He went back to the nurses’ station. Kristy said, “No?” with a surprise that he thought perfunctory. He hesitated, holding the flowers. She said, “O.K., O.K.—let’s set the bouquet down here.” Sighing, as if he were a backward child on his first day at school, she led him down the hall toward a large central space with skylights which seemed to be a general meeting area. Some people were sitting along the walls, in easy chairs, others at tables in the middle of the carpeted floor. None of them looked too bad. Old—some of them incapacitated enough to need wheelchairs—but decent. There had been some unnerving sights when he and Fiona visited Mr. Farquhar. Whiskers on old women’s chins, somebody with a bulged-out eye like a rotted plum. Dribblers, head wagglers, mad chatterers. Now it looked as if there’d been some weeding out of the worst cases. “See?” said Kristy in a softer voice. “You just go up and say hello and try not to startle her. Just go ahead.” He saw Fiona in profile, sitting close up to one of the card tables, but not playing. She looked a little puffy in the face, the flab on one cheek hiding the corner of her mouth, in a way it hadn’t done before. She was watching the play of the man she sat closest to. He held his cards tilted so that she could see them. When Grant got near the table she looked up. They all looked up—all the players at the table looked up, with displeasure. Then they immediately looked down at their cards, as if to ward off any intrusion. But Fiona smiled her lopsided, abashed, sly, and charming smile and pushed back her chair and came round to him, putting her fingers to her mouth. “Bridge,” she whispered. “Deadly serious. They’re quite rabid about it.” She drew him toward the coffee table, chatting. “I can remember being like that for a while at college. My friends and I would cut class and sit in the common room and smoke and play like cutthroats. Can I get you anything? A cup of tea? I’m afraid the coffee isn’t up to much here.” Grant never drank tea. He could not throw his arms around her. Something about her voice and smile, familiar as they were, something about the way she seemed to be guarding the players from him—as well as him from their displeasure—made that impossible. “I brought you some flowers,” he said. “I thought they’d do to brighten up your room. I went to your room but you weren’t there.” “Well, no,” she said. “I’m here.” She glanced back at the table. Grant said, “You’ve made a new friend.” He nodded toward the man she’d been sitting next to. At this moment that man looked up at Fiona and she turned, either because of what Grant had said or because she felt the look at her back. “I hate camping, but I love shopping at L. L. Bean.”Buy the print » “It’s just Aubrey,” she said. “The funny thing is I knew him years and years ago. He worked in the store. The hardware store where my grandpa used to shop. He and I were always kidding around and he couldn’t get up the nerve to ask me out. Till the very last weekend and he took me to a ballgame. But when it was over my grandpa showed up to drive me home. I was up visiting for the summer. Visiting my grandparents—they lived on a farm.” “Fiona. I know where your grandparents lived. It’s where we live. Lived.” “Really?” she said, not paying her full attention because the cardplayer was sending her his look, which was one not of supplication but of command. He was a man of about Grant’s age, or a little older. Thick coarse white hair fell over his forehead and his skin was leathery but pale, yellowish-white like an old wrinkled-up kid glove. His long face was dignified and melancholy and he had something of the beauty of a powerful, discouraged, elderly horse. But where Fiona was concerned he was not discouraged. “I better go back,” Fiona said, a blush spotting her newly fattened face. “He thinks he can’t play without me sitting there. It’s silly, I hardly know the game anymore. If I leave you now, you can entertain yourself ? It must all seem strange to you but you’ll be surprised how soon you get used to it. You’ll get to know who everybody is. Except that some of them are pretty well off in the clouds, you know—you can’t expect them all to get to know who you are.” She slipped back into her chair and said something into Aubrey’s ear. She tapped her fingers across the back of his hand. Grant went in search of Kristy and met her in the hall. She was pushing a cart with pitchers of apple juice and grape juice. “Well?” she said. Grant said, “Does she even know who I am?” He could not decide. She could have been playing a joke. It would not be unlike her. She had given herself away by that little pretense at the end, talking to him as if she thought perhaps he was a new resident. If it was a pretense. Kristy said, “You just caught her at sort of a bad moment. Involved in the game.” “She’s not even playing,” he said. “Well, but her friend’s playing. Aubrey.” “So who is Aubrey?” “That’s who he is. Aubrey. Her friend. Would you like a juice?” Grant shook his head. “Oh look,” said Kristy. “They get these attachments. That takes over for a while. Best buddy sort of thing. It’s kind of a phase.” “You mean she really might not know who I am?” “She might not. Not today. Then tomorrow—you never know, do you? You’ll see the way it is, once you’ve been coming here for a while. You’ll learn not to take it all so serious. Learn to take it day by day.” Day by day. But things really didn’t change back and forth and he didn’t get used to the way they were. Fiona was the one who seemed to get used to him, but only as some persistent visitor who took a special interest in her. Or perhaps even as a nuisance who must be prevented, according to her old rules of courtesy, from realizing that he was one. She treated him with a distracted, social sort of kindness that was successful in keeping him from asking the most obvious, the most necessary question: did she remember him as her husband of nearly fifty years? He got the impression that she would be embarrassed by such a question—embarrassed not for herself but for him. Kristy told him that Aubrey had been the local representative of a company that sold weed killer “and all that kind of stuff” to farmers. And then when he was not very old or even retired, she said, he had suffered some unusual kind of damage. “His wife is the one takes care of him, usually at home. She just put him in here on temporary care so she could get a break. Her sister wanted her to go to Florida. See, she’s had a hard time, you wouldn’t ever have expected a man like him—they just went on a holiday somewhere and he got something, like some bug that gave him a terrible high fever? And it put him in a coma and left him like he is now.” Most afternoons the pair could be found at the card table. Aubrey had large, thick-fingered hands. It was difficult for him to manage his cards. Fiona shuffled and dealt for him and sometimes moved quickly to straighten a card that seemed to be slipping from his grasp. Grant would watch from across the room her darting move and quick laughing apology. He could see Aubrey’s husbandly frown as a wisp of her hair touched his cheek. Aubrey preferred to ignore her, as long as she stayed close. But let her smile her greeting at Grant, let her push back her chair and get up to offer him tea—showing that she had accepted his right to be there— and Aubrey’s face took on its look of sombre consternation. He would let the cards slide from his fingers and fall on the floor to spoil the game. And Fiona then had to get busy and put things right. If Fiona and Aubrey weren’t at the bridge table they might be walking along the halls, Aubrey hanging on to the railing with one hand and clutching Fiona’s arm or shoulder with the other. The nurses thought that it was a marvel, the way she had got him out of his wheelchair. Though for longer trips— to the conservatory at one end of the building or the television room at the other—the wheelchair was called for. In the conservatory, the pair would find themselves a seat among the most lush and thick and tropical-looking plants—a bower, if you liked. Grant stood nearby, on occasion, on the other side of the greenery, listening. Mixed in with the rustle of the leaves and the sound of plashing water was Fiona’s soft talk and her laughter. Then some sort of chortle. Aubrey could talk, though his voice probably didn’t sound as it used to. He seemed to say something now—a couple of thick syllables. Take care. He’s here. My love. Grant made an effort, and cut his visits down to Wednesdays and Saturdays. Saturdays had a holiday bustle and tension. Families arrived in clusters. Mothers were usually in charge; they were the ones who kept the conversation afloat. Men seemed cowed, teen-agers affronted. No children or grandchildren appeared to visit Aubrey, and since they could not play cards—the tables being taken over for ice-cream parties—he and Fiona stayed clear of the Saturday parade. The conservatory was far too popular then for any of their intimate conversations. Those might be going on, of course, behind Fiona’s closed door. Grant could not manage to knock when he found it closed, though he stood there for some time staring at the Disney-style nameplate with an intense, a truly malignant dislike. Or they might be in Aubrey’s room. But he did not know where that was. The more he explored this place the more corridors and seating spaces and ramps he discovered, and in his wanderings he was still apt to get lost. One Saturday he looked out a window and saw Fiona—it had to be her—wheeling Aubrey along one of the paved paths now cleared of snow and ice. She was wearing a silly wool hat and a jacket with swirls of blue and purple, the sort of thing he had seen on local women at the supermarket. It must be that they didn’t bother to sort out the wardrobes of the women who were roughly the same size and counted on the women not to recognize their own clothes anyway. They had cut her hair, too. They had cut away her angelic halo. On a Wednesday, when everything was more normal and card games were going on again and the women in the Crafts Room were making silk flowers or costumed dolls—and when Aubrey and Fiona were again in evidence, so that it was possible for Grant to have one of his brief and friendly and maddening conversations with his wife—he said to her, “Why did they chop off your hair?” Fiona put her hands up to her head, to check. “Why—I never missed it,” she said. When Grant had first started teaching Anglo-Saxon and Nordic literature he got the regular sort of students in his classes. But after a few years he noticed a change. Married women had started going back to school. Not with the idea of qualifying for a better job, or for any job, but simply to give themselves something more interesting to think about than their usual housework and hobbies. To enrich their lives. And perhaps it followed naturally that the men who taught them these things became part of the enrichment, that these men seemed to these women more mysterious and desirable than the men they still cooked for and slept with. Those who signed up for Grant’s courses might have a Scandinavian background or they might have learned something about Norse mythology from Wagner or historical novels. There were also a few who thought he was teaching a Celtic language and for whom everything Celtic had a mystic allure. He spoke to such aspirants fairly roughly from his side of the desk. “If you want to learn a pretty language go and learn Spanish. Then you can use it if you go to Mexico.” Some took his warning and drifted away. Others seemed to be moved in a personal way by his demanding tone. They worked with a will and brought into his office, into his regulated satisfactory life, the great surprising bloom of their mature female compliance, their tremulous hope of approval. He chose a woman named Jacqui Adams. She was the opposite of Fiona—short, cushiony, dark-eyed, effusive. A stranger to irony. The affair lasted for a year, until her husband was transferred. When they were saying goodbye in her car, she began to shake uncontrollably. It was as if she had hypothermia. She wrote to him a few times, but he found the tone of her letters overwrought and could not decide how to answer. He let the time for answering slip away while he became magically and unexpectedly involved with a girl who was young enough to be Jacqui’s daughter. “I still haven’t cleaned up from the party.”Buy the print » For another and more dizzying development had taken place while he was busy with Jacqui. Young girls with long hair and sandalled feet were coming into his office and all but declaring themselves ready for sex. The cautious approaches, the tender intimations of feeling required with Jacqui were out the window. A whirlwind hit him, as it did many others. Scandals burst wide open, with high and painful drama all round but a feeling that somehow it was better so. There were reprisals; there were firings. But those fired went off to teach at smaller, more tolerant colleges or Open Learning Centers, and many wives left behind got over the shock and took up the costumes, the sexual nonchalance of the girls who had tempted their men. Academic parties, which used to be so predictable, became a minefield. An epidemic had broken out, it was spreading like the Spanish flu. Only this time people ran after contagion, and few between sixteen and sixty seemed willing to be left out. That was exaggeration, of course. Fiona was quite willing. And Grant himself did not go overboard. What he felt was mainly a gigantic increase in well-being. A tendency to pudginess which he had had since he was twelve years old disappeared. He ran up steps two at a time. He appreciated as never before a pageant of torn clouds and winter sunsets seen from his office window, the charm of antique lamps glowing between his neighbors’ living-room curtains, the cries of children in the park, at dusk, unwilling to leave the hill where they’d been tobogganing. Come summer, he learned the names of flowers. In his classroom, after being coached by his nearly voiceless mother-in-law (her affliction was cancer in the throat), he risked reciting the majestic and gory Icelandic ode, the Höfudlausn, composed to honor King Erik Bloodaxe by the skald whom that king had condemned to death. Fiona had never learned Icelandic and she had never shown much respect for the stories that it preserved—the stories that Grant had taught and written about. She referred to their heroes as “old Njal” or “old Snorri.” But in the last few years she had developed an interest in the country itself and looked at travel guides. She read about William Morris’s trip, and Auden’s. She didn’t really plan to travel there. She said there ought to be one place you thought about and knew about and maybe longed for but never did get to see. Nonetheless, the next time he went to Meadowlake, Grant brought Fiona a book he’d found of nineteenth-century watercolors made by a lady traveller to Iceland. It was a Wednesday. He went looking for her at the card tables but didn’t see her. A woman called out to him, “She’s not here. She’s sick.” Her voice sounded self-important and excited—pleased with herself for having recognized him when he knew nothing about her. Perhaps also pleased with all she knew about Fiona, about Fiona’s life here, thinking it was maybe more than he knew. “He’s not here, either,” she added. Grant went to find Kristy, who didn’t have much time for him. She was talking to a weepy woman who looked like a first-time visitor. “Nothing really,” she said, when he asked what was the matter with Fiona. “She’s just having a day in bed today, just a bit of an upset.” Fiona was sitting straight up in the bed. He hadn’t noticed, the few times that he had been in this room, that this was a hospital bed and could be cranked up in such a way. She was wearing one of her high-necked maidenly gowns, and her face had a pallor that was like flour paste. Aubrey was beside her in his wheelchair, pushed as close to the bed as he could get. Instead of the nondescript open-necked shirts he usually wore, he was wearing a jacket and tie. His natty-looking tweed hat was resting on the bed. He looked as if he had been out on important business. Whatever he’d been doing, he looked worn out by it. He, too, was gray in the face. They both looked up at Grant with a stony grief-ridden apprehension that turned to relief, if not to welcome, when they saw who he was. Not who they thought he’d be. They were hanging on to each other’s hands and they did not let go. The hat on the bed. The jacket and tie. It wasn’t that Aubrey had been out. It wasn’t a question of where he’d been or whom he’d been to see. It was where he was going. Grant set the book down on the bed beside Fiona’s free hand. “It’s about Iceland,” he said. “I thought maybe you’d like to look at it.” “Why, thank you,” said Fiona. She didn’t look at the book. “Iceland,” he said. She said, “Ice-land.” The first syllable managed to hold a tinkle of interest, but the second fell flat. Anyway, it was necessary for her to turn her attention back to Aubrey, who was pulling his great thick hand out of hers. “What is it?” she said. “What is it, dear heart?” Grant had never heard her use this flowery expression before. “Oh all right,” she said. “Oh here.” And she pulled a handful of tissues from the box beside her bed. Aubrey had begun to weep. “Here. Here,” she said, and he got hold of the Kleenex as well as he could and made a few awkward but lucky swipes at his face. While he was occupied, Fiona turned to Grant. “Do you by any chance have any influence around here?” she said in a whisper. “I’ve seen you talking to them . . .” Aubrey made a noise of protest or weariness or disgust. Then his upper body pitched forward as if he wanted to throw himself against her. She scrambled half out of bed and caught him and held on to him. It seemed improper for Grant to help her. “Hush,” Fiona was saying. “Oh, honey. Hush. We’ll get to see each other. We’ll have to. I’ll go and see you. You’ll come and see me.” Aubrey made the same sound again with his face in her chest and there was nothing Grant could decently do but get out of the room. “I just wish his wife would hurry up and get here,” Kristy said when he ran into her. “I wish she’d get him out of here and cut the agony short. We’ve got to start serving supper before long and how are we supposed to get her to swallow anything with him still hanging around?” Grant said, “Should I stay?” “What for? She’s not sick, you know.” “To keep her company,” he said. Kristy shook her head. “They have to get over these things on their own. They’ve got short memories, usually. That’s not always so bad.” Grant left without going back to Fiona’s room. He noticed that the wind was actually warm and the crows were making an uproar. In the parking lot a woman wearing a tartan pants suit was getting a folded-up wheelchair out of the trunk of her car. Fiona did not get over her sorrow. She didn’t eat at mealtimes, though she pretended to, hiding food in her napkin. She was being given a supplementary drink twice a day—someone stayed and watched while she swallowed it down. She got out of bed and dressed herself, but all she wanted to do then was sit in her room. She wouldn’t have had any exercise at all if Kristy, or Grant during visiting hours, hadn’t walked her up and down in the corridors or taken her outside. Weeping had left her eyes raw-edged and dim. Her cardigan—if it was hers—would be buttoned crookedly. She had not got to the stage of leaving her hair unbrushed or her nails uncleaned, but that might come soon. Kristy said that her muscles were deteriorating, and that if she didn’t improve they would put her on a walker. “But, you know, once they get a walker they start to depend on it and they never walk much anymore, just get wherever it is they have to go,” she said to Grant. “You’ll have to work at her harder. Try to encourage her.” But Grant had no luck at that. Fiona seemed to have taken a dislike to him, though she tried to cover it up. Perhaps she was reminded, every time she saw him, of her last minutes with Aubrey, when she had asked him for help and he hadn’t helped her. He didn’t see much point in mentioning their marriage now. The supervisor called him in to her office. She said that Fiona’s weight was going down even with the supplement. “The thing is, I’m sure you know, we don’t do any prolonged bed care on the first floor. We do it temporarily if someone isn’t feeling well, but if they get too weak to move around and be responsible we have to consider upstairs.” He said he didn’t think that Fiona had been in bed that often. “No. But if she can’t keep up her strength she will be. Right now she’s borderline.” Grant said that he had thought the second floor was for people whose minds were disturbed. “That, too,” she said. The street Grant found himself driving down was called Blackhawks Lane. The houses all looked to have been built around the same time, perhaps thirty or forty years ago. The street was wide and curving and there were no sidewalks. Friends of Grant and Fiona’s had moved to places something like this when they began to have their children, and young families still lived here. There were basketball hoops over garage doors and tricycles in the driveways. Some of the houses had gone downhill. The yards were marked by tire tracks, the windows plastered with tinfoil or hung with faded flags. But a few seemed to have been kept up as well as possible by the people who had moved into them when they were new—people who hadn’t had the money or perhaps hadn’t felt the need to move on to some place better. The house that was listed in the phone book as belonging to Aubrey and his wife was one of these. The front walk was paved with flagstones and bordered by hyacinths that stood as stiff as china flowers, alternately pink and blue. He hadn’t remembered anything about Aubrey’s wife except the tartan suit he had seen her wearing in the parking lot. The tails of the jacket had flared open as she bent into the trunk of the car. He had got the impression of a trim waist and wide buttocks. She was not wearing the tartan suit today. Brown belted slacks and a pink sweater. He was right about the waist— the tight belt showed she made a point of it. It might have been better if she didn’t, since she bulged out considerably above and below. She could be ten or twelve years younger than her husband. Her hair was short, curly, artificially reddened. She had blue eyes—a lighter blue than Fiona’s—a flat robin’s-egg or turquoise blue, slanted by a slight puffiness. And a good many wrinkles, made more noticeable by a walnut-stain makeup. Or perhaps that was her Florida tan. He said that he didn’t quite know how to introduce himself. “I used to see your husband at Meadowlake. I’m a regular visitor there myself.” “Yes,” said Aubrey’s wife, with an aggressive movement of her chin. “How is your husband doing?” The “doing” was added on at the last moment. “He’s O.K.,” she said. “My wife and he struck up quite a close friendship.” “I heard about that.” “I wanted to talk to you about something if you had a minute.” “Call me!”Buy the print » “My husband did not try to start anything with your wife if that’s what you’re getting at,” she said. “He did not molest her. He isn’t capable of it and he wouldn’t anyway. From what I heard it was the other way round.” Grant said, “No. That isn’t it at all. I didn’t come here with any complaints about anything.” “Oh,” she said. “Well, I’m sorry. I thought you did. You better come in then. It’s blowing cold in through the door. It’s not as warm out today as it looks.” So it was something of a victory for him even to get inside. She took him past the living room, saying, “We’ll have to sit in the kitchen, where I can hear Aubrey.” Grant caught sight of two layers of front-window curtains, both blue, one sheer and one silky, a matching blue sofa and a daunting pale carpet, various bright mirrors and ornaments. Fiona had a word for those sort of swooping curtains—she said it like a joke, though the women she’d picked it up from used it seriously. Any room that Fiona fixed up was bare and bright. She would have deplored the crowding of all this fancy stuff into such a small space. From a room off the kitchen—a sort of sun-room, though the blinds were drawn against the afternoon brightness—he could hear the sounds of television. The answer to Fiona’s prayers sat a few feet away, watching what sounded like a ballgame. His wife looked in at him. She said, “You O.K.?” and partly closed the door. “You might as well have a cup of coffee,” she said to Grant. “My son got him on the sports channel a year ago Christmas. I don’t know what we’d do without it.” On the kitchen counters there were all sorts of contrivances and appliances—coffeemaker, food processor, knife sharpener, and some things Grant didn’t know the names or uses of. All looked new and expensive, as if they had just been taken out of their wrappings, or were polished daily. He thought it might be a good idea to admire things. He admired the coffeemaker she was using and said that he and Fiona had always meant to get one. This was absolutely untrue—Fiona had been devoted to a European contraption that made only two cups at a time. “They gave us that,” she said. “Our son and his wife. They live in Kamloops. B.C. They send us more stuff than we can handle. It wouldn’t hurt if they would spend the money to come and see us instead.” Grant said philosophically, “I suppose they’re busy with their own lives.” “They weren’t too busy to go to Hawaii last winter. You could understand it if we had somebody else in the family, closer at hand. But he’s the only one.” She poured the coffee into two brown-and-green ceramic mugs that she took from the amputated branches of a ceramic tree trunk that sat on the table. “People do get lonely,” Grant said. He thought he saw his chance now. “If they’re deprived of seeing somebody they care about, they do feel sad. Fiona, for instance. My wife.” “I thought you said you went and visited her.” “I do,” he said. “That’s not it.” Then he took the plunge, going on to make the request he’d come to make. Could she consider taking Aubrey back to Meadowlake, maybe just one day a week, for a visit? It was only a drive of a few miles. Or if she’d like to take the time off—Grant hadn’t thought of this before and was rather dismayed to hear himself suggest it—then he himself could take Aubrey out there, he wouldn’t mind at all. He was sure he could manage it. While he talked she moved her closed lips and her hidden tongue as if she were trying to identify some dubious flavor. She brought milk for his coffee and a plate of ginger cookies. “Homemade,” she said as she set the plate down. There was challenge rather than hospitality in her tone. She said nothing more until she had sat down, poured milk into her coffee, and stirred it. Then she said no. “No. I can’t do that. And the reason is, I’m not going to upset him.” “Would it upset him?” Grant said earnestly. “Yes, it would. It would. That’s no way to do. Bringing him home and taking him back. That would just confuse him.” “But wouldn’t he understand that it was just a visit? Wouldn’t he get into the pattern of it?” “He understands everything all right.” She said this as if he had offered an insult to Aubrey. “But it’s still an interruption. And then I’ve got to get him all ready and get him into the car, and he’s a big man, he’s not so easy to manage as you might think. I’ve got to maneuver him into the car and pack his chair and all that and what for? If I go to all that trouble I’d prefer to take him someplace that was more fun.” “But even if I agreed to do it?” Grant said, keeping his tone hopeful and reasonable. “It’s true, you shouldn’t have the trouble.” “You couldn’t,” she said flatly. “You don’t know him. You couldn’t handle him. He wouldn’t stand for you doing for him. All that bother and what would he get out of it?” Grant didn’t think he should mention Fiona again. “It’d make more sense to take him to the mall,” she said. “Or now the lake boats are starting to run again, he might get a charge out of going and watching that.” She got up and fetched her cigarettes and lighter from the window above the sink. “You smoke?” she said. He said no, thanks, though he didn’t know if a cigarette was being offered. “Did you never? Or did you quit?” “Quit,” he said. “How long ago was that?” He thought about it. “Thirty years. No—more.” He had decided to quit around the time he started up with Jacqui. But he couldn’t remember whether he quit first, and thought a big reward was coming to him for quitting, or thought that the time had come to quit, now that he had such a powerful diversion. “I’ve quit quitting,” she said, lighting up. “Just made a resolution to quit quitting, that’s all.” Maybe that was the reason for the wrinkles. Somebody—a woman—had told him that women who smoked developed a special set of fine facial wrinkles. But it could have been from the sun, or just the nature of her skin—her neck was noticeably wrinkled as well. Wrinkled neck, youthfully full and uptilted breasts. Women of her age usually had these contradictions. The bad and good points, the genetic luck or lack of it, all mixed up together. Very few kept their beauty whole, though shadowy, as Fiona had done. And perhaps that wasn’t even true. Perhaps he only thought that because he’d known Fiona when she was young. When Aubrey looked at his wife did he see a high-school girl full of scorn and sass, with a tilt to her blue eyes, pursing her fruity lips around a forbidden cigarette? “So your wife’s depressed?” Aubrey’s wife said. “What’s your wife’s name? I forget.” “It’s Fiona.” “Fiona. And what’s yours? I don’t think I was ever told that.” Grant said, “It’s Grant.” She stuck her hand out unexpectedly across the table. “Hello, Grant. I’m Marian.” “So now we know each other’s names,” she said, “there’s no point in not telling you straight out what I think. I don’t know if he’s still so stuck on seeing your—on seeing Fiona. Or not. I don’t ask him and he’s not telling me. Maybe just a passing fancy. But I don’t feel like taking him back there in case it turns out to be more than that. I can’t afford to risk it. I don’t want him upset and carrying on. I’ve got my hands full with him as it is. I don’t have any help. It’s just me here. I’m it.” “Did you ever consider—I’m sure it’s very hard for you—” Grant said. “Did you ever consider his going in there for good?” He had lowered his voice almost to a whisper but she did not seem to feel a need to lower hers. “No,” she said. “I’m keeping him right here.” Grant said, “Well. That’s very good and noble of you.” He hoped the word “noble” had not sounded sarcastic. He had not meant it to be. “You think so?” she said. “Noble is not what I’m thinking about.” “Still. It’s not easy.” “No, it isn’t. But the way I am, I don’t have much choice. I don’t have the money to put him in there unless I sell the house. The house is what we own outright. Otherwise I don’t have anything in the way of resources. Next year I’ll have his pension and my pension, but even so I couldn’t afford to keep him there and hang on to the house. And it means a lot to me, my house does.” “It’s very nice,” said Grant. “Well, it’s all right. I put a lot into it. Fixing it up and keeping it up. I don’t want to lose it.” “No. I see your point.” “The company left us high and dry,” she said. “I don’t know all the ins and outs of it but basically he got shoved out. It ended up with them saying he owed them money and when I tried to find out what was what he just went on saying it’s none of my business. What I think is he did something pretty stupid. But I’m not supposed to ask so I shut up. You’ve been married. You are married. You know how it is. And in the middle of me finding out about this we’re supposed to go on this trip and can’t get out of it. And on the trip he takes sick from this virus you never heard of and goes into a coma. So that pretty well gets him off the hook.” Grant said, “Bad luck.” “I don’t mean he got sick on purpose. It just happened. He’s not mad at me anymore and I’m not mad at him. It’s just life. You can’t beat life.” She flicked her tongue in a cat’s businesslike way across her top lip, getting the cookie crumbs. “I sound like I’m quite the philosopher, don’t I? They told me out there you used to be a university professor.” “Quite a while ago,” Grant said. “I bet I know what you’re thinking,” she said. “You’re thinking there’s a mercenary type of a person.” “I’m not making judgments of that sort. It’s your life.” “You bet it is.” “Hang in there! The polar ice cap is melting.”Buy the print » He thought they should end on a more neutral note. So he asked her if her husband had worked in a hardware store in the summers, when he was going to school. “I never heard about it,” she said. “I wasn’t raised here.” Grant realized he’d failed with Aubrey’s wife. Marian. He had thought that what he’d have to contend with would be a woman’s natural sexual jealousy—or her resentment, the stubborn remains of sexual jealousy. He had not had any idea of the way she might be looking at things. And yet in some depressing way the conversation had not been unfamiliar to him. That was because it reminded him of conversations he’d had with people in his own family. His relatives, probably even his mother, had thought the way Marian thought. Money first. They had believed that when other people did not think that way it was because they had lost touch with reality. That was how Marian would see him, certainly. A silly person, full of boring knowledge and protected by some fluke from the truth about life. A person who didn’t have to worry about holding on to his house and could go around dreaming up the fine generous schemes that he believed would make another person happy. What a jerk, she would be thinking now. Being up against a person like that made him feel hopeless, exasperated, finally almost desolate. Why? Because he couldn’t be sure of holding on to himself, against people like that? Because he was afraid that in the end they were right? Yet he might have married her. Or some girl like that. If he’d stayed back where he belonged. She’d have been appetizing enough. Probably a flirt. The fussy way she had of shifting her buttocks on the kitchen chair, her pursed mouth, a slightly contrived air of menace—that was what was left of the more or less innocent vulgarity of a small-town flirt. She must have had some hopes when she picked Aubrey. His good looks, his salesman’s job, his white-collar expectations. She must have believed that she would end up better off than she was now. And so it often happened with those practical people. In spite of their calculations, their survival instincts, they might not get as far as they had quite reasonably expected. No doubt it seemed unfair. In the kitchen the first thing he saw was the light blinking on his answering machine. He thought the same thing he always thought now. Fiona. He pressed the button before he took his coat off. “Hello, Grant. I hope I got the right person. I just thought of something. There is a dance here in town at the Legion supposed to be for singles on Saturday night and I am on the lunch committee, which means I can bring a free guest. So I wondered whether you would happen to be interested in that? Call me back when you get a chance.” A woman’s voice gave a local number. Then there was a beep and the same voice started talking again. “I just realized I’d forgotten to say who it was. Well, you probably recognized the voice. It’s Marian. I’m still not so used to these machines. And I wanted to say I realize you’re not a single and I don’t mean it that way. I’m not either, but it doesn’t hurt to get out once in a while. If you are interested you can call me and if you are not you don’t need to bother. I just thought you might like the chance to get out. It’s Marian speaking. I guess I already said that. O.K. then. Goodbye.” Her voice on the machine was different from the voice he’d heard a short time ago in her house. Just a little different in the first message, more so in the second. A tremor of nerves there, an affected nonchalance, a hurry to get through and a reluctance to let go. Something had happened to her. But when had it happened? If it had been immediate, she had concealed it very successfully all the time he was with her. More likely it came on her gradually, maybe after he’d gone away. Not necessarily as a blow of attraction. Just the realization that he was a possibility, a man on his own. More or less on his own. A possibility that she might as well try to follow up. But she’d had the jitters when she made the first move. She had put herself at risk. How much of herself he could not yet tell. Generally a woman’s vulnerability increased as time went on, as things progressed. All you could tell at the start was that if there was an edge of it then, there’d be more later. It gave him a satisfaction—why deny it?—to have brought that out in her. To have roused something like a shimmer, a blurring, on the surface of her personality. To have heard in her testy broad vowels this faint plea. He set out the eggs and mushrooms to make himself an omelette. Then he thought he might as well pour a drink. Anything was possible. Was that true—was anything possible? For instance, if he wanted to, would he be able to break her down, get her to the point where she might listen to him about taking Aubrey back to Fiona? And not just for visits but for the rest of Aubrey’s life. And what would become of him and Marian after he’d delivered Aubrey to Fiona? Marian would be sitting in her house now, waiting for him to call. Or probably not sitting. Doing things to keep herself busy. She might have fed Aubrey while Grant was buying the mushrooms and driving home. She might now be preparing him for bed. But all the time she would be conscious of the phone, of the silence of the phone. Maybe she would have calculated how long it would take Grant to drive home. His address in the phone book would have given her a rough idea of where he lived. She would calculate how long, then add to that the time it might take him to shop for supper (figuring that a man alone would shop every day). Then a certain amount of time for him to get around to listening to his messages. And as the silence persisted she’d think of other things. Other errands he might have had to do before he got home. Or perhaps a dinner out, a meeting that meant he would not get home at suppertime at all. What conceit on his part. She was above all things a sensible woman. She would go to bed at her regular time thinking that he didn’t look as if he’d be a decent dancer anyway. Too stiff, too professorial. He stayed near the phone, looking at magazines, but he didn’t pick it up when it rang again. “Grant. This is Marian. I was down in the basement putting the wash in the dryer and I heard the phone and when I got upstairs whoever it was had hung up. So I just thought I ought to say I was here. If it was you and if you are even home. Because I don’t have a machine, obviously, so you couldn’t leave a message. So I just wanted. To let you know.” The time was now twenty-five after ten. “Bye.” He would say that he’d just got home. There was no point in bringing to her mind the picture of his sitting here weighing the pros and cons. Drapes. That would be her word for the blue curtains—drapes. And why not? He thought of the ginger cookies so perfectly round that she had to announce they were homemade, the ceramic coffee mugs on their ceramic tree, a plastic runner, he was sure, protecting the hall carpet. A high-gloss exactness and practicality that his mother had never achieved but would have admired—was that why he could feel this twinge of bizarre and unreliable affection? Or was it because he’d had two more drinks after the first? The walnut-stain tan—he believed now that it was a tan—of her face and neck would most likely continue into her cleavage, which would be deep, crêpey-skinned, odorous and hot. He had that to think of as he dialled the number that he had already written down. That and the practical sensuality of her cat’s tongue. Her gemstone eyes. Fiona was in her room but not in bed. She was sitting by the open window, wearing a seasonable but oddly short and bright dress. Through the window came a heady warm blast of lilacs in bloom and the spring manure spread over the fields. She had a book open in her lap. She said, “Look at this beautiful book I found. It’s about Iceland. You wouldn’t think they’d leave valuable books lying around in the rooms. But I think they’ve got the clothes mixed up—I never wear yellow.” “Fiona,” he said. “Are we all checked out now?” she said. He thought the brightness of her voice was wavering a little. “You’ve been gone a long time.” “Fiona, I’ve brought a surprise for you. Do you remember Aubrey?” She stared at Grant for a moment, as if waves of wind had come beating into her face. Into her face, into her head, pulling everything to rags. All rags and loose threads. “Names elude me,” she said harshly. Then the look passed away as she retrieved, with an effort, some bantering grace. She set the book down carefully and stood up and lifted her arms to put them around him. Her skin or her breath gave off a faint new smell, a smell that seemed to Grant like green stems in rank water. “I’m happy to see you,” she said, both sweetly and formally. She pinched his earlobes, hard. “You could have just driven away,” she said. “Just driven away without a care in the world and forsook me. Forsooken me. Forsaken.” He kept his face against her white hair, her pink scalp, her sweetly shaped skull. He said, “Not a chance.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Katania	Credit Photograph by Clang / Trunk Archive When I was a child, I had a family of doll people. They lived in a red shoebox painted to look like a house, with a dark-brown roof and yellow awnings. Inside the house, there was a set of plastic toy furniture, plus some random household items: a matchbox television, a mirror crafted from a piece of foil, and a thick rug secretly cut out of my old sweater. I also had a few plastic farm animals—a cow, a pig, a goat, and a very large (larger than the cow) chicken, which lived outside the shoebox. The family itself consisted of the following individuals: One pretty little doll, made of soft plastic, with painted-on hair and dress, who, in my games, represented me. One naked, bald, vaguely female doll, made of hard shiny plastic, whom I designated the mother. I made her a Greek-style tunic out of an old handkerchief and glued a lock of my own hair to her head. Two tiny baby dolls of unidentified gender, made of hard, matte plastic, and wrapped in blankets of the same kind of plastic. And one hedgehog with a human body, dressed in a long skirt and apron, with tight, curly hair covered with a kerchief, to whom I assigned the role of grandmother. What my family lacked was a father, but a father doll was a true rarity. Nobody I knew had a father doll. Most of the kids I knew didn’t even have fathers. I didn’t have a father; mine died when I was two. My family consisted of my mother, my grandmother, and me. That was perfectly normal. Fathers had a tendency to die, or to lose themselves to alcoholism, or to simply “up and go.” Our next-door neighbor up and went to the Far North one night. He announced his decision by screaming on the staircase, “I’m sick of you all!” “So you’re just gonna up and go, huh? Well, good riddance!” his wife screamed back. But his three-year-old daughter cried for weeks. I could hear her through the thin walls of our apartment. Fatherlessness was so common that even the Soviet authorities were aware of it. The Soviet authorities were famous for being protective of their citizens, so whenever a certain item was scarce they did their best to make that scarcity less conspicuous. My mother, who used to write school textbooks, was prohibited from even mentioning those scarce items. When composing a math problem, for instance, she couldn’t mention bananas, because they were impossible to get in most parts of Russia. She could use apples, but not bananas. Chicken, but not beef. Mothers, but not fathers. She was allowed to write, “A mother gave her three children six apples and asked them to divide the fruit equally,” but forbidden to write about a father asking his kids to do the same thing with bananas. She told me this when I was in my teens, and I didn’t believe her. I combed through my old textbooks to try to prove her wrong, but I couldn’t find a single mention of a father, beef, or bananas. So imagine my surprise, my joy, when I suddenly got a father doll as a gift! My uncle had bought it for me on a business trip to Bulgaria. It was a beautiful doll, just the right size, a little shorter than the mother and the grandmother but taller than the kid. It had a hard body and a face made of soft, squeezable plastic, painted in masculine shades of brown. Brown eyes, brown lips, brown nostrils. Brown hair made out of some very hairlike material. A perpetual warm brown smile. It was dressed in what appeared to be a Bulgarian national costume of felt hat and boots, rumpled cotton pants, embroidered shirt, and a leather belt. This was exactly how I imagined an ideal father would look. The father doll had only one imperfection—a bad hip. His left leg wouldn’t stay in place. It kept detaching from his torso and dangling in his pants. But I loved the doll so much that I didn’t see even this as a shortcoming until Tania pointed it out. Tania and I had become friends exactly ten months before the arrival of the father doll. It was September, the first week of school, and Tania threw a tantrum during the annual Tea with Parents. We were all crowded into our small classroom, with our parents crouching over our kid-size desks. The school cafeteria provided us with hot tea, but the parents were required to bring pastries and cakes, and also a cup and a saucer for their child and themselves. Tania’s mother had apparently brought the wrong cup. “I wanted the blue one!” Tania screamed. “The blue one with the gold rim! The blue one! The blue one!” Her voice rose so high that I kept an eye on my cup, hoping it would break, the way cups sometimes did in movies when somebody screamed like that. But then I realized that it was far more interesting to watch Tania. She had fair skin, covered with pale freckles. She had turned tomato red, but her freckles had stayed the same color—I’d never seen anything like that. She closed her eyes, and squeezed her hands into fists, and a vein throbbed on her temple, bright blue and fat. Everybody else in the room fell silent. Our teacher was very young—barely out of college—and she had no idea what to do. But Tania’s mother simply stood up and smiled and said that she’d go home and get the blue one. She was a tall woman, with a large soft body and a fair complexion like Tania’s. Even her hair was the same color as her daughter’s, only hers was fixed in a bun on the back of her head, and Tania’s was plaited into a thick braid. Tania’s tantrum ended as soon as her mother was out the door. She opened her eyes and sat down, and her skin quickly faded back to pale pink. The teacher asked if she was O.K., and she nodded. Everybody started chatting, pouring tea, and cutting cake again, as if the tantrum had never happened. But I couldn’t take my eyes off Tania. She noticed my admiring stare and smiled at me with a warm and very grownup expression. “Don’t you just hate it when you have to drink your tea from the wrong cup?” she said. I nodded respectfully, as if I were very familiar with the difficulty of this situation. But what I admired was her courage. I would never have had the guts to throw a tantrum. And my mother would never have taken it so calmly. Just a few days before, she had kicked me in the ribs simply for crawling around on the floor and meowing while she was on the phone. I didn’t blame her. I had tried to meow into the receiver, even though I knew that she was talking to her boss. After that tea, Tania and I started walking home together. We lived in the same building, which was only five minutes away from school. It was nine stories high and extremely long—it looked like a skyscraper lying on its side. There were twelve entrances. I lived in No. 2. Tania lived in No. 9. Across the street from our building there was an abandoned apple orchard. We often stopped there on the way home. We’d climb one of the trees and sit swinging our legs and talking about school, about our favorite cartoons, about our dolls. But I could never stay for more than fifteen minutes or so, because my grandmother was waiting for me at home. Once, I complained to Tania about what a pest my grandmother was. Tania said that her grandmother was dead. “She died a year ago. Her lungs didn’t work. She was breathing like this.” Tania did a very good impression of rhythmic wheezing. “My grandfather died of a stroke,” I said. “His whole body was paralyzed. He couldn’t even go to the bathroom by himself. The nurse had to stick her hand up his butt and get the poop out.” “My grandmother’s sister died of a stroke, too,” Tania said. “She was in a coma. I don’t think she pooped at all.” “How did your father die?” I asked. I knew that Tania didn’t have a father, and for some reason I assumed that he was dead, like mine. “My father isn’t dead!” Tania shrieked, her face turning red the way it had at the Tea with Parents. “He’s away on a business trip! In America. He misses me every day!” I was so stunned by her sudden change of mood that I couldn’t process her words. I just stood there staring at her. She swung her schoolbag as if she were about to hit me on the head with it, but changed her mind and ran off toward her entrance. I went home, crying. I cried on and off for the rest of the day. My grandmother and then my mother kept asking me what was wrong, but I wouldn’t say. I didn’t really understand it myself. Perhaps what I was feeling was shame—not just the mortification of having made the wrong assumption about Tania’s father but the deeper, sickening humiliation of being excluded from the élite group of children who had fathers. The next day at school, I tried to avoid Tania. I did my best not to look in her direction during classes; I didn’t talk to her at recess; I sat at the opposite end of the table at lunch. And at the end of the day I went into the bathroom and waited there until everybody had gone home. It didn’t work. When I finally came out, I saw Tania waiting for me on the school porch. I considered pretending that she wasn’t there, but then decided that that would be too silly. We walked home together. After that incident, we never talked about our families again, but we did talk about our dolls. I would boast about how many animals mine had. “A cow, a pig, a really huge chicken!” And Tania would say, with a dismissive smile, “Mine live in a city. There is no space for farm animals. Their names are Sigrid, Amaranta, and Arabella. Amaranta and Arabella are scientists, but Sigrid is an actress.” One day Tania invited me over. I hesitated. She had a key hanging around her neck on a long blue ribbon. A lot of kids in my class had their apartment key hanging from their neck. They were supposed to go home, let themselves in, heat up their dinner, and wait for their mother to come home. They knew how to turn on a stove; they didn’t worry that the match would burn down too quickly and hurt their fingers. They knew how to pour soup from the pot into their bowl without splashing it all over the floor. I couldn’t imagine ever becoming that accomplished. My grandmother was always waiting for me at home. She would watch from the window, and as soon as she saw me she’d put dinner on the stove and rush to open the door. I didn’t have to ring the bell, let alone unlock the door myself. I was afraid that if I went to Tania’s apartment I would somehow betray my incompetence. But if I didn’t go I might betray my incompetence in an even worse way. I went. Tania unlocked the door with admirable skill. I said that I needed to call my grandmother. Tania pointed to the phone, which stood on a little shelf next to the coatrack. I called and told a complicated lie about an after-school gymnastics class. I hoped the gymnastics thing would impress my grandmother, who was always telling me that if I didn’t do gymnastics I would grow up with a crooked back. The lie worked, and I turned to Tania, expecting her to be impressed with my ingenuity. What I saw instead was a cold, mocking expression. Her apartment was smaller than ours. Only one room—we had three. The TV was smaller, and the furniture shabbier, and the dishes in the cupboard didn’t gleam the way ours did. “Do you want some of my dinner?” Tania asked. I imagined her asking me to light a match or ladle the soup and shook my head. “Good,” she said. “I’m not hungry, either. Do you want to see my dolls?” I did. Very much so. “I liked our old god better than our new corporate god.”Buy the print » Tania’s dolls lived in a shoebox, too. Only her shoebox was white and stood perched on the edge of a large dresser. “It’s a skyscraper,” she explained. “Like they have in America.” The dolls didn’t have a lot of furniture, but they had a plastic airplane placed on a little shelf by the box. A tiny ladder led from inside their “apartment” to the plane. “They need it when they go on business trips. Or, if there is a fire in the building, they can just get in the plane and fly off.” “Where are they now?” I asked. “Arabella is away on a business trip, but I can show you Amaranta and Sigrid.” Amaranta was sitting in the bathtub. She looked a lot like my mother doll, but bigger and less bald. Sigrid was still in bed. Her head rested on a tiny pillow and her body was covered with a handkerchief. She was a tiny blonde, made of polished wood. She was beautiful and thin and foreign in a way my dolls could never hope to be. “She’s very pretty,” I said. “She’s talented, too,” Tania said. As I was putting on my shoes to go home, I spotted another little doll stuck behind the shoe rack. This one was plastic. She had broken arms and a smashed-in face. I figured that this was Arabella. The next time, we went to my place. My grandmother gave us barley soup and chicken with mashed potatoes. I was a little worried that Tania wouldn’t like the food and would throw a tantrum or something, but she ate quickly and gracefully, said “Thank you,” and carried her dishes to the sink when she was done. My grandmother was delighted with her. After dinner, I led Tania into my room. She took everything in with a quizzical expression, as if making an inspection. “So you have your own room?” she asked. I nodded. I was suddenly impressed by the fact that I had my own room. “And you have a balcony?” I said, “Yeah.” She walked over to the rug that was hanging on the wall above my bed and yanked at its tassels. “And you have rugs and everything,” she said. I nodded and yanked at the tassels, too. “You’re rich, aren’t you?” I shrugged. I honestly didn’t know whether we were rich or not. Tania seemed to like my dolls. She took them out of the box one by one and nodded in approval. She smiled at the grandmother. “Hedgehog! That’s clever,” she said. She petted my pig, she stroked the cow’s back. “So, they’re farmers, right? They live in a village?” she asked. I had never thought about this. They had a barn and all those animals—so I supposed they were farmers and did live in a village. “Listen,” Tania said. “Let’s give your animals a bath.” But then my grandmother came in and said that it was time for Tania to go home and for me to do my homework. “See this key?” Tania said, pointing to the key around her neck. “I can come and go as I please. But you, you’re stuck with your grandmother. You may be rich, but I have my freedom.” Even then, at seven, I found the pathos of her words nauseating, but I was more pleased than angered. After she left, I looked around my room, at the balcony door, the rug, the nice furniture, and the red shoebox full of well-to-do farmers, and I felt enormous satisfaction. I didn’t have a key, but so what? I guess I didn’t care that much about freedom. My newfound identity was shattered as soon as my mother got home. I asked her if we were rich. She laughed for two full minutes, then bent over and pointed to her feet. “Look at my boots,” she said. “Do they look like the boots of a rich person to you?” The boots were scuffed, discolored, and covered with brown stains. Later that night, on my way to the bathroom, I overheard my mother and grandmother talking about Tania. “What do you think of that girl?” my mother asked. “I don’t know.” “Apparently she told Katya we were rich.” “Rich?” Now it was my grandmother’s turn to laugh. Then she blew her nose and said, “She seemed polite.” “Polite! Huh! I wish you could see how she treats her mother.” And my mother told my grandmother about the Tea with Parents tantrum. After that, she started whispering. I couldn’t hear anything. Fortunately for me, my grandmother, who was partly deaf, couldn’t hear, either. My mother had to switch back to her normal volume. She said she’d heard that Tania’s father had defected. I heard my grandmother gasp. “Sveta’s aunt said that he went on a business trip to the States and stayed. Just like that. Went to the authorities there and asked for refugee status or something. Can you imagine not caring about your wife and kid at all? Sveta’s aunt said that Tania’s mother was taken in for questioning. I’m sure she hadn’t even known about his plans.” “Of course she hadn’t!” my grandmother said. “Still, she got fired from her job.” “That poor, poor woman.” After that they started talking about our leaking fridge, and whether it was time to call somebody to fix it, and I tiptoed back to my room. I didn’t entirely understand what they’d been talking about, but I gathered that what Tania’s father had done was something hateful and ugly. I felt sorry for Tania, but I also gloated a little. My father might have died, but at least he hadn’t done it on purpose. In January, Tania proposed that we create a country for our dolls. We named it Katania—a combination of our names, Katya and Tania—and decided that it should have only two inhabited places: a village called Katushki and a city called T-City. The next step was to create a map. We took four huge sheets of paper, taped them together, and started drawing. We painted the road from Katushki to T-City the usual brown color of roads. It meandered through the green of the woods, got almost as far as the ocean, made a loop, and returned to a bridge across the river. To make the river, we cut a wavy strip of foil from a chocolate wrapper and glued it to the map. The bridge was a simple strip of gray paper that we glued over the river. We weren’t happy with the bridge, because the yellow glue seeped out from under the edges and spilled all over the river. “You know what it looks like?” I asked Tania, pointing to the glue stains. “Snot!” she said, and I laughed, because that was exactly what I was thinking. We spent months crouching over that map, drawing and redrawing the contours, changing or enhancing the colors, until our hands turned glossy and dark from all the paint. It was so much fun that I was sorry when the summer vacation started, because I knew that Tania would be going to stay with her grandfather in his village. My own summer was uneventful, because I refused to go to camp. “But it’s free!” my mother lamented. “My office pays for it!” I was adamant. At the end of June, she took a week off to take me to Leningrad, but I came down with a fever on the train ride there and couldn’t enjoy the trip. On hot July weekends, my mother and I would take the morning train to the countryside, where we strolled down a dirt path through a wood to a pond, and we swam and then ate hard-boiled eggs and cheese on a grassy hill that smelled like hay. We always stayed a little longer than we’d planned and had to run to the station to catch our train back to Moscow. On weekdays, I mostly stayed in our sweltering apartment, pacing around my room, complaining that I was bored. One day, I got inspired, took four old wooden rulers, broke them into pieces, and glued them back together in the shape of a chicken coop. My huge chicken barely fit inside. Otherwise, I mostly neglected my dolls. But then my uncle came back from Bulgaria and brought me the father doll. I don’t think I ever loved a toy so much. I spent the first week just playing with him all day long. When I noticed his bad hip, I tried to fix it with tape, but when that didn’t work I decided that he was even better this way. Even more special. I would feed him and dress him (his boots were removable!) and make the other family members dote on him. “How’s your leg today, honey? Better? No? Not even a little? Well, sit down and rest, then.” And he would beam his brown smile at everything and everybody. I loved to sit him on the sofa next to the little girl doll and a pig or a goat and have them watch my matchbox TV. They stayed like that for hours, while the babies slept, the grandmother cooked in the kitchen, and the mother either worked or pasted her hair on in the bathroom. “Isn’t it a picture of happiness!” my mother exclaimed, and I didn’t like her sarcasm one bit. I couldn’t wait to show my new doll to Tania. I counted the days until August 22nd, the day she was supposed to come back. But Tania didn’t come on the 22nd. Nor did she come on the 23rd. I called her a million times, and even walked by her window, looking up, hoping to catch sight of her. She called me on the 25th to say that she was sick with a stomach flu. I offered to visit her, but Tania said she’d come to my place the next day. She rang the bell at nine in the morning, as we were finishing breakfast. I got out of my chair so fast that I knocked over the soft-boiled egg on my plate, spilling the yolk onto the table. Tania had grown about an inch over the summer; she was taller than me. She’d also lost weight and got a nice tan. Her skin was now darker than her hair. My grandmother offered her some breakfast, but she said she’d just eaten. Grandmother then urged me to come back and finish my meal. I refused—I couldn’t wait any longer. I took Tania by the elbow and dragged her toward my room. “Look, look what I’ve got,” I kept chanting. The whole doll family was gathered in their living room. The father and the little girl on the sofa. The mother and grandmother on the chair at the table. The twins lay on the floor, because there was no other place for them. Tania didn’t notice the father at first. She thought I was referring to the chicken coop. She approved of the chicken coop. She said, “That’s clever.” “No!” I said, pointing to the father doll. “Look here. Look what I’ve got. It’s their father!” Now Tania saw him. She seemed to tense all over, then she reached into the box. There was a certain stiffness to her movements that made me apprehensive. She picked the father up gingerly, slowly, and brought him close to her face. For a second, I was afraid that she was going to eat him. But she just examined him, touched his hair, stroked the felt on his hat, sniffed at his leather boots. “It’s a boy doll,” she said in a grave tone. “Yeah,” I said. “It’s a boy doll. It’s their father.” She was about to put him back when she noticed that his left leg was dangling in his pants. “It’s damaged!” she said, and I saw an expression of relief spread across her face. “No, it’s not damaged,” I said. “Yes, it is. It’s a cripple,” she said. “He’s not a cripple,” I said, and reached to take the father back. She dodged away from me. “He’s a cripple, all right. And look at that stupid smile. Is he a retard, too?” “He’s not!” I screamed. I tried to grab my father doll out of her hand, but she jumped away. “Cripple and retard, cripple and retard,” she started to sing, swinging the father in her hand. “Your father is worse!” I screamed. She stopped singing and stared at me. I tried to remember that ugly word my mother had used. Defitted? Defetated? Effected? I couldn’t. I had to put it in the words I knew. “He ran off! He up and went!” I said. “He doesn’t care about you! He hates you! He’s sick of you!” Tania’s face was turning that scary beet color. I didn’t care. “He’s never coming back!” Buy the print » “You’re lying!” Tania yelled and punched me on the shoulder. I tried to hit her back, but she ducked, then lunged for the balcony door, brandishing the father doll in her hand like a trophy. I imagined him falling nine floors down to the pavement, his dear face destroyed just like Arabella’s. I leaped at Tania, and fell to the floor on top of her, pounding her in the chest. Her body felt firm and resilient under my fists, as if it were made of durable rubber. I’d had no idea that hitting someone could feel so good. I kept pounding, even after she had released the father and started to wail. I didn’t stop until my mother and my grandmother ran into the room and pulled me off her. My mother punished me by taking away my dolls for two months. She put all the animals into the shoebox with the people, closed the lid, and balanced it on top of the bookcase. As if it were nothing, as if it weren’t a house where a family lived! I remember crying, and counting the days until I’d get them back. But when my mother finally handed me the box I was disappointed. The dolls didn’t seem so interesting anymore. They led their quiet, uneventful lives in the shoebox. The children either slept or misbehaved. The grandmother snarled at them. The father nursed his bad hip. The mother kept losing her hair. By the end of the year, I had stopped playing with the dolls altogether, and my grandmother gave them to the little girl next door, the one whose father had gone to the Far North. Tania and I didn’t play together anymore. We avoided each other at school. Then, a year later, she and her mother moved, and she transferred to a different school. I didn’t see her again until the end of high school, when her mother threw a going-away party for her. Tania was moving to America. Her father had arranged for her to go to college there. I didn’t want to go to the party, but my mother insisted. Tania had grown a whole head taller than me and acquired a strange, restless manner. She talked very fast, with fidgety gestures, and her eyes kept flickering from one object to another. She said that her father had got back in touch about two years earlier, but I couldn’t ask her any questions, because there were so many people there—and all of them wanted to talk to Tania, or kiss her, or corner her against a wall and give her useless advice. I didn’t stay at the party long, but I kept thinking about it for days. It was odd that Tania had invited me in the first place, when we hadn’t spoken for years. Apparently, she needed me, of all people, to know that her father did care about her after all. Ten years later, when my husband and I immigrated to the U.S., I tried to look her up, but couldn’t find her. I assumed that she had changed her name. Another eight years passed, and then all of a sudden I got a message from her on Facebook. “Aren’t you Katya V. from my old school?” I had just finalized my divorce and changed back to my maiden name. If I hadn’t done that, she wouldn’t have been able to find me. I was aching to know what had become of her, or at least what she looked like now, but her Facebook page didn’t tell me much. She barely posted anything, and her face in the profile picture was half blocked by the child in her arms. Tania said that she was spending the summer at her house in the Berkshires and invited me to visit. She’d caught me at a strange moment in my life. I was about to start a two-week vacation—my first since the divorce and the first I would spend alone—but I had no idea what to do with it. Back when most of my friends were planning their summer, the pain of the divorce had been too great and the future too murky for me to commit to anything. I had assumed that I’d be too depressed to go anywhere. The protective layer I’d grown during my married years had been peeled off, leaving me completely exposed. But when the summer finally started I found that I felt better. The idea of being on my own began to excite me. I still felt exposed, but I also felt that the exposure would help me regain some long-forgotten intensity of living. With no husband’s wishes to satisfy, I could go anywhere I wanted. Except that the nice vacation spots were already booked, and the affordable plane tickets were gone. Tania’s invitation gave me an idea: I’d drive up to her place, visit with her, and then continue driving north. No plan, no destination—I’d just drive as far as I wanted and find somewhere to stay. I’d never done anything like this, but I felt that it was time to do things I’d never done before. Tania sent incredibly detailed driving directions and insisted that I turn off my G.P.S. In my years of driving in the U.S., I had become addicted to my G.P.S., and I couldn’t imagine turning it off, so I decided to keep Tania’s directions in mind while listening to the G.P.S., and to follow my intuition whenever they disagreed. This strategy got me lost as soon as I ventured off the highway, but I didn’t really mind. The closer I got to Tania’s place, the more I dreaded our initial conversation. I did want to talk about our childhood, but to get there we would need to catch up first. I’d have to tell her that my mother had died. That I probably wouldn’t be able to have children. And that my husband had left me. “Up and went. Because he was sick of me.” (I guess I didn’t really understand the cruelty of those words until my divorce.) At least my career was on the right track. That was something. “Recalculating,” the G.P.S. informed me for the twentieth time, in the face of my disobedience. It demanded that I go back to the highway, which was clearly wrong. But Tania’s directions had also stopped making sense. I decided to disregard both of them and took the prettiest road that led uphill. I realized that I hadn’t visited the countryside in years. All those quaint houses, all those barns, all those animals in pastures made me feel both nostalgic and alienated. I knew that I’d never want to live in a place like this. At some point, I came to a fork in the road. I chose to veer to the right and continue uphill. A beautiful property came into view: a meadow full of daisies, a little pond with a single duck, a cluster of lilac bushes, a few apple trees, an extensive vegetable garden, and, at the top of the hill, a house that looked remarkably like my old shoebox. It was painted red, with yellow awnings. I slowed down to admire the view, just as my G.P.S. reluctantly announced that I had reached my destination. I drove a few feet forward and saw the address printed on a little sign: “12 Berry Hill Road.” As I pulled into the driveway, the front door was opened by a large woman in a flowery sundress, her blond hair fixed in a little bun. My first thought was that Tania’s mother had come to visit, but then I realized that this was Tania herself. Tania, who’d grown large and soft. When she hugged me, it felt like being smothered in a down blanket. Within ten minutes, I understood that I needn’t have worried about having to tell her all the sad things that had happened in my life. She didn’t ask me any questions, and she didn’t let me talk. As soon as I set foot in the house, she began a never-ending tour, up and down the stairs, in and out of doors, through rooms, across halls. She didn’t even offer me a drink. I had to ask for a glass of water, and then she gave me a bottle of Evian to drink on the go. Tania talked faster than ever, and there was no way to protect myself from the gushes of information. Post and beam. Restored and reassembled in 1993. Hemlock timber. Wooden pegs. Dyed plaster walls. Central air. Finnish sauna off the master bedroom. Japanese toilet in the guest bathroom. (After four hours in the car, I used this with great enthusiasm.) Six bedrooms wasn’t so big, she informed me. The in-laws had a twelve-bedroom in a neighboring town. Their pond was ridiculous, though. Not fit for swimming. Tania’s pond was perfect, but the kids still preferred to swim in the pool. The kids were away right now. Attending a tennis day camp. A large framed photograph of the family graced the living-room wall above a huge, obviously antique sofa. In the picture, Tania, her husband, and their two daughters sat on that same sofa, smiling. I thought that they were smiling a little too hard. I liked the look of the older girl, though. She reminded me of the Tania I’d known as a girl. The adult Tania took a long look at the picture. “I guess we’re happy,” she said. “Pretty hard not to be in a house like this,” I said and bit my tongue. But, fortunately, Tania didn’t hear the sarcasm in my tone. The tour was starting to wear me out. I didn’t know what reaction she expected. Continuous admiration? Or a bitter acknowledgment of her wealth? Something like her reaction when I took her on a tour of my room twenty-eight years before? “So—you have six bedrooms? And you have antique sofas and everything? You’re rich, aren’t you?” I was relieved when we finally left the house. But the tour wasn’t over yet. Tania led me to the garden. Keeping a garden was such a pain, she said. Row-cropping. Draining the soil. Weeding. Aphids. Maggots. Cutworms. Beetles. Did I know how difficult it was to find a decent gardener or a decent pest man? But it was beautiful, wasn’t it? Peas. Carrots. Look at the kale. Five types of kale. Rows and rows of kale. They all enjoyed eating kale. Yes, the kids, too. Kale did wonders for their health. Simply wonders. As did eating eggs from their own chickens. Tania led me to her pièce de résistance—a chicken coop. A spacious wooden construction that housed ten or twelve chickens. All white, all big, all well fed. “I can’t believe you have chickens!” I said, unable to contain my laughter. “What’s so funny?” she asked. Tania had built herself an exact replica of my old doll house, down to the chicken coop, but she didn’t seem to see the absurdity of the situation. “Do you remember Katania?” I asked. “Do I remember what?” “Katania, our country?” She looked at me, straining to understand what I was talking about. “Katania,” I said, “the country that we created for our dolls. Mine lived in a village and yours lived in a city.” “Vaguely,” she said. “I remember that we got in a big fight once.” I nodded. “Because you wouldn’t share your dolls.” “Right,” I said. “I teach my kids to share.” “Good idea,” I said, and looked at my watch. It was time for me to go, I told her. Tania didn’t protest. She said it was a pity that I wouldn’t meet her husband and kids, but otherwise she appeared to be satisfied with my visit. As it happened, though, I did get to take a look at her husband. I had just pulled out of the driveway when I saw a silver Lexus pulling in. A man got out of the car, and I recognized him from the photograph above the sofa. He was wearing white linen pants and a white button-down shirt. He took a big pastry box from the passenger seat and started walking toward the house. There was something strange about his gait, but at first I didn’t realize what it was. Then I got it: he was putting his entire weight on his right leg. He walked as if his left leg didn’t work. He walked as if it were detached at the hip. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Breeze	Credit Illustration by Jeffrey Decoster She was in the brig when her husband came home. Below her, neighbors reclined on their stoops, laughing and relieved, shaking off winter with loud cries and sudden starts. Someone unseen scraped a broom over a little courtyard, the rhythmic sound of brownstones in spring. “In the brig!” Sarah called out and, with her wineglass at a tilt, looked down on the neighborhood. They called their six feet of concrete balcony overlooking the street the brig. The children’s voices carried in the blue air. Then the breeze came. It cut through the branches of the trees, turning up the silver undersides of the young leaves, and brought goosebumps as it went around her. The breeze, God, the breeze! she thought. You get how many like it? Maybe a dozen in a lifetime . . . and already gone, down the block and picking up speed, or dying out. Either way, dead to her, and leaving in its wake a sense of excitement and mild dread. What if she failed to make the most of what remained of this perfect spring day? She finished her wine and went inside. Jay was thumbing listlessly through the mail. “Hey,” he said. “What do you want to do tonight?” she asked him. “Oh,” he said, and paused over what looked like a credit-card offer. “I don’t care. What do you want to do?” “There’s nothing you want to do?” “I want to do whatever you want to do,” he said. “So it’s up to me to come up with something?” He looked at her at last. “You asked me to come home so we could do something.” “Because I want to do something.” “I want to do something, too,” he said. “O.K.,” she said, “so let’s do it.” “Let’s do it,” he said. Then he said, “What is it you want to do?” She wanted to have a picnic in Central Park. They bought sandwiches from a place in the neighborhood and took the train into Manhattan. He unfurled a checkered blanket in the breeze and spread it under a tree whose canopy would have spanned the length of their apartment. In the mild wind, the leaves ticked gently back and forth, like second hands on stuck clocks. She wore a shimmery green sundress, with a thin white belt, slipped on quickly in the few minutes she gave them to get ready. His knees looked as pale as moons in last year’s shorts. They ate their sandwiches and drank a little wine, and then they stood and tossed a Frisbee until it was just a white underbelly floating in the darkness. Before leaving, they walked into a little wooded area and with barely a sound brought each other off in two minutes with an urgency that had hibernated all winter, an urgency they both thought might have died in its hole. It was all right now; they could go home. But it was early, and he suggested going to a beer garden where they’d spent last summer drinking with friends. There was a flurry of texts and phone calls, and before too long their friends showed up—Wes and Rachel, Molly with her dog. They drank and talked until closing time. Sarah skipped ahead down the street on their way to the subway and then skipped back to him, leaping into his arms. It stayed warm through the night. On their way into Manhattan, he told her that they had tickets to a movie that night. It was the 3-D follow-up to the sequel of a superhero blockbuster. He had gone online the day before only to learn that the IMAX showings were already sold out. He couldn’t believe it. How far in advance did this city make movie tickets available for pre-purchase, and how much cunning did it take to get your hands on them? He hadn’t even been able to get tickets to the early show at the regular theatre, which would have been preferable—it had been a long week and he was tired, and, for God’s sake, who thinks they need to plan more than a day in advance to see a movie? It was just a movie, it wasn’t— She put a hand out to stop him. “Jay,” she said. “I’m sorry, sweets. I can’t see a movie tonight.” “Why not?” “It’s too predictable,” she said. “Aren’t you tired of movies? All we’ve done all winter long is go to movies.” “But I bought the tickets. They’re bought and paid for.” “We’ll get a refund,” she said. “I can’t see a movie.” “You’re always telling me you like it when I plan things.” “It’s a movie,” she said, “not a weekend in Paris. I can’t sit in a movie theatre tonight, Jay. I’ll go bonkers.” “It doesn’t start until eleven. The night’s practically over by then.” “Whose night is over?” she said. “Whose particular night?” He didn’t understand. “What are you getting so excited about?” Her focus shifted, and she didn’t answer. The train had slowed to a crawl and was now stopped altogether. Why had it stopped? They were sitting dead still in the bowels of the subway while the last hour or two—not even, not two—the last hour and change of daylight and breeze died out on the shoulders of those who had known better than to lock themselves inside the subway at such a delicate moment. Here was the underworld of the city’s infinite offering: snags, delays, bottlenecks, the growing anxiety of never arriving at what was always just out of reach. It was enough to make you stand and scream and kick at the doors. Their ambitions should have been more modest. They could have walked over the Brooklyn Bridge and stopped midway to watch the sun go down. She stood. “Sarah?” he said. The train started to move—not enough to jolt her, but enough to get her sitting again. She didn’t answer or look at him. She left the table and started toward the ladies’ room of the beer garden. She walked under a sagging banner of car-lot flags weathered to white, past a bin of broken tiki torches. A thick coat of dust darkened a stack of plastic chairs growing more cockeyed as they ascended a stucco wall. Open only a week or two after the long winter and already the place looked defiled by a summer of rough use. In the brig a few hours earlier, she had come to believe that, in all the years she had lived in the city, this was the most temperate and gentle day it had ever conferred. Distant church bells had rung out. The blue of the sky had affected her deeply. A single cloud had drifted by like a glacier in a calm sea. Looking down, she had paid close attention to the tree nearest the brig, picking out a discrete branch. It ended in a cluster of dark nubs, ancient knuckles sheltering life. Now, breaking through, surfacing blindly to the heat and light, pale buds had begun to flower. Even here, in rusted grates, down blocks of asphalt, spring had returned. Then the breeze touched her flesh. A tingling ran down her spine to her soul, and her eyes welled with tears. Did she have a soul? In moments like this, absolutely. The breeze! She spent the day at her desk, all the light of day spent while she kept her head down, and the snack pack convinced her it was O.K.—the snack pack and the energy drink, the time stolen to buy shoes online. Then this reminder, this windfall. As thrilling and irretrievable as a first kiss. This was her one and only life! It would require something of her to be equal to this day, she had thought at that moment in the brig, and now, looking at herself in the mirror of the ladies’ room, scrutinizing her eyes, her veined and clouded eyes, she was afraid that she had made a series of poor choices and failed. She left the bathroom. Jay was quietly drinking, surrounded by livelier tables. Their friends had not been able to come on such short notice. “Can we go?” she asked. He stood. She was dozing in the cab before they reached the bridge. When they came up the subway stairs, she took one look at the light and said that it was too late. By the time they found food for the picnic and bought the wine, walked the rest of the way to the Park, and laid everything out, they would be eating in darkness. “What are you after?” Jay asked. “Let’s cross,” she said. “What am I supposed to do with this stupid blanket if we’re not going to the Park?” They left the curb late and found themselves marooned on an island of concrete between two-way traffic. Cars zipped by in a steady stream. They didn’t give them an inch to maneuver. “What do you want to do?” she asked him. “No, no,” he said. “You just killed the picnic. You’re in charge.” “I came up with the picnic,” she said. She needed an alternative, something to salvage this vital hour. But what? And this fucking traffic! A hundred million lights and every one of them stuck on green. “What about that hotel?” she asked. “What hotel?” The drinks would be overpriced, and there would be no breeze, but the hotel lounge had a fine view of Central Park. It’d be better than waiting in a badly lit bodega for sandwiches to be made. They could eat later. It was a short walk. They took the elevator up. The lobby, like the lounge, was on the thirty-fifth floor. Receptionists were checking guests in with hushed efficiency, as if, behind them, the first act of a play were just getting under way. Through the window in the distance, the Park was divided in two: the westernmost trees, hunkered beneath the tall buildings, were sunk below a line of shadow, while the rest, looking fuller, rose up in the light. Their leaves shivered in the breeze with more silver than green. They had to sit at the bar first. Then the hostess came and got them. Once seated in the tiered lounge, they faced outward, as in a Paris café, and watched as the remaining trees were claimed by the shadow. They drank crisp white wine. Night settled grandly. It still felt like winter down in the subway. There were hot gusts, weird little eddies of cold, the steel burn of brakes poisoning the platform—but never a breeze. Nothing so limpid and delicate as spring could penetrate here. Even inside the car, they were breathing last century’s air. Salt tracks stained the floors. Soon winter would give way to hell: the subway’s two seasons. The train pulled into the station. Passengers rose from their seats and stood before the silver doors. They waited and waited. At last the doors opened and off they went, given early release; she still had time to serve. People from the front cars walked by, and then the platform was empty, and yet the doors didn’t close. The purgatorial train seemed to be breathing, taking in air and letting it out, pointlessly. The automated voice announced, “Ladies and gentlemen, we are being held momentarily by the train dispatcher.” A ludicrous little god at play with switches. One station after another it was like that, and, between each station, a maddening stop-and-go. The warning ding of the closing doors sounded, but nothing happened, and the train failed to move. She was out on the edge of the bench. She turned, offering him only her profile. Slowly she said, “I would literally rather kill myself than go to a movie tonight.” He raised his brows, as if, at his desk on some Wednesday afternoon, the peal of a fire alarm had brought him to sudden life. It was an exaggeration, but her level voice was soft and frighteningly sincere. “O.K.,” he said. “We won’t go to the movies.” Traffic eased. They stepped off the median and hurried across the street. But they didn’t know where they were going or what they were doing, so they idled under the shade of a building. Passersby ignored them in a push toward known destinations, fixed plans, the city’s eight million souls seeming to conspire against her joining in something mysterious and urgent. “Sarah,” he said. “What is it you want to do?” “I don’t know,” she said. “But don’t put it like that.” “Like what?” “What should we do, Jay?” she said pointedly. “What should we do?” “Don’t they come to the same thing?” “They don’t.” She spent ten minutes searching for something on her phone. He retreated a few feet, squatting near a scrawny tree planted in a little cell. When she gestured, he rose to his feet and followed her, keeping a step behind. At the next corner, they waited as taxis bounced by on their shocks. They caught every red light thereafter. They reached the building she wanted, the one with the lounge with a floor-to-ceiling view. She kept hitting the button as the elevator made its way down to them. They were the last ones out when the doors opened. The window just past the reception area showed the buildings down Fifty-ninth Street checkerboarded with lights in the dimming hour. Bankers in their brigs, she thought. A canopy of shadow was slowly rolling across the silver treetops, settling the leaves into their darkest green. All the tables were occupied or reserved. The hostess took Jay’s name. “Should we be here?” Sarah asked him. “Isn’t this where you wanted to be?” The hostess watched them. “You’re welcome to sit at the bar,” she told them. “Thank you.” “How long until a table is free?” Sarah asked. The hostess didn’t know. She couldn’t guarantee one at all. They went to the bar, where they drank in silence. She had wanted a picnic, then the subway had defeated her. Then they’d been stranded on the median bickering over nothing, the all-consuming nothing of what to do. Was it she, she alone, who made that question so inscrutable and accusing some nights, like a stranger levelling a finger at her from across a room? Or was it the haltings and blinders of an entwined life: the fact of Jay, the disequilibrium of having to take what he wanted into consideration, whatever that might be? Because he kept it to himself, or it remained alien to him, and so how could she hope to name it? Or maybe there was no mystery at all. Maybe he just wanted to see a movie. The last of the daylight disappeared as they waited, and all the possibility that had arrived with the breeze was reduced to yet another series of drinks at a bar. By the time a table opened up, she felt drunk and unfocussed. They had a final drink and left. They tried having dinner at a cheap Italian joint downtown, but they got into a fight and left before he would even enter the restaurant. When they got home, they were no longer speaking. They lay in the dark for a long time before he broke the silence. “I could have gone to the fucking movie,” he said. She grabbed him when they reached the bottom of the stairs, turned, and, with his hand in hers, raced back the way they’d come, up the stairs into the mellow night. She breathed the spring air in deeply, shedding the subway stuff, the still blue sky confirming her good judgment. But he was confused. “What are we doing?” “Let’s not get on the subway,” she said. “I can’t stand it down there, not right now. Let’s just walk.” “Walk where?” She led him west toward the Brooklyn Bridge. On the pedestrian walkway, she skipped ahead, then waited for him, then skipped ahead, then swung around and smiled. They came to a stop midway between Manhattan and Brooklyn just as the sun was setting. The wavelets in the bay turned over in little strokes, scaling the water silver before it darkened to stone. She looked straight up. Just to see the towering spires of the bridge climbing to a single point in the sky was to affirm that nothing more could be asked of this hour, nothing better apprehended in this life. She took hold of a steel cable in each hand and gazed out again at the setting sun. The burn-off against the buildings grew milder, its colors deeper; for a minute, the certainty that it would die out was in doubt. The sun dropped away, and a blue shadow settled over everything—the bridge, the water. It mirrored the cool ferric touch of the suspension cables. She let go, and the blood came back to her hands in heavy pulses. Her eyes filled with tears for the second time that night. When the last of the sunlight was gone, she turned to him and said, “What did you think of that?” He looked at her with perfect innocence. “Of what?” he said. It was before midnight when she found herself sitting on the edge of the tub, fully dressed, doubting the future of her marriage. They waited a long time for their drinks to arrive. The bar was situated—stupidly, to her mind—far from the view, and they were facing the wrong way. They had nothing to look at but liquor bottles and wineglasses, while outside the sun was disappearing and shadow was unfurling swiftly across the trees. “Well, well, well—look who brought a taco to a burrito fight.”Buy the print » It had been a terrible idea to come up here, thinking they’d fall miraculously into a table. She wanted the city to be full of exclusive places turning people away, as long as they always accommodated her. It didn’t work like that. What a stupid place to live—stretched thin, overbooked, sold out in advance. And, as if choosing the wrong place weren’t bad enough, there were all those alternatives, abstractions taking shape only now: a walk across the bridge, drinks with Molly at the beer garden. Lights, crowds, parties. Even staying put in the brig, watching the neighborhood descend into darkness. The alternatives exerted more power over her than the actual things before her eyes. What had she been thinking, penning them in a bar on a night like this? Knees fixed between the stool and the bar, she turned to him as best she could. “I’m sorry, Jay,” she said. “For what?” “For rushing us out of the apartment, and for how I acted on the subway. And it was a mistake to come up here. Let’s do something,” she said. “O.K.,” he said. “Like what?” The second he asked, the desire came over her to be in the Park, obscured by trees and bent over with her fingertips dug into the earth, and to feel him push her panties down to her ankles. As she worked it out in her mind, they would not be perfectly secluded, so that he would feel rushed, and as a result would be a little rough with her, dispense with the considerate sheets-and-pillows concerns of their weekend sex life and just fuck her, fuck her hard and fast. Then let the passersby ignore them, ignore the flash of white skin inside a clot of trees in the near-dark. She’d feel no sense of exclusion then. The minute she felt him coming, she would come, too. Then she would right herself as he was buckling, straighten the sundress, smile at him, and, just like that, all the stale tenement air of married life would disperse. “Sounds like you have something in mind, Sarah,” he said, taking her hand under the bar. “Tell me what it is.” She dared herself to lean in and whisper it. “I’m up for anything,” he said. But she lost the nerve. “I don’t really know,” she said. “What do you want to do?” He suggested they buy sandwiches before getting on the train, from the neighborhood place. But the neighborhood place! She was so sick of it. They had lived off that menu for as long as she could remember. Then she climbed out of the subway and knew they’d made a mistake. Finding food for a picnic would take time, time they didn’t have. But if she called off the picnic because there was no time to find food, then what did they have if not time? Time to squander and squander until the night was over. One night after another until her life was over. A night in spring could make her go a little crazy, start thinking her options were either a picnic or death. Jay was charging forward, blanket under his arm, toward the picnic he believed was still on, when she stopped. It took him a minute to notice. He turned, then walked slowly back to her. It wasn’t in him to see what made this day different from other days. He didn’t pick up on breezes and breaks in weather, or they came upon him as the natural course of events too common to celebrate. If he had had his druthers, even today he would have worked into the night, feeding at his desk from some Styrofoam trough, then hurrying to meet her for the late-night showing of the follow-up to the sequel. Once home, he would have collapsed on the bed as if all the adventurous excursions of the day had depleted him of everything but the delicious aftertaste of exhaustion. She wanted to be a different person, a better person, but he was perfectly happy being his limited self. She had made a series of bad decisions, and now she traced them back to their source. It was not forgoing the sandwiches, or stepping onto the subway, or heading into Manhattan at the wrong hour. It was not leaving the brig where she had fallen into a fragile harmony with the day, or foolishly breaking that harmony to seek out something better. It was asking him to come home early. That was the mistake that had set everything else in motion. “What is it?” he asked. She was about to tell him. She had overcome her fear and was about to tell him everything when she said, “Thanks for carrying the blanket.” He looked at the blanket in his hands. “Sure,” he said. By the time they found food and made it into the Park, the shadow had overtaken the spaces between the trees. She could see vaguely that it was him as they laid the food out on the blanket, but, when the time came to pack up, it was so dark that he could have been anyone. Molly looked up from the general laughter just as Sarah hurried past the tables in the distance. Sarah disappeared through a rusted steel trellis festooned with lights that served the beer garden as entrance and exit. “Uh, Jay?” Molly said. She was a block away by the time he caught up with her. “Hey,” he said. “Hey!” “It’s over!” she cried. “It’s over!” “What’s over?” he said, trying to take hold of her. “Stop. Stop!” She stopped resisting and pressed her head against him and sobbed. Tears came through his shirt. Passersby, intrigued by the sight of another life on fire, skirted around them, turning back to stare. “Spring,” she said. “Over?” He lifted her off his chest and looked at her. “Sarah,” he said, “spring just started.” He was wrong. Spring was a fleeting moment, and it blew past like the breeze on the brig. Then summer rushed in, hot and oppressive as car exhaust, and she couldn’t take another summer in the city. It was followed by another single moment, the instant the leaves changed color, and then it was winter again, the interminable winter, one after another endured and misspent until they came to an end with a final hour that she would never be prepared for. “Tell me you get it,” she said. “Please tell me you get it, Jay.” She shook her head into his chest. “I’m scared to death,” she said. “What just happened?” he asked. “What went wrong?” “What are we doing? Why did we come here?” “Where?” “What else could we have done?” “We did a lot,” he said. “We had a picnic, now we’re with friends. Why are you so upset?” “Should I not do the thing I do?” she asked. “Or should I do the thing I don’t do?” “What thing are you talking about?” he asked. She didn’t want to go back to the beer garden. She made him go. He said goodbye to their friends and reassured them that everything was O.K. Then he returned to the corner where he’d left her. She was already in a cab on her way back to Brooklyn. She gathered some things from the apartment—her pills, her toiletries—and an hour later she was in Molly’s apartment falling apart again. The hostess came for them at the bar and led the way to a table in the lounge. The buildings down Fifty-ninth Street brought midtown to an abrupt end; the trees filling the Park had tumbled over the sheer blue cliffs of their mirrored surfaces. Now night was rapidly resolving the green from the trees. A minute later, it seemed, the dark knit them together, and they were all one. Yellow taxis lost their color and became lights floating on air. The mysterious figures they were picking up and dropping off at the curb, those shadows: what were they seizing hold of at this hour, that would escape her grasp? She had to do something. “Jay,” she said. “Do you know what I’ve always wanted to do in the Park?” He was idly picking at the label on his bottle of beer. “What’s that?” he asked. “Lean in,” she said. “I have to whisper it.” The hostess never rescued them from their tight squeeze at the bar. They had a final drink and left. Out on the street, in the shadow of the Park, he asked, “Are you in the mood for dinner?” “Sure,” she said. “Yes or no?” “I said sure.” “Should we stay here, or go downtown?” “Either way.” They took a cab downtown. This was the best they could imagine: another dinner downtown. She opened the cab door and stepped onto the curb just as a loud pack of strangers came through a foyer and out to the street. They were aimed half drunk at the center of the night. She wanted to abandon Jay and his blanket and dinner plans and follow them into another life. Jay shut the door, and the cabbie drove off. “Do you have a taste for anything in particular?” he asked. “No.” They stopped at a place to look at the menu. “Looks good to me,” he said. “It’s fine.” “You’re not crazy about it.” “Do I have to be crazy about it? It’s dinner, who cares. It’s fine.” “It should be more than fine if we’re going to drop a hundred bucks in there,” he said. “It should be a place you want to go.” “Oh, for fuck’s sake,” she said, and opened the door and walked inside. It was an Italian place with checkered tablecloths, not likely to be anything special. And air-conditioned! There was no breeze here, only a recycled stream of arctic air. She would have walked out if Jay had been beside her. It was an affront to time. The first day of spring, and this place had it in a choke hold, waiting for its legs to stop kicking. She requested a table for two, then turned and gestured Jay inside. He didn’t move. She followed the hostess to the table and sat down. He glared at her through the window. Unbelievable. She picked up the menu and began to study it. So this was how the night had settled: in a squalid little showdown at a cheap Italian restaurant that was as far from a picnic in the Park as— She didn’t see him open the door. He raised his voice above the din. “I’m not fucking eating in there!” he yelled. Startled, she watched his head disappear and the door swing slowly shut. In that second, she was more determined to stay than ever, but people turned to stare at her, and she felt embarrassed, and so at sea compared with them, in their perfect little parties of friends and lovers, unburdened by the possibility of different companions, competing appetites, alternative pursuits of a finer life, as their dishes arrived at the appointed hour like destiny. They left the bar excited. This was unexpected. This was being equal to the night. Not just watching the Park from afar, admiring its trees. Heading straight for them, into a different life. She hardly recognized him in the elevator. He kept looking over with a smile she’d never seen before. It was nearly enough to release them from the sentence of a long winter and its dull bedroom strain. Outside, the last of the sunlight was gone from the sky. They were led into the Park by the silver light of old-fashioned street lamps. Her heart pounded with uncertainty: Where would they do it? Would they be seen? How was it even done? Like a rush job, or something more deliberate, slowed down to expand the risk, intensify the thrill, feel anew the audacity of what two people can do? They went deeper and deeper into the Park, until they were lost in it. They stopped and looked in both directions. Then she took his hand and rushed him into a dark knot of trees. He unbuckled in a hurry as they kissed. She had to slip her panties down herself. Then she turned, planting her hands on the ground, and waited. She waited and waited. “Do you need help?” she whispered. “Sh-h-h,” he said suddenly. “Do you hear that?” “What?” He was quiet. “Jay?” “I need some help,” he said. She turned. A few minutes later, she brought her hands back to the ground. She waited. “I lost it again,” he said. She stood and dusted herself free of earth. “That’s O.K.,” she said. He was quickly buckling up. She reached out and touched him on the head. There was an essential difference between them—what he might have called her restlessness, what she might have called his complacency—which had not surfaced before they were married, or, if it had, only as a possibility, hidden again as soon as it revealed itself. When they pointed out their shortcomings to each other, often in an argument, they both treated them as implausible accusations. But, if there was some intractable self in her that could be identified and accused, she thought, it was one in search of more life, more adventure, of the right thing to do at the given hour. It was not a homebody. It was not a moviegoer. But suddenly she stopped. What made her any less predictable, she wondered, than she accused him of being? Night after night she was anxious not to miss out on . . . what? She didn’t know. Something she couldn’t define, forever residing just on the other side of things. It must be so tiresome for him, she thought. He must be convinced by now that she would never find it, that indeed there was nothing to find. She was no longer beside him. It took him a minute to notice. He turned, then walked slowly back to her. She reached out and took his hand. “Jay,” she said. “What do you want to do tonight?” “I thought we were having a picnic.” “Is that what you want?” “Sure,” he said. “Isn’t that what you want?” “Am I too predictable, Jay?” “Because you like picnics?” he asked. He put his arm around her, and they walked the rest of the way to the Park. After they ate, they lay on the blanket in the dark and talked again about having kids. He was gloomy on the ride downtown, and gloomy when they stepped out of the cab. He was gloomy going from restaurant to restaurant while she studied the menus posted outside. “Do you have a taste for anything in particular?” “No,” he said. “Do you just want to go home?” “Whatever,” he said. “Up to you.” “Well, I don’t want to go home,” she said. She chose a harmless Italian place. She wanted to turn to him to express her outrage that they were blasting the air-conditioning on the first day of spring, but she knew that he wasn’t in the mood. The place was louder than she had anticipated, a fact that became clear only after they’d been seated. They looked at the menu, keeping whatever impressions it made on them to themselves. Finally, he set his down on the checkered tablecloth, on top of the checkered blanket he’d brought for the picnic. “Do you know what you’re getting?” He shrugged. “Jay,” she said, “it doesn’t matter, it really doesn’t.” “Maybe not to you,” he said. “I’m sorry that I even suggested it,” she said. “Why did you touch my head?” he asked. “What?” “Did you have to pat me on the head?” She returned to studying the menu. Had she patted him? She hadn’t meant to. She was just trying to make him feel better. When she looked up, sometime later, she found Jay staring intently across the room. She tracked his gaze to a table and to the man there, who was, she thought, his opposite in every way: charismatic at a glance, holding the table rapt with some expansive conversation. He was the handsomest man in New York. He would know what to do with her in the Park. Jay’s fixation on him, she thought, while sullen and violent with envy, was also, possibly, at root, pure curiosity, a reflection, a desire. He wanted to be the man, or at least someone like him: someone poised, commanding, rapacious. He would never change, but, in his way, he wanted to, as she had always wanted most to be someone else. They waited for their meal in silence, in muted unhappiness, the odd ones out in that lively place. They ate quickly, but it took forever. He went to bed when they got home. She went back out on the brig. What breeze came had no effect on her, and she understood that the night had been over several hours earlier, when everything she was seeking in the world had been brought out from inside her. If it had not lasted long, was it not enough? It had been an error to go in search of something more. If she had just told Jay about the breeze, shared that stupid fleeting moment with him—why hadn’t she? He might have understood. Everything that came after was a gift that she had squandered. They walked out of the Park and hailed a cab. The driver let them out with plenty of time to kill. They had dinner, then found a bar where they nursed their drinks. They didn’t say much. “Are you sure you want to do this?” he asked her. “I told you.” “I know, but why? You were so adamant on the subway.” “It’s what you want to do,” she said. It was time to leave. She stood up from the bar. “O.K.,” he said. “But it was never that big a deal to me.” “I know,” she said. “And what you wanted to do,” he said, “we couldn’t do.” “I told you it doesn’t matter,” she said. They left the bar and walked to the theatre. They watched the follow-up to the sequel, and then they went home. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
I’M the Meat, You’Re the Knife	I was walking down High Street to the funeral home when I spotted Ed Hankey coming toward me. He said, “Jay,” then, “Guess who’s sick?,” then blinked and concluded, “Murray Cutler.” Sometimes bad news takes the form of a greeting. I hadn’t seen Hankey for more than twenty years, and I assumed that this abrupt announcement was a tactic to overcome his awkwardness. So I didn’t want to reply by explaining that I was back in Medford Square after so long because my father had just died. Family tangles, bereavement, and failure send us home, seldom happiness. I was headed to Gaffey’s to meet my mother and my sister, to choose a coffin and arrange the viewing. Perhaps Hankey already knew about my father and was avoiding the subject by mentioning Murray Cutler. When I asked, “How sick?,” Hankey said, “He’s at a hospice.” His lisp made the word juicier and more emphatic. He cocked his head to look at me, clamping his mouth shut and widening his eyes. I took a deep breath and nodded, reflecting on the news. Murray Cutler had been our high-school English teacher. He was one of those people whose death, I knew, would be a problem for me. I was resigned to my father’s passing: we had no unfinished business, and he knew that I loved him. What I dreaded were the futile formulas of consolation from people who never knew him. I felt fragile in my grief, hypersensitive to sound. Voices on the car radio grated on me; so did music, so did pity. I said, “Maybe I’ll go see him.” “Visit the sick: one of the Corporal Works of Mercy,” Hankey said, and laughed. We’d been altar boys together, and we’d sat side by side in English class, where Murray Cutler was a tease—showing me two copies of an exam, saying, “This is mine and that is urine.” “Copper Knickers,” he said, “he of the heliocentric theory.” Cutler talked about the Huguenots simply so that he could call them the Huge Nuts. He had a gift for spotting his victim’s weakness. Hankey was talking about his wife and his children, reminding me that he had married one of our classmates and saying how happy they were. Then, “I never knew Cutler very well. He was a funny guy.” “I know,” I said. I wondered again whether to tell him that my father had died. But a death is not something you mention in passing to someone you run into. And it was better to keep these two dramas separate. Individually, they were tragedies; lumped together, they were merely news. “Everyone said he was a wicked big influence on you.” “In what way?” “As a story writer and all that.” When I didn’t reply, Hankey said, “He taught us the word ‘procrustean.’ All these years, I’ve never used it.” “And ‘transpicuous.’ ” “Whatever that means. You probably used that somewhere, eh?” “Not yet.” Hankey shrugged and said that the hospice was near the Winchester line, on South Border Road. “The Elms. Big old house. You can’t miss it.” South Border Road, of all places, in the wooded Fells, where I’d spent so much of my innocent youth, where I’d left my innocence behind. “Jay, we were worried about you,” my mother said as I entered the waiting room at Gaffey’s. She sat compactly, her hands clasped, my sister, Rose, next to her, both of them pale and stunned, as though waiting to see a doctor. Rose said, “They’re getting the catalogue. For the caskets. It’s real stressful. I never thought . . . ,” but didn’t finish the sentence. In that uncomfortable silence, I said, “I just bumped into Ed Hankey.” “Oh?” my mother said, in a high, querying tone, her way of asking for details. “He sent his regards. He asked how you were. He was sorry to hear about Dad.” “Oh?” She wanted more. Rose said, “I remember Eddie.” I could not turn away from my mother’s imploring face. I said, “He claimed that when his father passed away his spirit lingered. Eddie could feel it in the house, and sometimes it seemed to be inside him. Unconsciously, Eddie started to be more like his father. Used the same expressions, adopted some of his father’s attitudes, was unusually frugal. It made him feel better.” “I can relate to that,” Rose said. “The memory of his father made him stronger. Helped him with decisions.” My mother was dabbing her eyes with a balled-up tissue. “Eddie was a nice-looking guy,” Rose said. “Your father was so kind. He had no business sense.” My mother was clutching her leather handbag. “Now you have to take his place. You’re in charge now.” They stared at me, bereft. I sat closer to them and said, “Don’t tell anyone I told you, but Eddie had a couple of funny stories about online dating, things going wrong.” A sad smile floated across Rose’s lips. “One of the women he met had posted a picture of her much prettier sister, wearing a tracksuit. She put a caption under it: ‘I like working out. Let’s get physical.’ But when Eddie met her she weighed about two hundred and fifty pounds. She ate a huge meal. He just sat there, dumbfounded.” My mother said, “Oh?” “Another one met him for drinks. He said she seemed nice, but a bit goofy. Anyway, they ordered some salads at the bar. Then a strange thing happened. This woman got a nosebleed, but didn’t seem to notice it. She says, ‘Is something wrong?’ ‘Yeah,’ Eddie says. ‘You’re bleeding into the Caesar salad.’ So she gets up and he figures she’s going to the ladies’ room. But he never saw her again!” “Something druggy about nosebleeds,” Rose said, smiling broadly. “God forgive me,” Mother said, holding her tissue to her mouth, laughing. And then a solemn man in a dark suit appeared, and we were invited in to peruse the catalogue. Driving the next afternoon, I moved through a map in my mind, from Bellevue Pond to Panther Cave to Wright’s Tower and the Sheepfold, until the shadow of Murray Cutler fell over my memory, and I realized that I was about to come face to face with the man after all these years. I had no idea what I would say to him, but I needed to see him before he died. At a bend on South Border Road, an old house, fieldstone and brick, loomed from between tall trees, with a pair of heavy-lidded dormers on the roof and bosomy bow windows at the front, “The Elms: Hospice and Palliative Care” printed in green and gold on a swinging board at the entrance to the circular driveway: a family mansion converted into a medical facility. Inside, at the periphery of the lobby area, a white-haired woman in a blue sweater sat at a desk behind a glass partition with a slid-aside window opening onto a counter, like someone selling bus tickets. She stood and, plucking her glasses from where they were resting on her head and dropping them onto the bridge of her nose, she leaned at me. The odor of new paint and fresh flowers in the lobby made me think of their opposites—decay and deception and death. They were sinister and obvious distractions, like the woman’s smile. “Please sign in.” She indicated the visitors’ book. I was reminded of the leather-bound visitors’ book we had chosen at the funeral home the day before. I flipped through the pages, searching the “Destination” column. Murray Cutler’s name did not appear anywhere. “Mr. Cutler’s not getting many visitors.” “Professor Cutler doesn’t have any family,” the woman said. Professor! “He’ll be glad to see you. He’s in two-two-eight. Stairs on the left.” His door was closed. I tried the knob, pushing the door open slowly, then stepping into the inert body odor that hung in the small room like a sour, baggy presence. Murray Cutler lay in a bed facing the window, an elderly woman beside him bent over a book. She turned to me, frowning, looking punished. “Sorry to interrupt.” “You’re supposed to knock. I don’t appreciate it when people don’t knock.” She sighed and hoisted the book. “We’re reading this. I’m one of the volunteers.” In this interval, Murray Cutler had not stirred. His head was canted to the side, his mouth open. “I can take over from you.” “He taught English at Medford High.” She glanced at him as though for approval. “Did he teach you?” “Yes. He taught me how to tell stories.” “He loves stories.” “I have some for him.” In a softer voice she said, “He’s got an awful lot of challenges.” That was when he looked at me, not moving his head but lifting his eyes and remaining expressionless. Although I hadn’t seen him since high school, I recognized him at once. Wasted, simplified, and revealed by illness, he was a skeletal caricature of himself: sickness shows us who we really are by making us too weak to pretend. He’d always been thin, but vain about his body. Teachers wore suits and ties back then. His suits had always been well cut and stylish. Now his skin clung to his skull, a tissuey death’s head, yellowish, with dry, split lips. When he drew a breath, his eyes goggled from the effort. He looked weird and weightless on the bed, like a castaway adrift on a raft. Where there had been muscle in his arms, there was now slackened sinew, less like flesh than like old meat. “I’ll leave him to you,” the woman said, rising from her chair and handing me the book. “ ‘Desperate Journeys, Abandoned Souls.’ ” I read the title aloud and made a face. “Stories of survival and heroism,” she said, buttoning her coat. “We’ve just done Alexander Selkirk.” “ ‘Robinson Crusoe and his man Freddy—the perfect partnership,’ he used to say.” I looked to Cutler for a reaction, but there was none. “He’s had a stroke. Well, a series of small strokes. His speech is impaired but his hearing is perfect,” the woman said at the door. “He has trouble with his eyesight, too, so please read to him or tell him a story.” When she had closed the door behind her, I put my face close to his. “Remember me?” He seemed to strain to focus his yellow eyes on me, his mouth gaping. His clawlike fingers were folded on his chest. A needle was taped into the back of one hand and attached to a clear plastic tube. “I was your student. Jay Justus.” In a measured set of whispered gasps, he said, “Had so many students.” “You told me I was special.” This took a moment to register, but when it did he seemed to smile, as though I’d teased him, and he opened his mouth wider, showing me what was left of his teeth, discolored stumps and raw gums. He was ill, but I could see that there remained in his shrunken body a distinct intelligence, like an intimation of heat. I was convinced of it when he became impatient, and that spark kept me resolute. “Story,” he said, urgently. Working his dry tongue, he looked reptilian. “You used to loan me books,” I said. Impatience surfaced on his bony face again, in his bulging yet unastonished eyes. “You went to Mexico one summer. You told us all about it. How the Mexican children called you papacito and followed you everywhere.” He lifted his head as though to bat away my talk, and, slurring, he said, “Story.” His saying the word gave me so much pleasure that I hesitated until he had repeated it two more times, chewing it in his insistence. “This is a story about my friend in San Francisco,” I said, and Murray Cutler smiled and looked content. “He was lonely. He lived on his own. He worked in a cubicle. He found it very hard to meet people. One day there was an earthquake, which happens now and then in San Francisco. He ran out of his office and found a doorway to stand in for protection. A young woman from his office had followed and cowered next to him. Can you picture it, the doorway framing them? As the tremors continued, he put his arm around her, not saying a word. She welcomed it—she was terrified by the earthquake, by the screams of the people on the street. My friend began kissing her, and, in her fear, she accepted this. When the earthquake was over, she still clung to him, and instead of going back to work he took her to his apartment and assaulted her.” Murray Cutler seemed to listen with his mouth, opening it wider as though to understand better. When I stopped, he grunted with dissatisfaction. “More,” he said. “Another man, another time, another story. When a fire alarm went off at a hotel, this man found himself outside, in his pajamas and robe, standing next to a woman who was clearly very frightened. Firemen, hoses, sirens, men with axes. The woman recoiled from them. The man took the woman’s hand and drew her close and spoke to her in a reassuring way. Like him, she was staying alone at the hotel. Thirty minutes of this, and then the all clear was sounded—a false alarm. But the elevators weren’t working. The man helped her find the stairs and led her to her room. ‘I don’t know how to thank you,’ she said, as she unlocked the door. He was still holding her hand. He wouldn’t let go. He kicked her door open and said, ‘But I do.’ ” I stopped talking, and, in the silence I’d created so that this might sink in, Murray Cutler said, in his gargly voice, “Why are you telling me this?” “I’m Jay,” I said. “Remember me?” I was not sure that it registered or that he knew who I was. I said, “I’ll be back.” Two days went by, the days of the wake at Gaffey’s. I tried to stay in the background, as relatives filed in to greet my mother, to embrace her and remind her that she was a widow, to tell Rose what a great man our father had been. My cousin Eva came up to me and said, “I dated a guy who was in Africa, like you. Middle of nowhere. His name was Charlie Saurin. He was a medic in one of those jungle clearings. No roads. The only way in was by small plane. He said that visitors made him feel lonely. Know how he survived it? He said, ‘When you don’t think about leaving, the place seems bigger.’ ” “I used to fantasize about being in the bush like that. Isolated and in charge. The solitary bwana.” “So where were you in Africa?” Standing so close to my father’s casket, I could smell the heavy perfume of the flowers. He lay, his face lightly powdered, his cheeks rouged, his pale hands crossed over the handle of his Knights of Columbus sword. His presence, and that sword, cautioned me. He had been a practical man, who believed in the economy of the plain truth, who thought that fiction was folly and only jackasses and liars made up stories. “I lived in a city—Kampala. I was a teacher at a good university. I had a nice house and a lot of friends. I had a cook from the coast, who was full of Swahili wisdom.” “Sounds wild to me.” “It was pretty tame.” After they had closed the lid of the casket, and the last mourner had left, my mother went silent; she looked depleted. Rose sat next to her and bent to whisper something, but it seemed only to provoke tears and Mother’s clotted voice saying, “I don’t know if I can handle this.” I went over to them. I said, “I just remembered another one of Eddie’s stories. He found a woman online, who said that she was single and looking to meet someone. They texted back and forth, sent pictures, and made a plan to go out to dinner.” “Eddie’s a game guy,” Rose said. “You could take some tips from him, Jay. Maybe meet someone nice. What’s his thing?” “Maybe he’s lonely,” I said. Mother said, in a clear voice, “Did it work out?” “He washed and waxed his car to make a good impression,” I said. “Then he drove to her house to pick her up. But, as he entered her driveway, a man jumped out of the bushes, yelling at him—a little guy, going ape.” “Who was he?” Mother asked. “Ex-husband. He’d been stalking her. The woman came to the door and screamed at her ex. He threw his shoe at her. Eddie said to her, ‘Hey, I didn’t sign up for this. Call him off.’ The guy rushed at him. Eddie told me, ‘I punted him into the next yard and drove off.’ ” Mother was smiling. She said, “Good for him,” as Rose took her by the hand and led her away. When I returned to the hospice the next morning, Murray Cutler looked weaker, vaguer, but hearing me speak he became attentive, as though the sound of my voice had woken a memory in him. If he did not remember me, at least he remembered my stories. “Earthquake,” he said. He raised a skinny finger and poked it at me. “False alarm.” In English class, if any of us pointed at him, or at anything, he’d say, “Be careful. There’s a nail on the end of that thing. That’s not ambiguous—what is it?” And he’d answer himself, “That’s transpicuous.” “Story,” he said now, slurring again. “O.K. I was in Africa, in a place so remote I could get there only by small plane in the wet season. I ran a clinic. This was in western Uganda, near the Congo border, the Ituri Forest. We were so deep in the bush that we had to be self-sufficient. The locals grew cassava and maize. I ate ugali and beans, and occasionally we killed a chicken. No one thought of leaving. Apart from the clinic, there was nothing, not even a school, and no church. The nearest mission was at Bundibugyo—and most people regarded that as the end of the earth. It was not a happy village, but it was resigned to its solitude. My contract at the clinic was for two years, but I agreed to another two. I liked being in the middle of nowhere. When you don’t think about leaving, a place seems bigger.” Murray Cutler shifted his hands, clasping them. He looked satisfied, perhaps imagining the desolation of this African village. “One day, over the patter of rain on my tin roof—a mournful tap-tap I loved so much that it sometimes put me to sleep—over that peaceful repetition, I heard a plane circling the grass landing strip. Usually a plane brought mail and medicine, but today it brought a big smiling white man named Charlie Saurin. This was a surprise. His first words were ‘Jambo, bwana—habari gani?’ ” He seemed to want to make a point, speaking Swahili to me. Swahili was the lingua franca in this nowhere place. I said that I was fine, but that I wasn’t expecting him. ‘I was sent from Kampala. Mr. Bgoya’s orders. I’m here to help.’ Bgoya was a government minister. But what was I to do with Charlie Saurin? He was older than me, about forty-five, with a full head of prematurely gray hair, combed back and upswept in a way that made him seem conceited. I’m wary of men who are vain about their hair. They behave as though they were wearing a special hat. To keep him away from my bungalow and the clinic, I gave him the small house the pilot used when heavy rain kept him from taking off. That pilot, Bevan, once told me, ‘You don’t really know anyone until you’ve seen him drunk.’ ” I repeated this to Murray Cutler to see whether he’d been listening. He nodded and smiled. “I invited Charlie Saurin to my bungalow for drinks—locally brewed beer served from a plastic basin. He sipped it from the tin dipper, and though he still lapsed into Swahili from time to time—he was conceited about his fluency, too—he was more polite now, more solicitous, speaking to me slowly and deferentially.” Becoming restless, Murray Cutler shifted in his bed and sighed. He said, “And the point is?” “Whenever he was speaking from the heart, he said it in Swahili. Just before he staggered home, he paused, his hand on the doorknob, and said, ‘The history of mankind in four words: ‘Mimi nyama, wewe kisu.’ ” “Whaaa?” Murray Cutler said, throwing his head back. “Charlie Saurin started to teach classes, using his house as the school. You’d think this was a good thing, but it disrupted the rhythm of the village. The children weren’t free anymore to hoe the gardens or bring water from the stream. The parents began complaining about this to me. One of the aggrieved men brought his son, Junius, to see me. Junius said, ‘The bwana Mr. Charlie is taking me to America.’ Junius’s father said that this was a tatizo kubwa—a big problem—and that Charlie Saurin’s behavior was a shauri, an issue. “So I invited Charlie over to my bungalow again, but this time we didn’t drink—we ate. And I saw how he ate, English style, a fork in his left hand, a knife in his right, two deft hands at work, spearing the meat and cutting a small piece and then slicing a bit of cassava and adding that to the fork and, lastly, plastering some limp greens to it and lifting the whole business to his mouth. That told me more than his drunkenness had, and I remembered what he’d said.” “What did he say?” Murray Cutler murmured, letting his head fall again. “Mimi nyama, wewe kisu. I’m the meat, you’re the knife.” His head fell back on the pillow and he worked his lips, as though tasting what I’d just told him. “The boy, Junius, told the other children that he was going to America. I heard them repeating it at the clinic. I was too busy to pay much attention to the school, but I sometimes saw Charlie Saurin walking with the children past the gardens to the edge of the bush, sometimes singly, sometimes in groups.” I fixed my eyes on Murray Cutler. “I knew he was trifling with the students, either with promises or with actual deeds. But there was nothing I could do. The students felt familiar toward him, they hung around his house, and they were so convinced of his affection for them that they began to take liberties with his house, his food, some of his possessions. It was the casual, entitled way of rural Africa—after all, he had a great deal, and they had nothing.” Murray Cutler closed his eyes, and I stopped speaking. He opened them again and seemed disappointed that I was still sitting by his bed. “When he discovered that they were stealing his things, he was enraged. How dare they take advantage of him! He stopped teaching. He told them that no one was going to America with him, least of all Junius, who had stolen his alarm clock. The next time the mail plane came to our clearing in the bush, he got on board and left. He said that the village had destroyed him. But, of course, it was the village that was destroyed, or at least corrupted. No one was the same after the visit of Charlie Saurin. The villagers began to resent me, and now spoke of wanting to leave their home, though there was no easy way out.” Murray Cutler was squinting at me. He snatched at the cord that hung beside his bed, and stabbed at the button to call the nurse. “This one man ruined everything with his meddling intrusion,” I said, staring at him in defiance. I got up from the chair and left the room before the nurse arrived. His last expression was one of uncertainty, perhaps fear. As always, I was relieved to breathe the sweet air outside the hospice. Mother said, “Is there something wrong?” when I saw her that evening, alone in her house. Rose had gone to see to the arrangements for the funeral, at St. Ray’s. “I’m fine. I’m glad I’m here.” Mother seemed doubtful. The way she sat, knees together, slightly hunched, she looked like a peasant on a hillside weathering a storm. “This is where I was born,” I said. “That’s an amazing fact to me. I’ve been everywhere, and yet this is the only place on earth where I truly belong.” “Oh?” She looked up, hopefully. “It’s kind of humbling to realize that.” Mother didn’t seem to hear me. I said, “Did you ever hear the expression ‘Forgiveness is final’?” “What does that mean?” “This is what it means. Another writer I know found out that a man who’d hurt him was suffering a terminal illness. The writer was down on his luck, not much happening in his life, vulnerable to any slight. He had always resented the man who’d hurt him, but when he visited the man he said, ‘I forgive you.’ ” “What did the man say to that?” “He couldn’t speak. He looked like he’d been slapped in the face. He was disarmed. There was nothing he could do. Because forgiveness is final.” “That’s beautiful,” Mother said, and took my hand. “I’ll cherish that lovely thought. You could write about that.” I looked away. I said, “And I keep meeting old friends here. Some of them are having health issues. I feel that I can be useful.” “You’ve always been kind that way, Jay.” I returned the following day. Murray Cutler looked at me with dread when I entered the room, but he was too inarticulate to object, unable to do anything but watch me seat myself and stare. He was the helpless one now. “I knew a couple, very creative woman, very entrepreneurial man, partners in the trucking business.” Just the sound of my voice made Murray Cutler clench his fingers in fear. “They split up. She said to me, ‘You have no idea. He was always hearing voices. His mother visited him in his office. The voices said, “Stab her in the eye! Stab her in the eye!” ’ He explained this in detail to his wife. ‘You need to know.’ His father had died in a plane crash. He refused ever to get on a plane, but that was all right—his business involved freight in long-haul trucks. His other quirk was that he had to take thirty steps whenever he entered a room, so if a room used up only twenty steps he marched in place for ten more, but very subtly. I asked her, ‘What was the attraction?’ She loved him. She told me, ‘He had the charm that all psychopaths have.’ ” In the time it took me to tell this story, the tension left Murray Cutler’s body, and when I finished he said in his usual mutter, with a half smile, “What’s the point?” “No one knew that he was crazy.” I shifted to be closer to him. I said in a harsh whisper, “Only she suffered, and when she told her story no one believed her. But I believed her. And, as for the man, his punishment—he still heard the voices.” The door opened—one of the nurses pushing a trolley with food trays on it. I was near enough to Murray Cutler to murmur without being overheard, “I’ll see you in two days.” The day of my father’s funeral was so scripted, and adhered so closely to the script, that it was as though his death were the fulfillment of a long-term plan, and this was the last act in the ritual. I was grateful for that, for the numbingly routine sequence of events: the chanting priest, the vases of flowers, the candle flames, the kind words, and then the casket on wheels, the silent hearse sliding importantly to the cemetery, where the muddy hole had been thoughtfully disguised with a rectangle of purple satin fringed with gold ribbon. There were more prayers, more flowers, and then another procession, the withdrawal, all of it expected. We were sad, but no one cried. The nature and purpose of a ritual is to meet expectations; it is the unexpected that is upsetting. Murray Cutler cringed when I appeared the following afternoon, later than I usually visited. He must have thought with relief that I was not coming. Then to see me at the end of the day, when he was tired, and to have to hear another story was demoralizing to him. He tried to cover his face as I pulled the chair close to his bed and began speaking. “I knew a woman who visited Greece on vacation,” I said. “A man stopped her on a back street in Athens, where she’d been buying souvenirs. He said, ‘I had a dream last night of Jesus Christ. Jesus said to me, “You must go to this particular street. There you will meet a beautiful woman.” And here you are.’ When she turned to get away, a man in a doorway said, ‘Come here. I will help you,’ and the woman fled into his house. The man locked the door and raped her. And, when he was done, the other man was waiting to do the same.” Murray Cutler raised his arms as though to defend himself and cowered behind a tangle of plastic tubes. “Raped her,” I said, leaning over and showing him my teeth. Sitting beside my grieving mother, helping her answer the condolence notes took almost a week. My father had many elderly friends, and none of them used a computer. Rather than send a printed card as thanks for these spidery scrawls, my mother felt—and I agreed—that it was best to write individual replies that reflected each person’s degree of intimacy with my father. It was a sensitive business, but it brought my mother and me closer. When she grew weary, she put her hand on my arm as I was writing, improving her responses to these people, and said, “Everything’s going to be all right.” Murray Cutler was much worse the next time I saw him. I locked the door to the room, and he groaned when I sat down and started to speak. “There was a man I knew who, when he lusted after someone and didn’t want to be caught, pawed his prey in public places—in the bleachers at baseball games, in the back rows at concerts, in campgrounds. He possessed a victim by caressing him openly, looking like a dear friend and benefactor, and that was the paradox, because the victim was too fearful to make a scene. And when the victim went home he couldn’t report what had happened. He had to make up a story. In his stories, he was not a victim. He was triumphant. He invented dramas and dialogue. He became such an expert at evasion that the oblique habit of storytelling became his profession.” Murray Cutler had never looked more like meat. He tried to turn away, but he was too weak. “But one story always stood for another. What he invented was actually the truth,” I said. “Now you tell me a story.” I sat watching him and it was as if a succession of episodes were running through his mind, all their cruel details twitching on his face. I returned to my old room in my mother’s house. I relived all the hopes and fantasies one experiences in a childhood bedroom. I suffered the familiar ceiling, the walls, the window, as if it were a cell where I’d served a sentence and now was confined again. I hardly stirred from the house for a week, and then went out only to accompany Mother to the cemetery. “I want to visit Dad,” she said at breakfast that day, cutting a sausage, then putting down her knife. We were standing at the grave when Mother said, “Your old teacher Murray Cutler died. It was in the paper.” I couldn’t speak. “Dad respected him so much. He was a Harvard graduate, you know. Dad was so proud when he took you under his wing. What’s wrong?” I had begun to cry, sniffling, then sobbing with an odd hopeless honk of despair. “He thought the world of you,” she said. “Dad knew that. He used to talk about it to me.” And then she was comforting me. “Go on, let it out, Jay. I know how much he meant to you.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Bad Dreams	Credit Photograph by Eric Ogden A child woke up in the dark. She seemed to swim up into consciousness as if to a surface, which she then broke through, looking around with her eyes open. At first, the darkness was implacable. She might have arrived anywhere: all that was certain was her own self, lying on her side, her salty smell and her warmth, her knees pulled up to her skinny chest inside the cocoon of her brushed-nylon nightdress. But as she stared into the darkness familiar forms began to loom through it: the pale outline of a window, printed by the street lamp against the curtains; the horizontals on the opposite wall, which were the shelves where she and her brother kept their books and toys. Beside the window she could make out a rectangle of wool cloth tacked up; her mother had appliquéd onto it a sleigh and two horses and a driver cracking his whip, first gluing on the pieces and then outlining them with machine stitching—star shapes in blue thread for the falling snowflakes, lines of red stitching for the reins and the twisting whip. The child knew all these details by heart, though she couldn’t see them in the dark. She was where she always was when she woke up: in her own bedroom, in the top bunk, her younger brother asleep in the lower one. Her mother and father were in bed and asleep, too. The basement flat was small enough that, if they were awake, she would have heard the sewing machine or the wireless, or her father practicing the trumpet or playing jazz records. She struggled to sit up out of the tightly wound nest of sheets and blankets; she was asthmatic and feared not being able to catch her breath. Cold night air struck her shoulders. It was strange to stare into the room with wide-open eyes and feel the darkness yielding only the smallest bit, as if it were pressing back against her efforts to penetrate it. Something had happened, she was sure, while she was asleep. She didn’t know what it was at first, but the strong dread it had left behind didn’t subside with the confusion of waking. Then she remembered that this thing had happened inside her sleep, in her dream. She had dreamed something horrible, and so plausible that it was vividly present as soon as she remembered it. She had dreamed that she was reading her favorite book, the one she read over and over and actually had been reading earlier that night, until her mother came to turn off the light. In fact, she could feel the book’s hard corner pressing into her leg now through the blankets. In the dream, she had been turning its pages as usual when, beyond the story’s familiar last words, she discovered an extra section that she had never seen before, a short paragraph set on a page by itself, headed “Epilogue.” She was an advanced reader for nine and knew about prologues and epilogues—though it didn’t occur to her then that she was the author of her own dreams and must have invented this epilogue herself. It seemed so completely a found thing, alien and unanticipated, coming from outside herself, against her will. In the real book she loved, “Swallows and Amazons,” six children spent their summers in perfect freedom, sailing dinghies on a lake, absorbed in adventures and rivalries that were half invented games and half truth, pushing across the threshold of safety into a thrilling unknown. All the details in the book had the solidity of life, though it wasn’t her own life—she didn’t have servants or boats or a lake or an absent father in the Navy. She had read all the other books in the series, too, and she acted out their stories with her friends at school, although they lived in a city and none of them had ever been sailing. The world of “Swallows and Amazons” existed in a dimension parallel to their own, touching it only in their games. They had a “Swallows and Amazons” club, and took turns bringing in “grub” to eat, “grog” and “pemmican”; they sewed badges, and wrote notes in secret code. All of them wanted to be Nancy Blackett, the strutting pirate girl, though they would settle for Titty Walker, sensitive and watchful. Now the child seemed to see the impersonal print of the dream epilogue, written on the darkness in front of her eyes. John and Roger both went on to, it began, in a businesslike voice. Of course, the words weren’t actually in front of her eyes, and parts of what was written were elusive when she sought them; certain sentences, though, were scored into her awareness as sharply as if she’d heard them read aloud. Roger drowned at sea in his twenties. Roger was the youngest of them all, the ship’s boy, in whom she had only ever been mildly interested: this threw him into a terrible new prominence. John suffered with a bad heart. The Blackett sisters . . . long illnesses. Titty, killed in an unfortunate accident. The litany of deaths tore jaggedly into the tissue that the book had woven, making everything lopsided and hideous. The epilogue’s gloating bland language, complacently regretful, seemed to relish catching her out in her dismay. Oh, didn’t you know? Susan lived to a ripe old age. Susan was the dullest of the Swallows, tame and sensible, in charge of cooking and housekeeping. Still, the idea of her “ripe old age” was full of horror: wasn’t she just a girl, with everything ahead of her? The child knew that the epilogue existed only in her dream, but she couldn’t dispel the taint of it, clinging to her thoughts. When she was younger, she had called to her mother if she woke in the night, but something stopped her from calling out now: she didn’t want to tell anyone about her dream. Once the words were said aloud, she would never be rid of them; it was better to keep them hidden. And she was afraid, anyway, that her mother wouldn’t understand the awfulness of the dream if she tried to explain it: she might laugh or think it was silly. For the first time, the child felt as if she were alone in her own home—its rooms spread out about her, invisible in the night, seemed unlike their usual selves. The book touching her leg through the blankets frightened her, and she thought she might never be able to open it again. Not wanting to lie down in the place where she’d had the dream, she swung over the side rail of the bed and reached with her bare feet for the steps of the ladder—the lower bunk was a cave so dark that she couldn’t make out the shape of her sleeping brother. Then she felt the carpet’s gritty wool under her toes. The children’s bedroom, the bathroom, papered in big blue roses, and their parents’ room were all at the front of the massive Victorian house, which was four stories tall, including this basement flat; sometimes the child was aware of the other flats above theirs, full of the furniture of other lives, pressing down on their heads. Quietly she opened her bedroom door. The doors to the kitchen and the lounge, which were at the back of the flat, stood open onto the windowless hallway; a thin blue light, falling through them, lay in rectangles on the hall carpet. She had read about moonlight, but had never taken in its reality before: it made the lampshade of Spanish wrought iron, which had always hung from a chain in the hallway, seem suddenly as barbaric as a cage or a portcullis in a castle. Everything was tidy in the kitchen: the dishcloth had been wrung out and hung on the edge of the plastic washing-up bowl; something on a plate was wrapped in greaseproof paper; the sewing machine was put away under its cover at one end of the table. The pieces of Liberty lawn print, which her mother was cutting out for one of her ladies, were folded carefully in their paper bag to keep them clean. Liberty lawn: her mother named it reverently, like an incantation—though the daily business of her sewing wasn’t reverent but briskly pragmatic, cutting and pinning and snipping at seams with pinking shears, running the machine with her head bent close to the work in bursts of concentration, one hand always raised to the wheel to slow it, or breaking threads quickly in the little clip behind the needle. The chatter of the sewing machine, racing and easing and halting and starting up again, was like a busy engine driving their days. There were always threads and pins scattered on the floor around where her mother was working—you had to be careful where you stepped. In the lounge, the child paddled her toes in the hair of the white goatskin rug. Gleaming, uncanny, half reverted to its animal past, the rug yearned to the moon, which was balanced on top of the wall at the back of the paved yard. The silver frame of her parents’ wedding photograph and the yellow brass of her father’s trumpet—in its case with the lid open, beside the music stand—shone with the same pale light. Lifting the heavy lid of the gramophone, she breathed in the forbidden smell of the records nestled in their felt-lined compartments, then touched the pages heaped on her father’s desk: his meaning, densely tangled in his black italic writing, seemed more accessible through her fingertips in the dark than it ever was in daylight, when its difficulty thwarted her. He was studying for his degree in the evenings, after teaching at school all day. She and her brother played quietly so as not to disturb him; their mother had impressed upon them the importance of his work. He was writing about a book, “Leviathan”: his ink bottle had left imprints on the desk’s leather inlay, and he stored his notes on a shelf in cardboard folders, carefully labelled—the pile of folders growing ever higher. The child was struck by the melancholy of this accumulation: sometimes she felt a pang of fear for her father, as if he were exposed and vulnerable—and yet when he wasn’t working he charmed her with his jokes, pretending to be poisoned when he tasted the cakes she had made, teasing her school friends until they blushed. She never feared in the same way for her mother: her mother was capable; she was the whole world. “Try to focus less on a cure and more on a treatment you can afford.”Buy the print » In their absence, her parents were more distinctly present to her than usual, as individuals with their own unfathomable adult preoccupations. She was aware of their lives running backward from this moment, into a past that she could never enter. This moment, too, the one fitted around her now as inevitably and closely as a skin, would one day become the past: its details then would seem remarkable and poignant, and she would never be able to return inside them. The chairs in the lounge, formidable in the dimness, seemed drawn up as if for a spectacle, waiting more attentively than if they were filled with people: the angular recliner built of black tubular steel, with lozenges of polished wood for arms; the cone-shaped wicker basket in its round wrought-iron frame; the black-painted wooden armchair with orange cushions; and the low divan covered in striped olive-green cotton. The reality of the things in the room seemed more substantial to the child than she was herself—and she wanted in a sudden passion to break something, to disrupt this world of her home, sealed in its mysterious stillness, where her bare feet made no sound on the lino or the carpets. On impulse, using all her strength, she pushed at the recliner from behind, tipping it over slowly until it was upside down, with its top resting on the carpet and its legs in the air, the rubber ferrules on its feet unexpectedly silly in the moonlight, like prim, tiny shoes. Then she tipped over the painted chair, so that its cushions flopped out. She pulled the wicker cone out of its frame and turned the frame over, flipped up the goatskin rug. She managed to make very little noise, just a few soft bumps and thuds; when she had finished, though, the room looked as if a hurricane had blown through it, throwing the chairs about. She was shocked by what she’d effected, but gratified, too: the after-sensation of strenuous work tingled in her legs and arms, and she was breathing fast; her whole body rejoiced in the chaos. Perhaps it would be funny when her parents saw it in the morning. At any rate, nothing—nothing—would ever make her tell them that she’d done it. They would never know, and that was funny, too. A private hilarity bubbled up in her, though she wouldn’t give way to it; she didn’t want to make a sound. At that very moment, as she surveyed her crazy handiwork, the moon sank below the top of the wall outside and the room darkened, all its solidity withdrawn. The child’s mother woke up early, in the dawn. Had her little boy called out to her? He sometimes woke in the night and had strange fits of crying, during which he didn’t recognize her and screamed in her arms for his mummy. She listened, but heard nothing—yet she was as fully, promptly awake as if there had been some summons or a bell had rung. Carefully she sat up, not wanting to wake her sleeping husband, who was lying on his side, with his knees drawn up and his back to her, the bristle of his crew cut the only part of him visible above the blankets. The room was just as she had left it when she went to sleep, except that his clothes were thrown on top of hers on the chair; he had stayed up late, working on his essay. She remembered dimly that when he got into bed she had turned over, snuggling up to him, and that in her dream she had seemed to fit against the shape of him as sweetly as a nut into its shell, losing herself inside him. But now he was lost, somewhere she couldn’t follow him. Sometimes in the mornings, especially if they hadn’t made love the night before, she would wake to find herself beside this stranger, buried away from her miles deep, frowning in his sleep. His immobility then seemed a kind of comment, or a punishment, directed at her. The gray light in the room was diffuse and hesitant. Even on sunny days, these rooms at the front of the flat weren’t bright. She had been happy in this flat at first, in the new freedom of her married life, but now she resented the neighbors always brooding overhead and was impatient to move to a place they could have all to themselves. But that would have to wait until he finished his degree. She eased out from under the warmth of the blankets. Now that she was thoroughly awake she needed to pee before she tried to sleep again. As she got out of bed, her reflection stood up indefatigably to meet her in the gilt-framed mirror that was one of her junk-shop finds, mounted in an alcove beside the window, with a trailing philodendron trained around it. The phantom in the baby-doll nightdress was enough like Monica Vitti (everyone said she looked like Monica Vitti) to make her straighten her back in self-respect; and she was aware of yesterday’s L’Air du Temps in the sleepy heat of her skin. In the hall, she listened at the door of the children’s room, which stood ajar—nothing. The lavatory was chilly: its tiny high window made it feel like a prison cell, but a blackbird sang liquidly outside in the yard. On the way back to bed, she looked into the kitchen, where everything was as she’d left it—he hadn’t even made his cocoa or eaten the sandwich she’d put out for him, before he came to bed. His refraining made her tense her jaw, as if he had repudiated her and preferred his work. She should have been a painter, she thought in a flash of anger, not a housewife and a dressmaker. But at art college she’d been overawed by the fine-arts students, who were mostly experienced grown men, newly returned from doing their national service in India and Malaya. Still, her orderly kitchen reassured her: the scene of her daily activity, poised and quiescent now, awaiting the morning, when she’d pick it up again with renewed energy. Perhaps he’d like bacon for his breakfast—she had saved up her housekeeping to buy him some. His mother had cooked bacon for him every morning. When she glanced into the lounge, her shock at the sight of the chairs thrown about was as extreme as a hand clapped over her mouth from behind. The violence was worse because it was frozen in silence—had lain in wait, gloating, while she suspected nothing. Someone had broken in. She was too afraid in the first moments to call out to her husband. She waited in the doorway, holding her breath, for the movement that would give the intruder away; it was awful to think that a few minutes ago she had gone unprotected all the way down the lonely passageway to the lavatory. Then, as her panic subsided, she took in the odd specificity of the chaos. Only the chairs were overturned, at the center of the room; nothing else had been touched, nothing pulled off the shelves and thrown on the floor, nothing smashed. The lounge windows were tightly closed—just as the back door had surely been closed in the kitchen. Nothing had been taken. Had it? The wireless was intact on its shelf. Rousing out of her stupor, she crossed to the desk and opened the drawer where her husband kept his band earnings. The money was safe: three pound ten in notes and some loose change, along with his pipe and pipe cleaners and dirty tobacco pouch, the smell of which stayed on her fingers when she closed the drawer. Instead of waking her husband, she tried the window catches, then went around checking the other rooms of the flat. The kitchen door and the front door were both securely bolted, and no one could have climbed in through the tiny window in the lavatory. Soundless on her bare feet, she entered the children’s bedroom and stood listening to their breathing. Her little boy stirred in his sleep but didn’t cry; her daughter was spread-eagled awkwardly amid the menagerie of her stuffed toys and dolls. Their window, too, was fastened shut. There was no intruder in the flat, and only one explanation for the crazy scene in the front room: her imagination danced with affront and dismay. Chilled, she returned to stand staring in the lounge. Her husband was moody, and she’d always known that he had anger buried in him. But he’d never done anything like this before—nothing so naked and outrageous. She supposed he must have got frustrated with his studies before he came to bed. Or was the disorder a derisory message meant for her, because he despised her homemaking, her domestication of the free life he’d once had? Perhaps the mess was even supposed to be some kind of brutal joke. She couldn’t imagine how she had slept through the outburst. This time, for once, she was clearly in the right, wasn’t she? He had been childish, giving way to his frustration—as if she didn’t feel fed up sometimes. And he criticized her for her bad temper! He had such high standards for everyone else! From now on, she would hold on to this new insight into him, no matter how reasonable he seemed. Her disdain hurt her, like a bruise to the chest; she was more used to admiring him. But it was also exhilarating: she seemed to see the future with great clarity, looking forward through a long tunnel of antagonism, in which her husband was her enemy. This awful truth appeared to be something she had always known, though in the past it had been clouded in uncertainty and now she saw it starkly. Calmly and quietly she picked up each chair, put back the cushions, which had tumbled onto the carpet, straightened the goatskin rug. The room looked as serene as if nothing had ever happened in it. The joke of its serenity erupted inside her like bubbles of soundless laughter. Nothing—nothing—would ever make her acknowledge what he’d done, or the message he’d left for her, although when he saw the room restored to its rightful order, he would know that she knew. She would wait for him to be the first to acknowledge in words the passage of this silent violence between them. In the bedroom, she lay down beside her husband with her back turned; her awareness of her situation seemed pure and brilliant, and she expected to lie awake, burning at his nearness. There was less than an hour to wait before she had to get up again; she’d got back into bed only because her feet were cold and it was too early to switch on the electric fire in the kitchen. But almost at once she dropped into a deep sleep—particularly blissful, as if she were falling down through syrupy darkness, her limbs unbound and bathing in warmth. When she woke again—this time her little boy really was calling out to her—she remembered immediately what had happened in the night, but she also felt refreshed and blessed. A young wife fried bacon for her husband: the smell of it filled the flat. Her son was eating cereal at the table. Her husband was preoccupied, packing exercise books into his worn briefcase, opening the drawer in his desk where he kept his pipe and tobacco, dropping these into the pocket of his tweed jacket. But he came at some point to stand behind his wife at the stove and put his arms around her, nuzzling her neck, kissing her behind her ear, and she leaned back into his kiss, as she always did, tilting her head to give herself to him. When the bacon was ready, she served it up on a plate with fried bread and a tomato and poured his tea, then went to find out why their daughter was dawdling in the bedroom. The girl was sitting on the edge of her brother’s bunk, trying to pull on her knee-length socks with one hand while she held a book open in front of her eyes with the other. Her thin freckled face was nothing like her mother’s. One white sock was twisted around her leg with its dirty heel sticking out at the front, and the book was surely the same one she had already read several times. The child was insistent, though, that she needed to start reading it all over again, from the beginning. Her mother took the book away and chivvied her along. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
By Fire	Credit Photograph by Moises Saman / Magnum Returning home from the cemetery where he had just buried his father, Mohamed felt as though the burden he carried had become heavier. He was bent, aged. He walked slowly. He had just turned thirty. He’d never celebrated his birthday. The years went by, and they were all alike. Poverty, deprivation, and a vague resignation imbued his life with a sadness that had, over time, come to seem natural. Like his father, he never complained. He was not a fatalist, or even religious. But his father’s death had turned his life upside down. He was the eldest, and was thus responsible now for the family. Three brothers and two sisters. A diabetic mother, not yet an invalid. Mohamed’s latest job hunt, like many before, had yielded nothing, and now he was nervous. It wasn’t a question of being lucky or unlucky. It was more, he said, a problem of injustice, linked to the misfortune of being born poor. He was not going to sit in front of the Finance Ministry headquarters to protest unemployment anymore. Some formerly unemployed graduates had found work, but he wasn’t one of them. His degree in history interested no one. He could have taught, but the Ministry of Education wasn’t hiring. He dug out his old schoolbag, hidden in the linen closet, emptied it of all its papers and documents, including his diploma, made a small pile in the sink, and burned them. He watched the flames consume the words, and by chance they burned everything but his name and his date of birth. With a piece of wood, he rekindled the fire until all had turned to ash. His mother, alerted by the smell, rushed in. “You’ve gone crazy! How will burning your diploma help anything? Now how are you going to apply for a teaching position? Three years gone up in smoke!” Without a word, he collected the ashes, threw them into the trash, cleaned the sink, and washed his hands. He was calm. He had no desire to speak about or justify his action. What was the use of hanging on to a piece of paper that wasn’t going to get him anywhere? His face remained inscrutable. His mother reminded him to pick up her medicine. The pharmacist would give it to him on credit, she said. Later, he sat on a bench and stared at a trail of ants on the ground. He asked a boy who sold loose cigarettes for one, lit it, and smoked slowly. The ants had deposited their loads and now headed back to where they had come from. His mind was made up: he would take over his father’s cart. It was in bad shape. He would have to repair the wheels, replace a rotten plank, have the scale recalibrated, and get in touch with Bouchaïb, the fruit and vegetable supplier. Where would he find the money? His mother had sold all her jewelry when his father got sick, and she had nothing left. Mohamed had heard about “microcredit.” He looked into it, and was given a thick stack of forms to fill out. He was quickly discouraged by all the paperwork. He began to regret having burned his diploma. Mohamed had won a trip to Mecca in a raffle at the Faculty of Arts and Letters, where he had studied. The one time he’d got lucky, he couldn’t take advantage of it. What was he going to do with a plane ticket? He had no desire to go on a pilgrimage to Mecca, and, anyway, he didn’t have the money to carry out the ritual. He wanted the airline to refund the cost of the ticket to him, but it refused. The only thing he could do was sell it to a pilgrim. He managed to get a third of the price, but still had to bribe the travel agent to change the name on the ticket. With the meagre amount he had left, he repaired the cart and, finally, began to sell oranges and apples. Mohamed knew that Bouchaïb was a crass and dishonest man. His father had often told him this. The man immediately claimed that Mohamed’s father owed him money and hadn’t paid his last two bills. Mohamed had no way of verifying this. He had to come to terms with the guy because Bouchaïb was the only one who sold on credit, charging a markup of ten to fifteen per cent. Mohamed didn’t argue and gave him a deposit for two crates of oranges and one of apples; he also asked for a few baskets of strawberries. Bouchaïb took him aside and, in a hushed voice, asked after his younger sister. Mohamed answered that she was doing well and was getting ready for her college-entrance exam. “You know, your father promised her to me,” Bouchaïb said. “I want to get married, have a family. You and I could even become partners. You can’t make ends meet with the fruit cart. There’s a lot of competition, and, also, to get the right spot you have to be on good terms with the police.” Mohamed looked at him, bowed his head, and left without saying anything. He didn’t really know where to set up his cart. Some venders moved around; others found themselves strategic spots, usually near an intersection or at a traffic circle. He soon saw that the best places were taken, and decided to keep moving. He loudly hawked his oranges and apples, but nobody could hear him over the honking horns. When Mohamed stopped for a moment next to a grocer’s stand, the owner instantly chased him off, shouting, “Are you crazy? What’s wrong with you? I bought my license, and I pay taxes. How am I going to make a living if you plant yourself right in front of me? Go on, get lost!” On his first day, Mohamed just wandered around, from one street to another. Even so, he managed to sell more than half his produce. He realized that he would need to wake up very early the next day if he wanted to get a good spot before all the others arrived. At dinner that night, he looked at his younger sister and imagined her in Bouchaïb’s arms. He felt ashamed. A young and innocent girl in the hands of such a brute. Never. After dinner, he told his mother that Bouchaïb had demanded money from him. “Your father couldn’t stand having debts,” she said. “He paid them off as soon as he could. Bouchaïb is a crook. He has no proof. Just forget about it. Did you remember to get my medicine? I have only one pill left.” Mohamed took out a box full of books and laid them out in front of the house for sale. History books, paperback novels, and a leather-bound copy of “Moby-Dick” in English—a prize he had won for coming first in his English class, in his senior year of high school. He sold three books, making just enough to buy the medicine. Nobody wanted “Moby-Dick,” so he kept it. That night, he reread a few pages and realized that his English was a little rusty. Before falling asleep, he thought about beautiful Zineb. He had loved her for two years. But with no money, no work, and no home of his own, it was impossible to get married. He was unhappy. What could he promise her when he had nothing to offer? But for now he had more pressing priorities, and he felt that he would succeed if he tackled things one at a time. Zineb would wait for him. Zineb worked as a secretary at a doctor’s office. She really loved Mohamed. Because she was an only daughter, she had suggested that they get married and live at her parents’ place. But Mohamed was proud; it was unthinkable to him to depend on his wife and live with his in-laws. Usually he and Zineb met at a café. They talked a lot, kidded around, and often burst into laughter. More than three months had passed since they’d been able to make love. The last time, Zineb’s cousin had lent them her small apartment while her roommate was travelling. “My life has really turned around since I quit eating cigarette butts.”Buy the print » “Someday,” Zineb said, “we will reach the end of this tunnel. I promise you. I know it. I can feel it. You’ll have a good job, I’ll stop working for this sleazy doctor, and we’ll start our life. You’ll see.” “Yes, someday, but you know I’ll never get on one of those flimsy boats and become an illegal. I know your plan: Canada! Yes, we’ll all go to Canada, and we’ll all go to paradise. It’s written somewhere. But, in the meantime, I have to feed a big family, take care of my mother, and fight to get a good spot for my cart.” Zineb took his hands and kissed them. He took hers and did the same. Mohamed woke up at six. He tried to make as little noise as possible, so as not to wake his brothers, with whom he shared a room. There was Nabile, twenty years old, an unlicensed tour guide, who often had problems with the police. There was Nourredine, eighteen, a high-school student, who worked in a bakery from Friday evening until Monday morning. And then there was Yassine, fifteen, intelligent, lazy, handsome, and spiritual. He’d promised his mother that he would become a millionaire and take her to visit the Pyramids. Mohamed washed himself, swallowed a piece of bread, and took out his cart. At the corner of the narrow street, a police officer stopped him. “This is your old man’s cart. Where is he?” “He’s dead.” “And you’re just taking over, as if nothing had happened?” “What’s the problem? Is it forbidden to make an honest living?” “Don’t be insolent! Your papers.” Mohamed gave the man all the papers he had on him. “No insurance. Can you imagine? If you ran over a kid, who would pay? You?” “Since when is it necessary to have insurance for a fruit cart? This is new.” The policeman took out a notebook and started writing something while watching Mohamed out of the corner of his eye. After a moment, he said, “You’re playing the fool—pretending you don’t understand.” “I’m not doing anything. You’re the one who’s doing everything you can to keep me from working.” “O.K., you can go now, but think about the insurance. I’m telling you this for your own good.” Then, with both hands, the policeman helped himself to oranges and apples. He bit into an apple, and said, with his mouth full, “Move on now!” Mohamed found a good spot; it was still quite early. He put down the cart and waited. A car stopped; the driver lowered his window and ordered: “One kilo of each, and give me the good ones.” The next customers were in less of a hurry; they got out of their cars, felt the fruits, asked for the price, bargained, and bought a few oranges. An hour later, another vender arrived, with a decorated cart and a better, more attractive selection, including some expensive and rare exotic fruits. He had his regular customers. With a look and a slight nod of his head, the man indicated that Mohamed should leave this spot. He obeyed without protesting. Once again, he had to wander the streets. He’d had a good morning all the same, and he decided to have more variety the next time. By the end of the day, he had sold everything. He went back to Bouchaïb to refill his cart. That evening, although he was tired, he went to see Zineb at her parents’ place; they liked him. He told Zineb about his day and ate some crêpes with her before heading home. In the meantime, a plainclothes policeman visited Mohamed’s mother. He asked her about Mohamed and wanted to know why he didn’t see the “unemployed graduate” group anymore. The poor woman answered as well as she could, with hesitation and apprehension. The policeman handed her a summons, according to which her son was to report to the police department that evening. She started to cry, knowing that the police never brought good news. She thought it best to tell the officer, “My son is not political.” He left without replying. When she gave Mohamed the summons, he looked at it and then stuffed it into his pocket. “I’ll go in a little while. They’re going to interrogate me. If I don’t go, they’ll come for me, which will be even worse.” “Son, this visit has raised my blood sugar. I can tell; my mouth is dry, and I don’t feel well.” “These people are paid to create problems for us. In all likelihood, that cop comes from a family as poor as ours. But, as you know, the poor don’t like one another.” At the police department, Mohamed waited on a bench for a long time. Now and then he got up and tried to find out why he had been called in. No one knew. He suspected that the summons was intended simply to intimidate him. He had received a similar summons when he first joined the unemployed graduates’ demonstrations. Beside him sat an old man who was clearly impoverished; he didn’t say a word, and seemed about to fall asleep. What could one hold against this man, who was coughing and spitting and would have been better off in a hospital room? Mohamed moved away from him. He was afraid of catching tuberculosis. There was also a woman in a djellabah; she smoked cigarette after cigarette and railed against life. “I was happy in my village. My God, why did I ever marry that imbecile who has now abandoned me?” She called Mohamed to witness: “I’m a prostitute! I am not ashamed to say it. But someday all this will change, you’ll see; I know this. It can’t go on. . . .” Around midnight, a man signalled for Mohamed to follow him. Identity verification. Classic interrogation. The police officer found it intriguing that Mohamed was no longer in touch with his former fellow-activists. He asked if the Islamists had approached him. “No, it was my father’s death that changed everything. I took over his cart, our only means of survival.” “Yes, I know. How is it going?” “I’ve barely got started.” “You know, there are no miracles. There are those who manage and make quite a bit of money, and there are others—the chumps, the losers. It’s up to you to choose.” It took Mohamed some time to understand the deal the police officer was offering him: become an informer and have a profitable spot or refuse and say goodbye to his business. “Think about it hard. Tomorrow I’ll meet you at the Independence traffic circle. Now go home.” Mohamed knew that if he showed up the next day at the appointed place he would have to accept the cop’s proposition. Early in the morning, he took his cart and headed toward a working-class neighborhood far from the famous traffic circle. His mother’s diabetes was out of control. She needed to go back to the doctor and get a new prescription. He made some calculations. Not enough money to meet this unexpected expense. He decided to take her to the public hospital. His seventeen-year-old sister went, too. Mohamed left them at the entrance and started to sell his produce. He realized that this was an excellent spot. People visiting the hospital bought fruit for the patients. An hour later, two police officers, one of them a woman, appeared before him: “Your papers.” He gave them his papers. “This is not your neighborhood. What are you doing here?” “I brought my mother to the hospital; she has high blood sugar.” “Bless you! It’s good that you brought her here, but you’ll be even more blessed if you clear out. We won’t make you pay a fine this time, but you’ve been warned. Don’t come here again. Is that clear?” “But this is how I earn my living.” “God’s earth is vast.” Mohamed would have liked to answer that God clearly did not like the poor, and that the earth was only vast for those with means. But he told himself, “It’s not worth it; it’ll just make things worse. They could even arrest me for atheism.” He was perhaps not an atheist, but since the Islamists were almost everywhere now he had distanced himself from religion. His father used to say to him, “The believer is destined for sorrow; God tests him. So be patient, my son!” “I joined an online fraternity.”Buy the print » Just as Mohamed was about to leave, a car stopped in front of him. The driver, who seemed to be in a rush, asked him to weigh all his fruit and put it into a big basket, which he was holding out. “I want to buy it all. Today is a day of celebration; my son just graduated from high school. Can you believe it? I am going to send him to study in America, yes, sir, to America, because here you can study day and night and then there’s no work, but when you have an American degree they hire you right away. I am happy; he’s my only son. My daughters don’t count—I can’t get them married, nobody wants them. . . . Well, hurry up, quick, quick! How much is it? Calculate quickly; if you want, I can help you.” He took out his cell phone and started calculating as Mohamed dictated the numbers. “Well, it comes to two hundred and fifty-three riyals.” The man handed him three hundred-riyal bills. “You deserve it. You are a good guy—it shows.” Mohamed started pushing his cart toward the wholesale market. He wasn’t going to go to Bouchaïb anymore. He would pay cash. At the end of the afternoon, he put his cart away and went to wait for Zineb at the entrance to her office. Nearby were a large number of busy young people. He was stunned by how many ways these people had thought of to make a living: there were people speed-washing cars; helping the elderly; making toys out of soda cans; or selling loose American cigarettes, hand-drawn postcards, maps, or photographs of Michael Jackson and Ben Harper. There were acrobats dressed in red, performing tricks; there were monkey trainers, parrot trainers, venders of pirated DVDs, with films for all tastes—Indian, the latest American, classic films, Egyptian and French; there were also storytellers with microphones pinned to their jackets. Only snake charmers, fortune-tellers, sorcerers, and other swindlers were missing. Then, suddenly, there was panic. The street venders all began running— security agents were chasing them. Violently, the police managed to catch two people—a parrot man and a DVD seller. Blows, insults. The parrot was screaming. The DVDs lay smashed on the ground. Among them was the movie “Spartacus,” starring Kirk Douglas. All that remained of the movie was its sleeve. The two venders were thrown into a National Security van. Mohamed felt like screaming, but he thought about his mother, about his entire family. He swallowed his anger and told himself, “I have to see Zineb.” He was glad to see her. He told her about his day and avoided talking, at first, about the police attack on the street venders; he suggested that they have some fish in a popular restaurant by the harbor. Soon the two of them were laughing like children in a splendid meadow on a spring day. He said to her, “The police defeated Spartacus! He was crushed under the tires of the van.” They returned home on foot. On the way, they saw some street kids making a fire to warm themselves. One of them asked for a cigarette. “I don’t smoke,” Mohamed said, “but take this and buy something to eat.” Police vans drove slowly alongside them. Prostitutes were being asked for their papers. Zineb noticed one of the girls slipping a banknote into a cop’s pocket. It was routine. That was how things went. They discussed their marriage again. “We have to wait; I just started working. I’ve got to pull off something big first.” “What do you mean?” “Don’t worry, I’m not going to rob anyone! But I’d really like to open a store at the market. One of our neighbors is sick, and he owns a well-positioned store in the central market. It’d be great if he let me take over; I could pay for it little by little. I’ve looked into it. His children don’t want to continue the business; they’re engineers and technicians, so they don’t have job problems. This would be an ideal solution for me. My mother is going to speak to the man.” “You’re right,” Zineb said. “But I’m tired of waiting. We need to have our own place, even if it’s just a shack, a hole in the wall, a shed. . . .” At home, the old TV was showing a program celebrating the President’s thirty-year reign over the republic. The President appeared with his wife, who had gained a lot of weight. Both wore makeup, were well dressed—too well dressed, too tidy, with not a hair out of place, and smug, satisfied smiles. The camera followed them through their palace, through their immaculate gardens with perfectly manicured trees and automatic sprinklers to water the lawns. The President’s wife was saying, “My husband works so hard that I have to force him to rest a little; thank God the country is doing well. The people are grateful; they show us their support every day, because they realize that the country is prosperous and is moving forward!” The President made a gesture with his hand, as though waving to a child. These images were accompanied by some syrupy background music, which got on Mohamed’s nerves. His mother was dozing. His brothers and sisters were getting ready for bed. Yassine showed Mohamed his report card. For every class, it said more or less the same thing: “Intelligent boy, talented student, but lazy. Could do better.” Yassine laughed and said, “I get bored in class, and, in any case, what’s the point of studying? You’ve seen it yourself—you studied like crazy, and then no job. Now you’ve taken up Dad’s cart.” Mohamed tried to give his brother some hope, but it was difficult. There was too much injustice in the country, too much inequality and humiliation. Yassine told him that while returning home from school he had seen a man being beaten by the police. The man was screaming, and people stopped, but no one intervened. “I recognized the guy; he was the caretaker of that glass building—you know, the one on the other side of the neighborhood. The guy was fired, but nobody knows why. Today he stole a chicken. It was bizarre; the man was screaming, and so was the chicken, because he wouldn’t let go of it.” Early the next morning, Mohamed left to buy his fruit. He bought a larger variety this time. Coming out of the market, he met a former fellow-activist, who had got a job at the town hall. “I don’t do anything there. I’m in an office with four other clerks,” he said. “Some of them have files to work on, but I don’t. I’m bored. Plus, I haven’t been paid yet; it’s been six months. I live on credit. I think they hired some university graduates just to make us shut up, when in fact they don’t have any positions for us. And how about you?” “As you can see.” They said goodbye and parted. Ten minutes later, as Mohamed was waiting at a red light, two policemen in plain clothes pulled him aside. “What were you and your friend talking about?” “Nothing.” The first slap took Mohamed by surprise. He yelled and got a punch in his stomach. “Shut the fuck up. Come on, what’s your friend’s name?” “I forgot his name.” Another slap. Some passersby stopped. One of the cops threatened them. “Clear off! He’s a thief. We’re doing this to protect you; let us do our job.” Mohamed cried, “It’s not true! I am not a thief!” Seeing the crowd close in on them, the cops knocked the cart over and left Mohamed with all his fruit on the ground. The crowd comforted him; they helped him pick up the fruit, though most of the strawberries were crushed. Some of the people said, “This is disgusting! How shameful! Attacking a poor street vender.” “They behave as if they were in Mafia movies. These bastards all want their share!” “This can’t go on! One day or another, God will bring the truth to light.” “God’s on the side of the rich!” Arguments followed. “Villain! Infidel! God is with everyone! God is everywhere.” The people decided to buy Mohamed’s fruit out of solidarity. He gave away the strawberries that weren’t crushed. He didn’t feel like working anymore; he felt sick. He went home, put away the cart, and decided to take advantage of his brothers’ absence to sleep and recuperate a bit. He had a dream. His father, dressed all in white, was beckoning to Mohamed to join him. He was saying something, but Mohamed couldn’t hear him. He had no desire to join the deceased. Suddenly his mother appeared and said, “Don’t listen to what he’s asking you to do; he is with God, perhaps in Heaven.” Mohamed woke, disturbed; the dream had been so powerfully real. It was high time that Mohamed and Zineb had cell phones. He bought two used phones in the central market. The phones were simple. No monthly fee, just a rechargeable SIM card, which allowed them to receive calls even when the credit was used up. Buy the print » Mohamed also decided to improve his fruit cart. On one side, he set up a manual juice press. On the other side, he arranged the different fruits in a more appealing way. He also attached a board to show the prices. And, to make it look pretty, he hung a picture of the singer Umm Kulthum. He even bought a flyswatter. Mohamed seemed destined to be a wandering street vender, since those who collaborated with the police took all the good spots. But one morning he decided to return to the area by the hospital, where business was good. Soon two police officers arrived and started circling him. “Umm Kulthum! You like her voice? We do, too. But why have you hung a picture of an old singer who died a long time ago and not one of our beloved President? May God grant him a long life and prosperity!” “I hadn’t thought about it. If you want, I can remove the singer’s picture.” “No, keep it, but hang a nice picture of our dear President above it, and one that’s bigger than Umm Kulthum’s. O.K.?” “O.K.” The officers left. Mohamed was covered in cold sweat. He’d had enough of this almost daily harassment. He called Zineb and told her about the incident. “They want you to give in. These people are rotten. Corrupt to the bone. I admire you for standing up to them.” “Do I have a choice?” “So shall we see each other this evening?” “Yes, see you tonight.” He found an old newspaper with a full-page picture of the President and tried to hang it on his cart. But the page kept falling. So he folded it up and put it under one of the crates. He would bring it out if they asked him again for a picture of the President. While Mohamed waited for customers on a busy street, a newspaper vender stopped and handed him an Arabic newspaper. On the front page was written, “Scandal: An M.P. from the majority party extorted money from unemployed graduates by making them fill out forms to emigrate to Canada: 500 riyals per file; 252 victims. He has not been charged.” Mohamed knew about this swindle and would have been a victim of it—if he’d ever managed to save the required “file fee.” The newspaper vender said to him, “You see, we can write about everything, denounce everything, but it doesn’t change anything. The bastard is still an M.P.; he raked in a huge amount of money, and the authorities didn’t take any action against him.” “You know, it wouldn’t surprise me if one day one of those victims slit his throat. After all, you can always take justice into your own hands.” A sudden commotion. Mohamed guessed that the police were making a roundup; he quickly pushed his cart into a narrow alleyway to hide. Some cats were fighting by an overturned trash can; children played with plastic guns. He took a deep breath, crouched down, and held his head in his hands; he felt like throwing everything away and being done for good. But then he thought of his mother, saw Zineb’s face, his brothers, his sisters. . . . He got up and headed back toward the main street. Mohamed had been working for more than a month, despite the countless obstacles he encountered. One morning, however, he had a bad feeling. As he was getting his cart out, one of the wheels fell off. He didn’t know whether this was an accident or the result of sabotage. He’d had problems with some of his neighbors, who disapproved of his criticizing the regime. One day, the husband next door had said, “If you continue speaking against the government, you’re going to bring trouble on all of us. Why do you have to run everything down? You want everyone to be rich? You’re a Communist, aren’t you? You’d better calm yourself, because, in this country, when the police arrest people you never know what shape they’ll be in when they return.” “See—you, too, are criticizing the government.” “No, I’m only stating facts. I’m happy; life is good.” Then he started shouting at the top of his lungs, “Long live the President! Long live the First Lady!” Mohamed began repairing the wheel. Children stood around him, wanting to help. The cart was soon on its feet, and he left. At the first intersection, a policeman stopped him. “Where are you off to like this?” “I’m going to work.” “Your work permit?” “You know very well that it doesn’t exist.” “Yes, I know. But it can exist in other forms.” Mohamed pretended not to understand. The police officer said, “Too bad for you. That response may cost you a lot more. See you later.” Mohamed left without turning around. He ran into a funeral procession. There were a lot of people, and, strangely, some of them were carrying the national flag. Mohamed asked who was being buried. “A poor guy, like you and me. No one knows exactly how he died. He was arrested last week for something to do with the Internet, and then yesterday his parents found his body dumped in front of their door.” “Killed by the police?” “Clearly, but there’s no proof,” the man said in a low voice. “He was a great guy. He worked in a café, and in the evening he played on the Internet.” Mohamed followed the procession while pushing his cart. He noticed that plainclothes policemen were taking pictures. After the burial, he left for the wholesale market. It was violent. He didn’t even have time to get up. Two uniformed police officers, a man and a woman, threw him to the ground and seized the cart. “Confiscated!” “You have no right to sell illegally. You have no work permit, no license; you don’t pay taxes; you’re stealing from the state. So it’s over: your cart is confiscated.” The female officer said, “Now get lost. You’ll get a summons to appear in court. Get the hell out of here!” Mohamed remained on the ground, because the other officer was still kicking him. Passersby stopped to watch. Some of them protested. The police threatened them. A jeep arrived, and an officer got out. After the police had explained the situation, he got back into the jeep and disappeared. Then a police van arrived. Other cops got out and gathered the fruit that had fallen off the cart. One of them even bit into an apple he’d picked up. Mohamed, powerless, said nothing. He wandered through the streets, stunned by what had just happened and incapable of thought. Without his realizing it, his steps carried him to the town hall. He asked to speak to the mayor. The man at the front desk made quick circles at his temple with his index finger to indicate that Mohamed was crazy. “You think you can see the mayor just like that?” “Why not? I need to speak to him.” “Who do you think you are? Are you rich? Are you important? Now get out of here and let me drink my tea in peace.” Mohamed insisted, “Perhaps the deputy mayor . . .” “They’re all out. The governor is opening a new mosque.” “And tomorrow?” “Let me give you some advice: drop it.” “All right, but before I go I have to tell you why I want to speak to the mayor.” “Why?” “The police confiscated the one thing I need to make a living, the cart I use to sell fruit. It’s my livelihood.” “And you think the mayor will overrule the police for the sake of your beautiful eyes?” “For the sake of justice.” “Well, aren’t you special! Where did you come from?” Lowering his voice a little, the man asked, “Where have you seen justice done in this country?” Then he stepped out for a moment and returned armed with a club. “Now get lost! Or I’ll break your pretty face.” Mohamed didn’t insist anymore. That evening, he saw Zineb, who suggested that she go with him to the town hall. Also, she had another idea. “What if we went directly to the chief of police?” “Why not?” They went to the police headquarters. None of the officers there knew about Mohamed’s situation. Zineb spoke first. “Well, in that case we are going to press charges for theft!” “You’re going to file a charge against the police? Where do think you are, Sweden?” the officer asked with a wicked smile. “We just want our cart back.” “I understand. Give me your I.D. cards so that I can make photocopies, and I’ll contact you if I have any news.” Zineb didn’t trust him; she refused, pulled Mohamed by the arm, and they left. They walked through the streets for a long time, holding hands, or with their arms around each other’s waist. A car pulled up beside them: plain-clothes police officers. “Your papers. . . . But you’re not married. It’s illegal to walk in deserted streets at this time of night.” Zineb used her charm and begged the officer not to report them. “My father’s very violent. Please let us go! We’ll go home; we weren’t doing anything wrong.” “O.K., get going. You’re off the hook this time.” They both went straight home. Mohamed had a very restless night; he hadn’t told his mother what happened. Stress made her blood sugar rise, his father had said. Early the next morning, Mohamed washed himself, then, for the first time since his father’s death, he decided to pray. He changed into clothes that were all white. His mother was asleep; without waking her, he kissed her forehead. He glanced at his sleeping brothers and sisters. Then he ran out of the house. He borrowed his brother’s old motorbike, stopped at a gas station, and filled a plastic water bottle with gasoline. He put the bottle in a small bag and headed toward the town hall. There he asked to see an official. No one wanted to see him. He returned to the place where the police had confiscated his cart. They were there again, and the cart was nearby. Empty. Mohamed went up to them and asked for his property back. The male cop slapped him hard and shouted, “Look, you filthy rat, get lost before I beat the shit out of you!” Mohamed tried to defend himself. This time the female officer took her turn slapping him and spitting in his face. “You creep, you’re spoiling our breakfast! You have no manners. You’re a nobody.” Mohamed lay prostrate. He didn’t speak, didn’t move; his face was immobile, his eyes were red, his jaw clenched. Something inside him was about to explode. He stayed in this position for two or three minutes—to him, it felt like an eternity. The male officer said, “Go on, get out of here. Your cart—you’ll never see it again. It’s all over; you’ve shown us no respect. And, for this, you pay a price in our beloved country.” Mohamed’s mouth was dry, his saliva bitter. It was hard for him to breathe. If I had a gun, I would empty it into these bastards, he thought. I don’t have a gun, but I still have my body, my life, my wasted life: this is my weapon. Mohamed got to his feet and backed away from them. He started up the motorbike and headed to the town hall. He locked the bike to a pole and again asked to speak to the mayor or one of his deputies. The man at the front desk was even angrier than he’d been the day before. Back outside, Mohamed thought about the bottle of gasoline in the small bag, adjusted his white clothes, and walked around the square. No one noticed him. It was a sunny December morning. December 17th. A confused jumble of images rushed through his mind: his mother in bed, his father in his coffin, himself at the Faculty of Arts and Letters, Zineb smiling, Zineb angry, Zineb begging him not to do anything; his mother getting out of bed and calling for him; the face of the woman who’d slapped him earlier, who slapped him again; his body bent over as though he were offering himself to an executioner; the blue sky; a huge tree sheltering him; himself in Zineb’s arms under the tree; himself as a child, running so as not to be late for school; his French teacher praising him; himself taking his college exams, showing his diploma to his parents; his diploma pinned to a sign beside the word “unemployed”; his diploma burning in the sink; his father’s burial again; screams; birds; the President and his wife wearing huge black sunglasses; the woman who’d slapped him; the other who’d insulted him; a procession of sparrows crossing the sky; “Spartacus”; a public fountain; his mother and his two sisters standing in line to get water; the cops brutalizing him again, insults, blows, insults, blows . . . One last time, Mohamed asked to see the mayor. Refusals and insults. The man at the front desk pushed him with his club and he fell to the ground. Mohamed rose in silence and went to stand in front of the town hall’s main entrance. He took the bottle of gasoline from the bag, poured it over himself, from head to toe, until the bottle was empty. Then he lit his Bic lighter, looked for a moment into its flame, and drew it toward his clothes. The fire ignited instantly. Within moments, the crowd ran toward him. The front-desk man screamed. He tried to put out the fire with his jacket, but Mohamed had transformed into a torch. By the time an ambulance arrived, the fire was out, but Mohamed had lost all human resemblance. He was entirely black, like a grilled lamb. The front-desk man was crying, “It’s all my fault. I should have helped him.” Mohamed is in the hospital. His entire body is wrapped in bandages, like a shroud. He is in a coma. A commotion in the hallways. Doctors in white coats and nurses race down the hallway that leads to Mohamed’s room. The President has come; the President has inquired about Mohamed’s fate. The President is not happy. He hears about the mayor who refused to see Mohamed. He orders him fired. The President is angry. He finds out that the international press is covering the story. A horde of doctors follow the President into the hospital room. Obscene and ridiculous displays. The entire country is in revolt. With her hair tied back, Zineb leads a demonstration. Her fist raised, she is shouting and screaming. Mohamed dies on January 4, 2011. There are demonstrations everywhere, cries of “We are all Mohameds!” The President leaves the country like a thief. His plane disappears into the starry night. More demonstrations. Photographs of Mohamed are everywhere: victim and symbol. The international media rush to the country to interview his family. Even a film producer comes to see them. He hands an envelope to the tearful mother and says, “Please accept this help; it’s not much. Such is fate, cruel and unjust.” He bends down and whispers into the weeping woman’s ear, “It’s important that you don’t speak to anyone else. Don’t give any interviews to journalists. I am going to help you. I will tell Mohamed’s story. The entire world should know what happened. Mohamed is a hero, a victim, and a martyr. Do we agree? You will not speak with anyone but me. I have to go now, but, if you need anything at all, here’s my card, and here’s a cell phone so you can call me.” The mother didn’t understand anything this person said. But her daughters understood very well: “This guy wants to buy our brother’s death and profit from it! What a nightmare! What an utter nightmare! Mohamed’s story doesn’t belong to anyone. It’s the story of a simple man, like millions of others, who, after being crushed, humiliated, and denied in life, became the spark that set the world ablaze. No one can ever steal his death.” ♦ (Translated, from the French, by Rita S. Nezami.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Heron	Credit Illustration by Marco Mazzoni I won’t feed birds, but, if you must, then you should do so in Frederiksberg Gardens. There are tame herons in Frederiksberg Gardens, and by placing the park’s benches at some distance from one another the park authorities hope to avoid attracting too many birds to one area. There are problems at the end of the park where the alcoholics sit, especially with ducks, but I never go that way, and you can see the herons everywhere. Of the heron itself, one can say only that from a distance it looks impressive, but this doesn’t apply when you get close up. It’s too thin, and the tame herons in particular look malnourished. Most likely all that bread gives the herons of Frederiksberg Gardens bad stomachs and is to blame for their not making an effort to fly. Last winter I saw one slouching on the back of a bench with its long, thin neck. Its feet were white and it barely even reacted when I walked past. The way the wind ruffled its neck feathers made me want to go back and sit down next to it. It was the way the suffering had to be drawn out like that, the way herons never really muster the enthusiasm. But I won’t touch birds, alive or dead. They shouldn’t be played with, and, if you do, you should take care never to touch others with your infected hands. If a bird is dead you should make sure not to come into contact either with it or with its excrement. Disposable gloves must be used, and the bird should be picked up using a plastic bag, the same way you pick up dog shit. The bag should be sealed and disposed of with the household garbage or else buried. How difficult is that, with all the knowledge we have available? In order to avoid herons in large numbers, as well as the strange man who often stands on the path leading to the Chinese Pavilion and feeds them herrings while claiming to be able to talk to them, I tend to walk instead around Damhus Pond. At Damhus Pond whatever a heron might have to say is meaningless. Besides, herons have difficulty colonizing Damhus Pond because of the nearby houses, the foot traffic, and all the cyclists. It’s easy to see from the wrecks littering the water’s edge that the pond has been ruined by cyclists. There are many out-of-place objects there, and in addition to the bikes they once found a dismembered female body in a suitcase in the pond. An entire woman in little pieces put into freezer bags. The suitcase was found by someone out walking his dog. Or, presumably, it was the dog that found it. Credit where it’s due. There are always lots of dogs around Damhus Pond, and I can picture this particular dog very clearly as I walk along the path. It’s a golden retriever and it’s fussing in front of the suitcase, which has drifted halfway up onto the shore. The golden retriever has a secret urge to roll around in carcasses, preferably those of birds or mice, but how is it to tell the difference? I can picture it, and I can imagine its owner at the moment the realization kicks in. I imagine he remembers the moment the suitcase was opened whenever he is getting ready to take a trip, and likely even the dog itself was never the same again. “I don’t want to know anything about it—as long as they stay out of the kitchen!”Buy the print » Things are contagious. Things want to get in through the cracks. That’s the way they are, and I know from a former colleague of mine that the woman was killed and dismembered in an apartment in the Vesterbro district and that the girl who lived in the apartment downstairs and who was studying veterinary science moved out not long afterward, even though her upstairs neighbor had been apprehended and sentenced for the murder. Who could blame her? She probably kept thinking about all the times she had passed him on the stairs. Most likely she felt the building was contaminated and even the slightest sound reminded her of the night she heard something going on upstairs. But something is always going on in the night, there are always the smells and the sounds: pigeons rustling in the attic, creatures on the move, and the herons of Frederiksberg Gardens can sometimes be seen, looking like gray poultry shears in the sky over Valby. The heron is an awkward bird in flight, and the Heron Man on the path leading to the Chinese Pavilion would do well to tell the herons so, seeing as how he’s always babbling away at them like that. Although my apartment is on Frederiksberg Avenue I willingly walk the extra distance to Damhus Pond to escape the gathering of birds, and as for dismembered bodies I’ve walked around the pond most of my life without ever finding one myself. When I was a child, my friends and I would run around the pond because our teachers at Vigerslev Allé School told us to do so in our physical-education class. I still see children who look like me and my best friend, the dentist’s son, Lorenz, running around the pond. Whenever a tall, skinny boy runs past, I picture Lorenz racing to come in first. I tend to stop and smile when I see kids running around the pond like that. But after going around it myself I no longer want to stop and smile at anyone, certainly not the young women with their stony faces and big baby carriages. They always come in flocks, great flocks of mothers, and they stir up bad feelings in one another, so none of them will even look at you when you walk past. I step aside into the grass, thinking about the dog, the suitcase, the body, and how the veterinary student lost her swagger overnight, and how it doesn’t take a doctorate to have kids. I have known hopeless individuals to have children. It doesn’t require much more than a certain degree of sexual excitement, at least in the male, and at any rate it’s not the women with the baby carriages who are in charge of the chemistry of it. If anyone is in charge of the chemistry it’s God, but they probably made Him step aside, too. No one that age believes she needs eternal life, and even the concept of giving way to oncoming traffic seems unreasonable. But it’s important to me, and sometimes when those mothers have passed by I look back at them and wonder what it would be like if they swelled up. They’d begin to expand, and eventually they’d expand so much that they could no longer keep themselves together, and then I picture them exploding: shreds of flesh in the trees and along the shore, blood spattering on the swans, the ducks, and the coots walking in the grass. There’s a rustling in the grass, the kind that makes dogs want to roll on the banks. I hear the rustle, and I hear the babies screaming in their carriages. I picture Lorenz skating through the mud, racing on around the pond on his pale, thin legs, long since dead, eaten up from within by sick-cell divisions, cremated and interred in the ground, while I keep going, through the dead birds and the dead mothers, to get to the baby carriages. I have to be careful not to lose my balance, and then I reach my hand down into one of the baby carriages, my hand with a cookie in it, and the child inside looks up at me with eyes full of astonishment. I pick it up. I lift it high into the air, and the movement causes its pacifier and its rattle to fall to the ground. I wish the child no harm; all I want is to lift it into the air before putting it back and walking home through Frederiksberg Gardens. The heron was there last winter. Sitting with its beard blowing in the wind and its long pale fingers clutching the back of the bench. Incapable of fright, tired and sallow in its gaze, smelling of the mites that live in its under-feathers, and I should have sat down next to it. ♦ (Translated, from the Danish, by Martin Aitken.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Colonel’s Daughter	Credit Illustration by Scott McKowen The conspirators sit smoking thoughtfully, sipping brandy, around the fire in the Colonel’s den. The decision has been made. They have each entered here in uncertain pursuit of some vague enthusiasm and, looking behind them, they have seen that what they passed through was a doorway into history. Soon there will be no turning back. Probably there is already no turning back. They have been chosen by the Colonel. They do not all know one another well, and are not sure they trust one another. They murmur softly, chuckle self-consciously, toast to their luck in the coming adventure, but remain watchful. The Colonel’s daughter enters with coffee and sweet biscuits. This is a welcome distraction. She makes small talk not merely possible but necessary, allowing consciousness of the conspiracy to sink back down the well and making of the doorway an ordinary door into the next room. She is dressed in a regional costume of handwoven skirt and apron, with a crisp white blouse and an embroidered vest—perhaps the Colonel has suggested this to her to inspire national pride among those gathered here on this historic occasion. Her presence, in place of the servants, is also a reminder of the meeting’s sensitivity, the need for absolute secrecy. Soon, the Colonel thinks, watching her affectionately, she will be the President’s daughter, or else an orphan. He feels certain that at least one person in the room will betray him. Such a betrayal may not prove fatal to the plot, though it will surely precipitate things. He hopes that, when the moment comes, he will be ready. The threat of betrayal is widely felt in the room—there is, for example, a sinister-looking man with bulging eyes behind thick bottle-glass spectacles, sitting silently apart, whom no one seems to know—but no one wishes to reveal his anxieties for fear of revealing his temptations as well, so instead of watching one another the conspirators concentrate on the Colonel’s daughter as she passes among them with the coffee and the biscuits. The Colonel watches them watch his daughter. Some gaze up at her face, others at her breasts, or at her hips, her costume, her legs. The men who stare at her figure are not necessarily less trustworthy than those who watch her face, and those who avert their eyes or meditate, seemingly, upon their brandy, are probably the most dangerous of all. One who turns away as the Colonel’s daughter brushes softly past his shoulder is a former professor of history and law—in fact, the Colonel’s daughter was once his student, before he was expelled from the university, disbarred from law practice, and jailed for his overt opposition to the current regime. His political convictions, ideologically supported, call for a total revolutionary restructuring of the government, which he holds to be a dictatorship of the oligarchy, and so he feels somewhat ill at ease in this room full of unscrupulous businessmen, professional soldiers, and political opportunists. He fears that after the revolt things will be the same, if not worse; in fact, he is certain of it, but bitterness has drawn him to this plot and keeps him here. Life is passing him by. This may be his last chance. And, if they are successful, bold action may yet result in his achieving all that he longs for. The Colonel is aware of the professor’s doubts, and distrusts his ideology—the professor has written a controversial book on the subject, now banned—but he is their only link to the students and the labor leaders, and there is hope that he will deliver their support. The Colonel was partly responsible—though the professor does not know this—for his dismissal from the university and the imprisonment and torture that followed. At the time, the Colonel wanted only to protect his daughter, but now it has provided him with a valuable ally. If the professor somehow survives the coup, his book will remain banned, and he will no doubt have to be locked away again. What’s more, the Colonel is certain—mankind is a transparent mystery—the professor knows this, but has joined them anyway. Because he cannot do otherwise. The Deputy Minister of the Interior, who has entered into the conspiracy out of impatience with the liberalizing tendencies of his colleagues in the Ministry, has a less sanguine view of the professor, whom he sees as the duplicitous leader of a virulent band of underground ideologues, bent on destroying church, state, and the traditional family. If the Deputy Minister were President, he would not imprison the professor; he would have him executed and his books burned. And perhaps he will be President. The Colonel is a sentimental and self-indulgent old fool, who can be dealt with—summarily, if necessary. The Deputy Minister is uncomfortable with the daughter’s comportment. He feels there is wantonness in it. She is flaunting her patriotism, but also her body, openly flirting with this roomful of conspiring men. He smiles benignly on her, but only insofar as the room includes her, and, like her father, observes thoughtfully the reactions of the others. The Deputy Minister perhaps underestimates the Colonel, underestimation of one’s adversary being a fatal weakness of many ambitious men. Though a congenial pipe smoker with a relaxed fatherly manner, the Colonel is dispassionately systematic, observant, calculating, exacting, ultimately ruthless. Knowledge is power, and there is little that he does not know about the men in the room. He has met with each of them individually, some of them countless times, as well as with many others not invited here today, and because of his calm, pensive manner men and women alike open themselves up to him. He knows, for example, that the Deputy Minister accepts substantial sums of money from the wealthy owner of the nation’s largest chain of department stores, also present, in return for casting a blind eye on the merchant’s lucrative smuggling operations. He knows that the department-store magnate is aided in his operations by the naval Captain, a drunkard and a womanizer, who is sitting beside him. An unsavory trio, yet all three are important to the Colonel’s plans, providing inside contacts, money, links to the church and the nation’s élite, and access to a flow of arms and munitions, and all three are potential scapegoats, if things go wrong. The Captain raises his empty glass, as if to propose a toast, and another round of brandies is poured. The department-store merchant has brought to the gathering an expensive foreign brandy, far finer than the national brand being served, but the Colonel has not opened it, wanting no hint here of any foreign influence, however much there might actually be. He has nevertheless left the bottle out, in full view, to see who might be distracted by it, who dismissive, who disappointed by what he’s been poured. The Colonel’s old preparatory-school classmate, the former city Police Chief and onetime Director of National Security, for example, gave it the sort of cursory glance one might bestow upon an irrelevant object at a crime scene, whereas the corpulent real-estate tycoon and property developer, dressed, as always, in a tailored Panama suit, has cast several longing glances in that direction. The developer is a quiet, witty man, with a taste for luxury cultivated during his years of rapid acquisition and affluence under the previous regime. His ascendancy came to an end when the current President, after overthrowing his predecessor, confiscated most of the developer’s properties, but the President and his gang of thieves have so far been unable to gain access to the millions the developer is said to have sequestered in foreign bank accounts and investments, and it is that money, along with what the department-store magnate can provide, that the Colonel hopes will fuel their coup. Entire military units must be suborned, and key alliances bought. The former Police Chief’s motivations for being here, besides their lifelong friendship, are self-preservation and revenge—he was dismissed from the security forces on trumped-up charges of corruption and police brutality, the government using purchased witnesses and spurious evidence. That the ex-Police Chief is probably guilty of such crimes or others like them is of no consequence to the Colonel; what is of consequence is the President’s cynical manipulation of the law to further his own ends. The Chief will be their public image of a righteous man wronged. What motivates the developer is simpler: pure greed. He wants his properties back. Which would make him perhaps the most reliable of the Colonel’s confederates, were it not for his wry, sad-eyed cynicism. Nothing is quite real for him, including life itself. Loyalty is not alien to his nature, but it’s not part of it, either. Perhaps the least reliable of them all is the dashing young biplane pilot whom the Colonel’s daughter is serving now. Though he is not likely to betray their cause—his parents, with their vast agricultural holdings, are lifelong friends of the Colonel—he may simply choose to walk away, depriving the Colonel of a crucial military component of his strategy. Formerly an Air Force major and a proven leader, the pilot was dismissed from the service by the President, who distrusts him, and has now developed a successful commercial crop-dusting business. There are rumors of drug-running on the side; the Colonel doubts that they are true, but it’s of no matter. The pilot showed none of the developer’s hesitation or the ex-Police Chief’s disdain upon spotting the brandy, but walked directly over to the bottle, picked it up, examined the label, and, lit cigarette dangling waggishly from his lips, smiled appreciatively. A handsome fellow with new wealth of his own, he is a bit reckless and something of a playboy, but the Colonel, who has known him since he was a boy, has taken him to his heart, recognizing in him something of himself. The fellow’s frank, bemused examination of his daughter suggests that he is mentally undressing her, and the Colonel is encouraged by this. The pilot has been aware for some time that the Colonel may have singled him out as a possible match for his daughter, but he has shrugged off the idea, not wanting to be tied down. It was family loyalty more than any interest in either the daughter or the nation’s tedious power struggles that brought him here today, that and the spirit of adventure itself. He and the Colonel’s daughter often played together as children, she like a kid sister to him, and until she entered the room he still thought of her as such. But she is much grown. And beautiful. He believes she may well have dressed in her peasant costume for him, a suggestion of both their childhood past and their possible future. The delicate aroma she exudes, her open smile, her unharnessed breasts bouncing exuberantly in her crisp white blouse as she refills his glass bring on a sudden arousal. He lights another cigarette and leans back rakishly, peering up at her with a mischievous grin. Now that he thinks about it, the appointment as Air Force Chief of Staff that the Colonel has offered him is not without its appeal. When the Colonel’s daughter approaches the department-store magnate to refill his glass, he grasps her hand-woven apron and brings it close to the rimless spectacles perched on the end of his bulbous red nose. Blushing, she unties the apron and backs away, leaving it in his hands—and after a moment’s study he identifies not only the village whence it came but the probable weaver, impressing everyone with his expertise. The apron’s design, he explains with mock solemnity, stroking his pencil-line mustache, includes traditional fertility symbols that imply that its wearer is desirous of offspring, or, at least, the making of them (he holds it to his own waist and rolls his eyes, drawing a burst of laughter), while the geometric patterns, seemingly mere decorations, are actually abstractions of the sexual act—or acts, because several exotic variations are depicted. The naval Captain snatches the apron from him and asks how one can tell which acts are shown by which patterns; all he sees is lines. The merchant does not reply, merely winks and lights a fresh cigar, leaving the others to their jocular speculations as the apron is handed about. Watching the Colonel’s daughter, smiling innocently in their midst, the merchant mentally strips her to her underwear, which he imagines to be silken and so thin as to be almost—but not quite—transparent. He recently brought a new lingerie line into his flagship store in the city and oversaw the dressing of the mannequins himself, noting how much more enticing they were with underwear on than without. The professor does not take up the apron when it passes by, but stands and walks to the window, where he looks out upon the vast walled garden of the Colonel’s estate. In it, there are statues of national, mythological, and religious personages, some on pedestals, others forming parts of fountains or rising out of flowers and foliage as if born from them, and the professor takes note of the odd coincidence, if it is a coincidence, that the number of statues is exactly the same as the number of people in the room, including the Colonel’s daughter, who might be said to be represented by the figure of the grieving Virgin standing at the far end of the garden over what may be an old family grave. Such patterns, like those of history, often capture the professor’s attention. The dogged, even if futile, search through the world’s detritus for meaning. Most romantic gestures fail, he knows, but they leave traces. Life, at best: a brief smear on the turning page. He has written about this, less dourly, in his latest book, “The Doorway Into History.” The professor, having glanced earlier at the apron while being served by its wearer, saw in it not so much fertility images as subtle symbols of resistance to oppression, especially that of the militarized rich, with those geometric lines like bars to be broken to free the life arrested behind them. In spite of the military caste she comes from, the Colonel’s daughter was his favorite student. The Deputy Minister, angry at the alliances one must make in this world in order to purify it, is having second thoughts about joining this insurrection, but he also knows that it is too late for second thoughts. He regards the professor with utter loathing and imagines the sinister thoughts that must be passing through his warped mind as he stands there at the window. Plotting, no doubt, as is his natural wont. Perhaps he is even sending signals to someone outside. The Deputy Minister wonders if the rumors of his participation in student orgies are true, and if the Colonel’s daughter was involved. The Deputy Minister has also been preoccupied with the possible hidden meanings in the apron’s designs. Do they contain any cryptic messages and, if so, has the department-store magnate, with his studied knowledge, read them and kept their meaning to himself? Is the fate of their perilous enterprise hidden in the apron? Or in the embroidered vest? The woven skirt? In which the daughter’s hips and thighs are tightly clasped, her least movement animating its stylized figures, setting them dancing provocatively before his eyes, her body not concealed but teasingly revealed. The Deputy Minister shifts uncomfortably in his chair and, with a weak smile, looks up at her and accepts another brandy, though he had meant not to. Watching the apron circulate through the room as an object of both affection and ridicule, the Colonel realizes that, once things begin, his daughter will become a target. Perhaps she is already a target. The apron, until a moment ago, was part of her, is still part of her as it is handed rudely from one man to another. A violation of a sort. And these are his presumed friends, his comrades-in-arms; imagine if she fell into the clutches of his enemies. He will ask the convent of which his family has long been a patron to take her within its thick stone walls for a time, and provide her with further sanctuary should the attempted coup fail. He understands, of course, that the passing of the apron, now in the plump, ringed fingers of the real-estate developer, is primarily a distraction from the terrible seriousness of their enterprise, the coarse laughter a release from the unacknowledged tension. The developer gives the apron a little flutter. I see evidence here, he remarks, with his customary fat-man wheeze, of a mocking challenge to the state, for in the figures of the mating animals, the ones on top are varicolored, dressed, as it were, in colorful native costumes, but those below, at the receiving end, wear the colors of the nation. Need I say what common expression this brings to mind? Whereupon, as more laughter rattles through the smoke-filled room, the mustachioed editor of the city newspaper, closed by government order since the last election, arrives, the last of the Colonel’s conspiratory assembly. He rushes in, looking unkempt, harried, flicking his half-smoked brown cigarillo into the fireplace and taking up the brandy offered him, tossing it down in a single swallow, but rejecting a refill, muttering apologies for his late arrival. The Colonel introduces him to the group, though most know him already, some all too well, and also explains that the man with the heavy bottle-glass spectacles is his family doctor. A man of impeccable discretion, the Colonel says, and the future director of the National Health Services. The doctor nods without smiling. He is also, the Colonel adds, the doctor of the President’s wife, whom all present know to be a woman subject to periodic fits of depression, and in frequent need of personal counsel. Now the others nod back, the hint of a smile flickering on some faces. “He’s done it all. There’s nothing left to draw.”Buy the print » The apron is handed to the editor, who stares at it in puzzlement, shrugs, tosses it over the back of a chair. He is the riskiest of the Colonel’s choices, a man not known for keeping confidences or entering into alliances; he may be here merely for the story that’s in it. Moreover, he has managed at one time or another to offend just about everyone in the room, including the Colonel, who once was targeted in a series of articles on alleged abuses of the military. But, as a skilled shaper of public opinion with a vast range of connections to all elements of society, the editor could be an invaluable asset to their movement, and, like almost everyone else in the room, he has his darker secrets—the death of a former lover, who was said to be blackmailing him, has never been adequately explained, for example. The Colonel feels certain that he can secure the man’s full coöperation. The professor, his back now to the window, surveys the Colonel’s motley band of privileged renegades, not surprised, but not heartened, either, by the arrival of this capricious servant of the status quo. The professor knows about the cloud hanging over the editor’s past, because at the time, all those years ago, they were competing for the same ill-fated woman. They were also competing in university debates about the future of the nation. The professor has always been a romantic at heart, his politics unchanged, though then much less disciplined and informed. His young adversary, the future newspaperman, had no politics at all; for him, it was all just a game to be played, eloquence and cleverness of more value than being right. Still true. In this gathering, however, the editor is, at least, something of an intellectual and the professor’s only feasible ally. He reminds the editor now, addressing him directly (behind him, twilight has descended in the garden), that in his student days he once wrote a much praised essay on the coded language of the disenfranchised. Is there a hidden or symbolic message woven into the apron? What does he think? The editor, a new cigarillo dangling from his lips, picks up the apron again as if to study it and considers his present audience, piecing together the various strands of the Colonel’s strategy—the three branches of the military, the civil police, business leaders, the government (the Deputy Minister’s presence here is the only real news), plus the discredited professor, with his presumed links to the students and the unions—while searching for a response that will be both safe and original. The patterns on the apron are traditional ones that he has in the past interpreted in various ways, depending on the circumstances and his own purposes at the time, and he could no doubt find new meanings suited to this occasion, but just then the Colonel’s daughter brings him a cup of coffee and offers him a sweet biscuit. He knows from those debates of old that the unanticipated wins the day, so he tosses the apron back over the chair with a shrug, calling it a creation of routine habit, pops the biscuit into his mouth, then seems to draw up short, his eye on the daughter’s woven vest. Ah! However . . . He points at a figure on the front of it, near the tip of one breast. May I? he asks through a mouthful of crumbs, and the daughter slips the vest off shyly and hands it to him. He holds the vest up before him, still chewing, his head moving left to right, as though reading it. The story embroidered here, he says, running a stained finger over the threads, is an ancient pagan one about a national god or hero who taught the people how to read the sky. All these sequins are, in reality, stars, and the beads, in their various colors, represent the different human races. What is unusual about this design is the way the beads are not simply scattered about the garment but are gathered into little clusters and enclosed in chain-stitched circles, suggesting the formation of societies, or perhaps—see here the metal threads—of armies. The Colonel recognizes that the editor, with typical flair, is improvising as he goes, and probably few in the room believe a word he’s saying, but he has captured their grinning attention, and now they are all passing the vest about to see if they can see what he claims to see. No, the editor says when the professor asks, the civilizing hero or god is not depicted, because it is considered bad luck to do so—or sacrilegious, same thing; he is represented by the whole, being part of everything that is, a primitive religious notion you’ve often accused of creating a predisposition to tyranny. He winks at the Colonel. The Colonel, with a tolerant smile, uses this interlude to collect his thoughts. He will soon lay out for the others his strategy for overthrowing the present regime. This is not a guerrilla operation (he will remind them) but a quick strike from within. Some will die—that can’t be helped—but if they act briskly and ruthlessly casualties can be kept to a minimum. He will outline some of these moves, but without releasing any details not already known to those in the room. In individual meetings later, he will add more information, telling each conspirator something slightly different, some of it false, to see if any of it is acted upon by the President, hopefully thereby singling out any traitors to their cause before it is too late. He whom the Colonel is hoping to ferret out knows that the Colonel will try to set a trap. He has been asked to meet with the Colonel privately. He will listen attentively, but act on nothing the man tells him except as commanded. Nor will he expand on his clandestine reports to the President beyond these witnessed gatherings. Names, numbers, dates. The bare minimum. Both the President and the Colonel have made him the same promise. He trusts neither of them. But soon, or sooner yet, he must choose. The Colonel is the nicer man. Therefore, he will no doubt choose the President. He watches the daughter’s vest circulating through the room, its transmission bonding the gathered insurgents and generating a heightened excitement. Anticipatory. Fearful. Prurient. They are moving into history; the hour draws near. When the vest reaches the former Police Chief, he passes it on without comment. A cold man intent on nothing but his own ambition. The future betrayer has been asked by the President to try to recruit this man, so close to the Colonel, a dangerous project. He has cautiously befriended him, speaking of the general need for a private security agency, and his willingness to search for financial backers. The others take up the vest eagerly, fondling it as if fondling what it once adorned. Fresh interpretations of it are offered as it moves through the room, none a match for the newsman’s inventions. Shorn of its pretty curtains, the girl’s white blouse seems to glow as, outside, the light fades. Shall he include this in his report? No, he shall not. The uncouth department-store magnate, the flushed young pilot, the naval Captain, with his stupid remarks, all ogle her as she passes. He can imagine their imaginings. When it’s his turn to comment on the vest, though reluctant to feed their vulgar appetites, he will do so. The ex-professor’s gaze, he notes, is one more of affection than of lust. She was once his student. What transpired between them? The Deputy Minister of the Interior seems to be outraged by the sharing of the vest and by the salacious commentary that accompanies its travels, yet compelled somehow to join in. Though he handles the daughter’s vest when it reaches him as if it were some obscene object, he nonetheless scours it with hungry eyes. Could the Deputy Minister be a double agent, employed to keep an eye on him, to verify the veracity and completeness of his reports? Who knows? A tricky no man’s land he’s in, wherein he has walked all his days, on the principle that life is short and meaningless and one must amass what one can, enjoy it, and die whenever. The former professor, leaning back against the night-dark window, watches his fellow-conspirators pass the embroidered vest around like students exchanging amorous notes in a classroom. It is the obese property developer who has it now, his chins doubling and redoubling as he contemplates it, spread out on his white lap like a gaudy dinner napkin. He brushes at it, as if flicking crumbs away. An effete gasbag whose life’s goal, it seems, is to eat the world. What is he doing here? The corrupting need for money and arms, their movement compromised before it can begin. When the vest reached the professor a moment ago, he proposed that the sequins, shiny as steel helmets, might represent the omnipresent military, the barbed-wire circles prisons for the rest of the populace. A nation under permanent house arrest. Which prompted the Colonel to remark that nothing is permanent except change itself, drawing a wry smile from several. To the extent that the Colonel believes that, this insurgency becomes just another self-defeating attempt to attain the unattainable. The professor’s own bitter life story. Which is unchanging. On the other hand, the Colonel is also an inflexible power-seeking opportunist who ultimately gives not a damn for romantic quests. Thus, the Colonel may well succeed, even if the professor, mere pawn, diseased with hope, does not. The property developer now says, holding the vest up at arm’s length, that those chain-stitched circles could indeed be societies or armies, as some have suggested, or even other worlds that float amid the stars, a dream of escape from the sufferings on this one. On the other hand, the sequins could be rain falling upon gardens, represented by the beaded circles, a more positive image than that of an imprisoned nation, and a rural one, more appropriate to the weaver. With their roseate hues, he adds with his characteristic wheeze, gardens perhaps more in the Song of Solomon sense, the sequins as . . . Ejaculate! the naval Captain exclaims with a drunken laugh, though he laughs alone. The portly developer shakes his head, turns away. The Colonel, though he surely disapproves, merely lights his pipe, then picks up some papers from the table beside him, shuffles through them. His daughter, her blouse aglow in the firelight, moves graciously through the banter as if not hearing it. Perhaps not hearing it. As her father prepares to address his guests, the Colonel’s daughter makes one last pass with fresh coffee, biscuits, brandy. The removal of the apron and the vest has, in the imaginations of some of those watching her, removed all else besides, making of her movements a delicious spectacle—the young pilot is in a veritable fever of rampant desire; she must and will be his!—though for the Deputy Minister such unholy visions, rising unbidden, are more torment than pleasure. The doctor, of course, needs no imagination to conceive of her in the flesh, only memory, having examined her often since her infancy, her body not a static image but a process. The naval Captain, finishing off his brandy and helping himself to another, can perceive through her patterned skirt the sort of tender young buttocks that most arouse him and, free of the doctor’s professional constraints, envisions himself taking her from behind, while squeezing both soft plump cheeks in his hands, slapping them playfully. Right here on the hearth. He raises his snifter in a glassy-eyed toast, his free hand swatting the air—Your health! he exclaims to the room—and, with a lopsided lascivious smirk, sinks again to his cushioned seat in the semicircle around the fire. Which is largely ceremonial, instructive. The weather is autumnal enough to remind one of life’s brevity, but not yet cold enough to justify a wood fire. It was the Colonel’s decision to light one; he wished not only to add a familial intimacy to their deliberations but also to illustrate with fire the destructive yet restorative nature of their coming actions. One burns a field to prepare it for the next year’s planting, does one not? The fire crackles as logs slump into their glowing ashes and sparks fly. His daughter stoops to poke at the ashes, add a log. So, a contained fire—yes, the metaphor is right, the Colonel is thinking, for if things go as planned the revolt will happen quickly, with casualties in a mere handful of key locations, as he will now outline to them. Those not involved, he will assure them, will soon fall into line, once the present hierarchy is no more. And for the grateful populace this will be a liberation from tyranny; they will line the streets when the victors roll by and cry out their glorious names. As the Colonel’s daughter’s vest and apron—and now her skirt as well—are passed from hand to hand, eliciting a fresh round of vulgar, far-fetched interpretations, the Deputy Minister realizes that no one in the room is incapable of betraying them. The two businessmen are particularly dangerous, for they have no allegiances to family, faith, or tradition, certainly none to the nation, and are motivated only by their own avarice, which they mockingly call enlightened self-interest. The fat real-estate developer, in his white suit and jangling copper bracelets, the very image of corruption, now piously suggests that the skirt’s bird and floral patterns represent the weaver’s innocent appeal for good government, and the equally rotund department-store magnate, holding the daughter’s silken underwear to his lumpy red nose and sniffing it appreciatively, laughs at the weaver’s alleged innocence and points out the treacherous black vines in the background that bind all the elements together in a sinuous network of thorny intrigue. Birds and flowers have brief lives, he says. Even the Colonel’s daughter (where has she gone?) is not above suspicion, for one of those present may be a secret lover (the Captain? the pilot? the professor? they are also gone, a crisp fold of white cloth, aglow in the firelight, draped over the back of the pilot’s vacated chair), undermining her allegiance to her father. The Colonel himself, who seems increasingly removed from the events around him, as if, with a placid smile, communing with the beyond, would, should things go wrong (does he hear a whimper? a slap?), undoubtedly disavow his involvement and betray his own conspiracy. Potentially—so perhaps in actuality—everyone is a traitor! And all (as the professor and the pilot return, others leave the fireside, drift into the rustling shadows at his back) will see him as one, too! He is doomed! How can he extricate himself without being killed? He must find a safe house! He will call the President as soon as he leaves here. He is determined not to be drawn into whatever obscenity is happening behind him, but finally fear and other urgings, more shameful even than fear, drive him to stand and excuse himself. Are they all grinning at him? Will they watch? But there is no one back there. Only the luxurious shadows of the Colonel’s den. The daughter has apparently left. Behind him, he hears laughter. Trembling with rage, he leaves the room in search of the toilet. When he returns, the ashes in the fireplace are cold, and the Colonel’s daughter, dressed now in black, is receiving, with bowed head, those who have come to pay their final respects, the President and his wife among them, she also in black, a lace kerchief at her nose, her personal doctor at her side. The President nods, and the Deputy Minister is dragged away. The chairs have been pushed against the walls; the Colonel’s monumental mahogany casket sits in the middle of the room, draped with a handwoven flag, a gift of the people. An expensive bottle of imported brandy has been opened, and the corpulent real-estate developer is sipping it from a small crystal glass. Others soberly join him. There are angry shouts outside, on the estate grounds. The President looks over at the former and future Director of National Security; he leaves, there is a rattle of gunfire, then silence; he returns. The President, in his eulogy, declaring a day of national mourning, speaks of the Colonel’s fatherly affection for his country, calling him a devoted servant of the people, a leader of men, and a dear friend. He announces to all assembled that, in the great patriot’s honor, his beautiful estate will be acquired by the state as a training ground and living quarters for young Army cadets, and will be named after him. The mourners nod in approval of this and raise their glasses. The Colonel’s daughter has indicated her desire to enter a convent, the President adds, where she will be safely cloistered away from the world’s perverse and restless appetites, and he will personally see to it that the family’s annual contribution to the order continues, uninterrupted, for as long as she lives. The President gazes protectively upon her for a moment, then continues: As we are gathered, my fellow-citizens, in solemn remembrance of those no longer with us, let us pause to consider the doorway into history, so eloquently evoked in a renowned monograph by one of our leading late lamented scholars, and through which many of the nation’s most distinguished citizens have so recently passed. Only a few of us find this doorway; for most of us, it is the doorway into oblivion that finds us, a doorway we shy away from, until, in pain and terror, we are propelled through it into the eternal dreamless night, vanished and forgotten. Contrarily, the doorway into history beckons us, we search for it, hurl ourselves precipitously toward it, drawn by the tragic illusion of perpetuity, even though we ourselves cannot experience it, can merely imagine it before—seduced by the teasing fantasy of human memory—we leap across the threshold, only to discover, too late, that it is the same doorway into oblivion that all those, unseeking and thus wiser than we, have passed through anonymously. To desire something, he continues, his melancholic gaze falling again upon the Colonel’s daughter, is to lose it. I spoke of the tragic illusion of perpetuity, but, no, my friends, it is a comic one. The ludicrous plot in which we are all trapped. The ancient Greeks referred to plot as mythos, attributing the random drift of human affairs to some sort of unknowable but glimpsable divine motion, attempting to attach a certain grandeur to it, the delusion of meaning. But we are characters who do not exist, in a story composed by no one from nothing. Can anything be more pitiable? No wonder we all are grieving. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Victory	Credit Photograph by Grant Cornett Lin Hong, tidying Li Hanlin’s drawers, came upon an old envelope, neatly folded. When she opened it, she found another envelope inside, folded just as neatly. Inside this envelope she found another folded envelope, and in that she found a key. It was an ordinary aluminum key, unremarkable in every way, so why would Li Hanlin store it inside three envelopes? Lin Hong studied the key in her hand and noticed that it was a little grimy: clearly it had been in use for quite some time. From its size she could tell that the key would open not a door but a drawer or a suitcase. She stood up, walked over to Li Hanlin’s desk, and inserted the key into the keyhole of the drawer, but found that it failed to turn in the lock; next, she tried the keyholes of her suitcases and Li Hanlin’s; and then she checked all the other locks in their apartment, but the key didn’t open any of them. In other words, it had nothing to do with this home of theirs, which meant that . . . it was an interloper. Lin Hong, a woman in her mid-thirties, was assailed by suspicion, disquiet, foreboding, and conjecture. Key in hand, she sat outside on the balcony, and for a long time she stayed there, unmoving; the sun alone shifted its position above her stationary form. She felt lost. Only when the telephone rang did she rise and go inside to answer it. The call was from her husband, in a hotel far away. “Lin Hong, Li Hanlin here,” he said. “I got here O.K. and checked in. Everything’s fine. Are you O.K.?” Was she O.K.? She didn’t know. She stood there, receiver in hand. The voice at the other end was saying, “Hello? Hello? Can you hear me?” She said something at last. “I can hear you.” “O.K., I’ll hang up now.” The connection was broken, and all that came over the line was a long silence. Lin Hong hung up and went back to the balcony to stare at the key. Her husband’s call had been a routine formality, a simple confirmation that he was still alive. That was one thing there was no doubt about. His clothes were drying on the balcony, his smile was mounted in a frame on the wall, cigarettes he had stubbed out were still lying in the ashtray, and his friends were calling on the phone, unaware that he was away. “What?” they’d say. “Another business trip?” She looked at the key. Her husband’s entire existence seemed to hinge on it. But just what did this grubby key signify? Someone she had thought was so close to her had kept a secret from her, just as neatly and securely as those three envelopes had guarded the key, and this secret had been concealed by time, concealed by time that she had imagined to be happy. Now that secret was about to be revealed, and—she felt sure—it was going to do her damage. She heard footsteps coming up the stairs. Steadily they approached her door, paused, then continued the climb. The following morning, Lin Hong went to Li Hanlin’s office and told his office mate that she needed to pick up a few things from his desk drawer. The colleague knew her. Wives were always fetching things from their husbands’ offices. He pointed to a desk by the window. She inserted the key into the keyhole of Li Hanlin’s desk, and the latch snapped open. And that was how she discovered her husband’s secret, inside a large envelope. There were two photographs of the same woman, one of her in a swimsuit on a beach, the other a black-and-white portrait. She looked younger than Lin Hong, but not more attractive. Then there were five letters, all signed “Qingqing.” The name made her eyes burn. Qingqing . . . this was obviously a pet name. For a woman who was completely unknown to her to share a pet name with her husband . . . The hand that held the letters began to tremble. The letters were full of sweet sentiments and touching endearments. It seemed that this woman and Li Hanlin often met, and frequently chatted on the phone. That was the way it was. And there was no exhausting their sweet sentiments and touching endearments; letters had to be exchanged to allow more room for their expression. In one of the letters, the woman told Li Hanlin that she had a new telephone number. After Lin Hong got home, she sat down on the sofa and studied this seven-digit number. She tried to collect herself, and then she picked up the phone and dialled. She heard ringing, and then a woman answered. “Hello?” “I’d like to speak to Qingqing,” Lin Hong said. “Speaking. Who’s calling?” Lin Hong detected a husky quality to the woman’s voice. “I’m the wife of Li Hanlin,” she said. For a long time there was no reply, but Lin Hong could hear breathing, uneven breathing. “You’re shameless,” Lin Hong said. “You’re despicable, you sneaky little . . . ” Lin Hong didn’t know what to say next; her whole body was shaking. The other party now spoke. “Tell it to Li Hanlin.” “You’re shameless!” Lin Hong shouted into the phone. “You’ve destroyed our marriage! ” “I haven’t destroyed your marriage,” the other woman said. “Relax, I’m not going to do that. Li Hanlin and I won’t go any further; this is our limit. I’m not interested in marrying him—not all women are like you.” She hung up. Lin Hong stood there, quivering from head to toe, as tears of indignation poured from her eyes and the dial tone rang in her ears. After a long time she put down the receiver, but she remained standing there, and then she picked up the phone again and dialled another number. At the other end, a male voice could be heard. “Hello? Hello? Who’s calling? Why don’t you say something?” “This is Lin Hong.” “Oh, Lin Hong . . . is Li Hanlin back now?” “No.” “How come he’s not back yet? It’s been a while now, hasn’t it? No, it can’t be that long. I saw him three days ago. What’s he doing this time? Is he still promoting that water filter? What a scam that is! He gave me one and I tried it out. I put filtered water in one glass and water from the faucet in another glass, and I couldn’t see any difference between the two. Then I drank a mouthful from each glass and they tasted the same, too.” Lin Hong interrupted him. “Do you know Qingqing?” “Qingqing?” he said. There was a pause. Lin Hong waited, holding the receiver. “I don’t know her,” he said finally. Lin Hong tried to stay calm. “Li Hanlin is having an affair. He’s hooked up with some woman behind my back. Her name is Qingqing. I just found out today. They meet, they talk on the phone, they write to each other. I have the letters she sent him. They’ve known each other for more than a year now—” This time it was the man at the other end who interrupted her. “I know Li Hanlin pretty well,” he said, “but I don’t know anything about this Qingqing person. Could you have misinterpreted? Perhaps they’re just friends. . . . Excuse me, someone’s knocking at the door. Hold on.” He put down the phone, and after a moment she heard two men talking and steps coming toward the telephone. The receiver was picked up and the man said, “Hello?” She knew that he was waiting for her to go on, but she didn’t want to say more, so all she said was “If you have a guest, I’ll let you go.” “O.K., we’ll talk about it later.” He hung up. Lin Hong still clutched the receiver. She looked up the number of another friend of Li Hanlin’s. She dialled and heard someone pick up the phone. “Hello?” “This is Lin Hong,” she said. “Lin Hong, how are you? And how’s Li Hanlin? What’s he up to these days?” She was quiet for a moment. “Do you know Qingqing?” There was a long silence at the other end of the line. She had no choice but to continue. “Li Hanlin has been carrying on with another woman behind my back.” “Surely not.” Now, at last, he spoke. “Li Hanlin wouldn’t do that kind of thing. I know him. Is it possible that you’re being a bit . . . oversuspicious?” “I’ve got evidence,” Lin Hong said. “I’ve got the letters this woman wrote, and the photos she gave him. I called her up just now.” “I don’t know anything about this.” His tone was frosty, and Lin Hong knew that she would get nothing more out of him, so she hung up the phone and went to the balcony and sat down. Li Hanlin had a few other friends, but she didn’t want to call them. They would simply come to his defense and show her no sympathy. A long time ago she had had friends of her own—Zhao Ping, Zhang Lini, and Shen Ning—but she had drifted apart from them after her marriage, hanging out with Li Hanlin’s pals, chatting and joking with them, going shopping with their wives. Those wives had replaced Zhao Ping, Zhang Lini, and Shen Ning. Only now did Lin Hong realize that she had lost all her friends. She had no idea how to get in touch with Zhao Ping or Zhang Lini. She had only Shen Ning’s number, scribbled down a year ago when they ran into each other in the street. She had written the number in her book and then forgotten all about it. It was Shen Ning’s husband who answered the phone. He told Lin Hong to hang on, and Shen Ning came on the line. “Yes, who is it?” “It’s me, Lin Hong.” She heard a yelp of delight at the other end, then Shen Ning unleashed a stream of comments and questions: “It’s great to hear your voice! I called you once, but nobody picked up. Are you doing well? It’s been ages since we saw each other. A year now, right? It seems like ages. Have you heard from Zhao Ping and Zhang Lini at all? It’s been years since I saw them, too. Are you doing well?” “No, I’m not doing well,” Lin Hong said. Shen Ning went quiet. “What did you say?” Tears began to spill from Lin Hong’s eyes. “My husband has been cheating on me. He’s been carrying on with some woman. . . . ” She was sobbing too much to continue. “What happened?” Shen Ning asked. “Yesterday,” Lin Hong said, “yesterday, when I was tidying his drawer, I found a folded envelope, and when I opened it I found two more envelopes inside. He had hidden a key inside those three envelopes. I got suspicious and tried all the locks in the apartment, but it didn’t open any of them. So I thought maybe it was the key to his office desk, and this morning I went to his office, and that’s where I found the letters that this woman wrote to him, as well as a couple of photos—” “Outrageous!” Shen Ning started cursing. Now that Lin Hong had an ally at last, her grief and resentment could find release. “I did everything for him,” she said. “I never gave a moment’s thought to whether there were things I should have. All the time I was thinking about what I could do for him, what he’d like to eat, what clothes he should wear. After we got married, I completely forgot about myself. All that mattered to me was catering to his needs, and now look what he gets up to. . . . ” “What’s your plan?” Shen Ning asked. “I don’t know.” “I’ll tell you,” Shen Ning said. “You can’t afford to be weak at this point, and you can’t be softhearted, either. You have to punish him. No more crying from now on—whatever you do, don’t let him see you cry. You need to look furious and ignore him. Don’t cook his meals; don’t do his laundry; don’t do anything for him. Don’t let him sleep in your bed—make him sleep on the sofa. At the very least, make him sleep on the sofa for a year or so. He’ll beg you, he’ll get down on his knees, he’ll even slap himself in the face, but stick to your guns. He’ll make all kinds of promises—men are good at that, but their promises are worth no more than a dog’s bark. Don’t believe a word of it. In short, you need to make him understand the costs incurred when he has a romantic adventure; you have to give him a taste of Hell on earth; you have to make him feel that life’s not worth living, that he’d be better off dead.” A few days later, Li Hanlin came back from his trip. He found Lin Hong sitting on the balcony, indifferent to his homecoming. He laid his bag on the sofa, went over to Lin Hong, and looked at her. She seemed to have been struck dumb. “What’s wrong?” he said. Lin Hong’s eyes were fixed on the floor. Li Hanlin waited by her side, and when she still said nothing he went over to the sofa, opened his bag, and dumped out the dirty clothes, then looked at her. He was displeased to find her still staring at the floor. “What’s the meaning of this?” he said. Lin Hong turned away from him and surveyed the view from the balcony. Li Hanlin went back to rummaging around in his bag. He took out his other belongings and laid them on the sofa. Then he began to lose his temper. He walked over to Lin Hong and started to shout. “What the hell is this about? I come home and you put on a sourpuss face. What have I done to offend you now? You—” Li Hanlin stopped abruptly. He could see that a key was clasped between Lin Hong’s finger and thumb. There was a buzzing noise in his head. He stood there a moment, then went to his study and opened a drawer. Some magazines were stacked inside. He groped around underneath the magazines, but failed to find the neatly folded envelope in the right-hand corner. He realized that he was breathing heavily. Li Hanlin stood by the window for a long time. Then he left the room and walked quietly over to Lin Hong. He bent down. “You’ve been to my office?” Lin Hong sat there motionless. Li Hanlin looked at her. “You’ve read Qingqing’s letters?” Lin Hong began to tremble. Li Hanlin hesitated, then put his hand on her shoulder. Lin Hong jerked violently, knocking his hand away. It returned to its original position and hung there for a moment before he put it in his trouser pocket. “This is the situation,” he said. “I met Qingqing two years ago, at a friend’s house. She’s a cousin of his, so she often stops by. One day I ran into her in the street, and we began seeing each other. She lives with her parents and I live with you, so we’re not in a position . . . What I mean to say is, she and I are not in a position to have sex. When we meet, it’s in a cinema or a park or just walking in the street. She and I, all we’ve done is . . . all we’ve done is kiss.” Lin Hong was weeping now. The hand came out of the pocket and reached for her shoulder, but retreated when her shoulder shrank back. Li Hanlin rubbed his forehead. “That’s the sum total of my interaction with her. Even if you hadn’t found out, she and I wouldn’t have gone any further. Our marriage is very precious to me. I would never break up this home of ours.” Buy the print » Lin Hong sprang to her feet, strode into the bedroom, and slammed the door. Li Hanlin didn’t move. After several minutes, he walked over to the bedroom and tapped lightly on the door. “I won’t see Qingqing anymore,” he said. Lin Hong thought, He didn’t beg me to forgive him, he didn’t fall to his knees, he didn’t slap himself in the face, he didn’t pledge oaths, and he didn’t even apologize. He did sleep on the sofa, however. Shen Ning was right on that score, at least. He had lingered by her bedside, standing there like a businessman weighing the pros and cons, and finally he had opted for the sofa. By opting for the sofa, he had opted for silence, opted for a life in which he and she lived separately. Now that his life and hers had parted ways, he said nothing further on the topic of Qingqing, and naturally he no longer acted as a husband would. He was careful and circumspect. As he moved about the apartment he did his best to make no noise, and he did not turn on the television. He limited his activities to the sofa, where he either sat or lay, reading. He never used to read at all, but now he always had a book in his hand. Whenever she appeared, he would put down the book he was reading and look at her, partly to get a sense of her state of mind, partly to make his own position clear: he had not lost himself in the pleasures of reading; he was still fidgeting uneasily in the real world. His silence infuriated her. Did he think that by eliminating all sound from their home he could muddle his way through the crisis? It wouldn’t work, because she wouldn’t stand for it—she wouldn’t allow him to have a quiet life. He had betrayed her, and now he thought he could make up for it by pussyfooting around? She began to provoke him. Seeing him sitting on the sofa, with his feet on the floor, she walked toward the balcony, giving his feet a kick as she passed, as though they were blocking her way. She went out onto the balcony and waited for him to react, but he didn’t. Not even pain could force him to make a sound. There was nothing for it but to return to the bedroom. She noticed that he had now withdrawn his feet and put them on the sofa. She persisted with her provocations. In the early evening she walked over to the sofa and dumped his bedding, clothes, and books onto the floor, then sat down and turned on the television. He just sat there on the sofa as she cleared away his things, but once the TV was on he stood up and went out to the balcony. He sat on the floor of the balcony and read his book. He did this to demonstrate his modesty, his belief that he didn’t deserve to sit next to her, didn’t deserve to watch television with her. He continued to sit on the hard balcony floor, getting up from time to time to stretch, then sitting back down. Only after she had returned to the bedroom did he go back to the sofa, reclaim the items she had flung onto the floor, and lie down to sleep. His boundless silence left her at a loss. All her attempts to elicit a response from him were like stones cast into the ocean. The next night, she abandoned the bed and lay down on the sofa to watch television. She fell asleep there with the TV on and didn’t wake up until morning. This was part of her scheme, but it seemed natural as well. She had occupied his sleeping area, and at the same time conceded her bed to him, expecting the soft bed to entice him and lull him into unwary slumber, thus giving her an opportunity to engage in further hostilities. But when she woke up on the sofa she found him sitting on a chair, his head cushioned on the dining table, fast asleep. He was going around the house with his tail tucked between his legs, as though he were punishing himself. The problem was that this kind of punishment punished her as well. She couldn’t shed the tears she wanted to shed, couldn’t yell the things she wanted to yell. A fiery rage consumed her, but it could only smolder in her heart. By now she was no longer waiting for him to fall to his knees and beg her forgiveness; she had given up hope of getting the reaction that Shen Ning had predicted. What she wanted now was a huge row. Even if they came to blows, it would be better than this. But he refused to provide her with the opportunity; that is, he rejected the punishment she had selected for him. He passed judgment on himself and punctiliously submitted to this judgment, making her feel, in the end, that he was now quite comfortably reconciled to his life of deprivation. Each morning he would leave before she did, and in the evening return home from work after her. There was really no bone to pick here. He had a much longer commute than she did, and he had always left early and come home late. He ate lunch at his office, she knew, but where he was eating dinner in the evening she had no clue. When he came home at the end of the day, he didn’t go into the kitchen, didn’t even glance in that direction, so she knew that he must already have eaten. He just sat on the sofa and picked up a book. He had disrupted her life, thrown her into turmoil, but he had adjusted perfectly. One evening, she was standing on the balcony when she caught sight of him coming out of a restaurant below, and it suddenly became clear where he had been eating his dinners. She was so angry that she began to shake. For her, every day seemed like a year, but there he was, in and out of restaurants, treating himself to a life of luxury. She marched downstairs. She had already eaten, but she wasn’t going to let that keep her from stuffing herself again. When they passed each other on the landing, she marched straight by him without looking his way, and continued down the stairs and into the restaurant he had just left. She ordered several dishes and some wine, but could not stomach more than a couple of mouthfuls. After three meals in the restaurant, she began to feel distressed about all the money she was spending. She was making inroads into their savings. They didn’t have a lot of money in the first place, and there were plenty of basic things they still needed. Indignation, however, impelled her back to the restaurant, until the day that they happened to be there at the same time. She saw him as soon as she walked in, huddled over a bowl of noodles. She sat down at a distant table and watched the other people enjoying their extravagant meals, while he ate his wretched noodles. Suddenly, she felt heartsick. The next day, while cooking her dinner, she prepared a serving for him, too. She placed an empty bowl on the most conspicuous spot on the dining table, and a pair of chopsticks on top of the bowl, and the food she’d made beside it. She hoped he would notice as soon as he came in, and in this he did not disappoint her. His eyes lit up right away, and then he looked at her quizzically to confirm that the dinner was intended for him. Even though he’d already had his noodles, he sat down at the table and consumed the entire meal she had cooked. By the time he finished, she had gone into the bedroom and closed the door behind her. She lay on the bed and listened as he opened the door and walked over to her. After standing there for a while, he sat down on the edge of the bed. “Can we talk?” he asked. She did not say anything. After a moment, he asked again, “Can we talk?” Still she said nothing, hoping that a torrent of words would flood from his lips. In her view, he needed to take himself to task. Even if he didn’t burst into tears, he should at least beat his breast and stamp his feet; he should get down on his knees, the way Shen Ning had said he would; he should pledge solemn vows; he should say everything she wanted to hear. She would ignore him just the same, but these were things he had to do. Instead, all he could say was “Can we talk?” He sat on the bed for a long time, but when she made no reply he stood up and left. After he had gently closed the door behind him, she began to weep. How could he just slip out like that, so nonchalantly? He went back to the sofa, and the progress that had been made was nullified; they were back where they’d started. After twenty-six days of this, Li Hanlin finally couldn’t take it anymore. He told Lin Hong that he had a constant ache in every joint, an agonizing crick in his neck, and a chronic stomachache as well. “We can’t go on like this,” he said. Now, at last, he was speaking assertively. He was circumspect no more. He stood gesticulating before Lin Hong, the image of self-assurance. “I have already punished myself,” he said, “and still you won’t forgive me. If we carry on like this, I won’t be the only one to suffer—you’ll find it equally unbearable. I really have had more than I can take. I just can’t go on like this anymore. The only thing to do is . . . ” He paused for a moment. “The only thing to do is get divorced.” As he spoke, Lin Hong had her back to him, but when he said this she spun around. “Forget about divorcing me! You hurt me, and you still haven’t paid the price. You want to hightail it out of here. You want to run off to your Qingqing, but I won’t have it. I am going to pin you down, pin you down till you’re old, pin you down till you’re dead.” When a smile appeared on Li Hanlin’s face, she suddenly understood. He wasn’t at all opposed to being pinned down, being pinned down until his hair had gone white, until he was dead. He wouldn’t raise the slightest objection. So she broke off and stood there, unsure what to do. She felt tears falling, and this simply added to her humiliation. So many days of misery, and a smile was all she got. For weeks she had been waiting for his repentance, his self-indictment. At the very least, he should shed some heartfelt tears, demonstrate true remorse, but he wasn’t doing anything like that; instead, he was standing in front of her, declaring boldly, “The only thing to do is get divorced.” She raised her hand and wiped her tears away. “All right, forget it,” she said. “Better to get divorced.” At this, his smile vanished. She went into the bedroom, locked the door, lay down on the bed, and fell asleep with her clothes on. They were walking toward the registry office. That was where they had gone to formalize their marriage, and now they were going there to dissolve it. A wall ran along one side of the street and Li Hanlin walked in front, Lin Hong a few steps behind. From time to time he would stop and wait for her to catch up, then walk on. Neither of them said a word. Li Hanlin bowed his head and knitted his brows, as though weighed down by worry. Lin Hong walked with her head up, letting the autumn breeze toss her hair about. Now and again, a wisp of a smile could be seen on her otherwise expressionless face. It was a smile like a falling leaf, desolate, lifeless. They passed shops they used to frequent and bus stops where they had waited together. As they walked on and on, it seemed as though time were running backward. When Li Hanlin reached a coffee shop called Sundown, he came to a halt and waited for Lin Hong. He stopped because he’d remembered that they had come here right after registering their marriage: they had sat by a window overlooking the street, and he had ordered a cup of coffee and she a Sprite. “Shall we go in and have a drink?” he called. By now Lin Hong had caught up with him. She turned, looked upward, and saw a neon sign above the eaves, the tubes of light forming the words “Sundown Café.” She agreed to his suggestion and together they entered. It was afternoon, and customers were few. They selected a table by the window, overlooking the street, and once again he ordered a coffee and she a Sprite. They thought about what they had drunk that earlier time. Li Hanlin was the first to smile, followed soon by Lin Hong, but they quickly suppressed their smiles and avoided each other’s eyes. He looked out the window, and she looked at the other people in the coffee shop. She noticed a young woman dressed in red, sitting alone on their right. The woman was watching them. It seemed to Lin Hong that she had a strange look on her face. Lin Hong put two and two together, and a name flashed into her head: Qingqing. Lin Hong threw Li Hanlin a glance. He, too, had seen the woman. From the surprised look on his face, it was clear that he had not expected to run into her here. When he turned his head, he found Lin Hong’s eyes on him, and he knew that she knew. He gave a wry smile. “So you told her,” Lin Hong said. “What?” “You told her we were going to get divorced, so she came here.” “No.” Lin Hong felt her heart flood with pain. “You needn’t have been in such a rush.” “No,” he said again. “She doesn’t know anything.” She looked at him intently. He had such a firm expression on his face that she began to give some credence to what he’d said. She looked back at the young woman. This Qingqing was watching them, but as soon as Lin Hong glanced at her she turned away. “She’s staring at you,” Lin Hong said. “You’d better go over and say hello.” “No,” he said. “We’re about to get divorced. What are you worried about?” “No,” he repeated. She looked at him. His unshakable attitude suddenly gave her a warm feeling. She took another peek at Qingqing. This time she wasn’t looking at them; she was drinking from her glass. One leg was perched on top of the other. In her posture, she seemed to lack the composure one might have expected. Lin Hong took another look at Li Hanlin, who was staring grimly out the window. “Kiss me,” she said. He turned around in astonishment. “Kiss me,” she repeated. “After this, you’ll never kiss me again, so I want you to kiss me now.” He nodded and reached across the table. “Sit next to me when you kiss me,” she said. So he stood up and sat down next to her and pressed his lips to her cheek. “Put your arms around me,” she said. He put his arms around her, and he felt her lips brushing over his face and meeting his lips. Her tongue slipped into his mouth, and her arms embraced him. It seemed to him a kiss as long as night. She used her hands to hold his body in place and her tongue to keep his mouth in place. Her ardor entered his body through his mouth, spreading and expanding boundlessly. Through it all, Lin Hong’s eyes were fixed on the other woman. She watched as Qingqing kept glancing in their direction, as she uneasily fingered her glass, and as, in the end, she stood up and hurried out. When her red silhouette slipped past them, Lin Hong’s heart filled with joy, for she had the sudden conviction that victory was hers. After twenty-seven days of grief and indignation, insomnia and emptiness, her enemy had surrendered without a fight. Her hands slipped off Li Hanlin’s body, and her mouth disengaged from his. She turned to him with a smile. ♦ (Translated, from the Chinese, by Allan Barr.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Meet the President!	Credit Illustration by Martin Ansin “What you got there, then?” The boy didn’t hear the question. He stood at the end of a ruined pier, believing himself quite alone. But now he registered the presence at his back, and turned. “What you got there?” A very old person, a woman, stood before him, gripping the narrow shoulder of a girl child. Both of them local, typically stunted, dim: they stared up at him stupidly. The boy turned again to the sea. All week long he had been hoping for a clear day to try out the new technology—not new to the world, but new to the boy—and now at last here was a break in the rain. Gray sky met gray sea. Not ideal, but sufficient. Ideally he would be standing on a cairn in Scotland or some other tropical spot, experiencing backlit clarity. Ideally he would be— “Is it one of them what you see through?” A hand, lousy with blue veins, reached out for the light encircling the boy’s head, as if it were a substantial thing, to be grasped like the handle of a mug. “Ooh, look at the green, Aggie. That shows you it’s on.” The boy was ready to play. He touched the node on his finger to the node at his temple, raising the volume. “Course, he’d have to be somebody, Aggs, cos they don’t give ’em to nobody”—the boy felt the shocking touch of a hand on his own flesh. “Are you somebody, then?” She had shuffled around until she stood square in front of him, unavoidable. Hair as white as paper. A long, shapeless black dress, made of some kind of cloth, and what appeared to be a pair of actual glasses. Forty-nine years old, type O, a likelihood of ovarian cancer, some ancient debt infraction—nothing more. A blank, more or less. Same went for the girl: never left the country, eighty-five-per-cent chance of macular degeneration, an uncle on the database, long ago located, eliminated. She would be nine in two days. Melinda Durham and Agatha Hanwell. They shared no more DNA than strangers. “Can you see us?” The old woman let go of her charge and waved her hands wildly. The tips of her fingers barely reached the top of the boy’s head. “Are we in it? What are we?” The boy, unused to proximity, took a single step forward. Farther he could not go. Beyond was the ocean; above, a mess of weather, clouds closing in on blue wherever blue tried to assert itself. A dozen or so craft darted up and down, diving low like seabirds after a fish, and no bigger than seabirds, skimming the dirty foam, then returning to the heavens, directed by unseen hands. On his first day here the boy had trailed his father on an inspection tour to meet those hands: intent young men at their monitors, over whose shoulders the boy’s father leaned, as he sometimes leaned over the boy to insure he ate breakfast. “What d’you call one of them there?” The boy tucked his shirt in all round: “AG 12.” The old woman snorted as a mark of satisfaction, but did not leave. He tried looking the females directly in their dull brown eyes. It was what his mother would have done, a kindly woman with a great mass of waist-length flame-colored hair, famed for her patience with locals. But his mother was long dead, he had never known her, he was losing what little light the day afforded. He blinked twice, said, “Hand to hand.” Then, having a change of heart: “Weaponry.” He looked down at his torso, to which he now attached a quantity of guns. “You carry on, lad,” the old woman said. “We won’t get in your way. He can see it all, duck,” she told the girl, who paid her no mind. “Got something in his hands—or thinks he does.” She took a packet of tobacco from a deep pocket in the front of her garment and began to roll a cigarette, using the girl as a shield from the wind. “Them clouds, dark as bulls. Racing, racing. They always win.” To illustrate, she tried turning Aggie’s eyes to the sky, lifting the child’s chin with a finger, but the girl would only gawk stubbornly at the woman’s elbow. “They’ll dump on us before we even get there. If you didn’t have to, I wouldn’t go, Aggie, no chance, not in this. It’s for you I do it. I’ve been wet and wet and wet. All my life. And I bet he’s looking at blazing suns and people in their what-have-yous and all-togethers! Int yer? Course you are! And who’d blame you?” She laughed so loud the boy heard her. And then the child—who did not laugh, whose pale face, with its triangle chin and enormous, fair-lashed eyes, seemed capable only of astonishment—pulled at his actual leg, forcing him to mute for a moment and listen to her question. “Well, I’m Bill Peek,” he replied, and felt very silly, like somebody in an old movie. “Bill Peek!” the old woman cried. “Oh, but we’ve had Peeks in Anglia a long time. You’ll find a Peek or two or three down in Sutton Hoo. Bill Peek! You from round here, Bill Peek?” His grandparents? Very possibly. Local and English—or his great-grandparents. His hair and eyes and skin and name suggested it. But it was not a topic likely to engage his father, and the boy himself had never felt any need or desire to pursue it. He was simply global, accompanying his father on his inspections, though usually to livelier spots than this. What a sodden dump it was! Just as everyone had warned him it would be. The only people left in England were the ones who couldn’t leave. “From round here, are you? Or maybe a Norfolk one? He looks like a Norfolk one, Aggs, wouldn’t you say?” Bill Peek raised his eyes to the encampment on the hill, pretending to follow with great interest those dozen circling, diving craft, as if he, uniquely, as the child of personnel, had nothing to fear from them. But the woman was occupied with her fag and the girl only sang “Bill Peek, Bill Peek, Bill Peek” to herself, and smiled sadly at her own turned-in feet. They were too local even to understand the implied threat. He jumped off the pier onto the deserted beach. It was low tide—it seemed you could walk to Holland. He focussed upon the thousands of tiny spirals on the sand, like miniature turds stretching out to the horizon. Felixstowe, England. A Norman village; later, briefly, a resort, made popular by the German royal family; much fishing, once upon a time. A hundred years earlier, almost to the very month, a quaint flood had killed only forty-eight people. Over the years, the place had been serially flooded, mostly abandoned. Now the sad little town had retreated three miles inland and up a hill. Pop.: 850. The boy blinked twice more; he did not care much for history. He narrowed his attention to a single turd. Arenicola marina. Sandworms. Lugworms. These were its coiled castings. Castings? But here he found his interest fading once again. He touched his temple and said, “Blood Head 4.” Then: “Washington.” It was his first time at this level. Another world began to construct itself around Bill Peek, a shining city on a hill. “Poor little thing,” Melinda Durham said. She sat on the pier, legs dangling, and pulled the girl into her lap. “Demented with grief she is. We’re going to a laying out. Aggie’s sister is laid out today. Her last and only relation. Course, the cold truth is, Aggie’s sister weren’t much better than trash, and a laying out’s a sight too good for her—she’d be better off laid out on this beach here and left for the gulls. But I ain’t going for her. I do it for Aggie. Aggie knows why. Aggie’s been a great help to me what with one thing and another.” While he waited, as incidental music played, the boy idly checked a message from his father: at what time could he be expected back at the encampment? At what time could he be expected. This was a pleasing development, being an inquiry rather than an order. He would be fifteen in May, almost a man! A man who could let another man know when he could be expected, and let him know in his own sweet time, when he had the inclination. He performed some rudimentary stretches and bounced up and down on the balls of his feet. “He was doing well at first, but then he started drifting in and out of health coverage.”Buy the print » “Maud, that was her name. And she was born under the same steeple she’ll be buried under. Twelve years old. But so whorish—” Melinda covered Aggie’s ears, and the girl leaned into the gesture, having mistaken it for affection. “So whorish she looked like a crone. If you lived round here, Bill Peek, you’d’ve known Maud, if you understand me correctly. You would’ve known Maud right up to the Biblical and beyond. Terrible. But Aggie’s cut from quite different sod, thank goodness!” Aggie was released and patted on the head. “And she’s no one left, so here I am, muggins here, taking her to a laying out when I’ve a million other stones to be lifted off the pile.” The boy placed a number of grenades about his person. In each chapter of the Pathways Global Institute (in Paris, New York, Shanghai, Nairobi, Jerusalem, Tokyo), the boy had enjoyed debating with friends the question of whether it was better to augment around the “facts on the ground,” incorporating whatever was at hand (“flagging,” it was called, the pleasure being the unpredictability), or to choose spots where there were barely any facts to work around. The boy was of the latter sensibility. He wanted to augment in clean, blank places, where he was free to fully extend, unhindered. He looked down the beach as the oil streaks in the sand were overlaid now with a gleaming pavement, lined on either side by the National Guard, saluting him. It was three miles to the White House. He picked out a large pair of breasts to wear, for reasons of his own, and a long, scaled tail, for purposes of strangulation. “Oh, fuck a duck—you wouldn’t do me an awful favor and keep an eye on Aggie just a minute, would you?—I’ve left my rosary! I can’t go to no laying out without it. It’s more than my soul’s worth. Oh, Aggie, how did you ever let me leave without it? She’s a good girl, but she’s thoughtless sometimes—her sister were thoughtless, too. Bill Peek, you will keep an eye on her, won’t you? I won’t be a moment. We’re shacked up just on that hill by the old Martello tower. Eight minutes I’ll be. No more. Would you do that for me, Bill Peek?” Bill Peek nodded his head, once rightward, twice leftward. Knives shot out of his wrists and splayed beautifully like the fronds of a fern. It was perhaps twenty minutes later, as he approached the pile of rubble—pounded by enemy craft—that had once been the Monument, that young Bill Peek felt again a presence at his back and turned and found Aggie Hanwell with her fist in her mouth, tears streaming, jaw working up and down in an agonized fashion. He couldn’t hear her over the explosions. Reluctantly, he paused. “She ain’t come back.” “Excuse me?” “She went but she ain’t come back!” “Who?” he asked, but then scrolled back until he found it. “M. Durham?” The girl gave him that same astonished look. “My Melly,” she said. “She promised to take me but she went and she ain’t come back!” The boy swiftly located M. Durham—as much an expedience as an act of charity—and experienced the novelty of sharing the information with the girl, in the only way she appeared able to receive it. “She’s two miles away,” he said, with his own mouth. “Heading north.” Aggie Hanwell sat down on her bum in the wet sand. She rolled something in her hand. The boy looked at it and learned that it was a periwinkle—a snail of the sea! He recoiled, disliking those things which crawled and slithered upon the earth. But this one proved broken, with only a pearlescent nothing inside it. “So it was all a lie,” Aggie said, throwing her head back dramatically to consider the sky. “Plus one of them’s got my number. I’ve done nothing wrong but still Melly’s gone and left me and one of them thing’s been following me, since the pier—even before that.” “If you’ve done nothing wrong,” Bill Peek said, solemnly parroting his father, “you’ve nothing to worry about. It’s a precise business.” He had been raised to despair of the type of people who spread misinformation about the Program. Yet along with his new maturity had come fresh insight into the complexities of his father’s world. For didn’t those with bad intent on occasion happen to stand beside the good, the innocent, or the underaged? And in those circumstances could precision be entirely guaranteed? “Anyway, they don’t track children. Don’t you understand anything?” Hearing this, the girl laughed—a bitter and cynical cackle, at odds with her pale little face—and Bill Peek made the mistake of being, for a moment, rather impressed. But she was only imitating her elders, as he was imitating his. “Go home,” he said. Instead she set about burrowing her feet into the wet sand. “Everyone’s got a good angel and a bad angel,” she explained. “And if it’s a bad angel that picks you out”—she pointed to a craft swooping low—“there’s no escaping it. You’re done for.” He listened in wonderment. Of course he’d always known there were people who thought in this way—there was a module you did on them in sixth grade—but he had never met anyone who really harbored what his anthro-soc teacher, Mr. Lin, called “animist beliefs.” The girl sighed, scooped up more handfuls of sand, and added them to the two mounds she had made on top of her feet, patting them down, encasing herself up to the ankles. Meanwhile all around her Bill Peek’s scene of fabulous chaos was frozen—a Minotaur sat in the lap of stony Abe Lincoln and a dozen carefully planted I.E.D.s awaited detonation. He was impatient to return. “Must advance,” he said, pointing down the long stretch of beach, but she held up her hands, she wanted pulling up. He pulled. Standing, she clung to him, hugging his knees. He felt her face damp against his leg. “Oh, it’s awful bad luck to miss a laying out! Melly’s the one knew where to go. She’s got the whole town up here,” she said, tapping her temple, making the boy smile. “Memoried. No one knows town like Melly. She’ll say, ‘This used to be here, but they knocked it down,’ or, ‘There was a pub here with a mark on the wall where the water rose.’ She’s memoried every corner. She’s my friend.” “Some friend!” the boy remarked. He succeeded in unpeeling the girl from his body, and strode on down the beach, firefighting a gang of Russian commandoes as they parachuted into view. Alongside him a scurrying shape ran; sometimes a dog, sometimes a droid, sometimes a huddle of rats. Her voice rose out of it. “Can I see?” Bill Peek disembowelled a fawn to his left. “Do you have an Augmentor?” “No.” “Do you have a complementary system?” “No.” He knew he was being cruel—but she was ruining his concentration. He stopped running and split the visuals, the better to stare her down. “Any system?” “No.” “Therefore no. No, you can’t.” Her nose was pink, a drop of moisture hung from it. She had an innocence that practically begged to be corrupted. Bill Peek could think of more than a few Pathways boys of his acquaintance who wouldn’t hesitate to take her under the next boardwalk and put a finger inside her. And the rest. As the son of personnel, however, Bill Peek was held to a different standard. “Jimmy Kane had one—he was a fella of Maud’s, her main fella. He flew in and then he flew out—you never knew when he’d be flying in again. He was a captain in the Army. He had an old one of them . . . but said it still worked. He said it made her nicer to look at when they were doing it. He was from nowhere, too.” “Nowhere?” “Like you.” Not for the first time the boy was struck by the great human mysteries of this world. He was almost fifteen, almost a man, and the great human mysteries of this world were striking him with satisfying regularity, as was correct for his stage of development. (From the Pathways Global Institute prospectus: “As our students reach tenth grade they begin to gain insight into the great human mysteries of this world, and a special sympathy for locals, the poor, ideologues, and all those who have chosen to limit their own human capital in ways that it can be difficult at times for us to comprehend.”) From the age of six months, when he was first enrolled in the school, he had hit every mark that Pathways expected of its pupils—walking, talking, divesting, monetizing, programming, augmenting—and so it was all the more shocking to find himself face-to-face with an almost nine-year-old so absolutely blind, so lost, so developmentally debased. “It is not done well, but one is surprised to find it done at all.”Buy the print » “This”—he indicated Felixstowe, from the beach with its turd castings and broken piers, to the empty-shell buildings and useless flood walls, up to the hill where his father hoped to expect him—“is nowhere. If you can’t move, you’re no one from nowhere. ‘Capital must flow.’ ” (This last was the motto of his school, though she needn’t know that.) “Now, if you’re asking me where I was born, the event of my birth occurred in Bangkok, but wherever I was born I would remain a member of the Incipio Security Group, which employs my father—and within which I have the highest clearance.” He was surprised by the extent of the pleasure this final, outright lie gave him. It was like telling a story, but in a completely new way—a story that could not be verified or checked, and which only total innocence would accept. Only someone with no access of any kind. Never before had he met someone like this, who could move only in tiny local spirals, a turd on a beach. Moved, the boy bent down suddenly and touched the girl gently on her face. As he did so he had a hunch that he probably looked like the first prophet of some monotheistic religion, bestowing his blessing on a recent convert, and, upon re-watching the moment and finding this was so, he sent it out, both to Mr. Lin and to his fellow Pathways boys, for peer review. It would surely count toward completion of Module 19, which emphasized empathy for the dispossessed. “Where is it you want to go, my child?” She lit up with gratitude, her little hand gripped his, the last of her tears rolling into her mouth and down her neck. “St. Jude’s!” she cried. She kept talking as he replayed the moment to himself and added a small note of explanatory context for Mr. Lin, before he refocussed on her stream of prattle: “And I’ll say goodbye to her. And I’ll kiss her on her face and nose. Whatever they said about her she was my own sister and I loved her and she’s going to a better place—I don’t care if she’s stone cold in that church, I’ll hold her!” “Not a church,” the boy corrected. “14 Ware Street, built 1950, originally domestic property, situated on a floodplain, condemned for safety. Site of ‘St. Jude’s’—local, outlier congregation. Has no official status.” “St. Jude’s is where she’ll be laid out,” she said and squeezed his hand. “And I’ll kiss her no matter how cold she is.” The boy shook his head and sighed. “We’re going in the same direction. Just follow me. No speaking.” He put his finger to his lips, and she tucked her chin into her neck meekly, seeming to understand. Re-starting, he flagged her effectively, transforming little Aggie Hanwell into his sidekick, his familiar, a sleek reddish fox. He was impressed by the perfect visual reconstruction of the original animal, apparently once common in this part of the world. Renamed Mystus, she provided cover for his left flank and mutely admired Bill Peek as he took the traitor Vice-President hostage and dragged him down the Mall with a knife to his neck. After a spell they came to the end of the beach. Here the sand shaded into pebbles and then a rocky cove, and barnacles held on furiously where so much else had been washed away. Above their heads, the craft were finishing their sallies and had clustered like bees, moving as one back to the landing bay at the encampment. Bill Peek and his familiar were also nearing the end of their journey, moments away from kicking in the door to the Oval Office, where—if all went well—they would meet the President and be thanked for their efforts. But at the threshold, unaccountably, Bill Peek’s mind began to wander. Despite the many friends around the world watching (there was a certain amount of kudos granted to any boy who successfully met the President in good, if not record, time, on his first run-through), he found himself pausing to stroke Mystus and worry about whether his father would revoke his AG after this trip. It had been a bribe and a sop in the first place—it was unregistered. Bill had wanted to stay on at the Tokyo campus for the whole summer, and then move to Norway, before tsunami season, for a pleasant fall. His father had wanted him by his side, here, in the damp, unlit graylands. An AG 12 was the compromise. But these later models were security risks, easily hacked, and the children of personnel were not meant to carry hackable devices. That’s how much my father loves me, Bill Peek thought hopefully, that’s how much he wants me around. Previously the boy had believed that the greatest testament to love was the guarantee—which he had had all his life—of total personal security. He could count on one hand the amount of times he’d met a local; radicals were entirely unknown to him; he had never travelled by any mode of transport that held more than four people. But now, almost adult, he had a new thought, saw the matter from a fresh perspective, which he hoped would impress Mr. Lin with its age-appropriate intersectionality. He rested against the Oval Office door and sent his thought to the whole Pathways family: “Daring to risk personal security can be a sign of love, too.” Feeling inspired, he split the visual in order to pause and once more appreciate the human mysteries of this world slash how far he’d come. He found that he was resting on a slimy rock, his fingers tangled in the unclean hair follicles of Agatha Hanwell. She saw him looking at her. She said, “Are we there yet?” The full weight of her innocence emboldened him. They were five minutes from Ware Street. Wasn’t that all the time he needed? No matter what lay beyond that door, it would be dispatched by Bill Peek, brutally, beautifully; he would step forward, into his destiny. He would meet the President! He would shake the President’s hand. “Follow me.” She was quick on the rocks, perhaps even a little quicker than he, moving on all fours like an animal. They took a right, a left, and Bill Peek slit many throats. The blood ran down the walls of the Oval Office and stained the Presidential seal and at the open windows a crowd of cheering, anonymous well-wishers pressed in. At which point Mystus strayed from him and rubbed herself along their bodies, and was stroked and petted in turn. “So many people come to see your Maud. Does the soul good.” “How are you, Aggie, love? Bearing up?” “They took her from the sky. Boom! ‘Public depravity.’ I mean, I ask you!” “Come here, Aggs, give us a hug.” “Who’s that with her?” “Look, that’s the little sis. Saw it all. Poor little thing.” “She’s in the back room, child. You go straight through. You’ve more right than anybody.” All Bill Peek knew is that many bodies were lying on the ground and a space was being made for him to approach. He stepped forward like a king. The President saluted him. The two men shook hands. But the light was failing, and then failed again; the celebrations were lost in infuriating darkness. . . . The boy touched his temple, hot with rage: a low-ceilinged parlor came into view, with its filthy window, further shaded by a ragged net curtain, the whole musty hovel lit by candles. He couldn’t even extend an arm—there were people everywhere, local, offensive to the nose, to all other senses. He tried to locate Agatha Hanwell, but her precise coördinates were of no use here; she was packed deep into this crowd—he could no more get to her than to the moon. A fat man put a hand on his shoulder and asked, “You in the right place, boy?” A distressing female with few teeth said, “Leave him be.” Bill Peek felt himself being pushed forward, deeper into the darkness. A song was being sung, by human voices, and though each individual sang softly, when placed side by side like this, like rows of wheat in the wind, they formed a weird unity, heavy and light at the same time. “Because I do not hope to turn again . . . Because I do not hope . . .” In one voice, like a great beast moaning. A single craft carrying the right hardware could take out the lot of them, but they seemed to have no fear of that. Swaying, singing. Bill Peek touched his sweaty temple and tried to focus on a long message from his father—something about a successful inspection and Mexico in the morning—but he was being pushed by many hands, ever forward, until he reached the back wall where a long box, made of the kind of wood you saw washed up on the beach, sat on a simple table, with candles all around it. The singing grew ever louder. Still, as he passed through their number, it seemed that no man or woman among them sang above a whisper. Then, cutting across it all like a stick through the sand, a child’s voice wailed, an acute, high-pitched sound, such as a small animal makes when, out of sheer boredom, you break its leg. Onward they pushed him; he saw it all perfectly clearly in the candlelight—the people in black, weeping, and Aggie on her knees by the table, and inside the driftwood box the lifeless body of a real girl, the first object of its kind that young Bill Peek had ever seen. Her hair was red and set in large, infantile curls, her skin very white, and her eyes wide open and green. A slight smile revealed the gaps in her teeth, and suggested secret knowledge, the kind of smile he had seen before on the successful sons of powerful men with full clearance—the boys who never lose. Yet none of it struck him quite as much as the sensation that there was someone or something else in that grim room, both unseen and present, and coming for him as much as for anybody. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Paranoia	Credit Illustration by Simon Landrein Mr. Halloran Beresford, pleasantly tired after a good day in the office, still almost clean-shaven after eight hours, his pants still neatly pressed, pleased with himself particularly for remembering, stepped out of the candy shop with a great box under his arm and started briskly for the corner. There were twenty small-size gray suits like Mr. Beresford’s on every New York block, fifty men still clean-shaven and pressed after a day in an air-cooled office, a hundred small men, perhaps, pleased with themselves for remembering their wives’ birthdays. Mr. Beresford was going to take his wife out to dinner, he decided, going to see if he could get last-minute tickets to a show, taking his wife candy. It had been an exceptionally good day, altogether, and Mr. Beresford walked along swiftly, humming musically to himself. He stopped on the corner, wondered whether he would save more time by taking a bus or by trying to catch a taxi in the crowd. It was a long trip downtown and Mr. Beresford ordinarily enjoyed the quiet half hour on top of a Fifth Avenue bus, perhaps reading his paper. He disliked the subway intensely, and found the public display and violent exercise necessary to catch a taxi usually more than he was equal to. However, tonight he had spent a lot of time waiting in line in the candy store to get his wife’s favorite chocolates, and if he were going to get home before dinner was on the table he really had to hurry a little. Mr. Beresford went a few steps into the street, waved at a taxi, said “Taxi!” in a voice that went helplessly into a falsetto, and slunk back, abashed, to the sidewalk while the taxi went by uncomprehending. A man in a light hat stopped next to Mr. Beresford on the sidewalk and for a minute, in the middle of the crowd, he stared at Mr. Beresford and Mr. Beresford stared at him as people sometimes do without caring particularly what they see. What Mr. Beresford saw was a thin face under the light hat, a small mustache, a coat collar turned up. Funny-looking guy, Mr. Beresford thought, lightly touching his clean-shaven lip. Perhaps the man thought Mr. Beresford’s almost unconscious gesture was offensive; at any rate he frowned and looked Mr. Beresford up and down before he turned away. Ugly customer, Mr. Beresford thought. The Fifth Avenue bus Mr. Beresford usually took came slipping up to the corner and Mr. Beresford, pleased not to worry about a taxi, started for the stop. He had reached out his hand to take the rail inside the bus door when he was roughly elbowed aside and the ugly customer in the light hat shoved on ahead of him. Mr. Beresford muttered and started to follow, but the bus door closed on the packed crowd inside and the last thing Mr. Beresford saw as the bus went off down the street was the man in the light hat grinning at him from inside the door. “There’s a dirty trick,” Mr. Beresford told himself, and settled his shoulders irritably in his coat. Still under the influence of his annoyance, he ran a few steps out into the street and waved again at a taxi, not trusting his voice, and was almost run down by a delivery truck. As Mr. Beresford skidded back to the sidewalk the truck driver leaned out and yelled something unrecognizable at Mr. Beresford and when Mr. Beresford saw the people around him on the corner laughing he decided to start walking downtown; in two blocks he would reach another bus stop, a good corner for taxis, and a subway station; much as Mr. Beresford disliked the subway, he might still have to take it, to get home in any sort of time. Walking downtown, his candy box under his arm, his gray suit almost unaffected by the crush on the corner, Mr. Beresford decided to swallow his annoyance and remember it was his wife’s birthday; he began to hum again as he walked. He watched the people as he walked along, his perspective sharpened by being a man who has just succeeded in forgetting an annoyance; surely the girl in the very high-heeled shoes, coming toward him with a frown on her face, was not so able to put herself above petty trifles, or maybe she was frowning because of the shoes; the old lady and man looking at the shopwindows were quarrelling. The funny-looking guy in the light hat coming quickly through the crowd looked as though he hated someone . . . the funny-looking guy in the light hat; Mr. Beresford turned clean around in the walking line of people and watched the man in the light hat turn abruptly and start walking downtown, about ten feet in back of Mr. Beresford. What do you know about that, Mr. Beresford marvelled to himself, and began to walk a little quickly. Probably got off the bus for some reason, wrong bus maybe. Then why would he start walking uptown instead of catching another bus where he was? Mr. Beresford shrugged and passed two girls walking together and talking both at once. Halfway from the corner he wanted, Mr. Beresford realized with a sort of sick shock that the man in the light hat was at his elbow, walking steadily along next to him. Mr. Beresford turned his head the other way and slowed his step. The other man slowed down as well, without looking at Mr. Beresford. Nonsense, Mr. Beresford thought, without troubling to work it out any further than that. He settled his candy box firmly under his arm and cut abruptly across the uptown line of people and into a shop, a souvenir and notion shop, he realized as he came through the door. There were two or three people inside—a woman and a little girl, a sailor—and Mr. Beresford retired to the far end of the counter and began to fuss with an elaborate cigarette box on which was written “Souvenir of New York City,” with a trylon and a perisphere painted beneath. “Isn’t this cute?” the mother said to the little girl, and they both began to laugh enormously over the match holder made in the form of a toilet; the matches were to go in the bowl, and on the cover, Mr. Beresford could see, was a trylon and a perisphere, with “Souvenir of New York City” written above. The man in the light hat came into the shop and Mr. Beresford turned his back and busied himself picking up one thing after another from the counter; with half his mind he was trying to find something that did not say “Souvenir of New York City” and with the other half of his mind he was wondering about the man in the light hat. The question of what the man in the light hat wanted was immediately subordinate to the question of whom he wanted; if his light-hatted designs were against Mr. Beresford they must be nefarious, else why had he not announced them before now? The thought of accosting the man and demanding his purpose crossed Mr. Beresford’s mind fleetingly, and was succeeded, as always in an equivocal situation, by Mr. Beresford’s vivid recollection of his own small size and innate cautiousness. Best, Mr. Beresford decided, to avoid this man. Thinking this, Mr. Beresford walked steadily toward the doorway of the shop, intending to pass the man in the light hat and go out and catch his bus home. He had not quite reached the man in the light hat when the shop’s clerk came around the end of the counter and met Mr. Beresford with a genial smile and a vehement “See anything you like, Mister?” “Not tonight, thanks,” Mr. Beresford said, moving left to avoid the clerk, but the clerk moved likewise and said, “Got some nice things you didn’t look at.” “No, thanks,” Mr. Beresford said, trying to make his tenor voice firm. “Who should we have at eye level this month?”Buy the print » “Take a look at it,” the clerk insisted. This was unusually persistent even for such a clerk; Mr. Beresford looked up and saw the man in the light hat on his right, bearing down on him. Over the shoulders of the two men he could see that the shop was empty. The street looked very far away, the people passing in either direction looked smaller and smaller; Mr. Beresford realized that he was being forced to step backward as the two men advanced on him. “Easy does it,” the man in the light hat said to the clerk. They continued to move forward slowly. “See here now,” Mr. Beresford said, with the ineffectuality of the ordinary man caught in such a crisis; he still clutched his box of candy under his arm. “See here,” he said, feeling the solid weight of the wall behind him. “Ready,” the man in the light hat said. The two men tensed and Mr. Beresford, with a wild yell, broke between them and ran for the door. He heard a sound more like a snarl than anything else behind him and the feet coming after him. I’m safe on the street, Mr. Beresford thought as he came through the door into the line of people, as long as there are lots of people they can’t do anything to me. He looked back, walking downtown between a fat woman with many packages and a girl and a boy leaning on one another’s shoulders, and he saw the clerk standing in the door of the shop looking after him; the man with the light hat was not in sight. Mr. Beresford shifted the box of candy so that his right arm was free and thought, Perfectly silly. It’s still broad daylight. How they ever hoped to get away with it . . . The man in the light hat was on the corner ahead, waiting. Mr. Beresford hesitated in his walk and then thought, It’s preposterous, all these people watching. He walked boldly down the street; the man in the light hat was not even watching him, but was leaning calmly against a building lighting a cigarette. Mr. Beresford reached the corner, darted quickly into the street, and yelled boisterously, “Taxi!” in a great voice he had never suspected he possessed until now. A taxi stopped as though not daring to disregard that great shout, and Mr. Beresford moved gratefully toward it. His hand was on the door handle when another hand closed over his and Mr. Beresford was aware of the light hat brushing his cheek. “Come on if you’re coming,” the taxi driver said; the door was open and Mr. Beresford, resisting the push that urged him into the taxi, slipped his hand out from under the other hand and ran back to the sidewalk. A crosstown bus had stopped on the corner and Mr. Beresford, no longer thinking, hurried into it, dropped a nickel into the coin register, and went to the back of the bus and sat down. The man in the light hat sat a little ahead, between Mr. Beresford and the door. Mr. Beresford put his box of candy on his lap and tried to think. Obviously the man in the light hat was not carrying a grudge all this time about Mr. Beresford’s almost unconscious gesture toward the mustache, unless he were peculiarly sensitive. In any case, there was the clerk in the souvenir shop; Mr. Beresford realized suddenly that the clerk in the souvenir shop was a very odd circumstance indeed. He set the clerk aside to think about later and went back to the man in the light hat. If it was not the insult to the mustache, what was it? And then another thought caught Mr. Beresford breathless: how long, then, had the man in the light hat been following him? He thought back along the day: he had left his office with a group of people, all talking cheerfully, all reminding Mr. Beresford that it was his wife’s birthday; they had escorted Mr. Beresford to the candy shop and left him there. He had been in his office all day except for lunch with three fellows in the office; Mr. Beresford’s mind leaped suddenly from the lunch to his first sight of the man in the light hat at the bus stop; it seemed that the man in the light hat had been trying to push him on the bus into the crowd, instead of pushing in ahead. In that case, once he was on the bus . . .  Mr. Beresford looked around. In the bus he was riding on now there were only five people left. One was the driver, one Mr. Beresford, one the man in the light hat, sitting slightly ahead of Mr. Beresford. The two others were an old lady with a shopping bag and a man who looked as though he might be a foreigner. Foreigner, Mr. Beresford thought, while he looked at the man, foreigner, foreign plot, spies. Better not rely on any foreigner, Mr. Beresford thought. The bus was going swiftly along between high dark buildings. Mr. Beresford, looking out of the window, decided that they were in a factory district, remembered that they had been going east, and decided to wait until they got to one of the lighted, busy sections before he tried to get off. Peering off into the growing darkness, Mr. Beresford noticed an odd thing. There had been someone standing on the corner beside a sign saying “Bus Stop” and the bus had not stopped, even though the dim figure waved its arms. Surprised, Mr. Beresford glanced up at the street sign, noticed that it said “E. 31 St.” at the same moment that he reached for the cord to signal the driver he wanted to get off. As he stood up and went down to the aisle, the foreign-looking man rose also and went to the door beside the driver. “Getting off,” the foreign man said, and the bus slowed. Mr. Beresford pressed forward and somehow the old lady’s shopping bag got in his way and spilled, sending small items—a set of blocks, a package of paper clips—spilling in all directions. “Sorry,” Mr. Beresford said desperately as the bus doors opened. He began to move forward again and the old lady caught his arm and said, “Don’t bother if you’re in a hurry. I can get them, dear.” Mr. Beresford tried to shake her off and she said, “If this is your stop don’t worry. It’s perfectly all right.” A coil of pink ribbon was caught around Mr. Beresford’s shoe; the old lady said, “It was clumsy of me, leaving my bag right in the aisle.” As Mr. Beresford broke away from her the doors closed and the bus started. Resigned, Mr. Beresford got down on one knee in the swaying bus and began to pick up paper clips, blocks, a box of letter paper that had opened and spilled sheets and envelopes all over the floor. “I’m so sorry,” the old lady said sweetly. “It was all my fault, too.” Once, over his shoulder, Mr. Beresford saw the man in the light hat sitting comfortably. He was smoking and his head was thrown back and his eyes were shut. Mr. Beresford gathered together the old lady’s shopping as well as he could, and then made his way forward to stand by the driver. “Getting off,” Mr. Beresford said. “Can’t stop in the middle of the block,” the driver said, not turning his head. “The next stop, then,” Mr. Beresford said. The bus moved rapidly on. Mr. Beresford, bending down to see the streets out the front window, saw a sign saying “Bus Stop.” “Here,” he said. “What?” the driver said, going past. “Listen,” Mr. Beresford said. “I want to get off.” “It’s O.K. with me,” the driver said. “Next stop.” “You just passed one,” Mr. Beresford said. “No one waiting there,” the driver said. “Anyway, you didn’t tell me in time.” Mr. Beresford waited. After a minute he saw another bus stop and said, “O.K.” The bus did not stop, but went past the sign without slowing down. “Report me,” the driver said. “Listen, now,” Mr. Beresford said, and the driver turned one eye up at him; he seemed to be amused. “Report me,” the driver said. “My number’s right here on this card.” “If you don’t stop at the next stop,” Mr. Beresford said, “I shall smash the glass in the door and shout for help.” “What with?” the driver said. “The box of candy?” “Do you know why I pulled you over?”Buy the print » “How do you know it’s—” Mr. Beresford said before he realized that if he got into a conversation he would miss the next bus stop. It had not occurred to him that he could get off anywhere except at a bus stop; he saw lights ahead and at the same time the bus slowed down and Mr. Beresford, looking quickly back, saw the man in the light hat stretch and get up. The bus pulled to a stop in front of a bus sign; there was a group of stores. “O.K.,” the bus driver said to Mr. Beresford, “you were so anxious to get off.” The man in the light hat got off at the rear door. Mr. Beresford, standing by the open front door, hesitated and said, “I guess I’ll stay on for a while.” “Last stop,” the bus driver said. “Everybody off.” He looked sardonically up at Mr. Beresford. “Report me if you want to,” he said. “My number’s right on that card there.” Mr. Beresford got off and went directly up to the man in the light hat, standing on the sidewalk. “This is perfectly ridiculous,” he said emphatically. “I don’t understand any of it and I want you to know that the first policeman I see—” He stopped when he realized that the man in the light hat was looking not at him but, bored and fixedly, over his shoulder. Mr. Beresford turned and saw a policeman standing on the corner. “Just you wait,” he said to the man in the light hat, and started for the policeman. Halfway to the policeman he began to wonder again: what did he have to report? A bus that would not stop when directed to, a clerk in a souvenir shop who cornered customers, a mysterious man in a light hat—and why? Mr. Beresford realized suddenly that there was nothing he could tell the policeman: he looked over his shoulder and saw the man in the light hat watching him, and then Mr. Beresford bolted down a subway entrance. He had a nickel in his hand by the time he reached the bottom of the steps, and he went right through the turnstile; to the left it was downtown and he ran that way. He was figuring as he ran: he’ll think if I’m very stupid I’d head downtown, if I’m smarter than that I’d go uptown, if I’m really smart I’d go downtown. Does he think I’m middling smart or very smart? The man in the light hat reached the downtown platform only a few seconds after Mr. Beresford and sauntered down the platform, his hands in his pockets. Mr. Beresford sat down on the bench listlessly. It’s no good, he thought, no good at all, he knows just how smart I am. The train came blasting into the station, Mr. Beresford ran in the door and saw the light hat disappear into a door of the next car. Just as the doors were closing Mr. Beresford dived, caught the door, and would have been out except for a girl who seized his arm and shouted, “Harry! Where in God’s name are you going?” The door was held halfway by Mr. Beresford’s body, his arm left inside with the girl, who seemed to be holding it with all her strength. “Isn’t this a fine thing,” she said to the people in the car, “he sure doesn’t want to see his old friends.” A few people laughed; most of them were watching. “Hang on to him, sister,” someone said. The girl laughed and tugged on Mr. Beresford’s arm. “He’s gonna get away,” she said laughingly to the people in the car and a big man stepped to her with a grin and said, “If you gotta have him that bad, we’ll bring him in for you.” Mr. Beresford felt the holding grasp on his arm turn suddenly to an irresistible force which drew him in through the doors, and they closed behind him. Everyone in the car was laughing at him by now, and the big man said, “That ain’t no way to a treat a lady, chum.” Mr. Beresford looked around for the girl but she had melted into the crowd somewhere and the train was moving. After a minute the people in the car stopped looking at him and Mr. Beresford smoothed his coat and found that his box of candy was still intact. The subway train was going downtown. Mr. Beresford, who was now racking his brains for detective tricks, for mystery-story dodges, thought of one that seemed infallible. He stayed docilely on the train, as it went downtown, and got a seat at Twenty-third Street. At Fourteenth he got off, the light hat following, and went up the stairs and into the street. As he had expected, the large department store ahead of him advertised “Open till 9 tonight” and the doors swung wide, back and forth, with people going constantly in and out. Mr. Beresford went in. The store bewildered him at first—counters stretching away in all directions, the lights much brighter than anywhere else, the voices clamoring. Mr. Beresford moved slowly along beside a counter; it was stockings first, thin and tan and black and gauzy, and then it was handbags, piles on sale, neat solitary ones in the cases, and then it was medical supplies, with huge almost human figures wearing obscene trusses, standing right there on the counter, and people coming embarrassedly to buy. Mr. Beresford turned the corner and came to a counter of odds and ends. Scarves too cheap to be at the scarf counter, postcards, a bin marked “Any item 25¢,” dark glasses. Uncomfortably, Mr. Beresford bought a pair of dark glasses and put them on. He went out of the store at an entrance far away from the one he had used to go in; he could have chosen any of eight or nine entrances, but this seemed complicated enough. There was no sign of the light hat, no one tried to hinder Mr. Beresford as he stepped up to the taxi stand, and, although debating taking the second or the third car, finally took the one that was offered him and gave his home address. He reached his apartment building without mishap, stole cautiously out of the taxi and into the lobby. There was no light hat, no odd person watching for Mr. Beresford. In the elevator, alone, with no one to see which floor button he pressed, Mr. Beresford took a long breath and began to wonder if he had dreamed his wild trip home. He rang his apartment bell and waited; then his wife came to the door and Mr. Beresford, suddenly tired out, went into his home. “You’re terribly late, darling,” his wife said affectionately, and then, “But what’s the matter?” He looked at her; she was wearing her blue dress and that meant she knew it was her birthday and expected him to take her out; he handed her the box of candy limply and she took it, hardly noticing in her anxiety over him. “What on earth has happened?” she asked. “Darling, come in here and sit down. You look terrible.” He let her lead him into the living room, into his own chair where it was comfortable, and he lay back. “Is there something wrong?” she was asking anxiously, fussing over him, loosening his tie, smoothing his hair. “Are you sick? Were you in an accident? What has happened?” He realized that he seemed more tired than he really was, and was glorying in all this attention. He sighed deeply and said, “Nothing. Nothing wrong. Tell you in a minute.” “Wait,” she said. “I’ll get you a drink.” He put his head back against the soft chair as she went out. Never knew that door had a key, his mind registered dimly as he heard it turn. Then he was on his feet with his head against the door listening to her at the telephone in the hall. She dialled and waited. Then: “Listen,” she said, “listen, he came here after all. I’ve got him.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Collectors	Credit Photograph by Larry Towell / Magnum Rogelio was the youngest of three, the skinniest, the least talkative. As a boy, he slept in the same room as his brother, Jaime, and his earliest, most profoundly comforting memories were of those late nights, before sleep: the chatter between them, the camaraderie. Then Jaime left for San Jacinto, and shortly afterward, when Rogelio was eight, his father died. In the months after that, Rogelio began skipping school to spend hours walking in the hills above town. He liked to be alone. He gathered bits of wood, and used his father’s tools to carve tiny animals—birds, lizards, that sort of thing—which he kept in a box under his bed. They weren’t particularly lifelike, but they were surprisingly evocative, and, at age twelve, he presented one to a girl he liked, as a gift. With trembling hands and a look of horror on her face, the girl accepted it, and for the next week she avoided his gaze. The other children whispered about him whenever he came near. There was no need to hear the exact words; their meaning was clear enough. The following year, Rogelio quit school officially, and his mother and his sister agreed that there was no practical reason for him to stay in town any longer, so he left to join Jaime in San Jacinto. Rogelio was small for his age, but tough, good with his hands and his fists. He didn’t have a temper, the way his brother did. Instead, he possessed an equanimity that his family found almost disconcerting. He’d been shunned all his life, or that’s how he felt, and he’d grown accustomed to it. He loved his brother, looked up to him, and never worried about whether Jaime loved him in return. He could follow instructions, had decent mechanical intuition, but, unlike most of his classmates, he had not learned to read. Jaime tried to teach him, but soon gave up: the boy kept confusing his letters. More than a decade later, Henry Nuñez, Rogelio’s cellmate in Collectors prison, explained to him that there was a condition called dyslexia. “How about that?” Rogelio said, but his face registered nothing—not regret or shame or even curiosity—as if he were unwilling to contemplate the ways in which his life might have been different if he’d had this information sooner. For the first couple of years in San Jacinto, he worked on the broken-down trucks that his brother bought on the cheap. Together, they would cajole these heaps of rusting metal back to life. Each machine was different, requiring a complex and patient kind of surgery. Parts were swapped out, rescued, jerry-rigged. It was as much invention as repair. When a truck was reborn, they sold it, and reinvested the profits, which weren’t much at first, but the brothers were very careful with their money. In a photograph from this time, Rogelio sits on a gigantic truck tire with his shirt off; he is lithe and wiry, and he wears the blank expression of a child who asks no questions and makes no demands of the world. Not a happy boy, but, given his situation, perhaps a wise one. Eventually, Jaime bought his kid brother a motorbike, the kind outfitted with a flatbed of wooden planks in front. This machine became Rogelio’s source of income for the next few years; he rode it around the city, from one market to another, carrying cans of paint, lashed-together bundles of metal pipes, chickens headed for slaughter, crammed into crates stacked so high that he had to lean to one side in order to steer. San Jacinto was growing steadily, but not yet at the torrid pace that would later come to define it; Rogelio knew every corner of the city then, and years later, at Collectors, he would draw a map of it on a wall of the cell that he shared with Henry, using white chalk to trace the streets and the railroad tracks, and to label the apartment he’d shared with his brother. Henry asked him why he’d gone to the trouble. “Because one day I’ll go back there,” Rogelio said. In 1980, the year Rogelio turned seventeen, Jaime took him to a brothel near the center of town. It was the first of its kind, and had been built for the hoped-for wave of young, fearless men with money. There were rumors of gold in the hills, and the brothel’s fantastical anteroom paid tribute to those stories: the walls were painted gold, as were the bar and the wooden tables and chairs. In fact, that night even the three prostitutes on display for Rogelio’s choosing had followed the color scheme: one in a gold miniskirt, another in gold lace panties and bra, and the third in a gold negligee. Three little trophies, all smiling coquettishly, hands on their hips. Jaime encouraged Rogelio to pick one, but he couldn’t. Or wouldn’t. The moment stretched on and on, far past what was comfortable, until the girls’ put-on smiles began to fade. And still the boy stood there, immobilized, amazed. “Oh, fuck it,” Jaime said finally. He pulled a wad of bills from his pocket and paid for all three. It seems that Jaime had begun to sell more than refurbished vehicles. When Rogelio was eighteen, he traded in his motorized cart for a small loading van and, shortly after, traded the van for a truck that he brought back to life with his own hands. The first time the reconstructed engine turned over was one of the proudest moments of Rogelio’s life. Each new vehicle expanded his world. Now he was a driver; he ferried a dozen laborers down to the lowlands, men who stood for hours without complaint as the truck bounced along rutted and bumpy roads. Once there, Rogelio discovered a prickly kind of heat he’d never felt before. He liked it, and began volunteering to drive that route whenever it was available. The following year, his brother sent him in the other direction, over the range to the west; and on that trip Rogelio saw the ocean for the first time. It was 1982; he was almost twenty years old. He sat at the edge of the boardwalk in La Julieta as the fancy people of the city strolled by, confident-looking men in blazers and women in bright dresses, boys he took to be his age but who appeared to possess a variety of secrets that Rogelio could only guess at. None so much as glanced in his direction. He wondered if he looked out of place, if they could tell that he was a stranger here, or if they could even see him at all. But when he considered the ocean Rogelio realized how insignificant these concerns were. He was happy, he told Henry later, and in prison he liked to remember the hours he’d spent there, gazing at the sea. For the next few years, Rogelio drove the route to the coast, to the lowlands, and back again, carrying vegetables to the city, raw materials to the mountains, laborers to the jungle. He was a quiet young man, still a boy in some ways, but he was dependable. He began to ferry other packages as well, small, tightly bundled bricks, which he kept under the seat or in a compartment hidden above the wheel well. One or two at first, then dozens. These were delivered separately, to other contacts. Rogelio never opened them to see what was inside (though he knew); he never touched the money (though he assumed that the quantities in play were not insubstantial). He had no qualms about this work. He trusted his brother. He never considered the consequences, not because he was reckless but because what he was doing was normal. Everyone was doing it. On the last of these trips, Rogelio’s truck was searched at a checkpoint along the Central Highway, sixty-five kilometres east of the capital. The war was on, and the soldiers were randomly stopping trucks from the mountains to look for weapons and explosives. Rogelio was unlucky. Perhaps if he’d been more astute he could have arranged to pay the soldiers off, but he didn’t. Instead, he waited by the side of the road while the men in uniform went through his vehicle with great care. Rogelio had time to consider what was happening, how his life was changing course before his very eyes. Not everyone has this privilege; most of us miss the moment when our destiny shifts. Later, he told Henry that he’d felt a strange sort of calm. He considered running into the hills, but the soldiers would have shot him without thinking twice. So instead he admired his truck, which he’d had painted by hand, emerald and blue, with the phrase “My Beautiful San Jacinto” splashed across the top of the windshield, in cursive lettering. At least, that’s what he’d been told it said. He recalled thinking, What will happen to the truck? Will it be waiting for me when I get out? The soldiers found the package, and to protect his brother Rogelio said nothing about its origins. He played dumb, which wasn’t difficult. Everyone—from the soldiers who conducted the search, to the policemen who came to arrest him, to his ferocious interrogators, to the lawyer charged with defending him—saw Rogelio as he assumed they would: as a clueless, ignorant young man from the provinces. All these years, and nothing had changed: he was still invisible. Henry’s route to Collectors was very different, and it began at the Teatro Olímpico, after the third performance of his controversial play “The Idiot President.” That morning, one of the right-wing papers had declared the play outrageous. “It mocks our authorities and gives succor to the enemy,” the critic wrote. Henry had celebrated. “Maybe now we will sell some tickets,” he’d said to a friend. But that night, after the show, there were two men in dark suits hanging about. No one paid much attention to them, least of all Henry. Then the theatre emptied, the audience dispersed, and one of the men approached. “Are you Henry Nuñez?” he said. Henry had a leather bag thrown over his shoulder, nothing inside but some dirty clothes and a few annotated scripts. Who were these idiots, who asked inane questions, when the entire theatre universe knew he was Henry Nuñez. Who else, exactly, could he be? They placed their giant hands on Henry. His friend and co-star Patalarga emerged from backstage just in time to see what was happening. He tried to stop the men, and when he wouldn’t shut up they knocked him out and locked him in the ticket booth. Henry was held with little human contact in a mercifully clean though still unpleasant cell. He was questioned about his friends, his plays, his travels around the country, his motives, but it was all strangely lethargic, inefficient, as if the police were too bored to decide his fate. He wasn’t beaten or tortured, which was a great relief, of course; he surely would’ve confessed to anything at the mere threat of such treatment. On the third day, Henry, still thinking, breathing, and living in the mode of a playwright, asked for a pen and some paper in order to jot down notes about his tedious imprisonment, things to remember should he ever want to write about his experience. He was denied, but even then, in his naïveté, he wasn’t worried. Not truly concerned. If he’d been asked, Henry would have said that he expected to be released at any moment. His captivity was so ridiculous to him that he could hardly conceive of it. He just couldn’t understand why anyone would be upset by “The Idiot President.” Had they seen the play? It wasn’t even any good! “Business doesn’t take a summer vacation.”Buy the print » On the fifth or sixth day, when Henry was finally allowed a visitor, his older sister, Marta, appeared at the jail, representing the entire living world outside the small cell that held him—his family, his friends, his supporters. It was a burden that showed clearly on her face. Her eyes were ringed with dark bluish circles, and her skin was sallow. She hadn’t eaten, she reported; in fact, no one in the family had stopped to eat or rest for five days, and they were doing everything they could to get him out. He imagined them all—his large, bickering extended family—coming together to complete this task: it would be easier to put them on shifts and have them dig a tunnel beneath the jail. The image made him smile. Marta was happy to see that Henry hadn’t been abused, and they passed much of the hour talking about plans for after his release. She had two children, a daughter and a son, ages six and four, who’d both made him get-well cards, because they’d been told that their uncle was at the hospital. Henry found this amusing; the fact that the cards had been confiscated at the jail he found maddening. Marta assured him that they’d remember this little anecdote later and laugh about it. “Why wait?” Henry said. “Don’t be ridiculous,” his sister answered. But already she was suppressing a grin. He was referring to a game they’d played as children: spontaneous, forced, meaningless laughter. With diligence, they’d perfected this skill—rolling around, cackling, rubbing their bellies like lunatics, before doctor’s appointments or family trips, or on the morning of an exam for which they hadn’t prepared. They’d used it to get out of chores, to be excused from church. Neither recalled the game’s origins, but they’d been punished for it on many occasions and had always feigned innocence. We can’t help it, they’d both said, laughing still, tears pressing from the corners of their eyes, until their behavior had landed them in weekly sessions with a child psychologist. Even so, they were proud that they’d never betrayed each other. At the peak of the game, when Henry was ten and Marta twelve and they were as close as two human beings can be, the two of them had been able to manufacture laughter instantly, hysterical fits that lasted for a quarter of an hour or longer. Henry considered this his first successful dramatic work. He insisted. “Why not?” They’d been whispering until then, but now they took deep breaths, like divers preparing for a descent. The cell, it turned out, had good acoustics. The laughter was tentative at first, but soon it was ringing brightly through the jail. Unstoppable, joyful, cathartic. At the end of the block, the guards who heard it had a different interpretation: it was frightening, demonic, even. No one had ever laughed in this jail, not like that. One of them rushed to see what was happening, and was surprised to find brother and sister laughing heartily, holding hands, their cheeks glistening. The hour allotted for the visit had passed. Leaving the jail, Marta gave a brief statement to the press, which was shown on the television news that evening. Her brother was completely innocent, she said. He was an artist, the finest playwright of his generation, and the authorities had interrupted him and his actors in the legitimate pursuit of their art. Those responsible should be ashamed of what they’d done. The following day, the charges against Henry were announced: he was being held for incitement and terrorism. An investigation was under way. Henry was informed of the accusations that morning by the same guard who’d discovered him and Marta laughing, and who refrained from making the obvious statement about who might be laughing now—a small mercy, which Henry nonetheless appreciated. He was taken from the jail in the back of a windowless military van, with nothing to look at but the unsmiling face of a soldier, a stern man, who did not speak. Henry closed his eyes, and tried to follow the van’s twisting path through the city. “We’re going to Collectors, aren’t we?” he asked the soldier, who answered with a nod. On the morning of April 8, 1986, Henry entered the country’s most infamous prison. The day he was sent to Collectors was the loneliest of his life. Nothing he’d learned previously had any relevance anymore, and each step he took beyond the gate and toward his new home was like walking into a tunnel, away from the light. He was led through the prison complex—a vision of Hell in those days, full of half-dead men baring their scarred chests, impervious to the cold. He’d never been more frightened in his life. One man promised to kill him at the first opportunity—that evening, perhaps, if it could be arranged. Another, to fuck him. A third looked at him with the anxious eyes of a man hiding a terrible secret. Two guards led Henry through the complex, men whom he’d previously thought of as his tormentors but who now seemed more like protectors—all that stood between him and this anarchy. Halfway to the block, he realized that they were as nervous as he was, that they, like him, were doing all they could to avoid eye contact with the inmates who surrounded them. At the door to the block, the guards unlocked Henry’s handcuffs and turned to leave. The playwright looked at them helplessly. “Won’t you stay?” he asked, as if he were inviting them in for a drink. The two guards wore expressions of surprise. “We can’t,” one of them said in a low voice, embarrassed. They turned and hurried back to the entrance. An inmate led Henry into the block, where men milled about with no apparent order or discipline. I’m going to die here, he thought. It was an idea that all new inmates contemplated upon first entering the prison. Some of them, of course, were right. Henry was taken to his cell, and didn’t emerge for many days. When Henry arrived in Collectors, Rogelio had already been waiting more than eighteen months for a hearing in his case. Waiting, that is, for an opportunity to affirm that he was a victim, that he knew nothing about the laws of the country, that he’d never been educated, and could not, therefore, be held accountable. Henry’s family had tried to arrange for a private cell, but none were available. He knew that he should be grateful for what he had—many others were in far worse conditions—but, under the circumstances, he found it difficult to muster much gratitude. For the first few days, he hardly stirred. He didn’t register Rogelio’s face, and he knew nothing of his new home, beyond what he’d managed to glean during that initial terrifying walk. Henry was given the top bunk, and for three days he slept long hours, or pretended to sleep, facing the wall. Thinking. Remembering. Trying to disappear. He didn’t eat, but felt no hunger. The night of his arrest had been catalogued in his mind, divided into an infinite series of micro-events: he remembered each flubbed line of the performance, the expressions on the faces of the audience members who’d expected and hoped for better. Could any of those details be shifted slightly—just enough to alter the outcome? Was there a light revision he could make to that evening’s script so that it would not end with him here, in Collectors? During those three days, Rogelio came and went, seemingly uninterested in and unconcerned by Henry’s condition. But, by the fourth day, Rogelio had had enough. He tapped Henry on the back. “You’re allowed to get up, you know.” Henry rolled over. “You’re alive,” Rogelio said. That afternoon, Henry took his first real walk through the block. He met a few people who would later become friends, or something like friends, and he saw much to remind him of the danger he was in. There were men whose faces seemed congenitally incapable of smiling, men who locked eyes with him and spat on the ground. When he shuddered, they laughed. Rogelio wasn’t talkative, but he was helpful, and he explained many things that day. According to him, Henry was lucky—it was clear that he wouldn’t have to work (“You’re rich, aren’t you?” Rogelio asked), though almost everyone else inside did. Rogelio repaired old plastic chairs (he shared a workshop on the roof with a few other men), and made pipes out of bent metal scraps, which he sold to the junkies. The junkies were everywhere, a miserable lineup of broken men, who roamed the prison offering sex or blood or labor for a fix. Rogelio wasn’t proud of this work, but without it he wouldn’t have survived. His brother sent money only occasionally, enough to cover the cost of the cell and little else. Otherwise, he was on his own. Neither Henry nor Rogelio owned the cell where they slept. It belonged to the boss, Espejo, who made extra money on visiting days by renting it out so that men could be alone with their wives. “Those days will be difficult,” Rogelio warned. Henry would have to be outdoors all day, and in the evening the room would smell different and feel different. He’d know that someone had made love there, and the loneliness would be overwhelming. Henry nodded, though he couldn’t understand—wouldn’t understand, in fact, until he lived through it himself. There was a lot to learn. There were inmates to steer clear of, and others whom it was dangerous to ignore. There were moments of the day when it was safe to be out, others when it was best to stay inside. The distinction depended not on the time of day but on the mood of the prison, which Henry would have to learn to read if he hoped to survive. “How do you read it?” he asked. Rogelio had a difficult time explaining. It involved listening for the collective murmur of the yard, watching the way certain key men—the barometers of violence in the block—were carrying themselves. Small things: Did they have their arms at their sides, or crossed in front of them? How widely did they open their mouths when they talked? Could you see their teeth? Were their eyes moving quickly, side to side? Or slowly, as if taking in every last detail? To Henry, it sounded impossible. Rogelio shrugged. “Remember that most of us here are scared, just like you. When I first came, I didn’t have a cell. If there was trouble, I had nowhere to go.” They were sitting in a corner of the yard, beneath a dull gray winter sky. The light was thin, and there were no shadows. Henry still didn’t quite grasp how he had got here. Nowhere to go—he understood these words in a way he never could have before. He wrote letters to his sister, cheerful dispatches that didn’t reflect the gloom he felt, or the fear. His letters were performances, stylized and utterly false outtakes of prison life. In fact, he was despairing: This is what it means to be trapped. To be frightened, and to be unable to share that fear with a single soul. “You’ll get it,” Rogelio said. “It just takes time.” The frenetic daily exchange of goods and services went on about them. Two men waited to have their hair cut, sharing the same day-old newspaper to pass the time. A pair of pants, a couple of sweaters, and T-shirts stolen from some other section of the prison were for sale, hanging on a line strung between the posts of one of the soccer goals. Three junkies slept sitting up, with their backs against the wall, shirtless in the cold. Henry saw these men and felt even colder. “Where did you sleep back then?” he asked. “Before you had a cell.” “Under the stairs,” Rogelio said. He laughed. “But look at me now!” Henry did look. His new friend had a bright smile and very large brown eyes. His skin was the color of coffee with milk, and he was muscular without being imposing. His clothes were mostly prison-scavenged, items left by departing men, appropriated by Espejo or some other strongman, and then sold. Nothing fit him well, but he seemed unbothered by that. He kept his black hair very short, and wore a knit cap most of the time, pulled down low, to stay warm. These dark winter days, he even slept with it on. His nose was narrow and turned slightly to the left, and he had a habit of talking softly, with a hand over his mouth, as if sharing a confidence, no matter how mundane an observation he might be making. As if we were accomplices, Henry thought. A few weeks later, Henry saw a man being kicked to death, or nearly to death, by a mob that formed unexpectedly at the door to Block 12. He and Rogelio stood by, horrified at first, then simply frightened. Then, almost instantaneously, they accepted the logic of the attack: every victim was guilty of something. The chatter: What did he do? Who did he cross? The men watching felt safer. Less helpless. A crowd gathered around the victim, but no one moved to help him. “Wherever he is, I know he’ll be upgraded.”Buy the print » Visiting days weren’t so bad at first. Henry’s family and friends took turns coming to see him, the ones who could tolerate the filth, the overcrowding, the looks from the junkies. They left depleted and afraid, and most didn’t come back. The hours immediately after the visitors had gone were the most difficult of the week. It required a great collective energy to welcome so many outsiders, to put the best face on what was clearly a terrible situation. Collectors was falling apart; anyone could see that. Damp winters had eaten away at the bricks, and the walls were covered with mold. Every day, new men were brought in. They were unchained and set free inside, forced to fight for a place to sleep in the already overcrowded prison. Family day, when women were allowed in, came on alternate Wednesdays, and was especially brutal. By the end of the afternoon, the inmates were worn out from smiling, from reassuring their wives and children and mothers that they were all right. (Fathers, as a rule, did not visit; most of Henry’s fellow-inmates didn’t have fathers.) It wasn’t uncommon for there to be fights on those evenings. As long as no one was killed, it was fine, just something to relieve the tension. Nine weeks in, Henry felt almost abandoned. On family days, he was as alone as Rogelio. Espejo rented out their cell, and in the evening, as they lay on their bunks, they could still feel the warmth of those phantom bodies. Their perfumed scent. It was the only time the stench of the prison dissipated, though, in some ways, this other smell was worse. It reminded them of everything they were missing. Henry had been unable to persuade any of the women he used to see to visit him, and he didn’t blame them. None of these relationships had meant much to him, though at times his despair was so great that he could concentrate on any one of those women’s faces and convince himself that he’d been in love. As for Rogelio, he was far from home, and hadn’t had a visitor, male or female, in months. “Did you see her?” Henry asked one evening after the visitors had gone, and, because Rogelio hadn’t, he began to describe the woman who’d made love with her husband on the lower bunk that day. She was married to an inmate named Jarol, a thief with a sharp sense of humor and arms like tense coils of rope. Henry talked about the woman’s curves, how delicious she’d looked in her dress—not tight, but tight enough. She had long black hair, doe eyes, and fingernails painted pink. She was perfect, he said, and she was: not because of her body or her face but because of the way she’d smiled at her husband, with the hungry look of a woman who wants something and is not ashamed of it. A man could live on a look like that. Henry said, “She didn’t care who saw.” He could hear Rogelio breathing. They were quiet for a moment. “What would you have done to her?” Rogelio asked. His voice was very low, tentative. This was how it began: with Henry speculating aloud about how he might spend a few minutes alone with a woman in this stifling, degrading space. He had no difficulty imagining the scene, and he could think of no good reason not to share it. He would have torn off that dress, Henry said, and bent her against the wall, with her palms flat against that stupid map of San Jacinto. He would have pressed hard against her, teased her until she begged him to come in. From the bottom bunk, Rogelio laughed. He would have made her howl, Henry said, made her scream. Cupped her breasts in his hands and squeezed. Is this why you came, woman? Tell me it is! Already Henry was disappearing into his own words. He had his eyes closed. The walls had begun to vibrate. “What else?” Rogelio said, his voice stronger now. “Go on. What else would you do?” When they finished, each on his own bunk that first time, both men laughed. They hadn’t touched, or even made eye contact, but somehow what they’d done was more intimate than that. For a moment, the pleasure of each had belonged to the other, and now something dark and joyless had been banished. A week later, Henry gathered up his courage and went to see Espejo, the boss, to propose doing a production of “The Idiot President” in Block 7. Espejo was a small but well-built man, whose lazy grin belied a long history of violence, a man who’d risen far enough from the streets to relax and now controlled the block through sheer force of reputation. If any inmate questioned his authority, he dispensed pointed but very persuasive doses of rage. Mostly, though, he protected his charges—there were fewer than two hundred men in the block, and after nightfall they were in constant danger of being overrun by one of the larger, more ferocious sections of the prison. Espejo directed a small army of warriors tasked with keeping those potential invaders at bay. Henry was afraid of this man, but he reminded himself that, as fellow-inmates of Block 7, he and Espejo were on the same side. Espejo’s cell seemed more like a comfortable student apartment, with a squat refrigerator, a black-and-white television, and a coffeemaker plugged into a naked outlet. Espejo kept a photo of himself from his younger days framed above his bed. In the picture, he was shirtless, astride a majestic white horse, riding up the steps of a swimming pool, toward the camera. A few delighted women stood behind him, long-legged, bronzed, and gleaming in the bright sun. Everything was colorful, saturated with tropical light. A child—Espejo’s son, perhaps—sat on the edge of the diving board, watching the horse maneuver its way out of the water. On the boy’s face was an expression of admiration and wonder, but it was more than that: he was concentrating, watching the scene, watching his father, trying to learn. Henry wondered what had happened to the boy. Perhaps he’d been shuttled out of the country, or died, or perhaps he was old enough by now to be living in another of the city’s prisons, in a cell much like this one. There was no way of knowing without asking directly, and that was not an option. The photo, like the lives of the men with whom Henry now lived, was both real and startlingly unreal, like a still from Espejo’s dreams. Rogelio had warned Henry not to stare, so he didn’t. “A play?” Espejo said when Henry told him his idea. Henry nodded. Espejo lay back on his bed, his shoeless feet stretched toward the playwright. “That’s what we get for taking terrorists in the block,” he said, laughing. “We don’t do theatre here.” “I’m not a terrorist,” Henry said. A long silence followed this clarification, Espejo’s laughter replaced by a glare so intense and penetrating that Henry began to doubt himself—perhaps he was a terrorist, after all. Perhaps he always had been. That was what the authorities were accusing him of, and outside, in the real world, there were people arguing both sides of this very question. His freedom hung in the balance. His future. Henry had to look away, down at the floor of the cell, which Espejo had redone with blue and white linoleum squares, in honor of his favorite soccer club. One of Espejo’s deputies, a thick-chested brute named Aimar, coughed into his fist, and it was only this that seemed to break the tension. “Did you write it?” Henry nodded. “So name a character after me,” Espejo said. Henry began to protest. Espejo frowned. “You think I have no culture? You think I’ve never read a book?” “No, I . . .” Henry stopped. It was useless to continue. I’ve already ruined myself, he thought. They were quiet for a moment. “Go on,” Espejo said finally, waving an uninterested hand in the direction of the yard. “If you can convince these savages, I have no objection.” Henry thanked Espejo and left—quickly, before the boss could change his mind. Everyone wanted to be the president, because the president was the boss. Everyone wanted to be the servant, because, like them, the servant dreamed of murdering the boss. Everyone wanted to be the son, because it was the son who actually got to do the killing in the play. It was this character whose name was changed: he became Espejo. And, indeed, the project sold itself. A week of talking to other inmates, and then the delicate process of auditions. Henry had to write in extra parts to avoid disappointing some of the would-be actors. It was for his own safety—some of these men didn’t take rejection very well. He added a chorus of citizens to comment on the action; ghosts of servants past to stalk across the stage in a fury, wearing costumes fashioned from old bed sheets. He even wrote a few lines for the president’s wife, played with verve by Carmen, the block’s most outspoken transvestite. Things were going well. Even Espejo joined in the enthusiasm. It would be good for their image, he was heard to say. Rogelio wanted to audition, too, but there was a problem. “I can’t read,” he confessed to Henry. “How can I learn the script?” Henry smiled. They were lying together on the top bunk, close, naked. “I can teach you.” Later, he’d remember the look on Rogelio’s face, and the hope implicit in his own offer. Perhaps by saying these words, Henry was already imagining a life outside those walls. When Rogelio didn’t respond, Henry pressed him. “Who do you want to be?” Rogelio thought for a moment. “The servant is the one who dies?” Henry nodded. “How?” “He’s stabbed in the back.” “Well, then,” Rogelio said, “I guess that should be me.” When the play was performed, three weeks later, Henry paid special attention to that scene. He and Rogelio had worked on the script every night, pacing in their cell, bouncing the servant’s lines back and forth until Rogelio knew them by heart, but he had insisted on practicing the death scene on his own. Out of timidity, Henry thought, but when he saw the performance he realized that he had been wrong. The entire population of Block 7 was watching: hard, fearless men who gasped at the sight of Rogelio staggering. They recognized the look of terror on his face. They’d been that man; they’d killed that man. They watched Rogelio fall in stages, first to his knees, then forward, clutching his chest, as if trying to reach through his body to the imaginary knife wound. Henry and the others, all of them held their breath, waiting, and were rewarded with a final flourish: Rogelio’s right leg twitching. Espejo was the first to stand and applaud. The play wasn’t even over. Henry was released that November, thinner, older, after a year and a half in prison. He didn’t say to Rogelio, “I’ll wait for you.” Or, “I’ll see you on the outside.” But he thought those things, held them secret, but dear, until the day, a few months later, when two of the more volatile sections of Collectors rose up to protest conditions inside. Block 7 had the misfortune of sitting between them, and when the Army arrived to put down the revolt, it, too, was destroyed. Henry heard the news on the radio. The men who had made up the cast of “The Idiot President” all died in the assault, shot in the head, or killed by shrapnel, or crushed beneath falling concrete walls. More than three hundred inmates from Blocks 6, 7, and 8 were killed, and, though Henry wasn’t there, part of him died that day, too. He lost Rogelio, his best friend, his lover—a word he had never used, not even to himself. In the days after, he sometimes woke with the taste of Rogelio on his lips. Sometimes he woke to the image of Rogelio lying dead of a knife wound. Henry mourned, even roused himself enough to participate in a few protests in front of the Ministry of Justice (though he declined to speak when someone handed him the bullhorn), but, in truth, the tragedy both broke him and spared him the need ever to think about his incarceration again. No one who’d lived through it with him had survived. There was no one to visit, no one with whom to reminisce, no one to meet on the day of his release and drive home, feigning optimism. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
From a Farther Room	Credit Illustration by Scott Musgrove After dubious sleep, Robert Childress woke up feeling like crap. Not a surprise. The night before, he had gone out with Stearns, to a steak joint in midtown, where they split a massive porterhouse along with two types of potato, onion rings and creamed spinach, shrimp cocktails to start, plus other cocktails, and bread and wine, profiteroles for dessert, and finally a complimentary plate of cookies, after which Stearns happily—thank God—picked up the tab. A possible trip to a gentleman’s club was mentioned, like in the old days, Stearns said, which was a joke, since Stearns was single and still lived in those days. But not Childress. Childress was married and suburbanized in North Salem, and even though this was a Friday in October and his wife and three kids were visiting the in-laws for the weekend, and Becka herself had suggested this boys night out—“Call Stearns and have some stupid fun”—the idea of strippers was not very appealing. A lap dance would go bust on his stomach, his boner as ludicrous as a raised pinkie. Oh, Stearns tried to sway him with a V.I.P. card pulled from his wallet, but he had to settle for one more drink at a bar around the corner, where he talked endlessly about his dad, this great gregarious guy who had suddenly clammed up in the face of cancer. Childress offered vague yet heartfelt sympathy, avoiding talk of his own troubles, like the stubborn premonitions of fading love, or the less than robust bank account. Alert the media: unhappy, middle-aged white man on the loose. After two beers, the two friends parted. Strippers would have been easier. Childress—without Stearns, just plain old Robert—contemplated rushing for the 12:01 train, but then he spotted a white stretch limo trolling for fares and decided to ask about a trip north. The quoted price was absurd, but Robert managed to haggle it down to merely outrageous and jumped in. Halfway home, he discovered the depressing truth of riding alone in a white stretch limo. Thank God Roscoe went nuts upon his arrival. Dumb happy beast. For ten minutes Robert tossed him a tennis ball in the back yard, throwing it as far as he could—in high school, Robert was an excellent fielder, though a hopeless hitter—and every time that Roscoe returned from the darkness with that slob of yellow lodged in his mouth it seemed a small miracle. Good boy. Robert grabbed those ears, kissed that forehead. Good fucking boy. It wasn’t until he collapsed into bed that he realized just how drunk he was: everything started to spin, even with a foot kickstanded to the floor. Instead of sleep, survival was the goal. Relax and breathe. Remain still. Despite these efforts, somewhere in the middle of the night Robert Childress leaned over the side of the bed and threw up. And now the digital read 7:06. The sad part: this was sleeping late. Robert heeled his hands against his eyes—deeper still, against those sockets—and moaned in an almost ritual performance of hangover. This is my body, fucked. And it seemed as if he had smoked a pack instead of the single butt grubbed from that twentysomething on Lexington. “Fuck cancer,” he’d told her, his exact meaning unclear. There was a brief worry that he might never feel good again. His head had all the charm of an empty container of ice cream. Had he really got so drunk? Because he thought he had been good. No tequila, no cocaine. No strippers. One lousy cigarette. Robert spent a few moments threading together the end bits of the previous night—Stearns and his dying father, Stearns and his big old Stearns hug—then he flashed onto the limo and figured he must have been drunk. Even worse was the dreaded possibility of a hundred-dollar tip. Robert closed his eyes on competing images: a noose being tossed over a beam; a muzzle being pressed to his temple. Not that Robert had any overt desire to kill himself—he had no barn, no pistol. It was just that the idea of suicide provided an almost practical comfort, like the thought of a vacation to a distant island from which you never came back. He was in the process of sinking into that warm sand when he heard a noise—specifically, a whimper—coming from the foot of Becka’s side of the bed. It was Roscoe. Maybe he was hungry. Maybe he needed to go out. Maybe he just missed Becka, the master of them all. “Yeah, O.K., boy, O.K.,” Robert muttered, and he patted the bed in the hope of bribing the dog with the rare privilege of curling up beside him. But there was no leap, and the noise persisted. God damn it. Robert allowed himself a brief vision of waking clearheaded tomorrow. He’d go running. He’d read the entire Sunday paper. He’d even try to tackle the— Roscoe started to growl. “You’ve got to be kidding me.” Then Roscoe barked. Before Robert could muster the strength to throttle the dog, the sound of crying, high-pitched and breathless, came from the vicinity of the floor. Robert sat up without actually sitting up. What the hell? Had Roscoe dragged in some creature from the woods? Was something dying right there on the rug, half ripped apart? Waaaaaaaaaaa. And the rug was new. Fucking Roscoe. Fucking goddam dog. All this projected hassle finally gave way to Robert rolling to the other side of the bed, this movement spurring a memory of the battle against nausea before the fast humiliating defeat, but at no point did Robert recall throwing up anything quite like this: it was about the size of an eggplant, though in color more reddish brown, its body a mishmash of textures and lumps, a goulash molded into a ghoul. There was a shape that resembled a head, plus four distinct parts that roughly corresponded with two arms and two legs, further articulated by an assumption of ten fingers and ten toes, presently wriggling. Robert winced. His feelings of disgust were still confined within the narrative of the dog, though Roscoe looked equally stumped. Regardless, this thing was unhappy. It flailed about as though tormented by a thousand stings. Despite the obvious freakishness of the situation, a dim sympathy arose within Robert as the surreal backed into the practical, the impossible losing its singular meaning. This was no dream. This was a life, however struck. Before Robert could come up with a proper plan, Roscoe jumped in with all the passion of his breed and turned those cries into even worse screams. Robert continued to call until Stearns picked up. “What time is it?” His throat sounded crumpled with dollar bills. “Around eight-fifteen.” “It’s Saturday morning, you realize.” “Yeah, yeah, hey—” “You missed quite a night.” “You kept on going?” “Wasn’t even midnight,” Stearns said. Robert allowed himself a quick glance toward the bed, where the thing from the floor now lay swaddled in a towel. Fortunately, Roscoe had a soft mouth, and Robert had acted—“Give, give!”—before any real damage could be done, rushing it into the bathroom and using a washcloth to clean its, well, its body, he supposed. It weighed only a few slippery pounds, its most distinct feature being its mouth, essentially a nest for that quivering tongue, the remainder of its face falling under the guise of guesswork, those slits likely eyes, those outcroppings ears. There was no nose, only a nostril smear. Still, Robert found himself rocking the thing until it settled down, after which he wrapped it in a towel and noticed that it was most definitely a male of its species. “I’m curious,” he said to Stearns. “How’re you feeling?” “Like crap.” “But your stomach, how about your stomach?” “Like a fat shit—nothing new there.” “Because I got kind of sick.” “What, like throw-up sick?” Robert looked toward the bed again. “Yeah, I think.” “You think? And how do you think you’re feeling now?” “Kind of weird,” Robert said. “Like you might throw up again?” The towel started to stir. “I hope not,” Robert said. He wondered if he should try to explain things to Stearns, but where to start, and what to say, and, once the inkling was given weight, when would madness set in? Um, there’s a chance I vomited up a baby last night, a severely deformed baby but a baby nonetheless. A boy, I think. “I didn’t eat anything different from you, right?” Robert asked as sweat unstitched his hairline. “Yeah, you don’t sound so good,” Stearns said. “I’m kind of in a fucked-up place.” “You should call the restaurant and complain.” “Well—” “I’ll call the restaurant. For what we paid, it’s not right.” The stirring grew more agitated. There was obvious frustration on that bed, a rooting about that Robert recognized from years ago. This thing was hungry. The food needed food. Robert backed toward the bathroom. “Childress?” Stearns said. “Huh?” “I said do you want me to come up? I got nothing going on today and a drive in the country would do me some good. I could bring you real chicken soup and proper bagels. You got ginger ale? That’s what my mom always gave me. We could also smoke some pot—for purely medicinal reasons, of course.” “No,” Robert said quickly, even though this was Stearns at his best, the go-to guy when you were in trouble, who would drop everything to help, this terrible asshole a hero to a hundred friends. But even Stearns would be repulsed by this. “I mean, no thanks,” Robert amended less sharply. “You sure?” “Positive.” A testing cry came from the bed, followed by a shriek that seemed almost peristaltic, its grip and release pushing consciousness through the grimmest of openings. An awful thought came to Robert: What if I throw up again and somehow produce its sibling? “What’s that noise?” Stearns asked. “Um, birds.” Robert stepped into the bathroom. “Does Westchester have pterodactyls now?” Robert closed the door and took a defensive position, remaining perfectly still and listening for signs of approach. On the phone, Stearns was saying something about cockatoos in Australia and how they’re pests and loud as shit, nothing exotic about them, and Robert realized that his friend would probably go on talking until he was actively disengaged. “Remember that show ‘Baretta’—” “Stearns?” “Yeah?” “I gotta go.” Robert hung up, gripped the phone to his chest like a missionary his Bible. There must be an answer, he thought, but all reason was overwhelmed by helplessness adrenalized, as if the bathroom were plummeting from thirty thousand feet. Robert had always pictured himself calm in a crisis, the person with the wherewithal to comfort the kid travelling alone. “It’s going to be O.K.,” he would say, hand on shoulder, his years of expecting the worst having prepared him for this moment. On good days, this reflex seemed almost Buddhist. Becka, on the other hand, was a rationalist; all problems could be diagnosed, therefore fixed. A sore throat was always the beginning of strep, a sniffle allergies. She probably would have tried to convince him that the thing on the bed was his partially absorbed twin, forty-plus years conjoined to his gut and now finally free. Twins ran in the family. Maybe he would start to feel better now. Robert wondered how long he should wait, when was time time enough? The bathroom floor seemed to rack into focus, as though predicting his fall; Robert reached for the sink to steady himself and in the process met his face in the mirror. Was that thing screaming for him? “I don’t mind getting married for better or for worse as long as it’s not a whole lot worse.”Buy the print » It was beautiful outside, high sixties and crisp, the blue with its attendant white seemingly composed by a bored painter painting another goddam sky. If Sean and Robert, Jr., had been here, the three of them would be heading to soccer, the twins just decent enough athletes to make life impossible, what with the soccer and the hockey and the baseball, though it was obvious they would never be great. Nine years old and Robert already glimpsed mediocrity in their gait. He would watch them from the sidelines with those other conscripted parents, overcoming his innate shyness for the sake of community, cheering the boys on without embarrassing them, he hoped. “Good try” was mostly what he shouted. “Good try” and “Almost” and possibly a murmur of “Fucking A, that Gilroy kid can play.” And, of course, that Gilroy kid’s mother would be there, Janice of the South African accent and squinty demeanor, as though she were a shark among pilot fish. “Everyone’s feeding on scraps around here,” she once told Robert during an endless scrimmage. “Scripts?” he asked. “No, no, scraps,” she repeated. “Bits of leftover flesh.” “Scraps.” “Yes, scraps,” she said, exaggerating his American pronunciation, like a hard flat serve in tennis, then she smiled and put a touch of spin on the ball. But Robert was basically content, if almost always exhausted, to be living here, and he certainly would have preferred to be standing on those sidelines watching his sons chase after far speedier scraps than to be walking toward the back of his property, to where the trees were thickest and many seasons’ worth of leaves covered the ground. In one hand he carried a shovel; in the other, a rectangular box. It was something he’d made in fifth-grade woodworking class, probably the best thing he’d ever made in any class, carefully tapping in the nails and sanding the edges, carving his name on the lid—“Bobby”—then screwing in the hinges, screwing in the latch secured by a small padlock, the loss of its key remedied by a single blow from a hammer. Inside, baseball cards, hundreds of them, stacked like rubber-banded bricks of gold. Robert had come across the box last year after his mother died and he was emptying her attic of Bobby-related artifacts: the crates of records and tapes, the Technics turntable and Yamaha receiver-equalizer, the speakers like substantial pieces of furniture—man, he used to love his music—plus the old posters in poster tubes, the tapestries. So much forgotten stuff. Robert had moved it all into his basement, with plans of someday re-creating an analogue existence. “This is sound!” he would shout. But the baseball cards he gave to Sean and Robert, Jr., who spent a weekend cataloging them and checking their values online before sliding them into a binder—1975-1980. They would have tossed the box. And God bless the boys’ lack of nostalgia. They would never miss things the way Robert missed things, memory sometimes taking his breath away. The best spot for this business was the far corner of the back yard, in the middle of a thicket of arborvitae that concealed the deer fencing, fencing in name only, since the deer came and went with impunity. Robert backed through the branches. Inside, it was like a room within a turret, with a hidden view of the pool, the terrace, the bay window of the kitchen. He imagined a madman crouching here, envying his family. The roof needed reshingling. That was an expense he and Becka had balked at during the big renovation six years ago, when they had actual money to spend; instead, they had opted for a screening room and had even bought one of those old-fashioned popcorn poppers which forever stank up the house. But Robert had a childhood fantasy about a screening room. It seemed the height of success. Of course, Becka complained about the surround sound being too loud, and the kids cared only about their handheld devices, which left Robert alone with old favorites, like “The Towering Inferno” or “A Bridge Too Far,” feeling ridiculous and friendless and wondering how he had become so ridiculous and friendless, and if he told this to Becka, like really told her, she would say go pick up the phone and call someone, you have to make an effort, Robert, and he would mutter something about being tired and retreat back to Anthony Hopkins at Arnhem. What a bloody mess. Robert eased the box to the ground, its contents having cried itself to sleep. He figured he should dig beyond a canine sense of smell. A stomp on the shovel and the blade sank in and gave up a satisfying wedge of earth, followed by another wedge, no less satisfying, and for a moment Robert forgot the grim task and simply enjoyed the basic labor, wishing that life presented more opportunities to dig holes. Once he hit two feet, he stopped. This is my only option, he thought. Whether this is miraculous or merely bizarre but true, I have no choice. Robert lowered the box, not without ceremony. Nothing stirred within, and he had hopes of possible suffocation; perhaps his long-ago care with carpentry had created a perfect seal. Then he saw his old name on the lid and his mood darkened. Was he so different from that easily injured boy? Sometimes it seemed that the only point to life was death. Dirt slid from the shovel back into the hole. Robert hoped it sounded like peaceful rain, because after that the rest was a storm. Stripping down, Robert checked his phone and noticed multiple messages from Becka, beginning with a text—You up?—and ending with a voice mail, which he snubbed. Just finished a ten-mile run, he texted back, and jumped into the shower. Every now and then a horrific burst of imagination shook him: the cold darkness, the rising hunger, the first and final fear, of dying without ever understanding death. He began to revise his thoughts, distance insisting on reason. It must have been an animal, right, dragged in by Roscoe, some unfortunate creature deformed by fertilizers and pesticides. Around ten o’clock, he called Becka back. She was giddy from being in that childhood home of hers, with the tennis court and the swimming pool, the two guest cottages, her parents with those pleasant parent smiles and easy parent love and natural parent abundance, whether of manners or of money or of pedigree—all this turned Becka into an overly excitable teen. “Mom wants me to go to India with her because Dad refuses—you know, the poverty—and I’m, like, hello, I can’t, not with the kids, and she’s, like, it’s just three weeks, like three weeks is nothing, like sure, three weeks, great.” Robert stared out the bay window. “Of course, it would be fascinating,” Becka said. He called her bluff. “Go, then.” “Oh, c’mon, I can’t.” “If you want to go, go. We can figure it out.” “Please.” She sounded almost mad at the suggestion. “How was Stearns last night?” “His father’s really sick.” She hummed with sympathy, then asked, “You out late?” “Home before midnight.” “But you had fun?” “Sure.” “Good,” Becka said, as if she had granted him this fun. “You’re lucky you’re not here. My mother is driving me nuts.” Robert let the sentiment pass, since he knew that Becka worshipped her mother and often trumped up charges against her in hopes of obscuring this love with easier outrage. “Everyone’s asking about you,” she said. “I’ll see them over Thanksgiving,” he said, and over Christmas, too, and spring vacation in the Bahamas, and August on Martha’s Vineyard. All this was undeniably nice, and Robert never did complain—his parents were dead, and his brother and sister had their own family dynamics in Michigan—though he sometimes wished Becka would just embrace their existence, however modest in comparison. “What are you up to today?” she asked. “Not sure yet.” “But you went for a long run?” “Yeah. I’m kind of beat from that.” “Wish I could find time to exercise.” When did being husband and wife turn into a zero-sum proposition? “How’re the kids?” he asked. “Having fun with their cousins.” “That’s good.” “That Peter is a nightmare, though.” “Uh-huh.” “Grabs everyone’s stuff.” “He is only three.” “But they spoil him,” Becka said. Robert could hear how his quick defense annoyed her, the same as when he used to defend Robert, Jr., during his hard-core mermaid phase, five years old and drawing nothing but large-breasted mermaids and wanting to be called Ariel and watching “The Little Mermaid” over and over, and how Becka hated it and searched for a reason and for possible strategies to counteract the impulse, while Robert had no problem with the fantasy, so strange and exotic, so goddam special—my mermaid son. Plus it had taken the pressure off the more traditional paternal duties, which could scare Robert blind. Baseball was fine, but he would rather play Ursula or Sebastian the crab. “Why do I bother?” Becka said. Robert was unsure of the referent, whether meaning rested on him or on her family or on a combination of the two; either way, there was no winning, so he stayed quiet. “What are you doing for food?” she asked. “Eating.” “O.K.—” “I’m sorry, I’m sorry,” he said, trying to step back from his tone. “It’s just—” “I know, I know.” “I’m here and you’re—” “I’m sorry.” “And—” “Totally.” “Sometimes—” “I hear you.” They were much better at these partial articulations. “But all is well?” she asked. “Basically?” “All is well, basically,” he said, hearing her honest concern. They talked a bit more, about logistics mostly, then said goodbye, and Robert wondered if he was simply good at lying, or withholding, or whatever it was that he often did, or if Becka was too trusting and a savvier wife would have seen through him. Not that he ever lied about anything important, just small things, like what he had had for lunch, or if he had returned So-and-So’s call, random aspects of his boring day that he used to trick his wife for no apparent reason. For practice, maybe? For the big, inevitable lie? Standing there, Robert found himself questioning his own sense of the truth. How was any of this possible? Had he been seeing things? Misreading things? Imagining things? And though he was certain, or near certain, of what had happened, this growing doubt seemed a far greater threat to his sanity than any potential monster. He was back among the arborvitae, with the shovel once again in hand and Roscoe on a leash—despite his being just a dumb dog, Robert needed a third presence to triangulate existence. It was obvious that the ground had been disturbed, so that much was true. Of course it was true, all of this was true. Robert lowered his ear and listened. Roscoe’s frantic sniffing interfered with a clear assessment, but Robert thought he heard something bundled within the normal outdoor chirps, something that sounded like a muffled cry, as if the earth were a heartbroken pillow. But he needed to be sure—sure of what? Life? Death? He tied Roscoe to a nearby tree. This time the dirt gave up without satisfaction, the blade going in like a sigh, but as Robert dug deeper he became more convinced that he did in fact hear crying, terrible crying, coming from below, that there was something down there that needed saving, having forgotten his own agency in the matter. Shovel hit lid, and Robert fell to his knees and brushed the dirt away from his childhood name. As he freed the box, he could feel the wood vibrate. Inside, a thousand bees could’ve been mourning their lost queen. Robert flipped open the lid. The thing, either startled or relieved, went instantly silent. It looked up at him, its eyes like the gunk that stops the drain, and then it blinked. The taxi headed toward the Brewster train station. Robert sat in the back, on his lap a Prada box stolen from Becka’s closet, the boots replaced by this, this—Robert still had no proper name for the thing, though he had taken to calling it You, as in, “You hungry?,” which led to his feeding it applesauce, the spoon disappearing into that wound of a mouth and hitting against something hard, something that Robert chose not to investigate. But it seemed satisfied. “You like that, huh?” Robert said, wiping its chin. The unfortunate visuals had re-formed into a certain familiarity, a habituation that bordered on hope. Robert ditched the towel for a Rangers T-shirt pulled from the twins’ bureau—“You comfy now?”—and decided on a more practical means of conveyance, hence the Prada box. He had briefly debated leaving it in the house while he went to retrieve the car, but even a thing like this deserved responsible parenting. As the taxi powered through the curves of Titicus Road and thank-you-ma’amed the hills near Peach Lake, Robert could feel the box’s contents start to shift and roll, the movement growing in velocity until he peeked in. “You O.K.?” Those chapped lips cracked open, reinjuring themselves for the sake of a smile. “You enjoying the ride?” Robert reached down and unbundled the T-shirt from around its neck, his touch provoking a shrill giggle. “What you got back there?” the driver asked. “What’s that?” “In the box?” “A bird,” Robert said, leaning on his youth and those birds with broken wings slipped into old shoeboxes. It was never any use. “It knows it needs to die,” his father would tell him, and Robert would disagree until his father was proved right one way or another. “Is it O.K.?” the driver asked. “It flew into a window, I think.” “Is it a parrot? Sounds like a parrot.” “No,” Robert said, sticking to the truth of his past. “So you going to a vet for a random bird?” The look in the rearview mirror was the upstate version of incredulous, otherwise known as you’re fucking nuts. “Something like that,” Robert said. “Not to be harsh, but unless that’s a California condor it ain’t worth it.” Sometimes it seemed that his father was everywhere. At the train station, Robert picked up his car and drove to the supermarket, where he tucked the Prada box into the fold-down basket of the shopping cart and started to browse the aisles, grabbing things long forgotten, like baby food and baby formula, baby bottles, baby lotion, baby wipes and baby diapers, though none of the advertised babies looked anything like his particular baby. The supermarket was bustling at this hour. Most of the shoppers seemed more rugged than the typical suburban crowd, as if they were the secret farmers of northern Westchester County, the honest laborers who gathered when Bedford played tennis and Katonah played golf. Baseball caps were in abundance, the same with facial hair and affordable clothing, and Robert was at ease in their blue-collar midst. He was a straightforward dad doing his straightforward share, with no worries about yield-curve risks or duration gaps, and, while there were still sporadic sightings of preppy women in quilted jackets and oversized sunglasses, they were like picadors whose job was to provoke and fatigue. An aisle later, one of these picadors pricked Robert by calling his name. He was contemplating a turkey baster and recognized her only when she removed her sunglasses and squinted. “Janice,” Robert said, the baster like a rogue exclamation mark in his hand. “We missed you at soccer today.” “I thought there wasn’t a game.” “There wasn’t, just a practice.” “I probably should’ve called someone. My wife and kids are away.” “And I see you have plans for a wild night tonight.” Janice reached into his cart and removed a can of baby formula. “Ah, Similac, I knew you well. Where be your gibes now?” She spoke with a theatrical lilt, after which she grimaced and let the can drop. “Sorry,” she said. “It was one of those endless practices and I had no one decent to talk to. But enough of me. Is there happy news on the Childress horizon? Shall I start tongues wagging?” “Tongs?” “Tongues”—Janice re-served, flattening the schwa. “No, no, no—God, no,” Robert said. “You can put the tongs down. My daughter volunteers for a local women’s shelter and they need baby supplies, so here I am.” “How nice.” “My daughter, not me.” “I just wonder if yet another pincer movement might be just what they are expecting.”Buy the print » “Yes, yes, always the kids.” Janice said, sounding almost disappointed, as if she were forty years too late to try to save the world. She was flirty and sexy and also distracted, not in the clichéd way of suburban mothers, with their aloof husbands and preoccupied children, but more like a keen scientist who has discovered, after years of study, that time is in fact fleeting. She tapped the top of the Prada box. “And doing some good-will work for the wife, I see.” Robert almost slapped her hand away. “What did you get her?” “Nothing too exciting, just boots.” The boots, Robert feared, had been awakened. “Nothing too exciting?” Janice said. “Now you’re showing off.” They both grinned and a question seemed to drape between them, a question often sensed but never spoken between the wives and husbands of husbands and wives: What would have happened if I had married you instead? “Anyway” from Robert. “Yes, yes, anyway” from Janice. They said their goodbyes, Janice moving toward the snack aisle while Robert aimed for a speedy exit, the sharp turn toward the cashier eliciting a kick and a yay from inside the box—shit!—followed by more kicks and more yays—shit, shit, shit!—as if a game had been invented, Robert getting in line and leaning hard on the top—shit!—pretending to read one of those magazines that served up celebrities on a platter. It was like a scene in a movie, he thought, a farce, judging by his clumsy attempts at hushing up. But in this particular Westchester version no one noticed anything; the shoppers put their food in motion and the cashiers collected their beeps without looking up, the whole exchange so oddly serious that a blessing could have been involved. “You got a Stop & Shop card?” the cashier asked him. “Uh, no,” Robert said, nonchalantly battling the box. She grabbed a nearby card and scanned its bar code for a ten-per-cent discount, and while Robert was pretty sure she did this for everyone, it seemed at that moment a great and unexpected kindness. On the drive back, Robert took the curviest route possible, the windows rolled down, the stereo forsaking Top Forty for some hard-core Hüsker Dü, nobody complaining about the volume, certainly not his fellow speed freak riding shotgun. “You fucking love this!” Robert yelled, seeing arms, or armlike arms, rise up from the box, like any kid on a roller coaster. Robert started to half sing, half shout the chorus to “Chartered Trips”: I thought I owed myself a trip away. I wanted to go to places, I have never been away. I looked at the pictures, imagine where they lay, Away, on a beach, by the sea, where their clothes all lay away. From the box came an accompaniment of wooo-wooo-wooo. Once home, Robert positioned “You must be tired of this box” between two pillows on the couch and took stock of the groceries. The smallest diaper size would have to do. He cleaned the reddish-orange growths that composed its backside and fastened the diaper as best he could. The addition of this piece of everyday baby gear seemed to burnish the nightmare, like seeing pictures of the Elephant Man in jacket and tie, and, as with the Elephant Man—Merrick was his name, something Merrick, Robert remembered, played by John Hurt in the movie—there was a deep sense of understanding, however excruciating, beneath the skin. Robert touched its head. He tried feeding it a bottle, but its ability to suck seemed compromised, so Robert moved on to the purées—the apples and the bananas and the pears—all of which were happily accepted, though sweet potatoes were the obvious favorite, causing an enthusiastic shimmy. The spoon still hit something hard, and Robert peered in and noticed two incisors breaking through the soft palate, a discovery that was more curious than unpleasant. “You have teeth!” Robert was pleased to remind himself of his childcare abilities, how he’d been right there when Eloise and Sean and Robert, Jr., were babies. Maybe he was less of a man, but he was more of a father, especially when the children were younger. Nowadays they seemed so heavy. Robert put the spoon down and, working from memory, picked up “You need to slow down” and laid it over his shoulder and started to pat its back, searching for a burp from within that knotted terrain. The ball disappeared across the lawn. It was early evening, and Robert stood in the middle of the back yard and watched his house get doled out in lamplight. Best case, he would receive no bonus this year. Roscoe reappeared from the growing darkness—good boy. In terms of being screwed, he was hardly alone. The ball disappeared. Sky and roof smudged into universal gray. On the second floor, “You should sleep” snoozed in a crib improvised from pillow and cushion, like Eloise with her dolls, when she was younger, before they took up jury duty on her bed. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. Earlier, Robert had given “You stink” a bath in the biggest of the salad bowls, and “You little fish” had splashed around and grunted, as if remembering its warm liquid beginnings. There had been—the ball disappeared—a moment when the phrase puke in a bowl got stuck in Robert’s head, which he found unspeakably funny, and he started to laugh, the long day having turned his brain to mush, and the actual puke in a bowl looked up with eyes pinched tight and laughed, too—huh-huh-huh—laughed for the sake of hanging on, it seemed, which made Robert want to cry. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. Maybe Stearns could set him up with a job. The ball disappeared. After the bath, Robert had rubbed lotion onto that burled skin and grabbed a fresh T-shirt from the twins’ bureau, this one of penguins surfing, “Look at You, dude,” already appearing bigger, stronger, too, like something hot that had cooled. Roscoe reappeared—good boy. For the first time, Robert allowed himself the thought of what “You sleep tight” might grow into, the possible story of its future care, the presumptions and formulations, the decisions spreading before him like the evening spreading across the sky, the question beyond answer, only a bit of yellow tumbling toward the horizon. Near five o’clock on Sunday, Becka and the kids pulled into the driveway. Robert and Roscoe greeted them outside, Roscoe spinning in tight circles, Robert recently showered and shaved. The hours in the car played across all their faces, with Becka taking on the higher definition of spending the weekend alone with kids and parents and siblings, her exhaustion nearing 3D. “Mom almost wrecked, like, a hundred times,” Sean said. Robert, Jr., staggered out as though escaping near-death. “It wasn’t that bad,” Becka said. Eloise, as both prosecution and defense, rolled her eyes. Becka forced a smile. “Either way, we made it, you little assholes.” Sean and Robert, Jr., ran for the yard, kicking up soccer balls and footballs where previously there seemed to have been none, with Roscoe on their heels, his doggy ways almost human in their company. Eloise watched her brothers for a moment, arms crossed, as though trying on the mantle of parent, after which she grabbed her bag and asked Robert about his weekend, her tone both curious and not. Sometimes he wondered if, rather than living, Eloise was building a case for life. But she was undeniably beautiful. And smart. And his boys were confident and enthusiastic, their kidding never turning cruel. Robert stood there in awe. It was obvious that much of their goodness came from Becka, that her genes were an entire language, while he had given them only a few words. But here they were, within sight again, his limited vocabulary servicing a kind of poetry. “I’m wiped,” Becka said. “I bet.” “And I really did almost crash. I wasn’t paying attention, so stupid of me, and I drifted into the oncoming lane. It could’ve been bad, like no-survivors bad.” “Scary,” Robert said, unloading the bags. “And it happened early, and for the rest of the drive I was so freaked I almost got into a dozen more accidents. I didn’t think the kids even noticed.” Becka shook her head. “It’s all because my mother told me to drive carefully. ‘Drive carefully,’ ” she said, trying to impersonate, but sounding only a little less like herself. “Well, you made it,” Robert said. He noticed in the nearby pachysandra an old tennis ball, only its top visible, like a monk’s tonsure. “You have a good weekend?” Becka asked. “It was quiet.” Robert stepped in and grabbed the ball. “In a good way?” “In a quiet way.” It was worn and dirty, elementally aged. “Next time come with us. Please,” Becka said. “Maybe.” Robert yelled toward the boys and gestured with the ball overhead as if knocking on a large wooden door. Sean and Robert, Jr., instantly understood the solicitation and jostled about, arms elbowing as Robert cocked his arm and launched the ball into the air, a true high fly, both boys trying to balance themselves on its descent. Neither got within five feet. “So pizza tonight?” Becka asked. Roscoe returned with the ball in his mouth. “Sounds fine,” Robert said. In bed that night, Robert and Becka made love, their hands moving in almost mechanical memory, bending and folding as if constructing a paper airplane, and though the design was basic, their bodies managed a bit of glide before sliding to a stop. Soon after, Becka said, “I feel like I’m always saying the wrong things.” “What?” “To you, that I’m annoying you.” “But you haven’t said anything.” “I mean in general.” “In general? No.” “I can’t read your mind.” “I know, I know. But didn’t we just have a nice little . . .” Becka settled into her pillow. “That’s not communicating.” “It’s a form of communicating.” “No. It’s more of an expression of all the previous communication. It doesn’t just stand alone.” “That doesn’t sound like much fun.” “You’re right,” Becka said. “It’s more like studying before a test.” “Should I say something here about grade inflation?” “That’s not what I meant.” “I know, I know.” “But do you?” Becka asked, seeming to wonder aloud. Robert grew silent. He knew that more needed to be said, and he wanted to say more, but he had nothing explicit to add, and so, unmoored, wrapped his arms around his belly as if in a pinch it could act as a flotation device. He lay there, suspended, until Becka finally turned and faced him, her left hand sliding under his head and rubbing the bony indent where spine met skull, and Robert found himself sort of falling through the floor, and the floor below that, all the way down to the basement and the far corner, where his old stereo and speakers remained stacked, the crates of records and tapes, the bygone music waiting, along with You who never made a sound. You were being brave. You need to be quiet, you were told, and you seemed to understand, but maybe you were just cold and frightened and those nods were yet another misunderstanding. You should know that there were fantasies of stealing you away and moving to northern Michigan, to the woods, to a hand-hewn cabin in the middle of those woods, to see what you might grow into, if you might settle into a viable existence, but you must have heard the sorries raining down and had some sense of what lay behind that word, the suffering and the failure. There was work tomorrow. And there was this family upstairs. There was that spring when Robert was twelve and an invisible barrier seemed to descend over the neighborhood, and over the course of a month a handful of birds appeared with broken wings and Robert became skilled at capturing them, sneaking up with soothing words and a ready towel. The beginning was always an adventure, the end a hard truth, until his father got fed up and grabbed the box and took the last bird into the yard and wrung its neck. There is mercy, and then there is mercy. Understand? He returned the box, empty, like some kind of receipt. “You O.K.?” Becka asked. She wiped Robert’s face. “What is it, my love?” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
All Ahead of Them	Credit Photograph by Michele Borzoni / TerraProject / Contrasto / Redux “It’s all a misunderstanding,” he said. “I’m just on my way somewhere. I’ll call you later. O.K.?” His mouth was so dry he could hardly get the words out, and he heard the strain in his brother’s voice as they said their goodbyes. He closed the phone and laid it on the bedside table. The French doors were open, and he could see a slice of the harbor above the balcony railing. The mattress squeaked as he rocked to his feet. He walked outside and stood at the railing. He wanted a cigarette, but he’d promised to quit after the wedding, and had managed to keep his word so far, despite the half-full pack of Gitanes forgotten by a previous guest in the bottom drawer of the dresser. Late sunlight glittered on the water and brightened the hulls of the boats in the marina. A pair of paisley pajama bottoms hung from a clothesline on the roof across the street, the legs dancing madly in the gusty breeze. He and Arden had laughed at the spectacle barely an hour ago; now he found it unsettling, humanly desperate. He had understood, even as he used the word “misunderstanding”—always mealy on the tongue, always prelude to an alibi—that there’d been no misunderstanding. Which meant that his wife of six days was a liar and a thief. Well. Well, well, well. A vein throbbed in his forehead; his tongue felt gritty. He lowered himself into one of the deck chairs and drank from the glass of water he’d left on his guidebook. The ice had melted, leaving a metallic taste. The cover of the guidebook was damp from the sweating glass. He wiped it on his pant leg and opened to the page he’d been reading. A few moments later, he shut the book; the words were swimming on the page. He lowered the back of the chair and closed his eyes, hoping to calm himself, but instead he saw himself from a distance, striking this easy pose, performing relaxation. For whom? For himself, to demonstrate how little shaken he was? The sense of being ridiculous made him sit forward sullenly, legs on either side of the chair. A Motorino whined in the street below. Minutes ago, before the call, he had been planning tomorrow’s walk to Vernazza. It was what he and Arden had come here to do, hike the cliff-side trails from village to village, and he had almost lost himself in plotting their route, looking for good beaches, picking likely restaurants. He’d been able to make love that morning for the first time since the wedding, and could just begin to contemplate the week to come without a cramp of dread. He’d had this trouble with Arden a few times before, but he’d assumed that it would pass once the anxieties of getting married were behind them. Arden was being O.K. about it, “understanding,” even though she didn’t understand—how could she, when he didn’t understand? He knew that she was trying to make it easier for him, but when she told him not to worry, that it happened to men “all the time,” he was not reassured. Her sympathy was withering enough, but all the time? Where did that come from? The wisdom of others, he hoped. But what sort of conversation would invite those others to make such a revelation? Would he himself become fodder for “sharing” over drinks on some girls’ night out, or during one of Arden’s cooking classes? The very thought of it unmanned him. Arden hadn’t given up, but in her attempts to rouse him he had begun to suspect something beyond concern, even beyond impatience: boredom. “It’s O.K., Bud,” she’d said last night, when all had failed. “Let’s get some sleep.” His name was Thomas, and he liked to think of himself as Thomas, but everyone called him Bud. Not even Tom, just Bud, ever since he was a baby, apparently because an aunt of his had said that he looked just like a bud in his little green onesie. The nickname had begun to grate as time went on, especially from people who didn’t know him well, as if they’d called him Mac or Pal. Though he knew they didn’t mean to presume, it affected him that way. Arden could imbue the name with tenderness, but she could also, as on the night before, sound like a stranger turning down the offer of a drink. Arden wasn’t her real name. She’d created it by flipping her given name backward. She had been named after her father’s mother, Nedra, who’d been sentenced to twenty-five years in prison for selling marijuana to other teachers in the Buffalo high school where she taught music. This was back in the seventies, under the Rockefeller laws. She had hanged herself in her cell after three years. A beautiful woman, everyone said, a talented pianist and singer. Arden’s father had been a young boy when Nedra was taken away, and never got over it. Above the fireplace he kept an oil portrait of her, copied at some expense from a photograph. He still couldn’t talk about her without getting choked up. So they had this in common, Arden and Bud—both of them known by names that weren’t really theirs, though of course he’d been saddled with his, and she had chosen hers. He didn’t blame her. Arden was a beautiful name, a poetic name. In fact, he had been interested in her even before they met, just from hearing some mutual friends talk about her. And when those friends brought them together for dinner she somehow was Arden, willowy, formal, old-fashioned, in a crushed-velvet dress and high boots, her heart-shaped face framed by strands of dark hair that kept escaping from the bun she wore. She had an air of innocence and sincerity that touched him. She seemed unworldly, more spirit than flesh, and he still found himself hesitant to approach her, to take her—afraid of seeming crass, hungry, merely carnal. He was careful with Arden, slow, gentle, but afterward he sometimes sensed a disappointment in her that made him feel rough and clumsy. “It was his favorite app.”Buy the print » Arden’s change of name had hurt her father, who still insisted on calling her Nedra—even, despite the pleas of his daughter and his wife, when giving his meandering, tearful toast at the wedding reception. There had been puzzled looks on the faces of some of the guests, as if they’d wandered into the wrong party, and Thomas realized that his bride had kept her given name secret from many of them, even close friends from college and the clinic where she worked as a speech therapist. She’d been in no hurry to tell him, either. He’d found out only when going to meet her parents for the first time. She had briefed him in the car on their way to the house—the story of her name, her grandmother’s prison sentence and suicide, all accounted for in a cool, flat recital of the facts during the last few minutes of the drive. “So when Dad calls me Nedra, that’s why,” she said as he pulled to the curb. She got out of the car and waved at someone. Thomas sat there in a daze until she rapped on the roof of the car. “Come on, Bud. They’re waiting.” Whenever they visited Arden’s family, Thomas found himself studying the portrait of her grandmother. He’d smoked some weed in high school and college. Not much—it made him unpleasantly self-conscious, tongue-tied—but he didn’t see any great harm in it, certainly not enough to lock someone up, as they used to do, just for having a few joints. But Nedra had more than a few joints when they busted her—she had a pound of the stuff, and precision scales, and special baggies, and several thousand dollars in an account hitherto unknown to her husband. She’d been an actual dealer. An ambitious dealer, too, expanding her customer base to young professors in the local colleges, though that hadn’t come out until after her death, and the repeal of the laws. She got busted after the vice-principal of her school ran a red light after a Christmas party, and the cop saw a fat spliff roll out of the glove compartment when the poor man opened it to show his registration. Stoned, hysterical, he immediately offered up Nedra, and that was that. The portrait fascinated Thomas. Nedra was looking down at a Siamese cat in her lap, and, yes, she was beautiful, but not in the ethereal way that Arden was beautiful. Her hair was short and blond, almost white, and her nose slightly upturned, where Arden’s was aquiline. She wore a short-sleeved shirt, and her arms were plump, rounded, both wrists circled with gold bracelets. Her lips were painted a deep red. Musician and purveyor of marijuana she might be, but there was nothing of the artistic hippie about Nedra. In fact, she looked sort of Republican, in the way of his own grandmother and his aunts and their friends, a type he’d always been attracted to—women who smoked and drank cocktails and wore glittering rings and perfume and mink coats, which he liked to hang up for them, stroking the fur that somehow brought in the cold on winter nights. Nedra was smiling down at the cat, and Thomas couldn’t help seeing something secretive in that smile, something withheld and power-giving, and maybe not so nice. And he liked that—liked knowing how different Nedra had been from what she seemed. A dealer . . . An outlaw! But he understood that he was probably reading things into the portrait. Thomas had packed his father’s old Army Zippo. Just out of sentiment—he was definitely quitting. He fetched it, then took the pack of Gitanes from under his shirts, tapped a cigarette out, and rolled it between his thumb and forefinger. It was dry, stale. He went back onto the balcony and propped his elbows on the railing. The lighter flared at the first roll of the flint. He roasted the tip of the cigarette over the tall oily flame, relishing the faint crackle of the leaves. The first drag went right to his head. He closed his eyes. He felt himself swaying a little. Oh, but it was good. He took another hit off the cigarette and opened his eyes to the astonishing sight of the pajama bottoms performing a cancan—one leg up and down, then the other, again and again. He laughed in spite of himself. His dizziness passed. He went on smoking and thinking, darkly. One last drag, and he flicked the cigarette down toward the empty lane. It landed on an awning. Metal, fortunately. That would’ve made his day, burning the hotel down. Wasn’t he the lucky one! So, the misunderstanding. What to do? Libby, his brother’s wife, never had her fingers off the phone. She texted while doing crossword puzzles, throwing a Frisbee for their neurotic Weimaraner—even changing diapers. By now, everyone in the family probably knew. Jenny and Claire, the other bridesmaids, lived downstate, and Libby hadn’t met them before the wedding, but she could track them down. Maybe she already had. What would they think? They’d been Arden’s roommates at Skidmore, her closest friends. And Libby, tireless busybody though she was, had a good heart. She’d taken Arden under her wing, treated her like a sister—even helped her plan the wedding. But of course it was Libby who’d discovered the crime, and now she was on the warpath. Arden had picked out the dresses for her bridesmaids at a shop Libby had recommended. The dresses cost more than five hundred dollars each, which seemed a ridiculous sum to Thomas but was apparently not out of bounds for the fancy wedding they were having. Libby and Jenny and Claire seemed to take the price in stride; they deputized Arden to buy the dresses for them and paid her back without a squeak. And the dresses were beautiful, Thomas had to admit that. In fact, the word that came to him was “stunning.” It seemed a woman’s kind of word, so he didn’t say it, but he thought it when he saw the three women together in the church, excited, weepy, glowing in emerald-green silk that rustled as they danced attendance on their cool ivory queen. He’d been happy to admire what he hadn’t had to pay for, though he knew he’d have found the dresses less appealing if they’d cost him five hundred bills. The problem was that they hadn’t cost Arden five hundred bills, either. That was the original price, still on the tags when she sent them to Libby and Jenny and Claire, but the dresses had been marked down by half when she bought them. Libby had taken hers back to the shop after the wedding for some minor adjustment, and the chatty owner had unwittingly exposed Arden’s scam. Two hundred and fifty each. Seven-fifty altogether. Not exactly peanuts, but hardly a killing, either. The senior partners in his law firm made that much in an hour. He wasn’t doing badly himself, and would do even better as time went on, and Arden had been given a nice bump in pay just two months ago. So why do it? It couldn’t have been about the money; it was something else, a sort of impulse, or itch. For what? The tingle of risk? Of stepping over the line? A sort of adventure, maybe. The release of something held in, perhaps her very self. Thomas’s mother had told him of a recurrent dream, in which she woke in her own bed, in her own house, and descended the stairs to find a strange man sitting at her kitchen table; he was wearing a military uniform and bore a livid scar across one cheek. Upon seeing her in the doorway he rose, and greeted her as his wife, approaching her with arms outstretched. She’d told Thomas this story twice, both times with a bemused smile. Now he felt as if he had somehow entered such a dream himself. Who was she? Who was this woman? “I like being a kid–it’s the ultimate entitlement program.”Buy the print » It was shocking. That is, he supposed he should be shocked. But here was the fact, stipulated: he wasn’t shocked. Embarrassed, to be sure, but not shocked. That seemed odd to him. He had to wonder, Why not? And this question brought to mind the stories that Arden told when she showed up late for a dinner or a movie or just about anything—she was always late, and always had a story. Thomas accepted these often flimsy narratives as a form of apology; in his limited experience, beautiful women did not generally feel obliged to make excuses. And there was something endearing about Arden’s inventions. A woman had slipped on a patch of ice, and she’d had to wait until the ambulance came. Her office door had locked behind her, with the keys inside, while the security guard was on break. One night, having kept Thomas pacing outside a concert hall for more than half an hour, she told him that she’d had to give a client a ride home, because his car had been stolen from the clinic lot—then she repeated the excuse a few months later, in pretty much the same words. It was as if she didn’t expect him to believe her, as if it were part of a game he’d bought into—as he guessed he had, because he never called her on any of it. No. That would have spoiled what he took to be an understanding between them: that she could spin transparent yarns and he would indulge her, would even be amused by their transparency. This arrangement afforded him the pleasure of a silent, paternal chuckle, while keeping things honest between them—with Arden weaving her tales and knowing, as she did so, that he understood them to be concoctions and would forgive her little deceptions in light of her willingness to offer him alibis. Or so he’d imagined. But what if he’d been wrong? What if she thought that he believed her? Thomas shook out another cigarette and let it dangle unlit from the corner of his mouth. The breeze was dying, the sky darkening into evening. The pajama legs hung listless from the line, now and then giving a little ripple as if in a faint memory of the dance they’d performed. Could she actually think he was buying her stories? He wouldn’t have thought it possible, except . . . well, except that he saw that it was possible. There was the night in April when she got her raise and insisted on taking him to dinner at Bistro Claude. Flushed with the praise she’d received from the clinic’s director, she was unusually, indelicately hungry; she kept the waitress running for this dish and that dish, a demi of Bordeaux to follow the bottle they’d drunk, dessert, coffee, brandy. He’d never seen her so voracious. They had left the restaurant and were about to cross the street when their waitress came running out and called to them. They stopped. It was cold, and the waitress, in a white silk blouse, hugged herself as she came toward them. “Was there something wrong with the service?” she asked. Her eyes were on Arden, her face pallid under the street light. “Was the service not up to your standard?” “The service was fine,” Arden said. “So—fine is not worth a tip?” Arden turned to Thomas. “You didn’t leave the tip?” “No. I thought—” He shook his head. “My fault. What was the bill?” The waitress named the sum, and Thomas gave her a couple of twenties—almost thirty per cent. She took them without a word and returned to the restaurant. “I thought you left the tip,” Arden said, looking straight at him. “Doesn’t the man always do that?” He had believed her, or, at least, had managed to think he believed her. So why did that night come back to him so vividly now? There was something there that didn’t make sense, that he’d skated over, let go, given how easy and sure she’d been, as if the mistake really had been his. But when she’d paid the bill she hadn’t told him what it came to, so how could he have known what the tip should be? It was of a piece with this dress business, and, when you got right down to it, with certain other things: the handicapped-parking sticker she’d somehow got her hands on, the years-overdue library books—little things, nothing much by themselves but making a sort of rhyme when you put them together. Thomas was not shocked, or, in fact, surprised. He was even a little relieved, strange as that seemed. He understood that he must have known all along. Now he was free of the work of pretending to himself that he didn’t know. So. How to explain this dress business? Because it was up to him to produce an explanation, and in such a way that the matter would be put to rest. And in a way that left Arden unaware that she’d been found out, so that she would not avoid his family or feel awkward in their presence. And she must not know that he had handled it—that he knew. She would never forgive him for knowing. He could not risk losing her. He had pledged himself, and not only in the words of the ceremony. When he’d first met Arden, she was engaged to an art dealer, a rich man, Austrian. She had thrown all calculation aside in leaving him for Thomas, a fledgling lawyer, a former social worker. And married him! He’d wondered if he was equal to her trust in him. Well, by God, he was. He was. He could come up with a story for Libby and the others. He could say that he himself had picked up the dresses and forgotten to mention the sale to Arden, that she had billed them according to the price still indicated on the tags. O.K., not that story, maybe, but something like it that had at least a decent possibility of being true. Whatever he came up with would be supported by the evidence of the money he’d send them. And of course he would beg them not to mention his embarrassing mistake to Arden. He would draw the funds from his account, not yet merged with Arden’s, and then open another, at a different bank, so that he could write other such checks, as occasion required; for there would surely be other occasions as the years went on, other confusions, misunderstandings, to be explained and smoothed over and set right with a roll of the old green, generously fattened to keep things “between ourselves,” so that his wife wouldn’t find out. The mistake would be his, always his. He could see the two of them years from now, sitting in the stands of some middle-school gym, while their son ran up and down the court on skinny legs, or their daughter’s choir sang inspirational songs. He would look at his beautiful wife and know, and be glad in his knowledge, and in her certainty of his innocence. That bad girl. Where was she? She’d gone out to do some shopping; how long could that take? He took the cigarette from his lips, held it over the railing as if to drop it, then lit it. He paced the balcony and smoked. Nedra would come back laden with packages. She would model the clothes for him, changing in front of him, taking things off, bending over, as he watched; he would demand it. She would hear the thickness in his voice, and hesitate, and smile. He knew that smile, he could see it—his mother’s smile as she remembered the scarred stranger in her kitchen, and how she’d entered his embrace. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Mastiff	Credit Illustration by Owen Freeman Earlier, on the trail, they’d seen it. The massive dog. Tugging at its master’s leash, so that the young man’s calves bulged with muscle as he fought to hold the dog back. Grunting what sounded like “Damn, Rob-roy! Damn dog!” in a tone of exasperated affection. Signs along the trail forbade dogs without leashes. At least this dog was on a leash. The woman stared at the animal, not twelve feet away, wheezing and panting. Its head was larger than hers, with a pronounced black muzzle, bulging glassy eyes. Its jaws were powerful and slack; its large, long tongue, as rosy-pink as a sexual organ, dripped slobber. The dog was pale-brindle-furred, with a deep chest, strong shoulders and legs, a taut tail. It must have weighed at least two hundred pounds. Its breathing was damply audible, unsettling. The dog’s straggly-bearded young master, in beige hoodie, khaki cargo shorts, and hiking boots, gripped the leather leash with both hands, squinting at the woman, and at the man behind her, with an expression that seemed apologetic or defensive; or maybe, the woman thought, the young man was laughing at them, ordinary hikers without a monster-dog to pull and strain at their arms. The woman thought, That isn’t a dog. It’s a human being on its hands and knees! Such surreal thoughts bombarded the woman’s brain, waking and sleeping. As long as no one else knew about them, she paid them little heed. Fortunately, the dog and its owner were taking another trail into Wildcat Canyon. The dog lunged forward eagerly, sniffing at the ground, the young man following with muttered curses. The woman and her male companion continued on the main trail, which was three miles uphill, into the sun, to Wildcat Peak. The man, sensing the woman’s unease at the sight of the dog, made some joke, which the woman couldn’t quite hear and did not acknowledge. They were walking single file, the woman in the lead. She waited for the man to touch her shoulder, as another man might have done, to reassure her, but she knew that he would not, and he did not. Instead, the man said, in a tone of slight reproof, that the dog was an English mastiff—“Beautiful dog.” Much of what the man said to the woman, she understood, was in rebuke of her narrow judgment, her timorous ways. Sometimes the man was amused by these qualities. At other times, she saw in his face an expression of startled disapproval, veiled contempt. The woman said, over her shoulder, with a wild little laugh, “Yes! Beautiful.” The hike had been the man’s suggestion. Or, rather, in his oblique way, which was perhaps a strategy of shyness, he’d simply told her that he was going hiking this weekend, and asked if she wanted to join him. He had not risked being rejected; he’d made it clear that he would be going, regardless. The woman had been introduced to the man seven weeks earlier, at a dinner party at a mutual friend’s home in the Berkeley Hills. The friend, closer to the man than to the woman, had said to the man, “You’ll like Mariella. You’ll like her face,” and to the woman, “Simon’s an extraordinary person, but it may not be evident immediately. Give him time.” The woman and the man had gone on several walks together already. But a hike of such ambition seemed, to the woman, something quite different. She’d said, “Yes! I’d love that.” It was late afternoon. They had been hiking for several hours, and were now making their way single file down the mountain. The woman was descending first, then the man. The man, the more experienced hiker, wanted to watch over the woman, whom he didn’t trust not to hurt herself. She’d surprised him by wearing lightweight running shoes on the trail and not, as he was wearing, hiking boots. She hadn’t thought to bring water, either. He carried a twenty-ounce plastic bottle of water for them both. The man was a little annoyed by the woman. Yet he was drawn to her. He hoped to like her more than he did—he hoped to adore her. He had been very lonely for too long and had come to bitterly resent the solitude of his life. It had been an unnaturally balmy day for late March. At midday, the temperature was perhaps sixty-eight degrees. But now, as the sun sank like a broken bloody egg, darkness and cold began to rise from the earth. The day before, the man had suggested to the woman that she bring a light canvas jacket in her backpack; he knew how quickly the mountain trail could turn cold in the late afternoon, but she had worn just a sweater, jeans, and a sun visor. (The woman’s eyes were sensitive to sunlight, even with sunglasses. She hated how easily they watered, tears running down her cheeks like an admission of weakness.) And she’d confounded the man by not bringing a backpack at all, with the excuse that she hated feeling “burdened.” In the gathering chill, the woman was shivering. The trail had looped upward through pine woods to a spectacular view at the peak, where the man had given the woman some water to drink. Though she said she wasn’t thirsty, he insisted. There’s a danger of dehydration when you’ve been exerting yourself, he said. He spoke sternly, as if he were a parent she could not reasonably oppose. He spoke with the confidence of one who is rarely challenged. At times, the woman quite liked his air of authority; other times, she resented it. The man seemed always to be regarding her with a bemused look, like a scientist confronted with a curious specimen. She didn’t want to think—yet she thought, compulsively—that he was comparing her with other women he’d known, and finding her lacking. Then the man took photographs with his new camera, while the woman gazed out at the view. Along the horizon was a rim of luminous blue—the Pacific Ocean, miles away. In the near distance were small lakes, streams. The hills were strangely sculpted, like those bald slopes in the paintings of Thomas Hart Benton. Absorbed in his photography, the man seemed to forget about the woman. How self-contained he could be, how maddening! The woman had never been so at repose in her self. For nearly an hour, he lingered, taking photographs. During this time, other hikers came and went. The woman spoke briefly with these hikers, while the man appeared oblivious of them. It wasn’t his habit, he’d told her, to strike up conversations with “random” people. “Why not?” she’d asked. And he’d said, with a look that suggested that her question was virtually incomprehensible, “Why not? Because I’ll never see them again.” With her provocative little laugh, the woman had said, “But that’s the best reason for talking to strangers—you’ll never see them again.” At least the bearded young man with the English mastiff hadn’t climbed to the top of Wildcat Peak, though other hikers with dogs had made their way there. A succession of dogs, in fact, of all sizes and breeds, fortunately most of them well behaved and disinclined to bark, several of them trailing their masters, older dogs, looking chastised, winded. “Nice dog! What’s his name?” the woman would ask. Or, “What breed is he?” She understood that the man had taken note of her fear of the mastiff at the start of the hike. How she’d tensed at the sight of the ugly wheezing beast. It had to be the largest dog she’d ever seen, as big as a St. Bernard but totally lacking that dog’s benign shaggy aura. And so at the peak the woman made a point of engaging dog owners in conversations, in a bright, airy, friendly way. She even petted the gentler dogs. As a child of nine or ten, she’d been attacked by a German shepherd. She’d done nothing to provoke the attack and could only remember screaming and trying to run as the dog barked furiously at her and snapped at her bare legs. Only the intervention of adults had saved her. The woman hadn’t told the man much about her past. Not yet. And possibly wouldn’t. Her principle was Never reveal your weakness. Especially to strangers: this was essential. Technically, the woman and the man were “lovers,” but they were not yet intimate. You might say—the woman might have said—that they were still, fundamentally, strangers to each other. They’d been together in the woman’s house, upstairs in her bed, but they hadn’t yet spent an entire night together. The man felt self-conscious in the woman’s house, and the woman hadn’t been able to fall asleep beside him; the physical fact of him was so distracting. Naked and horizontal, the man seemed much larger than he did clothed and vertical. He breathed loudly, wetly, through his open mouth, and though he woke affably when she nudged him, the woman hadn’t wanted to keep waking him. In truth, the woman had never been very comfortable with a man at close quarters, unless she’d been drinking. But this man scarcely drank. And the woman no longer lost herself in drink; that life was behind her. The woman liked to tell her friends that she wanted not to get married but to be married. She wanted a relationship that seemed mature, if not old and settled, from the start. Newness and rawness did not appeal to her. “Excuse me? When do you think we might head back?” She spoke to the man hesitantly, not wanting to break his concentration. In their relationship, she had not yet displayed any impatience; she had not yet raised her voice. At last, the man put his camera, a heavy, complicated instrument, into his backpack, along with the water bottle, which contained just two or three inches of water now—“We might need this later.” His movements were measured and deliberate, as if he were alone, and the woman felt a sudden stab of dislike for him, anger that he could take such care with trivial matters and yet did not seem to love her. “We have to stick around–the fire guy’s coming between twelve and two.”Buy the print » There were no rest rooms on the damn trail, of course. These were serious hiking trails, for serious hikers. Longingly, the woman recalled the facilities at the trailhead. How long would it take to hike back down? An hour? Two? For male hikers, stopping to urinate in the woods was no great matter; for female hikers, an effort and an embarrassment. Not since she was a young girl, trapped on an endless, hateful hike in summer camp in the Adirondacks, had she been forced to relieve herself in the woods. The memory was hazy and blurred with shame, and humiliation at the very pettiness of her discomfort. If she’d told this story to the man, he would probably have laughed at her. Driving to the park that day, the man and the woman had felt very happy together. It sometimes happened to them, unpredictably—a sudden flaring up of happiness, even joy, in each other’s company. The man was unusually talkative. The woman laughed at his remarks, surprised that he could be so witty. She was touched that, a few days before, he’d visited the art gallery she ran, and purchased a small soapstone sculpture. The woman slid over in the passenger’s seat, to sit closer to the man, as a young girl might do, impulsively. How natural this felt—a rehearsal of intimacy! The car radio was playing a piano piece by the Czech composer Janáček, “In the Mists.” The woman recognized it after a few notes. She’d played the piano cycle as a girl. Her eyes filled with tears as she remembered. The man continued talking, as if he didn’t hear the music. Avidly, the woman listened to the sombre, distinctive notes in a minor—“misty”—key. She didn’t register the man’s words, but his voice was suffused with the melancholy beauty of the music, and she felt that she loved him or might love him. He will be the one. It’s time. The woman was forty-one years old. The man was several years older. He had been the director of a research laboratory in Berkeley for many years. His work was predominant in his life. He was idealistic, a zealot for science education and the preservation of the environment. He was famously generous to younger scientists, a legendary mentor to his graduate students and postdocs. He’d never married. He wasn’t sure he’d ever been in love. Though he’d always wanted children, he had none. He was dissatisfied with his life outside the lab. He felt cheated and foolish, worried that others might pity him. He’d been upset earlier that year, while visiting one of his protégés at the Salk Institute, whose wife was also a scientist and who had several children; the young family lived in a split-level cedar house on three acres of wooded land. In this household, the man had felt sharply the emptiness of his own existence, in an underfurnished, rented house near the university, where he’d lived for more than twenty years. He’d ended the visit shaken. And not long afterward he’d met the woman at a dinner party. The woman was also lonely and dissatisfied—but primarily with others, not with herself. She’d had several relationships with men since college, but she hadn’t felt much for any of them. Some she had dated simultaneously. And yet she was deeply hurt if a man wasn’t exclusively involved with her. Her father had left the family when she was a child and rarely visited. All her life she’d yearned for that absent man, even as she’d resented him. She’d hated her own vulnerability. She was an attractive woman. Within her small circle of friends, she was popular, admired. She dressed stylishly. She was social. She’d invested wisely in her art gallery. Still, she was preoccupied with how she appeared in others’ eyes. She could barely force herself to contemplate her own image in a mirror: her face, she thought, was too small, her chin too narrow, her eyes too large and deep-set. She hated the fact that she was petite. She’d have preferred to be five feet ten, to walk with a swagger, with sexual confidence. At five-three, it seemed she had no choice but to be the recipient, the receptacle, of a man’s desire. Sometimes, in the midst of buoyant social occasions, something inside the woman seemed to switch off. She could feel a deadness seeping into her, a chilly indifference. At the end of an evening, her women friends would hug her, or a friend’s husband might slip his arm around her waist to kiss her, just a little too suggestively, and the coldness in her would respond, I don’t give a damn if I ever see any of you again. She laughed at herself. A hole in the heart. Yet it happened, in the new man’s company, that the woman felt a rare hopefulness. If she couldn’t love the man, it might be enough for the man to love her; enough for them to have a child together, at least. (In the woman’s weakest moments, she lamented the fact that she had no children, that she would soon be too old to have any. Yet children bored her, even her nieces and nephews, who she conceded were beautiful.) What would the man have thought if he’d known about the woman’s calculations? Or were these just harmless fantasies, unlikely to be realized? Now, making her way down the trail, eager to be out of the park that had seemed so inviting hours ago, the woman felt disconsolate. The long wait at the peak had enervated her. The man’s seeming indifference had enervated her. As the sun shifted in the sky, she felt strength leaking from her. Brooding and silent, the man walked behind her, sometimes so close that he nearly trod on her heels. She wanted to turn and shout at him, “Don’t do that! I’m going as fast as I can.” So absorbed was the woman with the voice inside her head that she only half realized that she’d been hearing a familiar sound somewhere close by—a wet chuffing noise, a labored breathing. The trail continued to drop, turning back on itself; another, lower trail ran parallel to it now, and would join it within a few yards, and on this trail two figures were hurrying, one of them, in the lead, a large beast running on all fours. Appalled, the woman saw the enormous mastiff stop at the junction of the two trails, unavoidable. The dog’s damp, shining eyes were fixed on her, sharply focussed. With a kind of indignation quickly shifting to fury, it barked at the woman, straining at its leash as the bearded young man yelled at it to sit. The woman knew better than to succumb to panic; certainly she knew better than to provoke the dog. But she couldn’t help herself—she screamed and shrank away. It was the worst possible reaction to the dog, which, maddened by her terror, leaped at her, barking and growling, wrenching the leash out of its master’s hands. In an instant, the mastiff was on the woman, snarling and biting, nearly knocking her to the ground. Even in her horror, the woman was thinking, My face. I must protect my face. Her companion quickly intervened, pushing himself between her and the dog, even as the dog, on its hind legs, continued to attack. Futilely, the dog’s master shouted, “Rob-roy! Rob-roy!” The dog paid not the slightest attention. The frantic struggle couldn’t have lasted more than a minute or two. Fiercely, the man struck at the dog with his bare fists and kicked it. The young man yanked at the dog’s collar, cursing. With great effort, he finally managed to pull the animal away from the man, who was bleeding badly now from lacerations on his hands and arms and face. The woman, terrified, was cringing behind him. She felt something wet on her face. Not blood but the dog’s slobber. She called out, “Help him! Get help for him! He’ll bleed to death.” The dog was still barking hysterically, lunging and leaping with bared fangs, while the young man struggled to hold it down, apologizing profusely, claiming that the dog had never done anything like this before—not ever. “Jesus! I’ll get help.” There was a ranger station a half mile down the trail, the young man said. He’d run. Alone with the injured man, the woman cradled him in her arms as he moaned in pain. He appeared to be dazed, stupefied. Was he in shock? His skin felt cold to the woman’s touch. She could barely comprehend what had happened, and so swiftly. The dog had bitten and scratched her hands, too. She was bleeding. But her fear was for the man. She fumbled in her pocket for her cell phone, tried to call 911, but the call failed to go through. She wondered whether she should make a tourniquet to stanch the flow of blood from the man’s forearm. Years ago, in high school, she’d taken a course in first aid, but could she remember now? For a tourniquet, you had to use a stick? Her eyes darted about, searching for—what? Like a foolish trapped bird, her heart beat erratically in her chest. The man insisted now that he was all right, that he could walk to the ranger station. Grotesquely, he tried to laugh. He had no idea how torn and bloody his face was. The woman helped him to his feet. How heavy he was, how uncoördinated! His face was a mask of blood, flaps of loose skin on his cheeks and forehead. One of his earlobes was torn. At least his eyes had been spared. The woman gripped the man around the waist, clumsily, and he was able to walk, leaning on her. She tried to comfort him—she had no idea what she was saying, except that there would be help for him soon, he would be all right. She saw that the front and sleeves of her sweater were soaked in dark blood. By this time, the sun had sunk below the tree line. It was dusk, and the air was cold and wet, as if after a rain. They began to hear calls—two rangers were running up the shadowy trail with flashlights, shouting. “All that coffee and all these ghosts are making me jittery.”Buy the print » They were taken to the ranger station and given first aid. Sterilizing liquid, bandages. For the man’s lacerated forearm, a tourniquet deftly applied by the elder of the rangers, who told the man how lucky he was: “The artery wasn’t severed.” With a dog attack, there was the possibility of rabies. It was imperative to locate the dog. It seemed that the young man had fled the park with the mastiff. Incredibly, he had not even reported the attack. But a hiker, who had witnessed it from a distance, had alerted the rangers and taken down the plate number of the young man’s Jeep. The son of a bitch would be prosecuted for the attack, and for leaving the scene, too, the ranger said. Around the bandages, the man’s face was ashen. His breath came quickly and shallowly. He was urged to lie down on a cot. Despite his protests, an ambulance was called. His injuries required stitches—that was clear. Within minutes, the ambulance arrived in the now near-deserted parking lot. The woman wanted to ride with the man, but he insisted that she take his car and meet him at the hospital; he didn’t want his vehicle to be locked in the park overnight. Even with his injuries, and speaking with difficulty, the man appeared to be thinking calmly, rationally. The woman took his keys, and his wallet and backpack, and followed the ambulance along curving mountain roads in his station wagon. She could hardly breathe, her loneliness as palpable and suffocating as cotton batting. She still could not quite fathom the idea that the dog’s owner had fled the park without reporting the attack. The young man had cared so little about their welfare; he’d fled knowing that if his dog wasn’t located by the authorities both victims would have to endure rabies shots. She’d been told by the rangers that he would be apprehended within a few hours. The attack had already been reported to the local police. A warrant would be issued for the dog owner’s arrest. She’d been assured that the authorities would find the man and check the dog for rabies, but in her distressed state she’d scarcely been able to listen or to care. At the brightly lit clinic, the woman hurried inside as the man was carried into the E.R. on a stretcher. He seemed to be only partly conscious now, unaware of his surroundings. She asked one of the medical workers what was wrong and was told that the man had had a kind of seizure in the ambulance; he’d lost consciousness, his blood pressure had risen alarmingly, and his heartbeat had accelerated, in fibrillation. Fibrillation! The woman knew only vaguely what this meant. She was prevented from following the man into the E.R. She found herself standing at a counter, being asked questions. She fumbled with the man’s wallet, searching for his health-insurance card. His university I.D. How slowly she moved—as clumsy in her bandages as if she were wearing mittens. One of the E.M.T.s was telling her that she should be treated as well; her lacerated hands and wrists should be examined. But the woman refused to listen. She flushed with indignation when the woman behind the counter asked how she was related to the injured man. Sharply she said, “I am his fiancée.” How long she remained in the E.R. waiting room the woman had no clear idea. Time had become disjointed. Her eyelids were so heavy she could barely keep them open. Several times, she inquired after the man and was told that he was undergoing emergency treatment for cardiac arrhythmia and that she could not see him yet. This news was unacceptable to her. He’d only been bitten by a damn dog! He hadn’t seemed so badly injured; he’d insisted on walking. The woman was light-headed. Her hands and wrists began to burn. She heard her thin, plaintive voice, begging, “Don’t let him die!” Looking around, she saw how others regarded her. A woman crazed with worry, fear. A woman whose voice was raised in panic. The sort of woman you pity even as you inch away from her. She saw that her coarse-knit Scottish sweater—it had been one of her favorites—had been torn beyond repair. In a fluorescent-lit rest room, her face in the mirror was blurred, like those faces on TV that are pixelated in order to disguise their identity. She was thinking of how the massive dog had thrown itself at her and how, astonishingly, the man had protected her. Did the man love her, then? What a coward she’d been, ducking behind him to save herself, grabbing at him desperately, cringing, crouching, whimpering like a terrified child. The man had thrust himself forward to be attacked in her place. A man who was virtually a stranger had risked his life for her. The woman had the man’s backpack, with his camera and his wallet. In a state of nervous dread, she looked through the wallet, a leather billfold of good quality but badly worn. Credit cards, university I.D., library card, driver’s license. A miniature photo of a tensely smiling middle-aged man with a furrowed forehead and thinning shoulder-length hair, whom she would have claimed she’d never seen before. She discovered that he was born in 1956—he was fifty-seven years old! A decade older than she’d guessed, and sixteen years older than she was. Another card indicated that the man had a cardiac condition—mitral-valve prolapse. There was a much folded prescription, dated several years before, for a medication to be administered intravenously. Nearest of kin to be notified in case of emergency: a woman with the man’s last name, possibly a sister, who lived in San Diego. The woman hurried to the desk to speak with a nurse. She pressed the prescription on the woman, who promised to report this discovery to the cardiac specialist overseeing the man’s treatment. They were only humoring her, the woman supposed. The hysterical fiancée! They’d performed their own tests on the stricken man. “Ma’am?” The waiting room was nearly empty when an attendant came to inform her that her companion was to be hospitalized for the night, kept under observation in the cardiac unit. The cardiologist on call had managed to control the man’s fibrillation and his heartbeat was near normal, but his blood pressure was still high and his white-blood-cell count was low. The woman tried to feel relief. Tried to think, Now I can go home, the danger is past. Instead, she went upstairs to the cardiac unit. For several minutes, she stood outside the doorway of the man’s room, undecided whether to enter. Inside, the man lay unnaturally still, as nurses fussed about him. His heartbeat was monitored by a machine. His breathing was monitored. The woman saw that the bandages hurriedly applied to his face at the ranger station had been removed; his numerous wounds had been stitched together and bandaged again, in an elaborate and lurid mask of crisscrossing strips of white. The man’s arms and hands had been re-bandaged as well. As she entered the room, she thought she might faint. Yet she felt gratitude for the man’s courage, and for his kindness. Shame for herself, that she’d valued the man so little. She pulled over a chair and sat beside his bed. The man’s breathing was quick and shallow but rhythmic. The bed had been cranked to a thirty-three-degree angle. His eyelids fluttered. Was he seeing her? Did he recognize her? The woman thought, He has forgotten my name. The man was trying to speak. Or—trying to smile? He was asking her—what? His words were slurred. She heard herself explain that she would stay with him for a while. Until visiting hours ended. She had his wallet and his camera and the key to his station wagon. She said that she would return in the morning, when he was to be discharged, and would drive him home then. If he wanted. If he needed her. She would return, and bring his things with her, and drive him home. Did he understand? In his cranked-up bed, the man drifted into sleep. They’d given him a sedative, the woman supposed. His mouth eased open, and he breathed heavily, wetly. This was the night-breathing the woman recalled, and now felt comforted to hear. She practiced pronouncing his name: “Simon.” It seemed to her suddenly a beautiful name. A name new to her, in her life, for she’d never before known anyone named Simon. Now tears spilled from the woman’s eyes and ran in rivulets down her face. She was crying as she had not cried in memory. She was too old for such emotion; there was something ridiculous and demeaning about it. But she was remembering how at the top of the steep trail the man had insisted that she drink from his plastic water bottle. She hadn’t wanted to drink the lukewarm water, yet had drunk it as the man watched, acquiescing, if with resistance, resentment. In their relationship, the man would always be the stronger; she would resent his superior strength, yet she would be protected by it. She might defy it, but she would not oppose it. She was thinking of the two or three occasions when she’d kissed the man in a pretense of an emotion she hadn’t yet felt. Like the man, the woman was exhausted. She laid her head against the headrest of the chair beside the bed. Her eyelids closed. Vividly, she saw him at the peak of the Wildcat Canyon trail, holding his complicated camera aloft, peering through the viewfinder. The wind stirred his thinning silvery-copper hair—she hadn’t noticed that before. She would go to him, she thought. She would stand close beside him, slide her arm around his waist to steady him. This was her task, her duty. He was stronger than she, but a man’s strength can drain from him. A man’s courage can be torn from him, can bleed away. But it was she who was afraid of something—wasn’t she? The pale-blue rim of the Pacific Ocean. The bald-sculpted hills and exquisite little lakes that seemed as unreal as papier-mâché that you could poke your fingers through. To her horror, she realized she was hearing a panting sound, a wet-chuffing breath, somewhere beside her, or below her on the trail, in the gathering dusk, waiting. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Stars	Credit Photograph by Chris Steele-Perkins / Magnum Only the very treetops caught the first light as Jessica started up Cascade Creek, a sparkling crevice in a vast bed of spruce needles. As she walked, the light descended the trunks and ignited balsamic forest odors, awakening the birds and making it easy to find stepping stones to cross the narrow creek. She’d found this trail on a Forest Service map; the contour lines had suggested a climb she could manage, and by scrutinizing images on Google Earth she had seen the small watershed open into what looked like a meadow or a strip of saturated ground. Jays were foraging in the hawthorns and, as day emerged, the hurrying clouds signalled fast-changing weather. Jessica’s pack held a spare down vest, a windbreaker, and an apple. She came to a spot where the creek fell through a tangle of evergreen roots to form a plunge pool. Sitting for a moment, she followed the movement of bubbles into its crystalline depths, lost in her thoughts, free of history. Time was not the same dimension here that it was in the rest of her life, and floating like this was something to be savored. The bubbles in the plunge pool reminded her of the stars she had fallen in love with so long ago, years before she became an astronomer and began to spend her days analyzing solar data from the Yohkoh satellite or the RHESSI spectroscopic imager. The stars were no longer a mystery to her; these bubbles would have to do. After the plunge pool, the trail became steeper, and it pleased Jessica to feel her attention shift to her aching calves. She surprised a hawk on a low branch, not a soaring hawk but one that flashed through trees and seemed to take her with it. As she followed its search for an opening wide enough to ascend through, she saw a bright, grassy area ahead, a gap of light in the evergreens. She would explore there, then retrace her steps down the creek. Once she’d reached the edge of the meadow, she stopped, unable at first to understand what she was seeing: two figures, proximate and mutually wary, one circling the other. Without moving, she grasped that a man, pistol dangling from one hand, was contemplating a wolf he had trapped; and the wolf, its foreleg secured in the jaws of a trap, was watching the man as he looked for a shot. Then the wolf turned and faced the forest in what seemed a despairing gesture. Jessica began to shout, running toward the man. “You’re not going to shoot that animal!” she called. “You’re not going to do that.” The man turned, startled. “I sure am,” he said gently. He was of an indeterminate age, tall and bareheaded in a canvas coat. His lace-up boots had undershot heels. A hat lay on the ground by his foot; his face was slick with sweat. “If this isn’t something you’d like to watch, you might just want to be elsewhere.” Jessica was taken aback by the softness of his voice and by his peculiar tidiness. She noticed a mule tied in the trees, plywood panniers lashed to its ribs. Looking back at the terrified wolf, which was trying now to fling itself away from the trap, she heard herself say, “I’d rather shoot you than that animal.” “Oh? I don’t think you know how hard it is to pull a trigger,” the man said. “You have to feel pretty strongly about anything you kill. My old man used to tell me that you have to kill something every day, even if it’s a fly.” He handed her the gun, and Jessica took it readily, surprised at how warm it was in her hand. She had a sense that some kind of power might shift to her, if she knew what to do with it. “You obviously don’t read the papers,” she said. “People aren’t having any trouble pulling the trigger these days.” “I’ll take it back now, thank you,” the man said patiently. “I need to go about my business, and it doesn’t look to me like you feel any big need to save this animal.” The wolf was on its belly now, staring at the trees, its trapped leg drawn out taut in front of it. “I’m going to shoot you,” Jessica said. She could almost see these words go out of her mouth. “You think you’re going to shoot me.” “I know I am.” “Just wait until you try to turn him loose. That wolf isn’t going to be very nice to you.” When the man seized the barrel of the gun, she felt as if she might fall, but she let him pull it away. Later, she felt that she hadn’t struggled hard enough. “You need to picture this thing a little better,” the man explained in his thoughtful voice. “I’m going to make a rug for my cabin out of his hide. I’m going to make jewelry out of his teeth and claws. I’m going to sell them on eBay.” Jessica started to laugh miserably, and by the time the laughter got away from her the man had joined in, as though it were funny. The wolf was watching them, up on its haunches now. The man wiped his eyes. “Honest to gosh,” he said. “Where would we be without laughter?” Maybe the laughter was an opening. Jessica tried to explain to the man that the wolf stood for everything she cared about, everything wild. But he laughed and said, “Honey, can’t you hear those chainsaws coming?” Her confession had got her nowhere. The wolf made no attempt to escape as the man walked over and killed it. It was the only place you could get coffee at that hour—sunrise had barely lit the front of the building—and the customers were already lined up right to the door. The young woman at the cash register, too sleepy to interact with anyone, made change mechanically, while her colleague, a young man in a woollen skullcap, seemed to hang from the levers as he waited for the coffee to pour. Jessica kept her hands in the sleeves of her sweater as she awaited her turn behind four people staring absently at their phones. Once she had the coffee, she put a second paper cup around it, went out into the morning, and felt a minor wave of optimism, ascribable to either caffeine or the sunrise. Customers emerging from the shop were quickly absorbed by the town. As Jessica walked to Cooper Park to watch the morning dogs, the sunlight caught her and she blew silver steam from her mouth. She had still been able to see a few stars when she left home, but they were gone now. The diehard dog people were already at the park, with others trickling in from the old houses around the neighborhood. This was the world of the cherished mongrel—rescue dogs, shelter dogs, strays that had dodged euthanasia: a part border collie that made an exuberant entrance then spun away from any dog that wanted to play, a dignified Labrador with its nose elevated, a greyhound missing a tail, a terrier that kept getting overrun by the others only to bounce up again in furious pursuit. They all froze in tableau at the call of a crow, a distant siren, or the arrival of another dog. The owners sat at the perimeter watching, as if at the theatre. It occurred to Jessica that she might have been happier as a dog. Then again, she didn’t play well with others. She had always had the stride of a country girl, and felt that she had to cut through people to get anywhere. She walked at such a clip that someone asked, “Where’s the fire?” On her way to the university, she bumped into an unyielding clutch of trustafarians, gathered for the day’s recreation in front of Poor Richard’s, and one called her a “douche cannon.” A woman swiped at her from behind with an umbrella. She stopped only to pet dogs or to sideslip between children. In a clear stretch, she tended to run. She seemed to be clashing with everything. Walking was how she’d met Andy Clark, on the trail along Bozeman Creek. Later, it occurred to her that it was odd for someone to hike the way he did, with his hands in his pockets. Andy was thirty years old, looked about twenty, and was in no hurry. No hurry was Andy all over. He was good-natured and full of ideas, but Jessica suspected that there was something behind that—not concealed, necessarily, but hard to know, and possibly not all that interesting. Still, Andy’s boyish momentum and playfully forceful suggestions had made him good company at a time when she needed cheering up; and for a while, at least, he hadn’t got on her nerves. It was eventually reported to Jessica that, during the production of an independent film in the city the previous summer, Andy had hung around the actresses so much that he was referred to locally as “the sex sherpa to the stars.” When Jessica brought this up, she was exasperated to see that it pleased him. It was unclear whether Andy had a job, though he did have an office with a daybed for what he called “nooners.” Jessica didn’t learn this appalling term until she’d already experienced it, stumbling absently onto the daybed with him. Her previous affairs had been gruelling, and she had promised herself not to do gruelling ever again. She saw Andy, initially, as a kind of homeopathic remedy. But then something got under her skin. Maybe it was the karaoke machine in his bachelor apartment or his unpleasant cat or the Ping-Pong matches he pressured her into; the way he darted around in a crouch at his end of the table made it clear to her that she’d never sleep with him again. This was something of a pattern with Jessica. Whatever interest she may have had or whatever not particularly spiritual need she felt impelled to satisfy was soon drowned by a tide of little things she would have preferred not to notice. By the time she encountered the wolf, she was sick of Andy. And that would have been that, if he hadn’t continued to pursue her and if she hadn’t had some creeping sadness to escape. A few days after her hike to Cascade Creek, Andy invited Jessica to dinner at his father’s house, on a ridge high above the “M” north of the city. She went reluctantly. On the winding road there, a white-tailed buck trotted in front of the car, wearing its horns like a death sentence. Andy led Jessica with a slight pressure on her elbow through the front door to his waiting father, who seemed to have positioned himself well back from the door he’d just answered. “Dad, please meet Jessica Ramirez,” he said. And, in a get-a-load-of-this tone, “She’s an astronomer.” Mr. Clark was a tall, thin, sallow widower in an oversized cardigan, whose pockets had been stretched by his habit of plunging his fists into them. His upper lip seemed permanently drawn down, as if he were shaving under his nose. He led them to the living room in a house that appeared to be all windows. The mountains were just visible in the last of the sunset. Mr. Clark didn’t look back or speak a word in their direction, confident that they were following appropriately. In the living room, which had an adjoining bar, Mr. Clark made them drinks with a perfunctory “I hope that suits you.” Jessica sniffed hers, and Andy’s father aimed a hard, questioning beam at her. “O.K.?” Jessica said, “No top brands?” My God, she thought, what is the matter with me? Mr. Clark turned his querying look on his son, who glanced away, and by some unspoken accord the three headed over to the picture window. It was dark now, and only the lights of the city were visible. Jessica felt as if she were hovering among the constellations, and that lifted her spirits. The way that geologists are liberated in time, she thought, astronomers are freed by space. Mr. Clark touched her glass with his. He wore a piece of eight on a chain around his neck. “Well, stargazer, what’s happening in the firmament today?” “Nothing new,” she said. “Some seasonal star clusters and nebulae. Are you interested?” Mr. Clark said, “I’m afraid I miss out on all that. I’m a day guy or I’m in bed. Trout fishing is my thing. I have a collection of bamboo rods, by all the great makers. Would you like to see them?” “No.” Mr. Clark turned abruptly and left the room. Andy gazed after him thoughtfully, before saying, “He’s not coming back.” “Seriously? Because I didn’t want to see his fishing poles?” Andy let a censorious silence fill the air. It worked. She briefly thought of ways to make amends, but it was too late now to pour love on the fishing poles. Andy didn’t speak as they made their way back down the winding road where they’d seen the deer. Finally, he asked, “What would you like me to do, Jessica?” “Drop me off,” she said. Jessica’s closest friend at the university was Dr. Tsieu, a fellow-astronomer, barely five feet tall in generous shoes. When Dr. Tsieu’s baby boy was born, Jessica was nearly the first to the maternity ward; Dr. Tsieu seemed too small to have accomplished such a thing. When Jessica got to her lab, Dr. Tsieu asked her out to lunch, but she said that she wanted to go for a walk, that she needed the exercise—which she did after a morning in front of her computer screen. But her walk up and down Olive Street and around the post office was so restless and agitated that it didn’t provide relief from anything. Of course, she could not possibly have pulled the trigger. Why even go over it in her mind? Why? Why again? And what on earth had made her so sullen with Andy’s father and his blasted fishing poles? She deliberated over this transgression as though it had the same importance as her failure to shoot that man. She wondered if she was just too inflexible. In time, would she become one more peevish old spinster in the hideous rest home behind the Walmart? She drove to the mall and, without more of a plan than getting through the lunch hour, wandered into a shoe store. A lone customer stood at the display rack turning the shoes over, one after another, to look at their soles. Jessica recalled the proverb “Hell is a stylish shoe.” A salesman greeted her at the door, a young man with a shaved head and a black turtleneck. Too intimate from the start, he held each selection so close to her face that she had to lean back to get a better look. She felt his breath as he pressed some studded, sparkly sneakers on her. Jessica found it fascinating that he thought she would want these, or the next pair he held up—stiletto-heeled lace-up jobs that seemed lewd, as did his smirk. The salesman didn’t conceal his disappointment when she bought a pair of marked-down Vera Wang flats. She bought them because they seemed so pedestrian. Men preferred women teetering, so she chose to walk like a Neanderthal. Traffic was thick on North Seventh, and she timed the lights wrong. Glancing at her watch, she failed to notice one turn green and heard a loud horn blast. In the mirror, she saw a cowgirl in a pickup truck giving her the finger. When she moved forward, the truck tailgated her, inches away. Jessica peered sharply into the rearview mirror, stabbed at the brakes, and the truck plowed into her. The two vehicles pulled to the side of the road. The door of the truck burst open, and the cowgirl came wheeling toward Jessica’s car. Jessica was on the phone calmly telling the secretary at her department the reason for her delay. She rolled the window down slightly and addressed the raging cowgirl. “Let’s wait for the police. Do you have insurance?” The police arrived in a pageantry of flashing lights—a single officer, who got out and chatted familiarly with the cowgirl, as she held her thick braid with both hands. Isn’t it nice that they’re friends? Jessica thought. There was no denying her malice, no matter how she tried to stand apart from it. Then the officer came over to Jessica’s car, hardly needing to duck in order to peer into her window. “What’d you do that for?” he barked. Jessica contemplated her steering wheel. “You caused that accident by braking suddenly!” “She rear-ended me. You know the law.” “Don’t you lecture me, lady,” he shouted. Jessica gave him time to settle down before raising her eyes to his and asking, “What is this really about, Officer? Is it because you’re short?” The next day, Jessica was silent at the department meeting, but asked Dr. Tsieu, the only other woman in their group, to stay afterward. Dr. Tsieu tilted her head, hands laced over her stomach, always keen to listen. Jessica said, “I’m going to take a leave.” “And?” Dr. Tsieu hardly seemed surprised. “I’m losing my marbles.” “Anger or disgust?” Dr. Tsieu asked. “Despair, malaise, detachment, loss of purpose?” She’s trying to cheer me up, Jessica thought, complying with a grin that felt idiotic. “It’s à la carte.” There was an anger specialist right there in town, and Jessica arranged to see him, since anger was at least one component of what she was experiencing, and she was unaware of a therapist who specialized in disgust or any of the other things on Dr. Tsieu’s list. A friendly giant, the therapist was dressed like an outdoorsman, in Pendleton items that were far too warm for his office. Jessica had never had counselling before and was startled to find the man so interactive. She made a summary of her concerns, and he mugged through every one of them. It seemed that he intended to cure her through his facial expressions. The prickly feeling of confinement she had in his office, the colorized photograph of his wife and children, the diplomas, the complimentary pharmaceutical notepad, and his gooberish attempts to forecast calm all convinced her that this wasn’t going to work. At the end of the session, he asked her to see the receptionist, but she went sightless through the lobby. She decided to stick to walking. If that didn’t work, she would turn herself over to some program. There were now customized rehabilitation programs that combined therapy with kayaking, weight loss, and makeovers. It was part of her problem, she thought, that she could foresee a stream of self-evident lectures and desolating group sessions with people who knew why they were angry or disgusted, while her disappointment seemed to be rooted in humanity in general. In college, she had read Faulkner’s Nobel Prize speech, in which he asserted that mankind would not only endure but prevail; these days, she thought that this was the most depressing thing she’d ever come across. She no longer had any idea why she had become an astronomer. Had she expected to live in space? She walked day after day in the hills and mountains around town, in the Bridgers, the Bangtails, and the Tobacco Roots. It was autumn now, and the chokecherry thickets and hawthorn breaks were changing color. Sometimes she fell in with other hikers, but she rarely spoke to them. At night, she treated her blisters and planned the next day’s walk. Once, she fell asleep with her shoes on, to the static of a radio station gone off the air. The phone messages piled up until her voice-mail box was full. Ho, ho, ho, she thought, this is a crisis. Before sunrise, she lay in bed staring at the window for the first signs of light. Andy’s last message suggested that she go to hell. She saved that one, suspecting that she might already be there. She ran into Dr. Tsieu at the food co-op and, feeling comradely, told her about the hikes. Dr. Tsieu smiled supportively and said, “I feel sorry for your shoes.” By that time she was travelling to more remote areas to walk, distant prairie hills and wilderness foothills. She got lost more than once and only just made it out of the hills, in flight from hypothermia. Her eyesight grew exceptionally sharp and she could see ravens in the dark, the shadows of animals in brush, and the old footprints of her predecessors. In this state, her own hands seemed to glow, the stars fierce and the moon more than usually banal. Jessica kept walking into winter. Twice, Andy tried to join her, jumping out of his little car at the trailhead, but the chill drove him back, shivering and waving her on in disgust. It was only a matter of time before she came to her senses, he told her the second time. He yelled something else, but he was too far away by then for her to hear. In the gathering dark and the swirling snow, she began to imagine voices and distantly wondered if she could still see the trail. She stopped to listen more closely, to see if she could hear something new through the wind. A pure singing note rose, high and sustained, then another, in a kind of courtly diction. Wolves. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
An Inch And a Half of Glory	Credit Lettering by Timothy Goodman and photograph by Grant Cornett Out of the open doorway and an open second-story window thin curls of smoke came without propulsion to fade in the air. Above, a child’s face—a young face held over the sill with a suggestion of standing tiptoe—was flat against the glass of a window on the third floor. The face held puzzlement without fear. The man on Earl Parish’s left saw it first. “Look!” he exclaimed, pointing. “There’s a kid up there!” The others tilted their faces and repeated, “There’s a kid up there.” “Did anybody turn in the alarm yet?” a man who had just arrived asked. “Yes,” several voices assured him, one adding, “The engines ought to be here any minute now.” “He’s all right, that kid,” the man who had first seen the child praised his discovery. “Ain’t crying or nothing.” “Most likely he don’t even know what’s going on.” “The firemen will be here in a second. Ain’t much use of us trying to do anything. They can get him out with their hook ’n’ ladders quicker than we could.” Feet shuffled on the sidewalk and gazes left the upper window to fasten on the smoking doorway. No one answered the man who had spoken last. After a moment, his face reddened. Earl Parish found his own cheeks warm. Looking out of the corners of his eyes at the faces around him, he saw more color than before. His glance met another man’s. Both looked quickly across the street again. A woman’s voice came from a house behind the men. “Somebody ought to get that child out of there! Even if it ain’t burnt up, it’s liable to get scared into convulsions or something.” Earl Parish tried to take his gaze away from the upstairs window, and failed. It was terrible, and it held him: a stupid flat face into which panic must come each instant—and did not. If the child had cried and beat the pane with its hands there would have been pain in looking at it, but not horror. A frightened child is a definite thing. The face at the window held its blankness over the men in the street like a poised club, racking them with the threat of a blow that did not fall. Earl Parish wet his lips and thought of words he did not say. The child was not in real danger. No great heat was behind the smoke that came from the house. To leave these men and bring the child down from its window would seem a flaunting of inexpensive courage. To suggest a rescue—if he could have explained his wish to save the child from consciousness of danger, rather than from danger itself, he would have spoken. But he distrusted his ability to make the distinction clear. “The engines ought to be here any minute now,” the man who had made that prediction twice before was repeating. He scowled up and down the red brick street. “Where in the hell are them engines?” he demanded. The man who had discovered the face at the window cleared his throat, his eyes focussed somewhat rigidly on the window. “Maybe she’s right,” he said. “The kid’s liable to be scared into fits. I had a nephew that got scared into St. Vitus’s dance just by having a cat jump up on him.” “Is that so?” the Fire Department’s herald asked with extraordinary interest. “Maybe we better—” Earl Parish suggested. “Maybe we better.” The group swayed indecisively. Then eight men crossed the street, their pace quickening as they approached the smoking doorway. Going up the four wooden steps they jostled one another, each trying to get ahead of the others. All were going into the house: such risk as attended them would be shared. But he who went first would bring the child down: the others would constitute a not especially important chorus. Inside the door, a gust of smoke blew on them, shutting out the light, scorching eyes and throats. Gongs and sirens clamored in the street. “There’s the engines now!” their prophet cried. “They’ll have the kid down in no time!” Out of sight, the suspended blow in the child’s face was without power. Seven men went back into the street with nothing apologetic in the manner of their going. Earl Parish remained in the house. Through the smoke that clouded but did not fill the hallway, brass lines gleamed on a flight of steps. He hesitated. He wanted to climb those steps and either bring the child down or stay with it until the fire had been extinguished. But to do so seemed a breach of faith with the men who had gone back to the street. Had he told them he was going through with the venture, they would have accompanied him. Having stayed silently behind, if he came out now with the child, or was found upstairs with it when the fire had been put out, they would think he had tricked them so he might pose as one who had gone alone through something that had daunted them. He took a step toward the street, and stopped. To go out without the child now would be no better. The men in the street, who no doubt had missed him by this time, would think he had lost courage after breaking faith with them. Earl Parish went up the brass-striped steps. The smoke thickened as he mounted, but was never dense enough to make advance difficult. He saw no flames. On the third floor a rickety door barred him from the front of the building until he remembered that this was an unusual occasion, an emergency, strictly speaking. He thrust the door in with his shoulder. He found little smoke in the room with the child, though a thin fog came in with him. The child came to him. “Moke,” it pronounced gravely. “You’re all right now, sonny,” Earl Parish said, picking the child up. “I’ll have you out of here in a jiffy.” He draped a red-and-green cloth from the table lightly about its head, leaving a corner loose for his own possible use. He took pains not to show himself at the window, and went down the way he had come up. In the street again, someone took the child. He was faintly giddy from the smoke, the effort of groping his way down with the child, and the excitement that had grown in him as he descended—the nervousness that is inseparable from even the most orderly of retreats. He stood very erect, avoiding curious stares. The eyes of the seven men who had crossed the street with him reproached him from twenty paces. He walked away, down the street with a stiff affectation of nonchalance: a short, sturdy man of thirty or so in a well-pressed double-breasted coat that made him as rectangular as a shoebox standing on end. At his desk the next morning Earl Parish searched the day’s papers. In the Morning Post, he found an inch and a half of simple news that a fire of unknown origin had been subdued with slight damage after a child was carried to safety by Earl Parish. He folded the account into the center of the newspaper and put it out of sight. Between the departure of No. 131, southbound, and the arrival of No. 22, a train announcer came to Earl Parish’s window and grinned at him over the sign that said “Information.” “Where’s the medal?” the train announcer asked. Earl Parish grinned foolishly back, blood came into his face, he perspired. The news went around the station: Earl Parish had rescued a child from a blazing building—two children. The station employees with whom he was intimate joked about his deed. The more important employees—baggage master, stationmaster, chief dispatcher—congratulated him solemnly, as if on behalf of the company. At noon, the general passenger agent himself, on his way to a convention in St. Louis, stopped to commend Earl Parish’s bravery. Earl Parish listened to his words, answered his questions, kept his gaze fixed on the general passenger agent’s watch chain, and perspired. The general passenger agent’s train was finally announced. He shook Earl Parish’s hand and went away. Earl Parish did his day’s work in an emotional muddle, avoiding eyes, mopping his moist face incessantly with his handkerchief. Looking up to find the most casual glance turned in his direction, he would feel his face go crimson, and a desire to drop on his knees out of sight below the window would come to him. Between the necessary contacts with fellow-employees and inquiring travellers, he pretended business with guidebooks and folders in the rear of his cubbyhole, and there was exaltation in him. That night, he lay for a long while across his bed, studying the printed inch and a half he had cut from the Morning Post. There had been nothing heroic—except perhaps in a negative way—about his going into the smoking building: he had brought the child down not as one would snatch it from peril but as one would protect it from awareness of peril. Nevertheless, it was pleasant to lie across his bed knowing that people throughout the city had read of what he had done, that his acquaintances thought of him as a man of courage and perhaps were mildly boasting that they knew this Earl Parish. Lying across the bed, he found these things pleasant. To listen to praise, even if thickly overlaid with banter, was not pleasant. It was embarrassing to be studied by eyes that tried to estimate the familiar Earl Parish in terms of the new development. But that was his self-consciousness, his shyness, and would pass. It was a transient annoyance. The joy that had come to him out of this affair would not wear away: that was a fixed thing in him. He went rosy-faced to work the next morning, creeping out of the house to avoid his suddenly too tender landlady. The day was less uncomfortable than the previous one. To the same extent that he was becoming accustomed to his new position among his fellows, he was drifting back to last week’s position. The ticket sellers, opposite his window, still threw jests through their grilles: “The next time you save any women and children, save me a blonde!” But now he could smile back at them without perspiring. Occasionally he met acquaintances who had seen the Post story and spoke of it. He blushed and was uncomfortable at these times, but he enjoyed the later thoughts of them. He never went into the street without a wish for one of these meetings. The next issue of the railroad company’s Employees’ Magazine contained his photograph and an elaborated account of his feat. Then the fire was as if it had never happened. No one ever mentioned it. He brought it casually into his talk once or twice, but no one showed any interest. At first, he thought this coldness sprang from boredom. Later, he decided envy was truly responsible. He began to keep to himself. After all, what had he in common with the people around him? An uninteresting lot: the lesser inhabitants of the world, unimportant cogs in not especially important machines. He himself was a cog, true enough, but with the difference that on occasion he could be an identity. The last drop of ancestral venturesomeness had not been distilled from his blood. He experimented with this thought, evolving a sentence he liked: “All their ancestral courage has been distilled by industrialism out of their veins.” He would look at the world over his sign that said “Information” and repeat the sentence to himself. People who passed his window or brought their questions to it were sorted. Did they retain some part of their ancestral courage? Or did they not? The first class was small. Complaints went uptown to the general offices: the man at the information window had been unobliging, had been rude, had been insulting. Earl Parish received a formal letter, calling his attention to a number of these complaints and to the purple slogan on the company’s advertising matter: Courtesy All-Ways. Such important departments as the information bureau, the letter insisted, had great influence on the public’s attitude toward the company, and on that attitude depended not only the railroad’s income but also its success in securing favorable legislation. Earl Parish did not like this letter. With a pencil and a pad of paper he began framing a reply, not such a reply as might be expected of a cog. A testy old man came to his window with an unanswerable question. The Earl Parish of a while ago would have led the old man around to a point where the answer to an altogether different question would have satisfied him. The Earl Parish who was busy with the draft of his reply to the general offices told the old man point-blank that his question was silly. The testy old man was a personage of some sort. The next day Earl Parish was given two weeks’ notice. He left within ten minutes. “Being falsely accused on social media has left my life largely unchanged.”Buy the print » Ten days later, he found a place in a steamship agency. A month later, he was looking for work again. He had sat dreaming over his desk one afternoon and his employer, a little fat man with a fat sneering mouth, had asked him if he was afraid of work. Had asked him—a little fat man who would have buried his face in his arms at the first sign of danger. He had told the little fat man exactly what he was afraid of and exactly what not, and in the end had found himself walking down the street with his wages in his pocket. His next position was in the basement of a wholesale-drug house, but he quit this place after two weeks. He was done with working at a desk. He had reasoned things out. Desk jobs were well enough for a man who could not rise above them. But nowadays there was a scarcity of—hence must be a demand for—men whose ancestral courage had not been distilled out of their veins. He meant to find and fill such an opening. Three months of searching exhausted his savings and persuaded him he had been mistaken. It seemed there was no place for venturesomeness in the modern world. Courage was the one thing for which business had no use—not only could not use it but did not want to have it around. If your employer learned you were not a sheep or a worm—a timid, docile sheep or worm—he immediately got rid of you. Earl Parish was working temporarily in a soap factory when he read one day in a newspaper that the city Fire Department was dangerously undermanned. He deserted the soap factory at once, amazed that he had needed the newspaper to point out his path: the city Fire Department was so obviously the one place in the world for him! He submitted his application and a doctor surveyed his body. Days passed, and he was told he had failed the physical examination—a matter of defective kidneys. In the office of a fire commissioner that same afternoon, Earl Parish created a diversion. An inch and a half of cut newspaper was brandished before the commissioner’s eyes. The commissioner was called an old fool. Presently Earl Parish was hustled to the sidewalk. He went then to the offices of the Morning Post, where he found someone to listen to his story. The Post happened to be an opposition paper at the time. It gave half a column to the tale of the man who once had “dashed into a blazing building to rescue a little child,” and who now, unable to find other employment, was barred from the Fire Department by “the same red tape which is responsible for the department’s inability to get and keep an adequate force.” Out of this advertisement Earl Parish got—besides a new clipping—employment as night watchman in a packing plant. He was paid four dollars a night and soon learned that two men who had divided the work had been discharged to make a place for him. It was the watchman’s duty to make a tour of the building once an hour, registering at fifteen little boxes hung on the walls. After the first week, Earl Parish began to skip boxes, those in distant corners. There were complaints, of course, but he ignored them. He had been hired, he reasoned, because of his known courage, and he trusted that to overbalance minor irregularities. He was mistaken. He was discharged at the end of the third week. Returning to the Post, he could find no one to listen to his story. The other papers were as indifferent. He found several positions within the next few months. Sometimes he resigned, sometimes he was discharged. He earned enough to pay for meals and a place to sleep. He spent much time in a public square just out of the business district. Sitting on a bench, or sprawling on the grass, he would sort passersby according to his habit. Fewer and fewer were those whose ancestral courage had not been distilled by industrialism out of their veins. Now and then, he would write a letter to the Post’s Open Forum, commenting bitterly on this failing of the race. Sometimes he would go down to the waterfront, pretending he was going to make his way to some virile land where the courageous still prospered and sheep were eaten. He never put his foot on a deck, never asked a question that could lead to a place aboard a boat. The periods of halfhearted search for work grew longer. The intervals of employment shrank. Some days, he was hungry. One of these days, he went to the house from which he had carried the child. The child’s family had moved from the neighborhood to nobody knew where. Another morning when hunger was a hard lump in his stomach he walked the streets, studying the faces of the people he passed, classifying them, but not in his familiar fashion. He sought now to pick out the probably liberal from the probably not liberal. Three times, he approached faces that bespoke generosity. Three times, last-minute timidity and the too near presence of others in the street kept him silent, sent him hurrying on as if a pressing engagement awaited him at the end of the street. The fourth face that attracted him was very old, and years had washed it clean of all color, of all expression save a meek friendliness. Its owner walked alone and slowly, with the help of a silver-knobbed cane. His shoes were black mirrors. Earl Parish turned around and followed the old man. Other pedestrians passed and repassed them. Earl Parish kept half a block behind his man, and as he walked he took his three finger-worn clippings out of their envelope and put them loose in his pocket, where they would be readily available if his request for “a dime or so” needed documentary bolstering. Presently the old man turned in to a street where people were few. Earl Parish quickened his pace and the distance between them shrank. Hurrying thus, he came to a corner where a bare-headed man was breaking the glass front of a fire-alarm box with a fist wrapped in a handkerchief. Earl Parish forgot his kindly faced quarry. “Where is it?” he asked the bare-headed man in a curt professional tone. “Around in the back street.” Earl Parish ran around the corner. Three men were converging on the opening of a narrow street that split the block. He hurried after them. From a red-and-white house in the middle of the block spongy smoke rolled out to the gray street. In front of the house, a man tried to grab Earl Parish’s arm. He struck aside the interfering hand and sprang up the front steps. “Hey! Come out o’ there, you!” the man called after him. Earl Parish pushed open the front door and plunged into the murky interior. A blow to his chest stopped him, jarred him back on his heels, emptied his lungs of the clean air they had carried in from the street. Smoke stung his throat, chest. His hands found the thing that had struck him—a newel. He clung to it while he closed his eyes against the scorching smoke and coughed. A foot found the bottom of a flight of steps. He went up, one hand fumbling along the railing, the other clenched over nose and mouth. The platform of an interfloor landing came under his feet. His hand on the rail guided him around the turning in the stairs. He started to climb again. A boiling hiss, the beat of hotness on his face jerked his eyes open. In front of him nimble red blades of fire poked up at the ceiling. Earl Parish cried out—a smoke-garbled protest against this trickery, this betrayal. In that other house had been no visible fire. Nothing had been there but smoke, and a child to be carried out. Here was live flame and—he was a fool!—perhaps nobody to be carried out. How did he know anyone was upstairs? Was it likely? A limber bright sword bent down at him. He turned and scurried down the stairs. The landing tripped him with its break in the step-after-step descent, tumbled him down on hands and knees. Red light sizzled down the rail after him. Its flare was mauve on a small piece of paper that lay close under his nose as he huddled there. He stared at the paper with curious intentness. It was somehow familiar, this small rectangle of soiled wood pulp, so altogether unimportant, so trivial a thing here in a burning house. And when he recognized the paper he continued to stare, seeing now for the first time in its true size his cherished clipping from last year’s Post: an inch and a half of simple news that a fire of unknown origin had been subdued with slight damage after a child had been carried to safety by Earl Parish. Seeing the clipping truly, he saw its significance and he saw other things: he saw himself with a clearness that mottled his face beyond power of smoke and fire. He stood up on the landing and faced upstairs with the bit of paper crumpled in his fist. “I had my fun, you—” he personified the clipping in a compound invective and flung the clipping to the fire. “Now I’m going to earn it!” Smoke swirled in the stairs, red light sizzled, and living flame blades poked up at the ceiling. Earl Parish went through them to the second floor. Not all of him went through. Some hair, a patch of one hand’s skin, and parts of his clothing that were frayed into ready kindling disappeared. The rest of Earl Parish gained the second story, slammed a door between him and the stairs, and beat out the points of light that dotted his clothes. On the other side of the door fire seethed and crackled. He laughed at the noise as well as he could with smoke strangling him, and began to explore the fumid gloom. He found no one in the room with him, nor in the other rooms that made up the house’s top story. He swayed as he walked back to the first room. His head was hollow and buoyant, and he breathed in choking gulps. He staggered toward the front window. A small sneeze came out of a corner. Earl Parish dropped down on hands and knees and peered under the chair there. A cinnamon kitten stopped rubbing paws on nose to sneeze again. Earl Parish laughed hoarsely as he scooped the kitten out of its retreat and stuffed it into a coat pocket. He had trouble getting himself erect again, but managed it fully. The window slid up easily, to create a draft that swung open the room’s door and swept in flame bulky out of all semblance to sword blades. Earl Parish clambered up on the windowsill and looked into the upturned faces down in the street. A policeman waved an arm. “Stick it out, brother,” he called. “Here’s the wagons now!” “Look out!” Earl Parish yelled back, and jumped. There was a shock, but not of the expected hard pavement. He was on a sort of blue cushion: the policeman had run to stand under him. Men dragged them out of the arriving firemen’s way, helped them to their feet. The policeman’s face was bleeding. “You’re a lunatic!” he said. Earl Parish was busy with his coat pocket, disentangling the cinnamon kitten from the torn lining. Someone took the kitten. Voices said things, asked things. One of the questions had to do with Earl Parish’s name and address. “Earl—” He coughed violently to cover up the halt, and repeated, “Earl—John W. Earl,” and gave a street and number, hoping they didn’t belong to any of the people around him. He was insisting that he was all right, that he didn’t need medical attention. He was sneaking through the crowd. He was hurrying away from the fire, down an alley. He turned three corners before he stopped. Out of his pocket he took two clippings—one from a railroad employees’ magazine, the other from a newspaper. He tore them into very small bits and tossed them up in a flurry of artificial snow. In Howard Street, sandwiched between a secondhand-clothing store and a lunch counter, there is an establishment whose large front room is bare and unfurnished except for a shabby desk, a chair, a table behind a battered counter in the rear, and a blackboard that occupies one sidewall. You will find listed in chalk on this board such items as “Laborers, company, country, $3.75; Wood Choppers, 4 ft. and stove wood, $2.50-4.50 cord; Choremen, country, $45-65, fd.; Lead Burner, company, $8.” Beneath some of these items “Fare paid” will appear. Into this establishment one afternoon came a short, sturdy man of thirty or so, inordinately dirty-faced and shabby. He had no hat, and some of his hair seemed to have been eaten off. A smudge was where one eyebrow should have been. He walked unsteadily. His red eyes had the inward hilarity of a drunken philosopher. But he did not smell of alcohol—rather, of fresh wood smoke. He leaned over the battered counter and grinned jovially at the establishment’s proprietor. “I want,” he said, “a job. Any kind of job you’ve got, if only it’ll get me away from town before the morning papers come out.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Rough Deeds	Credit Lettering by Timothy Goodman and photograph by Grant Cornett In New France, which people more and more called Canada, for the old Iroquois word kanata, Duquet was everywhere—examining, prying, measuring, observing, and calculating. Limbs and low-quality hardwood waste became high-quality firewood, and every autumn he packed twenty wagons full for the Kebec market and for Paris, when he could charter available ships with the promise of a good return cargo of tea or coffee or textiles, spices or china. Without the sure promise of a rich return cargo, he thought, let the Parisians freeze, for all he cared. Leasing a Dutchman’s ships was well enough, but he needed ships of his own. In 1712, a business acquaintance in Boston, an Englishman named Dred-Peacock, connected him to an English shipbuilder and a new but promising yard on the River Clyde, in Scotland, joined to England by the Act of Union, in ’07. Duquet wanted a ship; the yard wanted wood. “Regard the map, sir,” Dred-Peacock said. “It’s the closest point to the colonies—the briefest sailing time. There are signs of success on the Clyde, but they need good timbers. They will pay for them. It is an opportunity that cannot be neglected.” There were good precedents in New France for trading with the enemy, but arrangements with the English and the Scots were still secret, complex, expensive, even dangerous. Yet Duquet knew that there was profit in selling to the English, despite their colonial aims. Duquet took the plunge and Dred-Peacock took a goodly share of the profits, which increased year by year. Fifty acres of oak were needed to build one seventy-four-gun warship, and the hardwood stands along the rivers of New France began to fall to Duquet’s ambitions. But he felt hampered by Kebec’s distance from the money pots of the world and by the ice blockage of the Saint-Laurent River in winter. “Duquet, it is past time for you to consider shifting your business operation to the colonies,” Dred-Peacock told him as they sat over their papers and receipts in the Sign of the Red Bottle, near the wharves, the inn they favored in Boston. Never did Dred-Peacock present his ill-formed face to Duquet in Kebec; always Duquet made the trip south by schooner or by packet. “Oh, I think on it,” Duquet said, swirling the ale in his tankard until it slopped over the rim, as if that settled the question. “I think of it often. I am of half a mind to do so, sir.” “Damn, sir! It is quite time you acted. Finish with thinking and act. Every day those poxy whoresons of mill men push into the forests and gain control over the land. In Maine, there are countless white-pine mast trees and lesser pines to be used for tar and pitch. You know there is a great market for these if you can get them on a ship bound for Scotland, England, or even Spain or Portugal.” Duquet nodded, but his face was sour. He knew that Dred-Peacock saw him as an ill-bred boor, a creature from the depths. True enough, he had escaped a cramped childhood spent pulling rabbit fur from half-rotten skins, pinching out guard hairs, plucking the soft fur for quilt stuffing. As a boy, he had coughed incessantly, bringing up phlegm clotted with rabbit hair. The fine hairs had settled on every surface, matted on his family’s heads and shoulders. Finally, in this clinging miasma of stinking hair and dust, his mother, choking blood, had lain on the floor, as his father’s black legs scissored away into the night, and Duquet began his struggle to get away from France, to become another person. Dred-Peacock may have sensed Duquet’s squalid beginnings, but his fantastic drive to make money was what interested the Englishman. Dred-Peacock went on, his voice vibrating, “Where there is a market, the businessman must act. And all this would be immeasurably easier if you operated from Boston, rather than bloody Kweebeck. And with my help these affairs can be managed.” It was obvious and timely advice, and yet Duquet hesitated to commit to leaving New France. He had valuable connections there, and a lifetime dislike of the English language, with its vile obscenities, and those who spoke it. Soon, several ships belonging to Duquet, but flying British flags, ran the seas between Portsmouth and Boston harbors and the ever more numerous Clyde shipyards. It was like walking on a web of tightropes, but the money flew around Duquet like dandelion fluff in the wind. He had only to catch it in his net. And share it with Dred-Peacock. During the next decade, Duquet began to acquire tracts of woodland in Maine. Dred-Peacock’s genius in the legal procedure of acquiring remote “townships” was immeasurable, and an old acquaintance from Duquet’s first years in New France, Jacques Forgeron, scouted out the best timberland. Forgeron, a surveyor when he could get work, a voyageur when he could not, had joined forces with Duquet in his earliest days. Together they had entered the fur trade, had paddled, portaged, walked, and sung the rivers of New France. Forgeron was something of a Jonah, who attracted foul weather, but he had a curious regard for the wild forest and often told Duquet that it could be the source of great wealth. This man cherished his measuring chains and could use one as a weapon, swinging it around and around until it gained velocity and the free end leaped forward to maim. And, if he had used it in this way in France, the old days counted for very little. Now he was a partner in Duquet et Fils, perhaps even a friend, if a business tie between two friendless men could be so described. From time to time, Duquet would join Forgeron in the Maine woods to explore his growing territory. One October afternoon, they landed their canoe on a sandy Maine river shore fronting one of their new white-pine properties, twenty thousand acres at a cost of twelve cents an acre. There was a narrow hem of ice along the shaded shoreline. “Frog ice,” Forgeron said. In the rich autumn light, the deciduous trees stunned with xanthine orange and yellow. The men’s swart shadows fell on the ground like toppled statues. Without speaking, they began to gather firewood. Forgeron held up his hand. “Listen,” he said quietly. They heard the sounds of chopping not too far off and began to move cautiously toward the source. With an acid jolt of fury, Duquet saw unknown men in stiff, pitch-blackened trousers cutting his pines, other men limbing the fallen trees, and yet another scoring them. Two men worked with broadaxes to square the logs. Duquet was sure they had a pit sawmill set up nearby. By their bulging pale eyes and doughy faces he knew them to be English colonists. Although Duquet et Fils had no hesitation in cutting big trees where they found them, it was intolerable when they were the victims of this poaching. “Ho la! Who say you come my land, cut my tree?” Duquet shouted, forgetting his careful English. He was so furious that his voice strangled in his throat. Forgeron advanced beside him, lightly revolving a section of his thirty-three-foot chain. The startled woodsmen stared and then, still gripping their tools, they ran on an oblique course toward the river, where they likely had boats. But one with a dirty bandage on his right leg lagged behind. Duquet did not pause. He drew his tomahawk from his belt and hurled it, striking the runner’s left calf. He fell, crying to his comrades for help in a high, childish voice. One of the escaping men turned around and stared at Duquet as he called something to the fallen one. The confrontation lasted only a few seconds but left Duquet with an unfading impression of a man swelling with hatred. Duquet would not forget the man’s mottled slab of a face, encircled by ginger hair and beard, the yellow animal eyes fixed on him, the sudden turning away and violent dash for the river. “They come from settlements along the coast,” Forgeron said. “All Maine settlers are voracious thieves of fine timber. They are everywhere on the rivers.” They bound their wounded prisoner, a boy not older than fourteen, and dragged him to a pine, tied him up against it in a hollow between projecting tree roots. “You, garçon, talk up or I cut first your fingers, then your balls. Who are you? What men you with? How you come here?” The boy folded his lips in a tight crease, either in pain or in defiance. Duquet wrenched the boy’s arm and spread his left hand against one of the great humped roots. With a quick slash of his axe, he took off a little finger and part of the next. “Talk or I cut more. You die no head.” Duquet’s bloody interrogation gave him the information that the thieves were in the employ of a mill owner named McBogle, an agent of the politico Elisha Cooke. He had been hearing of Cooke for years; all described him as a passionate opponent of Crown authority, especially that vested in the English Surveyor-General, who struggled to enforce the dictate that all ship-mast pines were the property of the British Admiralty. But McBogle’s name was new. Although Duquet’s heart was pounding with anger, it occurred to him that Elisha Cooke and perhaps even McBogle might be useful men, and he fixed their names in his memory. “Eh, no trees on Penobscot? Why you come here steal pine?” he said. “We thought only to cut a few. Away from the surveyor’s men.” Duquet did not believe this. “Show your wounds.” When the boy held up his maimed hand, Duquet said angrily, “No, not that. Only scratch. Old wound.” He could smell the stink of infection from a distance. With his good hand the boy unwrapped his right leg and exposed a deep and rotten gash in the thigh. A streak of red inflammation ran up toward the groin. “How happen this?” Duquet demanded. “Uncle Robert felled a big pine, and when it smote the ground it broke off a branch that bent double and then sprang to gouge my leg.” It was an evil mess. In contrast, the cut in the boy’s calf inflicted by Duquet’s ’hawk was clean, though it had nearly severed a tendon, and the chopped finger was a trifle. Nothing to be done. They carried the youth about half a mile upstream to the interlopers’ camp, which was strewn with abandoned clothing and cook pots, a deer carcass suspended in a tree, and laid him in the lean-to near the still smoldering fire. “We will stay here,” Duquet said to Forgeron, “as the thieves have prepared a camp for us.” He tried to speak calmly, but he was filled with a greater anger than he had ever experienced. After all the injustices he had suffered, after all he had done—crossing to the New World, learning the hard voyageur trade and how to read and write and cipher, working out a way to use the forest for his fortune, all the business connections he had made—these Maine vermin had come to steal his timber. Forgeron brought their canoe up to the campsite while Duquet searched until he found the trespassers’ pit sawmill. There were no sawed planks beside it, indicating they had been there only a few days, but with the clear intention of stealing his trees. The stack of limbed and squared logs told him that. He wondered if they had planned to build a fort. It was said that the English were plotting to build forts along all the rivers. “Let us put our mark on them,” Duquet said, and he and Forgeron took possession of the logs with two deep hatchet slashes on the butt ends. They talked of ways to move them. It seemed that a raft floated to the nearest sawmill might be the best way, getting what they could, and, while Duquet stayed to guard the timber in case the thieves returned, Forgeron went to Portsmouth to hire raftsmen. During the early evening, the mildness went out of the weather. The sky filled with clouds the color of dark grapes, torn by flailing stems of lightning. An hour of rain moved along, and behind it the temperature dived into winter. Duquet woke at dawn, shivering. There was not a breath of wind, but every twig and branch bristled with spiky hoarfrost. In the distance, wolves howled messages to one another, their cries filleting the morning. They had likely scented the boy’s blood and infection and would linger out of sight, waiting for a chance. Duquet got up and piled more wood on the fire. The wounded boy’s eyes were closed, his face feverish and swollen, cheeks wet with melting frost. Duquet thought that he would be dead after one more cold night. Or he might not last until nightfall. With some urgency, Duquet prodded the boy awake and fired questions at him: his name, his village, his family’s house. But the boy only croaked for water, which Duquet did not give him, and then went silent. He still lived. Duquet spent the short day estimating the boardfeet of the felled pines. “It’s a standard deathbed confession, Jimmy. Please don’t make us drag out the rubber hoses.”Buy the print » The light faded early as the growing storm invaded the sky, the wind and sleety snow rattling and hissing in the pines. While there was still light enough to see clearly, Duquet walked over to the prisoner. The boy lay on his back, his right leg bursting with infection, a yellow froth of pus oozing out from under the bandage, the leg a little splayed, as though it were detaching itself. Nothing could be done with this burden except wait for him to die—one more cold night. The boy opened his eyes and stared at something across the river. Duquet followed his gaze, expecting to see Indians or perhaps one of the woodcutters returning. He saw only a wall of pines until a blink of yellow showed him where to look. A tall gray owl sat on a branch, seeing them. Its eyes were very small and set close together, like twin gimlets. The boy spoke. “Help. Me,” he said in English. “Help. Me.” Inside Duquet, something like a tightly closed pinecone, licked by fire, opened abruptly, and he exploded with insensate and uncontrollable fury, a lifetime’s pent-up rage. “J’en ai rien à foutre. No one helped me!” he shrieked. “I did everything myself! I endured! I contended with powerful men. I suffered in the wilderness. I accepted the risk that I might die! No one helped me!” The boy’s gaze shifted, the fever-boiled eyes following Duquet’s rising arm, closing only when the tomahawk split his brain. Duquet struck the hatchet into the loam to clean it, and the owl lifted into the air. In the flying snow, Duquet dismantled the saw-pit scaffolding and threw the boy into the pit hole, piled the scaffolding on top, and set it alight. The gibbous moon rose. Hours later, when the burning ceased, he went to shovel in the half-frozen excavated soil, but before he hurled the first shovelful he glanced down and saw the black arm bones crooked up, as if reaching for a helping hand. “Foutu!” He shovelled. Forgeron arrived four days later with six men, who began constructing a raft of the cut pines. Not seeing the wounded boy, Forgeron opened his mouth several times, as if to speak, but he did not say anything except that the war was making it very difficult to find able-bodied labor. “What war is that?” Duquet asked. “Has not Peter the Great invaded Persia? They spoke of nothing else in Portsmouth. That and the smallpox inoculations inflicted on Bostonians.” In the next years, Duquet changed, reinventing himself. In Boston, Duquet et Fils became Duke and Sons. But although there were endless business opportunities in the English colonies, he kept his enterprise and some holdings in New France. He sat with Dred-Peacock in the taproom of the Pine Dog, a pleasant tavern with a sign showing an eponymous carved mastiff, now their favored meeting place, as the Sign of the Red Bottle had burned in a conflagration that took half the wharves and several ships. “Do you know aught of that fellow McBogle?” Duquet asked, breaking the crust edge from his meat pasty with heavy fingers. Dred-Peacock, bewigged and togged out, regarded his steaming coffee. “I have not made his acquaintance, but I’ve heard much deleterious talk concerning his ways. As we both know, Maine is full to the scuppers with woodland entrepreneurs, water-powered sawmills, surveyors, tree choppers, potash makers, turpentine distillers, and settlers, every man assaulting the free-to-all timberlands.” “They think as I do,” Duquet said, “so I cannot fault them. But dealing with them is always a struggle.” “The settlers are hard men, right enough, but there are others even harder, mostly in New Hampshire. I mean those men of Scots lineage lately removed from Ulster, in Ireland.” “Surely they are as other mortal men?” “No. They are different. They are damned strange cruel men, clannish and proud to a fault, thirsty for vengeance over imagined slights, hard-drinking, and inhumanly tough. The whoresons prefer to sleep outside in storms, rather than in the comfort of a house. They know the country as the poxy Indians know it, and to live free is their banner. They choose to live in the most remote places. And they are key fighters in the escalating antipathy between the French and the English.” He paused and took up his coffee cup, stared into Duquet’s eyes. “Dud McBogle, his brothers, and his sons are among these men.” Duquet threw back his head and laughed. “Well, I have heard bugbear stories aplenty and I would class McBogle tales among them. No doubt he eats children as sweetmeats and wears a red fur cloak bespangled with their bones. What do you say when I tell you I consider taking this man on as a partner?” For once, Dred-Peacock had nothing to say. In Boston one day, Dred-Peacock came to the Duke warehouse, a cavernous building near the docks, redolent of pine, oak, furs, and roots. “I thought you might wish to know that that man you mentioned some time ago has been asking people about you. How many sawmills you own, how disgustingly large your fortune may be, what ships you have, what tracts of timber and townships you possess. He himself operates five or six more sawmills on the Penobscot and in New Hampshire. He begins to look like a serious rival.” “Who do you mean? Elisha Cooke?” Duquet said. “His damned hard man, McBogle.” “Indeed,” Duquet said. “I hear this sometimes. He asks questions, but we never see him. What is your own perception of this situation?” “I think that he should be absorbed. I doubt we could buy him out, but a partnership may be attractive. He has friendly relations not only with Elisha Cooke and the Wentworths but with many judges and businessmen here and in New Hampshire. Yet he does not have our contacts across the Atlantic.” It was Dred-Peacock, with his assortment of languages, who knew the invaluable English and European men of business. “I think we must talk with him and see what might be arranged. Where do we find him?” “He may be difficult to locate. He has a sawmill on a tributary of the Penobscot and a house nearby. He keeps very much to himself in this remote place. If we go to him, we must bring a few men with us, for I hear he has a band of ruffians at his beck. And, of course, he has other mills, other houses, other affairs. He could be at any of them. Still, I could accompany you a week from today. But no sooner.” “Bien,” Duquet said. Yet, within the hour, Forgeron, who had led a crew of woodsmen to cut down one of Duquet’s pine-heavy townships, arrived in Boston. His lean face was blotched with a red rash. He hesitated, as though he wished not to speak his news. When he did speak, he threw his words down like playing cards. “We found the best trees taken. Most of them were mast pines. The stumps still oozed sap.” “Who?” Duquet said. “Sais pas. But there is talk that McBogle last week shipped two great loads of masts to Spain. He will have made a fat profit.” “I plan to find this man in a week’s time and see what can be arranged. I will let him know we suspect him of this theft. It will be our leverage. We will come to an agreement with him.” “He is not known for compliance.” “Nor am I. Dred-Peacock will accompany us on the Monday. You must come as well. It is necessary we go in a body, as we do not know the strength of McBogle’s men.” In the last year, Duquet’s eyesight had begun to deteriorate, dimness alternating with flashes of light and tiny particles gliding through his field of vision, like birds in the sky. He said nothing to Forgeron of this, only, “What is wrong with your face that it shows so rough and crimson?” Forgeron shrugged. The plan was ill-fated. Two days later, a packet entered Boston Harbor with great sacks of mail. Among Dred-Peacock’s mountain of letters was one from the family attorney informing him that his older brother and his nephew had both perished on the flanks of an Icelandic volcano, and that he, Dred-Peacock, had succeeded to the title and to the family estate, in Wiltshire. In seconds, Dred-Peacock’s talk of colonial liberty and rights evaporated, his self-definition as a man dedicated to New England self-rule shrivelled. “I must go,” he said to Duquet. “It is my responsibility to my family and to the estate. I cannot evade the title. I leave at once.” “Yes,” Duquet said. “I quite see.” Scratch a New England colonist, he thought, and you find Old England—the way a tree’s bark may hide the inner rot. And, as if that were not enough, word came that Forgeron was ill with a fiery skin inflammation and the quinsy, a putrid sore throat that forced him into his bed. Duquet decided that he would not delay. He would seek out McBogle alone. Duquet had the kitchen woman make him a canteen of strong black coffee. He would ration it out, drink it cold, eschewing fires, as the forest was sown with skulking Indians and Frenchmen looking for scalp money or payments for captives. He hired a schooner to take him to the mouth of the Penobscot, and there on the riverbank began his solitary journey. It was early spring, rafts of rotten ice riding the current in company with the first of thousands of logs. Where there were mills, crowds of woodsmen stood on the banks, snagging the logs with their outfit’s mark of ownership. The work continued all night by the light of enormous bonfires, cat-footed men running out onto the heaving carpet of logs to hook and prod their property to shore. Impossible to put a canoe into that maelstrom. Duquet had ordered his timber crews to hold back his logs until the river cleared of the floating forest. Now he set out on foot. And noticed two riverbank men turn away from the heaving river and cut obliquely into the forest. He smiled. Did they imagine they were not noticed? Sometimes he was on dim Indian trails, following landmarks almost always obscured by the jagged skylines of conifers, but more often he made his way through logging slash and blow-downs. Although timber cutters had worked the area along the river, a mile or so inland was still terre sauvage and, like the ocean, it breathed wild grandeur; from it emanated a sense of great depths. The tree limbs arched over the silent earth like the dark roof of a vaulted tomb. Once from a distance he saw two men working a pit sawmill, the top man bending and rising like an automaton, the man below in a smother of woolly sawdust. Intent on their labor, they did not see him. If they were industrious, he thought, they could cut a thousand boardfeet in a day, but it was more likely that their work would be interrupted by a scouting party out for captives or blood. Or the two riverbank louts. He skirted innumerable ponds, sinking to his knees in soggy moss, and took an entire day to cross an autumn burn, the charred trunks of the smaller trees with their own black limbs tangled around their roots like dropped drawers, still smoldering logs that could not be quenched. The biggest trees stood lightly scorched but unharmed. Winter snow had converted the ash to black muck. On steep slopes it was the ancient wind-felled monsters that caused the greatest hindrance; the branches on the lower side plunged into the earth and supported the main trunk, which resembled a multilegged monster, the remaining branches clawing out like arms with a hundred crooked spears thrusting upward. There must have been a strong windstorm to put down so many large trees. Some had pulled their neighbors to the ground, too. Often Duquet had to crawl beneath these barriers, through leaf mold, fern, toadshade, and viburnum, through slimed fungi, only to encounter another half-decayed giant within a few paces. He could not count all the streams and bogs, the hellish thickets of close-packed larch, the whipping red stems of osier willow. The treetops dazzled. The flashing wings of hundreds of thousands of northward migrating birds beat above him. He saw snowy owls drifting silently through the trees, for they had come into the Maine woods by the thousand that winter, and with the turn of the season were retreating to the cold lands. His eyes wearied of broken, wind-bent cedar fringing glinted swamp water. All one afternoon he had the feeling he was being watched, and as twilight thickened he saw a gray owl flutter to a branch stub and grip him with its gimlet eyes. Of all birds, it was this wretch he hated most. After six days, he cut back toward the Penobscot, following Moosegut Brook; McBogle’s sawmill, sited on this tributary stream, could not be far distant. He listened for the sound of falls. He felt the mill through his feet before he saw it, the metal clank and rasp of the drive-shift gears and the pitman arm sending a mindless thumping rhythm into the ground. His eyes troubled him, the flashes growing more frequent, tree branches and needles sparking. He walked along the stream and, abruptly, there was the mill pond and the mill, a heavy log structure built to take the weight of the saw machinery. He walked around to the side of the mill. And there was Dud McBogle standing above him in a razzle of flinching lights. Recognition was instant. Dud McBogle was the ginger-whiskered timber thief who long ago had turned back and called something to the wounded boy. Duquet felt a red cloud of anger envelop him, a certainty that this man knew all that had happened those years ago on the riverbank. His blood instantly flowed back on itself. The teeth of the moving saw gnawed through a twenty-foot-long squared log, sent up a spray of sawdust. “I have been waiting for you these some years,” McBogle said in an easy tone. “I went back, you see. I went back and dug up the pit where you burned my boy.” Four men, two of them the riverbank men, stepped out of the mill gloom and stood beside him. Duquet could smell the hot sawdust as the blade began a new cut, chewing through the log. He bucked and twisted as he was seized by McBogle’s men and carried into the mill. Narrow rods of light pierced the interstices of the shingled roof. He could hear the relentless up-and-down grind of the saw, could see McBogle’s hand near the lever that stopped the saw, could see the hand move away. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Slide To Unlock	Credit Lettering by Timothy Goodman and photograph by Grant Cornett; Lawrence Thornton / Getty You cycle through your passwords. They tell the secret story. What’s most important to you, the things you think can’t be deciphered. Words and numbers stored in the lining of your heart. Your daughter’s name. Your daughter’s name backward. Your daughter’s name backward plus the year of her birth. Your daughter’s name backward plus the last two digits of the year of her birth. Your daughter’s name backward plus the current year. They keep changing. They blur in the brain. Every day you punch in three or four of these memory strings to access the home laptop, the work laptop. The e-mail, the Facebook, the voice mail. Frequent-flyer account. Every week, you’re asked to change at least one, to increase the security. You feel virtuous when the security meter changes from red to green. Your home town backward. Your home town plus the year you were born. Your home town backward plus the year you were born. Olaf Fub 1970. There are hints when you forget. Mother’s maiden name. First car, favorite color, elementary school. First girl you kissed—that should be one. First boy. Can the hints just be the passwords? Stop stalling. First sex. You remember the day, month, year. The full year or just the last two digits? First concert you attended. Name of hospital where you were born. You wonder who writes these prompts. Someone has to write them. Tip: Never use the same password for more than one account. Last four digits of first phone number. Last four digits of first work number. Your daughter’s best friend’s name backward. Your boss’s first name. Your first boss’s last name plus the year you were born. If you could type out all your passwords, their entire silent history, they would fill a book you could read in a minute. Last four digits of your cell backward. Favorite sports team. Favorite sports team backward. Serbas. Pet’s name. You knew a guy who had a dog named Serbas. You knew two guys with dogs named Serbas. They didn’t like each other. The guys, that is. The dogs, who knows. You’re pretty sure one was female, the other male. Pet’s name backward plus current year. Favorite sibling—sibling who never let you down—plus last two digits of current year. Mix of capitals and lowercase. Six to eight characters long. Ten to fourteen. Stop stalling. Mix of numerals and letters. At least one symbol: #, %, *, !.! Father’s home town. Mother’s maiden name backward. The girl at work you can’t stop thinking about. The girl at work plus current year. The girl at work backward. The girl at work backward and lowercase plus last two digits of current year. Passwords mean nothing to the machine. The machine lets you in to do what you need to do. It doesn’t judge. It doesn’t care. Your password appears as a row of dots. Favorite film. But that keeps changing. “Vertigo.” “Groundhog Day.” Favorite actor. Actress who first made you hard, backward, plus current year. Best friend from high school. Best friend from college. Stop stalling. Year you last saw your daughter. Year you last saw your daughter plus her name. There’s a file on your work computer called PASSWORDS. But what if you forget the password to get into your work computer? Her favorite toy. What she named her bike. First girl you dated in college backward and lowercase. “The Shop Around the Corner.” “Buffalo ’66.” Date of first death in the family. Grandfather’s name backward plus birth year. Year you finally started getting your shit together. “Citizen Kane.” “Ace Ventura: Pet Detective.” Year of First Communion plus name of priest. Stop stalling. Favorite author backward and lowercase with middle letter capped for no reason save randomness. Street address of the house you grew up in. Sibling you don’t talk to. Spouse of sibling you don’t talk to, whom you text when you’re drunk. Stop stalling. Your last name backward plus the day, month, and year you find yourself at an A.T.M. at the ass end of Hertel Avenue with the tip of a gun pressed between your shoulder blades, the gun in the hand of the guy who followed you from down the street, affecting a limp, a big guy in a black windbreaker and a Bills Starter cap, who stepped behind you, quiet as a shadow, the big guy with dead eyes behind five-dollar sunglasses who already has your phone and wallet and the bottle of wine you thought it would be a good idea to run out and get, at ten in the evening, she said she’d stay inside and you said you would hurry, and it was a good night for a walk, so, while you’re at it, taking in the cool night air, why not get some cash for the week to come? The big guy with the very hard gun who is saying Password and Right now and Stop stalling. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Rough Deeds	Credit Lettering by Timothy Goodman and photograph by Grant Cornett In New France, which people more and more called Canada, for the old Iroquois word kanata, Duquet was everywhere—examining, prying, measuring, observing, and calculating. Limbs and low-quality hardwood waste became high-quality firewood, and every autumn he packed twenty wagons full for the Kebec market and for Paris, when he could charter available ships with the promise of a good return cargo of tea or coffee or textiles, spices or china. Without the sure promise of a rich return cargo, he thought, let the Parisians freeze, for all he cared. Leasing a Dutchman’s ships was well enough, but he needed ships of his own. In 1712, a business acquaintance in Boston, an Englishman named Dred-Peacock, connected him to an English shipbuilder and a new but promising yard on the River Clyde, in Scotland, joined to England by the Act of Union, in ’07. Duquet wanted a ship; the yard wanted wood. “Regard the map, sir,” Dred-Peacock said. “It’s the closest point to the colonies—the briefest sailing time. There are signs of success on the Clyde, but they need good timbers. They will pay for them. It is an opportunity that cannot be neglected.” There were good precedents in New France for trading with the enemy, but arrangements with the English and the Scots were still secret, complex, expensive, even dangerous. Yet Duquet knew that there was profit in selling to the English, despite their colonial aims. Duquet took the plunge and Dred-Peacock took a goodly share of the profits, which increased year by year. Fifty acres of oak were needed to build one seventy-four-gun warship, and the hardwood stands along the rivers of New France began to fall to Duquet’s ambitions. But he felt hampered by Kebec’s distance from the money pots of the world and by the ice blockage of the Saint-Laurent River in winter. “Duquet, it is past time for you to consider shifting your business operation to the colonies,” Dred-Peacock told him as they sat over their papers and receipts in the Sign of the Red Bottle, near the wharves, the inn they favored in Boston. Never did Dred-Peacock present his ill-formed face to Duquet in Kebec; always Duquet made the trip south by schooner or by packet. “Oh, I think on it,” Duquet said, swirling the ale in his tankard until it slopped over the rim, as if that settled the question. “I think of it often. I am of half a mind to do so, sir.” “Damn, sir! It is quite time you acted. Finish with thinking and act. Every day those poxy whoresons of mill men push into the forests and gain control over the land. In Maine, there are countless white-pine mast trees and lesser pines to be used for tar and pitch. You know there is a great market for these if you can get them on a ship bound for Scotland, England, or even Spain or Portugal.” Duquet nodded, but his face was sour. He knew that Dred-Peacock saw him as an ill-bred boor, a creature from the depths. True enough, he had escaped a cramped childhood spent pulling rabbit fur from half-rotten skins, pinching out guard hairs, plucking the soft fur for quilt stuffing. As a boy, he had coughed incessantly, bringing up phlegm clotted with rabbit hair. The fine hairs had settled on every surface, matted on his family’s heads and shoulders. Finally, in this clinging miasma of stinking hair and dust, his mother, choking blood, had lain on the floor, as his father’s black legs scissored away into the night, and Duquet began his struggle to get away from France, to become another person. Dred-Peacock may have sensed Duquet’s squalid beginnings, but his fantastic drive to make money was what interested the Englishman. Dred-Peacock went on, his voice vibrating, “Where there is a market, the businessman must act. And all this would be immeasurably easier if you operated from Boston, rather than bloody Kweebeck. And with my help these affairs can be managed.” It was obvious and timely advice, and yet Duquet hesitated to commit to leaving New France. He had valuable connections there, and a lifetime dislike of the English language, with its vile obscenities, and those who spoke it. Soon, several ships belonging to Duquet, but flying British flags, ran the seas between Portsmouth and Boston harbors and the ever more numerous Clyde shipyards. It was like walking on a web of tightropes, but the money flew around Duquet like dandelion fluff in the wind. He had only to catch it in his net. And share it with Dred-Peacock. During the next decade, Duquet began to acquire tracts of woodland in Maine. Dred-Peacock’s genius in the legal procedure of acquiring remote “townships” was immeasurable, and an old acquaintance from Duquet’s first years in New France, Jacques Forgeron, scouted out the best timberland. Forgeron, a surveyor when he could get work, a voyageur when he could not, had joined forces with Duquet in his earliest days. Together they had entered the fur trade, had paddled, portaged, walked, and sung the rivers of New France. Forgeron was something of a Jonah, who attracted foul weather, but he had a curious regard for the wild forest and often told Duquet that it could be the source of great wealth. This man cherished his measuring chains and could use one as a weapon, swinging it around and around until it gained velocity and the free end leaped forward to maim. And, if he had used it in this way in France, the old days counted for very little. Now he was a partner in Duquet et Fils, perhaps even a friend, if a business tie between two friendless men could be so described. From time to time, Duquet would join Forgeron in the Maine woods to explore his growing territory. One October afternoon, they landed their canoe on a sandy Maine river shore fronting one of their new white-pine properties, twenty thousand acres at a cost of twelve cents an acre. There was a narrow hem of ice along the shaded shoreline. “Frog ice,” Forgeron said. In the rich autumn light, the deciduous trees stunned with xanthine orange and yellow. The men’s swart shadows fell on the ground like toppled statues. Without speaking, they began to gather firewood. Forgeron held up his hand. “Listen,” he said quietly. They heard the sounds of chopping not too far off and began to move cautiously toward the source. With an acid jolt of fury, Duquet saw unknown men in stiff, pitch-blackened trousers cutting his pines, other men limbing the fallen trees, and yet another scoring them. Two men worked with broadaxes to square the logs. Duquet was sure they had a pit sawmill set up nearby. By their bulging pale eyes and doughy faces he knew them to be English colonists. Although Duquet et Fils had no hesitation in cutting big trees where they found them, it was intolerable when they were the victims of this poaching. “Ho la! Who say you come my land, cut my tree?” Duquet shouted, forgetting his careful English. He was so furious that his voice strangled in his throat. Forgeron advanced beside him, lightly revolving a section of his thirty-three-foot chain. The startled woodsmen stared and then, still gripping their tools, they ran on an oblique course toward the river, where they likely had boats. But one with a dirty bandage on his right leg lagged behind. Duquet did not pause. He drew his tomahawk from his belt and hurled it, striking the runner’s left calf. He fell, crying to his comrades for help in a high, childish voice. One of the escaping men turned around and stared at Duquet as he called something to the fallen one. The confrontation lasted only a few seconds but left Duquet with an unfading impression of a man swelling with hatred. Duquet would not forget the man’s mottled slab of a face, encircled by ginger hair and beard, the yellow animal eyes fixed on him, the sudden turning away and violent dash for the river. “They come from settlements along the coast,” Forgeron said. “All Maine settlers are voracious thieves of fine timber. They are everywhere on the rivers.” They bound their wounded prisoner, a boy not older than fourteen, and dragged him to a pine, tied him up against it in a hollow between projecting tree roots. “You, garçon, talk up or I cut first your fingers, then your balls. Who are you? What men you with? How you come here?” The boy folded his lips in a tight crease, either in pain or in defiance. Duquet wrenched the boy’s arm and spread his left hand against one of the great humped roots. With a quick slash of his axe, he took off a little finger and part of the next. “Talk or I cut more. You die no head.” Duquet’s bloody interrogation gave him the information that the thieves were in the employ of a mill owner named McBogle, an agent of the politico Elisha Cooke. He had been hearing of Cooke for years; all described him as a passionate opponent of Crown authority, especially that vested in the English Surveyor-General, who struggled to enforce the dictate that all ship-mast pines were the property of the British Admiralty. But McBogle’s name was new. Although Duquet’s heart was pounding with anger, it occurred to him that Elisha Cooke and perhaps even McBogle might be useful men, and he fixed their names in his memory. “Eh, no trees on Penobscot? Why you come here steal pine?” he said. “We thought only to cut a few. Away from the surveyor’s men.” Duquet did not believe this. “Show your wounds.” When the boy held up his maimed hand, Duquet said angrily, “No, not that. Only scratch. Old wound.” He could smell the stink of infection from a distance. With his good hand the boy unwrapped his right leg and exposed a deep and rotten gash in the thigh. A streak of red inflammation ran up toward the groin. “How happen this?” Duquet demanded. “Uncle Robert felled a big pine, and when it smote the ground it broke off a branch that bent double and then sprang to gouge my leg.” It was an evil mess. In contrast, the cut in the boy’s calf inflicted by Duquet’s ’hawk was clean, though it had nearly severed a tendon, and the chopped finger was a trifle. Nothing to be done. They carried the youth about half a mile upstream to the interlopers’ camp, which was strewn with abandoned clothing and cook pots, a deer carcass suspended in a tree, and laid him in the lean-to near the still smoldering fire. “We will stay here,” Duquet said to Forgeron, “as the thieves have prepared a camp for us.” He tried to speak calmly, but he was filled with a greater anger than he had ever experienced. After all the injustices he had suffered, after all he had done—crossing to the New World, learning the hard voyageur trade and how to read and write and cipher, working out a way to use the forest for his fortune, all the business connections he had made—these Maine vermin had come to steal his timber. Forgeron brought their canoe up to the campsite while Duquet searched until he found the trespassers’ pit sawmill. There were no sawed planks beside it, indicating they had been there only a few days, but with the clear intention of stealing his trees. The stack of limbed and squared logs told him that. He wondered if they had planned to build a fort. It was said that the English were plotting to build forts along all the rivers. “Let us put our mark on them,” Duquet said, and he and Forgeron took possession of the logs with two deep hatchet slashes on the butt ends. They talked of ways to move them. It seemed that a raft floated to the nearest sawmill might be the best way, getting what they could, and, while Duquet stayed to guard the timber in case the thieves returned, Forgeron went to Portsmouth to hire raftsmen. During the early evening, the mildness went out of the weather. The sky filled with clouds the color of dark grapes, torn by flailing stems of lightning. An hour of rain moved along, and behind it the temperature dived into winter. Duquet woke at dawn, shivering. There was not a breath of wind, but every twig and branch bristled with spiky hoarfrost. In the distance, wolves howled messages to one another, their cries filleting the morning. They had likely scented the boy’s blood and infection and would linger out of sight, waiting for a chance. Duquet got up and piled more wood on the fire. The wounded boy’s eyes were closed, his face feverish and swollen, cheeks wet with melting frost. Duquet thought that he would be dead after one more cold night. Or he might not last until nightfall. With some urgency, Duquet prodded the boy awake and fired questions at him: his name, his village, his family’s house. But the boy only croaked for water, which Duquet did not give him, and then went silent. He still lived. Duquet spent the short day estimating the boardfeet of the felled pines. “It’s a standard deathbed confession, Jimmy. Please don’t make us drag out the rubber hoses.”Buy the print » The light faded early as the growing storm invaded the sky, the wind and sleety snow rattling and hissing in the pines. While there was still light enough to see clearly, Duquet walked over to the prisoner. The boy lay on his back, his right leg bursting with infection, a yellow froth of pus oozing out from under the bandage, the leg a little splayed, as though it were detaching itself. Nothing could be done with this burden except wait for him to die—one more cold night. The boy opened his eyes and stared at something across the river. Duquet followed his gaze, expecting to see Indians or perhaps one of the woodcutters returning. He saw only a wall of pines until a blink of yellow showed him where to look. A tall gray owl sat on a branch, seeing them. Its eyes were very small and set close together, like twin gimlets. The boy spoke. “Help. Me,” he said in English. “Help. Me.” Inside Duquet, something like a tightly closed pinecone, licked by fire, opened abruptly, and he exploded with insensate and uncontrollable fury, a lifetime’s pent-up rage. “J’en ai rien à foutre. No one helped me!” he shrieked. “I did everything myself! I endured! I contended with powerful men. I suffered in the wilderness. I accepted the risk that I might die! No one helped me!” The boy’s gaze shifted, the fever-boiled eyes following Duquet’s rising arm, closing only when the tomahawk split his brain. Duquet struck the hatchet into the loam to clean it, and the owl lifted into the air. In the flying snow, Duquet dismantled the saw-pit scaffolding and threw the boy into the pit hole, piled the scaffolding on top, and set it alight. The gibbous moon rose. Hours later, when the burning ceased, he went to shovel in the half-frozen excavated soil, but before he hurled the first shovelful he glanced down and saw the black arm bones crooked up, as if reaching for a helping hand. “Foutu!” He shovelled. Forgeron arrived four days later with six men, who began constructing a raft of the cut pines. Not seeing the wounded boy, Forgeron opened his mouth several times, as if to speak, but he did not say anything except that the war was making it very difficult to find able-bodied labor. “What war is that?” Duquet asked. “Has not Peter the Great invaded Persia? They spoke of nothing else in Portsmouth. That and the smallpox inoculations inflicted on Bostonians.” In the next years, Duquet changed, reinventing himself. In Boston, Duquet et Fils became Duke and Sons. But although there were endless business opportunities in the English colonies, he kept his enterprise and some holdings in New France. He sat with Dred-Peacock in the taproom of the Pine Dog, a pleasant tavern with a sign showing an eponymous carved mastiff, now their favored meeting place, as the Sign of the Red Bottle had burned in a conflagration that took half the wharves and several ships. “Do you know aught of that fellow McBogle?” Duquet asked, breaking the crust edge from his meat pasty with heavy fingers. Dred-Peacock, bewigged and togged out, regarded his steaming coffee. “I have not made his acquaintance, but I’ve heard much deleterious talk concerning his ways. As we both know, Maine is full to the scuppers with woodland entrepreneurs, water-powered sawmills, surveyors, tree choppers, potash makers, turpentine distillers, and settlers, every man assaulting the free-to-all timberlands.” “They think as I do,” Duquet said, “so I cannot fault them. But dealing with them is always a struggle.” “The settlers are hard men, right enough, but there are others even harder, mostly in New Hampshire. I mean those men of Scots lineage lately removed from Ulster, in Ireland.” “Surely they are as other mortal men?” “No. They are different. They are damned strange cruel men, clannish and proud to a fault, thirsty for vengeance over imagined slights, hard-drinking, and inhumanly tough. The whoresons prefer to sleep outside in storms, rather than in the comfort of a house. They know the country as the poxy Indians know it, and to live free is their banner. They choose to live in the most remote places. And they are key fighters in the escalating antipathy between the French and the English.” He paused and took up his coffee cup, stared into Duquet’s eyes. “Dud McBogle, his brothers, and his sons are among these men.” Duquet threw back his head and laughed. “Well, I have heard bugbear stories aplenty and I would class McBogle tales among them. No doubt he eats children as sweetmeats and wears a red fur cloak bespangled with their bones. What do you say when I tell you I consider taking this man on as a partner?” For once, Dred-Peacock had nothing to say. In Boston one day, Dred-Peacock came to the Duke warehouse, a cavernous building near the docks, redolent of pine, oak, furs, and roots. “I thought you might wish to know that that man you mentioned some time ago has been asking people about you. How many sawmills you own, how disgustingly large your fortune may be, what ships you have, what tracts of timber and townships you possess. He himself operates five or six more sawmills on the Penobscot and in New Hampshire. He begins to look like a serious rival.” “Who do you mean? Elisha Cooke?” Duquet said. “His damned hard man, McBogle.” “Indeed,” Duquet said. “I hear this sometimes. He asks questions, but we never see him. What is your own perception of this situation?” “I think that he should be absorbed. I doubt we could buy him out, but a partnership may be attractive. He has friendly relations not only with Elisha Cooke and the Wentworths but with many judges and businessmen here and in New Hampshire. Yet he does not have our contacts across the Atlantic.” It was Dred-Peacock, with his assortment of languages, who knew the invaluable English and European men of business. “I think we must talk with him and see what might be arranged. Where do we find him?” “He may be difficult to locate. He has a sawmill on a tributary of the Penobscot and a house nearby. He keeps very much to himself in this remote place. If we go to him, we must bring a few men with us, for I hear he has a band of ruffians at his beck. And, of course, he has other mills, other houses, other affairs. He could be at any of them. Still, I could accompany you a week from today. But no sooner.” “Bien,” Duquet said. Yet, within the hour, Forgeron, who had led a crew of woodsmen to cut down one of Duquet’s pine-heavy townships, arrived in Boston. His lean face was blotched with a red rash. He hesitated, as though he wished not to speak his news. When he did speak, he threw his words down like playing cards. “We found the best trees taken. Most of them were mast pines. The stumps still oozed sap.” “Who?” Duquet said. “Sais pas. But there is talk that McBogle last week shipped two great loads of masts to Spain. He will have made a fat profit.” “I plan to find this man in a week’s time and see what can be arranged. I will let him know we suspect him of this theft. It will be our leverage. We will come to an agreement with him.” “He is not known for compliance.” “Nor am I. Dred-Peacock will accompany us on the Monday. You must come as well. It is necessary we go in a body, as we do not know the strength of McBogle’s men.” In the last year, Duquet’s eyesight had begun to deteriorate, dimness alternating with flashes of light and tiny particles gliding through his field of vision, like birds in the sky. He said nothing to Forgeron of this, only, “What is wrong with your face that it shows so rough and crimson?” Forgeron shrugged. The plan was ill-fated. Two days later, a packet entered Boston Harbor with great sacks of mail. Among Dred-Peacock’s mountain of letters was one from the family attorney informing him that his older brother and his nephew had both perished on the flanks of an Icelandic volcano, and that he, Dred-Peacock, had succeeded to the title and to the family estate, in Wiltshire. In seconds, Dred-Peacock’s talk of colonial liberty and rights evaporated, his self-definition as a man dedicated to New England self-rule shrivelled. “I must go,” he said to Duquet. “It is my responsibility to my family and to the estate. I cannot evade the title. I leave at once.” “Yes,” Duquet said. “I quite see.” Scratch a New England colonist, he thought, and you find Old England—the way a tree’s bark may hide the inner rot. And, as if that were not enough, word came that Forgeron was ill with a fiery skin inflammation and the quinsy, a putrid sore throat that forced him into his bed. Duquet decided that he would not delay. He would seek out McBogle alone. Duquet had the kitchen woman make him a canteen of strong black coffee. He would ration it out, drink it cold, eschewing fires, as the forest was sown with skulking Indians and Frenchmen looking for scalp money or payments for captives. He hired a schooner to take him to the mouth of the Penobscot, and there on the riverbank began his solitary journey. It was early spring, rafts of rotten ice riding the current in company with the first of thousands of logs. Where there were mills, crowds of woodsmen stood on the banks, snagging the logs with their outfit’s mark of ownership. The work continued all night by the light of enormous bonfires, cat-footed men running out onto the heaving carpet of logs to hook and prod their property to shore. Impossible to put a canoe into that maelstrom. Duquet had ordered his timber crews to hold back his logs until the river cleared of the floating forest. Now he set out on foot. And noticed two riverbank men turn away from the heaving river and cut obliquely into the forest. He smiled. Did they imagine they were not noticed? Sometimes he was on dim Indian trails, following landmarks almost always obscured by the jagged skylines of conifers, but more often he made his way through logging slash and blow-downs. Although timber cutters had worked the area along the river, a mile or so inland was still terre sauvage and, like the ocean, it breathed wild grandeur; from it emanated a sense of great depths. The tree limbs arched over the silent earth like the dark roof of a vaulted tomb. Once from a distance he saw two men working a pit sawmill, the top man bending and rising like an automaton, the man below in a smother of woolly sawdust. Intent on their labor, they did not see him. If they were industrious, he thought, they could cut a thousand boardfeet in a day, but it was more likely that their work would be interrupted by a scouting party out for captives or blood. Or the two riverbank louts. He skirted innumerable ponds, sinking to his knees in soggy moss, and took an entire day to cross an autumn burn, the charred trunks of the smaller trees with their own black limbs tangled around their roots like dropped drawers, still smoldering logs that could not be quenched. The biggest trees stood lightly scorched but unharmed. Winter snow had converted the ash to black muck. On steep slopes it was the ancient wind-felled monsters that caused the greatest hindrance; the branches on the lower side plunged into the earth and supported the main trunk, which resembled a multilegged monster, the remaining branches clawing out like arms with a hundred crooked spears thrusting upward. There must have been a strong windstorm to put down so many large trees. Some had pulled their neighbors to the ground, too. Often Duquet had to crawl beneath these barriers, through leaf mold, fern, toadshade, and viburnum, through slimed fungi, only to encounter another half-decayed giant within a few paces. He could not count all the streams and bogs, the hellish thickets of close-packed larch, the whipping red stems of osier willow. The treetops dazzled. The flashing wings of hundreds of thousands of northward migrating birds beat above him. He saw snowy owls drifting silently through the trees, for they had come into the Maine woods by the thousand that winter, and with the turn of the season were retreating to the cold lands. His eyes wearied of broken, wind-bent cedar fringing glinted swamp water. All one afternoon he had the feeling he was being watched, and as twilight thickened he saw a gray owl flutter to a branch stub and grip him with its gimlet eyes. Of all birds, it was this wretch he hated most. After six days, he cut back toward the Penobscot, following Moosegut Brook; McBogle’s sawmill, sited on this tributary stream, could not be far distant. He listened for the sound of falls. He felt the mill through his feet before he saw it, the metal clank and rasp of the drive-shift gears and the pitman arm sending a mindless thumping rhythm into the ground. His eyes troubled him, the flashes growing more frequent, tree branches and needles sparking. He walked along the stream and, abruptly, there was the mill pond and the mill, a heavy log structure built to take the weight of the saw machinery. He walked around to the side of the mill. And there was Dud McBogle standing above him in a razzle of flinching lights. Recognition was instant. Dud McBogle was the ginger-whiskered timber thief who long ago had turned back and called something to the wounded boy. Duquet felt a red cloud of anger envelop him, a certainty that this man knew all that had happened those years ago on the riverbank. His blood instantly flowed back on itself. The teeth of the moving saw gnawed through a twenty-foot-long squared log, sent up a spray of sawdust. “I have been waiting for you these some years,” McBogle said in an easy tone. “I went back, you see. I went back and dug up the pit where you burned my boy.” Four men, two of them the riverbank men, stepped out of the mill gloom and stood beside him. Duquet could smell the hot sawdust as the blade began a new cut, chewing through the log. He bucked and twisted as he was seized by McBogle’s men and carried into the mill. Narrow rods of light pierced the interstices of the shingled roof. He could hear the relentless up-and-down grind of the saw, could see McBogle’s hand near the lever that stopped the saw, could see the hand move away. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Slide To Unlock	Credit Lettering by Timothy Goodman and photograph by Grant Cornett; Lawrence Thornton / Getty You cycle through your passwords. They tell the secret story. What’s most important to you, the things you think can’t be deciphered. Words and numbers stored in the lining of your heart. Your daughter’s name. Your daughter’s name backward. Your daughter’s name backward plus the year of her birth. Your daughter’s name backward plus the last two digits of the year of her birth. Your daughter’s name backward plus the current year. They keep changing. They blur in the brain. Every day you punch in three or four of these memory strings to access the home laptop, the work laptop. The e-mail, the Facebook, the voice mail. Frequent-flyer account. Every week, you’re asked to change at least one, to increase the security. You feel virtuous when the security meter changes from red to green. Your home town backward. Your home town plus the year you were born. Your home town backward plus the year you were born. Olaf Fub 1970. There are hints when you forget. Mother’s maiden name. First car, favorite color, elementary school. First girl you kissed—that should be one. First boy. Can the hints just be the passwords? Stop stalling. First sex. You remember the day, month, year. The full year or just the last two digits? First concert you attended. Name of hospital where you were born. You wonder who writes these prompts. Someone has to write them. Tip: Never use the same password for more than one account. Last four digits of first phone number. Last four digits of first work number. Your daughter’s best friend’s name backward. Your boss’s first name. Your first boss’s last name plus the year you were born. If you could type out all your passwords, their entire silent history, they would fill a book you could read in a minute. Last four digits of your cell backward. Favorite sports team. Favorite sports team backward. Serbas. Pet’s name. You knew a guy who had a dog named Serbas. You knew two guys with dogs named Serbas. They didn’t like each other. The guys, that is. The dogs, who knows. You’re pretty sure one was female, the other male. Pet’s name backward plus current year. Favorite sibling—sibling who never let you down—plus last two digits of current year. Mix of capitals and lowercase. Six to eight characters long. Ten to fourteen. Stop stalling. Mix of numerals and letters. At least one symbol: #, %, *, !.! Father’s home town. Mother’s maiden name backward. The girl at work you can’t stop thinking about. The girl at work plus current year. The girl at work backward. The girl at work backward and lowercase plus last two digits of current year. Passwords mean nothing to the machine. The machine lets you in to do what you need to do. It doesn’t judge. It doesn’t care. Your password appears as a row of dots. Favorite film. But that keeps changing. “Vertigo.” “Groundhog Day.” Favorite actor. Actress who first made you hard, backward, plus current year. Best friend from high school. Best friend from college. Stop stalling. Year you last saw your daughter. Year you last saw your daughter plus her name. There’s a file on your work computer called PASSWORDS. But what if you forget the password to get into your work computer? Her favorite toy. What she named her bike. First girl you dated in college backward and lowercase. “The Shop Around the Corner.” “Buffalo ’66.” Date of first death in the family. Grandfather’s name backward plus birth year. Year you finally started getting your shit together. “Citizen Kane.” “Ace Ventura: Pet Detective.” Year of First Communion plus name of priest. Stop stalling. Favorite author backward and lowercase with middle letter capped for no reason save randomness. Street address of the house you grew up in. Sibling you don’t talk to. Spouse of sibling you don’t talk to, whom you text when you’re drunk. Stop stalling. Your last name backward plus the day, month, and year you find yourself at an A.T.M. at the ass end of Hertel Avenue with the tip of a gun pressed between your shoulder blades, the gun in the hand of the guy who followed you from down the street, affecting a limp, a big guy in a black windbreaker and a Bills Starter cap, who stepped behind you, quiet as a shadow, the big guy with dead eyes behind five-dollar sunglasses who already has your phone and wallet and the bottle of wine you thought it would be a good idea to run out and get, at ten in the evening, she said she’d stay inside and you said you would hurry, and it was a good night for a walk, so, while you’re at it, taking in the cool night air, why not get some cash for the week to come? The big guy with the very hard gun who is saying Password and Right now and Stop stalling. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
We Didn’t Like Him	Credit Illustration by Victo Ngai We didn’t like him. Manshu was fourteen, and we were eight or ten, and, instead of playing with boys his own age, he forced himself into our games. Often, he came out into the lane and, if we were playing stick-stick, he’d say, “Give me the stick.” Intimidated, we’d hand it over. The lane had three- and four-story houses on both sides, so closely pressed together that the alley was always in shade. Once, we were playing cricket in the lane, Manshu batting. Nobody could get him out. The boy who was bowling, an eight-year-old, became angry and flung the ball away. Manshu twisted the boy’s arm behind his back, forcing him to his knees. Then he gently tapped the top of the boy’s head with the cricket bat, as if the boy were a wicket being driven into the ground. Manshu was large, dark-skinned, round-faced. He was my father’s sister’s husband’s sister’s son. Since he belonged to my aunt’s husband’s family, we had to show him the respect due to a family that takes a daughter away. The fact that I had to show deference was one more reason that he irritated me. And, because I was related to Manshu, the other boys treated me badly. They blamed me for his behavior, as if my family were responsible for whatever he was doing. Manshu’s father had died when he was six. He lived with his mother in a large room on the second floor of an old house. The room had a high ceiling and blue-green walls. The nicest thing about it was the swing that hung from the center of the ceiling. Manshu’s mother had diabetes and got tired easily. Many evenings, after she had gone to bed, Manshu would visit our house. When he came, he paid no attention to me. Instead, he addressed himself to my parents. He had a way of speaking that suggested that he understood other people’s motivations. “Uncle,” he said to my father once, “you know what Mrs. Kohli is like.” When he spoke as if he knew things, I would think, Who are you to talk this way? Because I was eight and cruel, the way children are, I also thought, Why do you think you can talk when you don’t even have a father? My parents belonged to a generation that is mostly gone now, those very formal men and women who measured distance with kos and counted change in annas. When Manshu visited, my mother made him sherbet and presented it to him on a tray, the way she would have served it to an adult toward whom the family had to show respect. My parents were polite with Manshu, but periodically they showed that they found him irritating, too. Once, my mother told my father that everything Manshu said was probably an echo of something his mother had uttered. Another time, when Manshu passed seventh standard and his mother went around the lane giving out boxes of sweets, my father said, “Surely he must have cheated.” Manshu’s mother was always fainting. She would pass out in the lane, and some neighbor would come and hold a glass of glucose water to her lips until she got up again. One day, when Manshu was sixteen, she fainted in the alley, but this time she didn’t get up. For a while after she died, I did not believe that she was actually gone. A mother dying was the sort of thing that happened only in movies. I somehow imagined that Manshu’s mother would come back in a few weeks, and that she would be angry when she returned. She would accuse everyone of disloyalty for having thought she could die. Not long after her death, I went to Manshu’s room with my parents. It smelled as it always had, of medicines and rubbing alcohol, of incense and cooking spices. I was disturbed by the fact that nothing had changed. It seemed confirmation that a horrible thing could occur and it would not matter. If Manshu’s misfortune could be ignored, then I, too, might suffer misfortune and be treated this way. I got scared. I wanted to leave so badly that I did not care if I hurt Manshu’s feelings. Manshu was handed over to my aunt’s husband, who lived a few lanes away, but he continued to spend time in our lane. At first, I was embarrassed whenever I saw him. He was quiet, meek. He appeared chastened. His hunched shoulders would remind me that his mother was dead, and then I’d feel ashamed of my own good fortune. Now, at our cricket games, if he batted for a while and nobody could get him out, he would surrender the bat and let somebody else take a turn. This thoughtfulness was due, perhaps, to the fact that his uncle did not like him; Manshu must have felt that he had no one to take care of him, and so he was afraid of offending. It may also have sprung from the tenderness we all feel when someone we love dies. At some point, Manshu began to visit the temple in our lane. The temple was narrow, with a marble-floored courtyard that had idols along all four sides and a tulsi bush in the center. In a larger temple, Manshu might have been able to sit quietly without attracting attention, but Gaurji, the pandit, who lived on the second floor of the temple, saw it as his home. He did not like people to be there, except for prayers. To Gaurji, they were intruding in his house. He would glower at the women who wanted to do service and came in the morning to wash the temple floor. He was irritable and slightly paranoid, as many pandits are, feeling underpaid and not respected. Manshu, because he was spending so much time at the temple, began to join Gaurji at each prayer. There were prayers in the morning, the afternoon, the evening, and the night. During these, he sat right behind Gaurji. When Gaurji, bare-chested and skinny, his white dhoti wrapped around his narrow waist, rang his bell and blew on his shell, Manshu’s high wavery voice stood out. My father was part of the committee that oversaw the temple, and Gaurji, of course, found it suspicious that somebody related to my father was spending so much time there, watching him. Once, Manshu asked to look at the prayer books and Gaurji began hitting him, slapping his face and shoulders. “What do you want?” he shouted. “At last, tell me what you want.” Manshu began to be religious. He was now seventeen or so. He stopped playing with us and started wearing sandalwood paste on his forehead. When he met somebody on the street, he said, “Ram, Ram,” instead of “Namaste,” to show his piety. Manshu’s religiosity became commonly known. Some women did their afternoon and evening prayers at home and liked to have another person present, because they felt that it would be more flattering to God to have two people praying than one. Manshu began to visit these women and sit before their altars as they sang. They would give him tea and crackers. My father found this embarrassing, as if Manshu were praying in exchange for food. Manshu also bought some pamphlets on fortune-telling and astrology and started reading palms. He practiced, at first, on us children. We sat a step below him in the stairways of houses in the lane, our hands outstretched. When he read mine, I asked him whether I would be famous. “No,” he said. This made me doubt that he could forecast the future. He told me that I would own a dog and have problems with my knees. Manshu did not do well in higher secondary. He wasn’t able to get into college and so began studying for his B.Com. through correspondence school. He graduated in 1988. It is hard now to believe how difficult it was to get a job in India before 1991 and the economic liberalization. People would graduate from college, even good colleges, and remain unemployed for three or four years. Manshu became a tutor and continued to live with his uncle. I didn’t do especially well in higher secondary, either. I did get into law school, but it was a Hindi medium one, rather than one taught in English. While I was in law school, I came home regularly. It was strange to see Manshu still wandering the lanes, still going into people’s homes to pray with them. He had grown a potbelly and he had a little Brahman ponytail now. He wore slippers, instead of shoes, as if he had to keep removing his footwear to enter sacred spaces. So much was changing in my life and so little in his that I began to see Manshu as simpleminded. The difference between the late eighties and the mid-nineties was so great that it was as if there were decades separating them. When Manshu graduated from college, everyone wanted a government job. When I graduated from law school, everyone wanted to work for a foreign company. I was not smart enough to get a job with a multinational, so I opened an office near the courts in Tis Hazari. It was a tin-roofed shed in a lane of tin-roofed sheds that were rented by lawyers. During the day, I’d walk up and down the alleys, past tea stands and men sitting on stools beneath trees, typewriters before them. I talked to other lawyers—the fortunate ones in black gowns who were going to appear before a judge, and the rest, who, like me, wore dress pants and white shirts with pens in their breast pockets and their business cards rubber-banded in their pants pockets. When I moved into the Tis Hazari office, I had a prayer ceremony performed in the shed. Manshu sat in the center of the concrete room and lit a fire, and soon the place was full of smoke and it was hard to breathe. Still, I sat there and sang prayers. Why not, if it might bring luck? Also, inviting the other lawyers in the lane to the prayer ceremony was a way of getting to know people. To cultivate business, I began helping my father with his volunteer work, which was how I started dealing with the committee that oversaw the temple. “I vary her diet with a wide variety of pasta shapes.”Buy the print » No pandit ever wants to leave a temple. It provides free housing and reasonable pay for not much effort. Also, one has an almost complete monopoly over the ceremonies held in nearby houses, and this can double or triple one’s income. But Gaurji suffered a series of small strokes, and they made him even angrier. One winter evening, during prayers in the temple courtyard, he took the plates of food that had been put before the various gods for their dinner and began throwing them at the people who were seated cross-legged waiting for the prayers to start. I was there when this occurred. He called us sisterfuckers and ass-sniffers. He stood before us, so angry that he was trembling. His eyes were dilated. I have only once or twice seen someone possessed and, watching Gaurji, I had the same sense of astonishment that I had when I witnessed a woman at Nizamuddin Dargah holding on to the marble jali, shouting, “Mercy, mercy,” as people chanted nearby. Gaurji’s youngest son wanted to replace his father; like me and Manshu, he had done poorly in school. My father wanted to give the position to Manshu. He and the temple committee went to the temple and told the son that Manshu was going to be the new pandit. The next morning, when the two old women who washed the temple floor arrived, the building’s blue wooden doors were chained from the inside, the chains clanking whenever they tried to push them open. The doors remained chained for several days. People walked past and said angry things, before touching the temple steps and then bringing their hands to their foreheads. Eventually, to drive out Gaurji and his family, we had to turn off the water and the electricity. Almost immediately after he became pandit, Manshu got married. He used to go on pilgrimages to Vaishno Devi three times a year. He returned from one of these with a non-Brahman girl. He came back at night, entering the lane on foot, because an auto-rickshaw’s rattle would have drawn too much attention. He must have been ashamed, because he told no one in advance about the marriage and, even the next day, he did not visit us or his uncle to announce the news. The girl was Vaishya—her family sold firewood and coal—and this upset my father. He sat on a chair in our courtyard, his pajamas rolled up to his knees to sun his legs. “Always in his heart, I sensed there was selfishness,” he said. “Now he’s going to turn the temple into a business.” I tried to calm him. “I am a Brahman, and I am as business-minded as a Vaishya,” I said. I went to the temple to see Manshu. I agreed with my father that Manshu had behaved dishonestly, that he should have told us of his intention to marry out of caste before we made him pandit, but I was used to dealing with conflict by then, and I went calmly. Manshu and I sat in one of the small rooms on the second floor, a low-ceilinged room that was like a cell. “I knew you would not be angry,” he said quickly, as if to preëmpt whatever I might say. “How can I be angry at your happiness?” I asked. I did not care that Manshu had married out of caste. It was awkward, though, that he had done this so soon, while everyone in the lane was still aware of how much my family had done to support him. “Meet your sister-in-law,” he said, and called out, “Aruna.” The woman who came through the door was short and round and fair-skinned. She looked like a Russian nesting doll. I got up and went and touched her feet. She gave a surprised laugh at being treated so formally. “Will you have tea?” she said. Before I could answer, Manshu spoke. “She has diabetes, just like Ma.” He was smiling, and he said this almost proudly. His pride struck me as odd, and being reminded of his mother took me aback. Since I no longer thought of her, it had not occurred to me that his mother continued to be real to him. After this, I treated Manshu and his wife the way I would a business contact. I dropped by the temple in the evenings to say hello. I made sure to tell people to use Manshu for prayer ceremonies, and I let him know that I had made the suggestion. My father’s suspicions about Manshu’s plans for the temple turned out to be correct. One day, Manshu came to my office. “How can I get on TV?” he asked, sitting on the other side of my desk. He wanted to be one of the yogis or miracle workers who are always on the cable channels. I said I guessed that you had to have a connection with someone who worked for the cable channels. He asked if I knew anyone like that. I did not. Manshu then put an ad in the Times of India, a small box at the bottom of one of the middle pages, in which he claimed that praying at his temple might cure cancer. My mother said that he should go to jail. My father did not speak, only glowered. For a few weeks, people came into the lane holding the cutout ad, asking for the temple. I visited Manshu one evening soon after the ad came out and asked him how effective it had been. We were standing in the temple courtyard. “You need a lot of money to make advertising work,” Manshu said. “One or two ads is not enough.” He said this angrily, as if his not having enough money for a lot of ads were some kind of injustice. He put another ad in the Times of India. This time, when people came to the temple courtyard with the cutout ad, he performed miracles. He had learned some magic tricks and did such things as hold out an open palm before the visitor, close it, and then open it again to reveal blessed ashes. Although the ads did not get him consistent new worshippers, they did help, in that he began to be asked to perform prayer ceremonies outside the neighborhood. The mere fact that he had been mentioned in the newspaper made him appear famous, and people liked to have somebody famous pray for them. The worst thing that Manshu did, in my eyes as well as in my father’s, was start a small phone business at the end of the lane. Near the mouth of the lane, where it merged into a commercial street, were several shops, each about the size of a closet. One of these belonged to the temple. Originally, there had been an idol there, so that people could pray on their way out of the lane to start their day. Gaurji, however, had convinced the temple committee that he needed more money, and his son had begun selling various knickknacks from there. Now Manshu put a phone in the closet and a curtain across it so that boys and girls who wanted to make friendship calls but did not want to use their cell phones could use the booth. It was improper for a pandit to be involved in this kind of business, but even worse was the fact that it was Manshu’s wife who ran it. When a customer was in the booth, Aruna would come out into the lane and chatter with the other stall owners. She was popular with them for her willingness to be ordinary, but many of us felt that she was giving our lane a bad name. In those days, Manshu only rarely came to our house. He was busy and had a wife he wanted to spend time with. My father, who did not actually want to see him, began to view his not visiting as disrespectful. It is hard to be around someone who has strong opinions without being influenced by those opinions. I, too, started to feel that Manshu was abusing us. It occurred to me that he had tricked us, that he had taken advantage of our family relationship to become the pandit, and then had turned the temple into a business. I continued to see Manshu regularly, though, just as I continue to do business with people who strike me as immoral. When my father was sixty-seven, the doctors told him that he had cancer. He went into the hospital for an operation, came out, and then had to go in again. He had chemotherapy, which caused his hair and his teeth to fall out. He became frail. His skin turned red, as if it were burned. Sometimes I sponge-bathed my father in his bed at home, patting him with a handkerchief, because a towel was too rough. Even the handkerchief could cause his skin to peel and bleed. Near the end, he developed a lung infection. When I told him that I had to take him back to the hospital, he started to cry. “Why? What purpose will that serve?” he said, weeping. I wanted him to go on living, though, so I told him that he was worrying for no reason. Because he was so afraid and lonely in his white room at the hospital, I asked everyone he knew to visit. I went to the temple several times to ask Manshu. He did not come, though his wife did. It was around then that I began to hate him. I was with my father when he died. He was in his bed, open-eyed and hallucinating. “It’s me. It’s me,” he said, right before he passed. I took my father to Kanchi, a village by the Ganges, a hundred kilometres from Delhi, where many of the families in our lane perform cremations. As I walked around the pyre before it was lit and put the clarified butter on my father, I felt embarrassed, as if I were doing something wrong by pouring ghee on the nice silk kurta that he was wearing. After the cremation, I asked Manshu to come to the house and lead the singing of the prayers. I did this because I wanted my father, even in death, to be surrounded by people he knew. People came and sat cross-legged in the courtyard. Manshu sat on cushions in a corner, singing and playing a harmonium. His cell phone was lying on the cushion beside him. Periodically it would ring and he would gesture for us to keep singing while he answered the phone with one hand and played the harmonium with the other. I was standing in a corner during the ceremony. It was a beautiful day, and it seemed awful that my father was not there to see it. I also felt as though I were failing my father. He deserved more than this, and I had not provided it. I left the courtyard and went out into the lane. I walked toward the end of the alley. I was the only person there. As I walked, I panted. Halfway down the lane, there was a scooter, and a cow eating some trash. I could hear the sound of the prayers at our house dying down, and this made me feel worse. Once the prayers were over, all the rituals would be done and my father would somehow be more dead. “I have room for one ladies’ size 4, or a very supple 6.”Buy the print » I came back to the courtyard and stood at the entrance. My mother was sitting near Manshu, her head covered with a fold of her white sari, rocking and weeping, surrounded by women, who were caressing her. Manshu looked up at me from his cushions and said, “Won’t somebody say something about the soul that has departed?” I hate this eulogizing thing which has started up in India. To me, it is a Western fashion. The pandits now watch American movies and they want to be seen as doing the latest, most advanced thing. I remained silent in my corner. “Will you let him go without saying anything?” Manshu said to the crowd. “Is he so little loved?” One of my uncles, who was sitting on the floor near me, tapped my ankle. I began speaking. “Ji, you all know what a kind man my father was. You know how he helped found orphanages.” As I spoke, I started to sob. I was angry that this intimate thing had been turned into a display. “You know that, when my grandfather was dying, for two years he lay on his cot and my father took such good care of him that he never developed a bedsore.” I hated Manshu for years after that. It seemed to me that he was pathologically selfish, that any decent person would have visited a dying relative, that any decent person would have tried to be humble during the funeral prayers instead of drawing attention to himself. I stopped dropping by the temple. When we passed each other in the lane, I didn’t speak to him. Manshu’s wife gave birth to two children, a girl named Priya and then, a few years later, a boy named Rahul. As a diabetic, she was taking a risk. The girl was born without complications, but when Aruna gave birth to the boy she went into a coma. My mother sat in the temple with the many people from the lane who had come to pray for her. Aruna woke from her coma, but she remained unhealthy afterward. Years passed. Her black hair began to have white in it. She kept going in and out of the hospital. Manshu had bought a white van, but he sold it to pay the hospital bills. Aruna still sometimes sat outside their phone booth. Other times, they hired a neighborhood boy to oversee it. Eventually, she died. Manshu was not close to his father’s side of the family, so he asked me to help with the funeral. I had to do everything, from hiring the jeweller to come and snip the nose ring out of Aruna’s nostril to buying the coconuts and grass used in the prayers. Manshu did not have enough money for a wooden pyre. I arranged for an electric cremation. I arranged for the jeep that took the body to the crematorium, and I hired a minibus to take people there. All the while, as I was doing this, I felt stupid for helping someone I hated. Many people are vile. When I went with Manshu to pick up the ashes, the man who made us sign a register and then gave them to us in a white cardboard box said that often people didn’t bother to pick up their relatives’ remains. “That is family love,” he said, his eyes bloodshot, speaking with the bitterness typical of government employees. I wanted to take the ashes directly to Kanchi, but as we were getting into the car Manshu asked if we could first go back to the lane. He said that the children needed to salute their mother. It was a bright, hot day. I sighed loudly, obviously. I wanted to say no, to tell him that I did not have time to waste. Shame kept me from saying this, of course. All the way back into the city, the traffic was stop and go. Manshu sat with the box in a red duffelbag in his lap. We parked opposite the mouth of the lane, with the busy street between us and the lane’s entrance. Priya appeared, holding her brother’s hand, and as she led him across the road Manshu started sobbing. He got out of the car and left the bag on the seat and told his children to wait while he went and bought some flowers. He left the car door open. I thought about closing it so that the air-conditioning wouldn’t escape. But it felt wrong to separate the children from their mother’s ashes. Manshu returned. He unzipped the bag so that we could see the box. “Say what I say,” he told them, and led them in a prayer, gesturing for them to put handfuls of geraniums in the bag. The drive to Kanchi took hours. At some point, Manshu fell asleep, his chin tipping into his chest. I looked at him as I drove and remembered my father’s funeral ceremony, Manshu sitting in the corner talking on his cell phone. I felt that I was a fool. I did not have the courage to take revenge. Kanchi’s primary industry is funerals. You get off the highway and almost immediately there is a parking lot, because most cars are not allowed to drive in. Along the lanes from the parking lot to the river, there are only flower shops and the restaurants where families eat a meal before going back home. The village’s temples stand in a line by the river, and between them and the gray-green water is a steeply sloping sandy bank covered with shacks. Outside these, young men, Brahmans, in tight pants and cheap white shirts, stand waiting. Manshu sat on a cot beside one of the shacks, and a young man led him through the prayers. The cardboard box was open before him and there was a plastic bag inside, with ashes and flecks of bone, like shards of seashell. It was all depraved. In the middle of the prayers, the Brahman turned to me, since I had selected him, and asked me to give him more money than we had agreed to. I told him that he had no shame. He said the next part of the prayer, so that Manshu could keep going, and then repeated that I needed to pay more. We agreed on a new amount, and then the prayers were finished. Manshu and I walked down to the long wooden boats by the river. Several boatmen, short and wiry, approached us as we reached the water. Again, as Manshu held the bag against his chest, there were nasty negotiations, with the boatmen demanding outrageous amounts. “Tell them that we need to go to the middle of the river,” Manshu whispered. Often, the boatmen would stroke only a few yards from shore and demand that one pour one’s ashes there. “You tell them,” I wanted to say. We got into one of the boats and the boatman poled us into the river. In the distance was a bridge, and on the other side were large buildings with chimneys. Manshu sat in the bow with the red duffelbag in his lap. It was now midafternoon, and for a while there was only the creak of the pole in its lock and the splash of the water. It was hot, and I was sweating heavily. The boatman pulled his pole out of the water and let us drift. After a few minutes, he began stroking again so that we would not be caught by the current. “Manshu, brother,” I said. “You have to do it.” “She’ll be all alone,” Manshu murmured. “We won’t be here and she’ll be all alone.” I did not know what to say to this. I was sitting a few feet from him. I got up and crossed the boat. The boat tipped beneath me, and the boatman moved from one side to the other. I took the box from the bag. “Let me help,” I said. Manshu looked up at me, startled. I took out my car keys and used one to tear open the plastic bag. I held the bag out over the river with one hand and shook the ashes into the water. Feeling the bag lighten, I realized that I was doing something wrong. When I poured my father’s ashes into the river, I had been glad that I was doing him this service, that I was taking care of him in this way. It was not fair to Aruna that someone outside her family was pouring her ashes into the river. It was not fair to Manshu that I was taking away this chance to care for his wife. Once the bag was empty, I dipped it into the river and drained it so that all the ashes were gone. I flung the bag into the water. I threw the box also, and the government form that said that the ashes were human remains. Near Kanchi is a village famous for the deities that craftsmen there make out of clay and straw. The villagers advertise their wares by standing the statues along the edge of the road. We drove back toward Delhi, past half a mile of gods. In the car, holding the steering wheel, I could still feel the bag lightening in my hands. Not knowing what to say about the terrible thing I had done, I spoke to Manshu about the future. “You have to think of Priya and Rahul. They only have you now.” I parked the car by the mouth of our lane and phoned my mother and waited. After a few minutes, women began to appear, carrying buckets. It is a ritual in our families, after we have put someone in the Ganges, to bathe before we reënter the lane. Manshu and I got out of the car and took off our shoes and shirts. It was strange to feel the road beneath our bare feet and the hot polluted wind against our bellies. Then we tied towels around our waists and took off our pants and underwear. Scooters and bicycles stopped behind us and then slowly went around. Before bathing myself, I bathed Manshu. I poured water on his head and then on his neck and back. I kneaded his fat shoulders. I rubbed his back with soap, his skin warm and the sun on my hands. I knelt down beside him and washed his legs and feet. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Thirteen Wives	Credit Illustration by Balint Zsako I have thirteen wives. We all live together in a sprawling Queen Anne house with half a dozen gables, two round towers, and a wraparound porch, not far from the center of town. Each of my wives has her own room, as I have mine, but we gather for dinner every evening in the high dining room, at the long table under the old chandelier with its pink glass shades. Later, in the front room, we play rummy or pinochle in small groups, or sit talking in faded armchairs and couches. My wives get along very well with one another, though their relation to me is more complex. People sometimes ask, “Why thirteen wives?” “Oh,” I always say, putting on my brightest smile, “you can’t have too much of a good thing!” In truth, the answer is less simple than that, though the precise nature of the answer remains elusive even to me. What’s clear is that I love my wives, each alone and all together, and can’t imagine a life without all of them. Even though I married my wives one after the other, over a period of nine years, I never did so with the thought that I was replacing one wife with a better one, or abolishing my former wives by starting over. Never have I considered myself to be a man with thirteen marriages but, rather, a man with a single marriage, composed of thirteen wives. Whether this solution to the difficult problem of marriage is one that will prove useful to others, or whether my approach will add nothing to the sum of human knowledge, is not for me to say. I say only that, speaking strictly for myself, there could have been no other way. Here, then, are my wives. 1. Absolute equals, heart-sharers, partners in love—that’s how we think of each other, my first wife and I. If, on a Sunday morning, I wake up late to find she’s made me a plate of big blueberry pancakes, just the way I liked them as a boy, with a square of butter melting its way in, then the next Sunday I’ll serve her a two-egg omelette with green peppers and chopped onions, exactly the kind she remembers from summers at the cabin on the island when she was a girl. I remind her of her appointment with the hairdresser on Tuesday at one, she makes sure I don’t miss my dentist’s appointment on Thursday at four; I drive with her to her mother’s house in Vermont on the third weekend in July, she comes with me to my father’s house on the Cape for the second week of August; I praise the trim lines of her new yellow sundress, she’s pleased by the crisp look of my new light-weave button-down. These arrangements are perhaps known to every marriage, but ours has developed more intimate refinements. If my first wife catches her hand in a door, I howl with sudden pain; when I’m thirsty, she gulps down a glass of iced limeade; if I knock into a table edge, a purple bruise shows on her leg; if she trips on the edge of the rug, I fall to the floor. One evening I thought of the answer to a crossword clue we’d both been stuck on the day before; when I entered her room, I found her sitting up in bed, folded newspaper in hand, filling in the answer with a yellow No. 2 pencil. Another time, when things weren’t going well with me, I woke in the night and feared she might be suicidally depressed; when I rushed into the hall, I nearly collided with her, hurrying toward me with her arms held wide and a look of rescue in her eyes. Sometimes, it’s true, I grow bored, deeply bored, with our system of finely measured equivalences. Then I long for an imbalance, a sharp exception, a fierce eruption. Unhappy that I’ve had such thoughts, and uncertain what to do, I seek out the one person who’s sure to understand; when I seize her arms and look into her eyes, I see the same melancholy, the same longing for something unknown; and as I burst into a dark, uneasy laugh, I hear, all over the room, like the cries of many animals, the sound of her own troubling laughter. 2. When I am feeling hopeless about my life, when my hands hang from my sleeves like dead men dangling, when, catching sight of myself in a plate-glass window, I turn violently away, but not before I’ve seen myself turn violently away, then I know it’s time for me to be in the company of my second wife, who knows how to comfort me. Even as I arrive at the front door, holding my leather laptop case in one hand and reaching for my key with the other, she’s looking at me anxiously and asking about my day, she’s helping me out of my belted trenchcoat and hanging up my hat, she’s placing my case by the umbrella stand. Already she is leading me to an armchair—my favorite one, with the thick armrests—where she places a pillow behind my head and touches my forehead with her hand, while at the same time she’s lifting my feet onto the hassock, she’s removing my shoes and pressing her cheek against my leg. “Are you all right?” she asks, looking at me with tender concern. And gazing at me earnestly she asks, “Have you had a hard day?” Later, when she has undressed me, and bathed me, and laid me on the bed, she bends over me and says, “Do you like this?” and “Do you like this?” Still later, waking beside her, I feel a sudden doubt. Roughly I shake her awake. Staring into her sleepy eyes, I tell her that I could never endure a rival, that I’ll leave her instantly if she ever tries a trick like that, she can’t take advantage of me, I wasn’t born yesterday. During my outburst her large, startled eyes fill with tears. Gradually a relief comes over me, I grow calm, I glance at the clock and see that it’s getting late, a yawn shudders through me, and as I close my eyes and begin to drift toward deep, soothing sleep I feel her lying awake beside me, searching for the cause of my distress, rehearsing the events of the past few hours, reproaching herself for not loving me enough, her eyes wide, her heart racing, her cheek resting tensely against my shoulder. 3. Buy the print » At other times, in a more robust mood, the sort of mood in which life’s little disappointments no longer seem evidences of failure but welcome challenges to the all-conquering spirit, I seek the company of my third wife, who never spoils me. When I enter her room I find her lying on the bed, reading a book with a frown of concentration. Without looking up, she raises a rigid finger as a sign that she’s not to be disturbed; her whole body tightens with attention as she continues reading. After a long while she lays the book on her chest and lifts her eyes to me, with the same frown. At once she reproaches me with having neglected her. As I begin to defend myself, she tells me that the new cleaning lady has broken one of the blue wineglasses; there’s no more sliced turkey in the refrigerator, only sliced ham; the door of the linen closet doesn’t close properly. I assure her that I’ll take care of everything soon, right away, at this very moment if necessary; in response she rolls her eyes in a slow, exaggerated manner. Suddenly she looks at my shirt and asks whether I went to work with my collar like that. Have I checked my hair in the mirror lately? Her head hurts; her allergies are killing her; she’s sure she has a sinus infection; there’s no air in the room; the window is stuck again. I step over and raise the window easily. She asks whether it gives me pleasure to score a cheap victory at her expense. She’s short of cash; her blow-dryer is broken; something’s wrong with the switch on the coffeemaker. As I lie down cautiously beside her, she sits up and says it’s getting late; besides, she isn’t feeling well; she can’t breathe; there’s no air in the room, even with the window open; what she needs is a dehumidifier; why doesn’t she have a dehumidifier; a dehumidifier would make all the difference. I reach out and touch her arm. She stares at my hand and remarks that she hates her blouse—everything sticks in this weather. Slowly, watching her carefully, I begin to undo my shirt. She’s not in the mood, she says; besides, I don’t care about her; all I care about is myself; she can’t even remember the last time I told her I loved her. “I love you,” I say at once. She looks at her fingers and asks whether I really believe that I can make our problems go away just by uttering a few words that cost me nothing; but that’s just like me. As she removes her blouse she notices her upper arm; look how the flesh jiggles; she’s turning into a tub of lard. I assure her that her arm is fine, very fine, even somewhat on the thin side. She’s curious to know when it was that I became the world’s leading expert on the diet and fitness of American women. As we continue undressing, she complains about the mattress, which is supposed to be a medium but is actually much softer than advertised; it’s bad for her back; we ought to return it and get a good one, unless, of course, I think this is the sort of mattress she deserves; as we make love, she notes the squeaking springs and reports that the cleaning lady arrived fifteen minutes late and neglected to dust the base of the table lamp beside the couch. When we’re done she says, “You never take me anywhere.” Before I can answer, she asks how I can expect her to sleep through the night with a windowpane that rattles in the slightest breeze. I never pay attention to her; I don’t listen; I talk, but I don’t listen; she can’t breathe in this room; there’s nothing to eat in the house; her neck hurts; she doesn’t like the way the new cleaning lady looks at her. Her eyes are slowly closing; she glares at me sleepily. After a while I rise with caution, slip into my clothes, and take my leave, feeling refreshed and invigorated after such exercise. 4. All’s well between my fourth wife and me; really, nothing could be better; in fact, I have no hesitation in saying that our love is perfect; but isn’t this very perfection a cause for concern? When she declares herself supremely happy and swears she has never loved anyone as she loves me, I experience a deep happiness of my own; but doesn’t my happiness cause me, to a certain extent, to take things for granted, doesn’t it nudge me, however minutely, in the direction of smugness and self-satisfaction, and don’t these qualities render me, when all is said and done, less lovable? My fourth wife conceals nothing from me, reveals with utter trust the innermost ripples of her being, but in the act of loving self-revelation isn’t there a risk that she will gradually deprive herself of mystery? I can’t imagine any woman more desirable than my fourth wife, whom I stare at tirelessly, for her beauty, though flawless, is never cold. But doesn’t her beauty contain the danger concealed at the core of all extreme things, the danger of provoking irritation or resentment? In the same way, mightn’t it be said of her intelligence, her kindness, even her goodness of heart, that they encourage a search for flaws, that they incite in their admirer a secret craving for ignorance, confusion, and spiritual failure? Our love is perfect; I desire nothing more. Why then should I find my thoughts turning toward imperfection? Why should I sometimes dream of complaining bitterly, shouting at the top of my voice, accusing her of ruining my life? Why should I long to provoke, in the clear eyes of my fourth wife, the first shadow of disappointment and pain? 5. Whenever I want to be with my fifth wife, I find her in the company of a young man. He’s handsome in a boyish, somewhat delicate but by no means unmanly way, slender but well muscled, dressed always in a dark sports jacket, a light-blue shirt open at the neck, and jeans. He is polite, self-effacing, and silent. When my fifth wife and I have lunch together in a downtown restaurant, facing each other across a small table, he sits to her left or right; when we talk at night by the fireplace, he sits on the rug with his head leaning against her leg; when I take off her clothes, she hands them to him; when we slip into bed, he’s there beside us, lying on his back with his hands clasped behind his neck. At first his presence disturbed me, and filled me with bitterness, but in time I’ve grown used to him. Once, waking in the night beside her, I saw over her shoulder that he wasn’t there; I felt anxious and shook her awake; and only when, smiling faintly, she lifted the covers to display him lying between us in his dark sports jacket, light-blue shirt, and jeans, sleeping soundly with his head between her breasts, did my anxiety subside enough to permit me to fall back to sleep. 6. Always, when I’m with my sixth wife, a moment comes when she rises slowly toward the ceiling, where she remains hovering above me. “Dear,” I plead, falling on my knees, “won’t you come down from there? I’m worried you’ll hurt yourself. And besides, what have I done? I didn’t disturb you as you sat at the kitchen table with your sketchbook and your stick of charcoal and drew seventeen versions of a fruit knife lying beside a green pear and a white coffee cup. I didn’t clear my throat loudly or walk up and down humming to myself as you leaned back on the couch with your legs tucked under you and twisted a piece of hair slowly around your finger while reading ‘Anna Karenina’ for the eighth time. I didn’t step up behind you and kiss you with a wet smack on the back of your neck while you sat fiercely erect at the piano practicing over and over the first movement of Mozart’s Piano Sonata in A Minor, Köchel 310. And if I’ve allowed my eyes to stray for a moment to your glittering knees beneath your dark wool skirt, it was only in order to rest from the judgment of your intelligent, severe eyes.” “Idiot!” she replies. “Do you really think I can hear you from up here?” And with that she begins to fly back and forth across the ceiling, laughing her tense, seductive laugh, brushing my hair with the tip of her foot. 7. Whatever I like to do, my seventh wife likes to do. When I mow the lawn on a warm Saturday afternoon, admiring the straight strips of fresh-cut grass as bursts of sweet-smelling blades fall at my cuffs, she walks alongside me, clasping the left half of the black rubber grip on the red lawnmower handle. When I read a mystery novel set in a country house in Surrey in the summer of 1935, she reads a second copy of the same book, glancing at me over the top of the pages and stopping when I stop. On poker night she’s the only woman among us; I watch her narrow her eyes as she checks her tightly held cards and slides a white chip sharply forward with her index finger. At breakfast she eats the same cereal I eat, using the two-per-cent milk I prefer; her orange juice, like mine, has lots of pulp; at the mall, she chooses the same brand of running shoe, with mesh nylon uppers and antimicrobial insoles; our umbrellas match; our sunglasses are identical; when I tell her my childhood memory of running toward a rainbow in a field of high grass, she recounts the same memory. Once, when life was too much for me, when I needed to get away from it all, I drove north for five hours to a drizzly seaside town, where I took the last ferry to an island with a rocky shore before a dense forest, in which stood a single cabin without a telephone. When I opened the door and held up my lantern, a raccoon leaped from the table; bats swept across the ceiling; pinecones lay everywhere; on a wooden chair I saw her purse. 8. A sword in my bed divides me from my eighth wife. If I love her, I must not touch her; to do so would be to violate a vow that she herself has exacted. True to my word, I remain inches from her, sick with desire. My plight would be lessened if I were never to share my bed with her, but my eighth wife insists that she lives solely for these moments. Mindful of my suffering, which is also hers, she sometimes conceals her body from me, slipping between the sheets with her quilted down coat zipped up to her chin. At other times, suffering for my suffering, and desiring to reward my feat of denial with the one pleasure she can permit, she’ll adorn herself with blue-green eyeshadow, purple-black mascara, crimson lipstick, expensive oils, creams, and lotions, and dabs of perfume behind the ears and on each wrist, and display herself, on her side of the sword, in shimmering and translucent underclothes in a variety of fashionable styles. It’s possible, of course, that my eighth wife wishes only that I’d violate my vow, despite her assurance that to do so would be to destroy her love for me by making her lose respect for my word. How else to explain her presence in my bed, her provocative underclothes, her frequent headaches, her prolonged sighs? Indeed, it’s tempting to believe that the real test isn’t whether I can demonstrate my love for her by remaining true to my word but whether I love her fiercely enough to smash through an arbitrary prohibition—an event she secretly desires and desperately awaits. But the very temptation of this thought is a warning: in my state of violent desire, dare I trust an idea that encourages me to betray my word and to side with the passion I’m struggling to overcome? It’s also true that, despite my suffering, I’m proud of my success in keeping my word; to succumb to temptation would be to experience a loss of self-esteem. Is she perhaps desirable to me only insofar as I’m able to overcome desire? In that case it’s I who have encouraged her to exact my vow, it’s I alone who am the source of my torment. Sometimes a strange longing comes: to plunge the sharp sword deep, deep into my eighth wife’s side. In this desire to be rid of her and thereby end my suffering, I detect a secret flaw. My suffering, however painful, is always qualified by the possibility of failure, the possibility that, despite everything, I’ll become like other men and break my word at last; her death, by removing that possibility, would remove the sole thought that relieves my anguish. For all these reasons, I understand with terrible clarity that my plight can never change. In this understanding I sense a final danger: by believing that nothing can change, do I not relax my will, do I not open myself all the more to temptation? And with a last, desperate burst of strength I rouse myself to new rigors of wariness. 9. “I’m afraid it’s two, three months, tops, before you’re all pants.”Buy the print » There are times when I can’t bear the company of anyone but my ninth wife, despite the little secret we never discuss. What does it matter to me if, bending to gaze into her brilliant dark eyes, I see her looking a little to the left or right, so that I have to shift my position slightly to create the illusion that we’re gazing deep into each other’s eyes? Sometimes, as she crosses the room with her graceful strides, she’ll happen to knock against me if I’m not quick enough to step out of the way. On these occasions she doesn’t stop, doesn’t acknowledge me, and the slight smile on her lips remains unchanged. In every way my ninth wife is cheerful and obliging. Why then should I complain if, holding out my hand lovingly to lead her toward the bed, I see her stare past me? Why should I give it a second thought if she steps on my foot as she walks to the bed alone and lies down with her little smile? Once, as I was about to plunge my face into the thickets of her hair, I was stopped by a faint sound that appeared to be coming from her throat. When I bent my ear against her neck, I heard a dim whirring. A small adjustment proved necessary, after which, despite the interruption, I was able to devote myself entirely to the pleasures of the dark. 10. In an atmosphere of drawn curtains, medicinal smells, and perpetual twilight, I visit my tenth wife, who’s burning up. Her cheeks are flushed, her eyes are unnaturally bright; on the dark coverlet her pale arm has the whiteness of bone. Illness consumes her. Fever parches her lips, burns along her throat and eyelids; her ears are hot. Her straw-colored hair, brown in the dusk and uncombed, streams on the pillow. Her hair was once straight and obedient, but illness has released a hidden wildness: it falls in snarls and tangles, plunges over the pillow edge, tumbles along the bedspread, where it lies sprawled and spent. I’ve brought her a few violets and marigolds, picked from our garden, but when she strains to raise herself, lines of tension crease her forehead, as if she’s struggling against two hands holding her shoulders down; after a while she gives up and falls back, exhausted. I lay the flowers on the bedside table, near the digital clock. A glass of water, decorated with orange and green fish, stands on the table beside a box of tissues. When I hold the glass to her mouth, she drinks eagerly, desperately; suddenly she turns her head away. Water flashes on her face like a wound. I wipe her lips with a tissue; they’re cracked like dry leather. With my fingertips I stroke her hot, pale forearm, her bony cheeks. Under her fevered eyelids her large eyes glitter. I want to comfort my tenth wife, I want to lavish her with attentions, but there’s little I can do except sit on the chair next to the bed. In this dusky room, in this world removed from the world, I feel myself bursting with health. My vigor strikes me as intolerable, like a shrill, continual noise. What to do? Her illness excludes me—since she cannot be well, I have to become sick. Slowly I bend down and kiss her dry, hot mouth. I want to inhale her fiery germs, I want to drink her fever, feel her disease glowing inside me like hot spiced wine. Deftly I slip under the heavy covers, releasing an odor of stale bedsheets. Am I mistaken, or do I sense a slight soreness in my throat? My forehead feels hot. Is it my imagination, or has my hand grown pale? I will find her, I’ll join her at last in her own land. Eagerly I meet her gaze. Her eyes, weary and glittering, stare at me as one might stare at a sudden animal across a stream. 11. Whenever there’s work to be done, when things can’t be put off a second longer, I turn to my eleventh wife, who knows exactly what to do. It’s she who climbs the tall ladder and fastens the loose gutters in place, lifting her hammer into the blue sky as she plucks a gutter nail from between her teeth, while down on the grass I steady the ladder rails with both hands. She’s the one who strips the paint from the front porch with the electric sander, bending over the boards in her dust mask and safety glasses, she it is who repairs the cracked ceiling above the basement landing, caulks the second-floor window frames, installs copper flashing in a roof valley, replaces a rotted porch post, while I carry paint cans, fetch drill bits and putty knives, and bring her large glasses of ice water that she drinks lustily, with her head flung back. Standing in the shade at the side of the house, I look up to see her crawling across sunny roof slopes or leaning far out of upper windows. Tools glint on her body like jewels; her bare arms quiver with energy. Once she begins a task, it’s difficult for her to stop. At night I can hear the blows of her hammer on the roof; at dawn, through the partly open blinds of my bedroom window, I can see her ankles and the rung of a ladder. Sometimes my door opens in the dark and she comes to me, like a shout in the night. She lifts a screwdriver from behind her ear; carpet tacks fall from her hair. She’s efficient, she’s brisk. Afterward, as I turn my head in the hope of resting against her shoulder, I see her, through eyes heavy with sleep, striding about the room, measuring heights with a metal tape, screwing brackets into the wall, swinging up two-by-fours that rise into a row of shelves. 12. If I speak of my twelfth wife as a negative woman, it’s because she is the sum of all that did not happen between us. In a crowded room on a summer night at a party overlooking a lake, I did not cross over and sit down beside her. I did not, seated beside her, begin a long, ambiguous conversation, during which I bent my face closer and closer, while she, laughing lightly, tucked one leg under a thigh and brushed a few crumbs of potato chip from her sleeve. That night we did not walk hand in hand along the shore while inventing new names for the constellations and bursting into wild laughter. In July we did not pick up a rented Opel at the Zurich airport and drive along winding roads past green hillsides spotted with red-tiled roofs on our way to a high hotel with a balcony that looked down at the shining water of Lake Geneva and the dark towers of the Castle of Chillon. One night in August, in the amusement park, I did not, seated on a blue horse, watch her throw back her head and laugh unheard among carrousel melodies as she rose and fell on her red horse with the white bridle and the golden mane. The negations multiply swiftly, forming a rich pattern in reverse; spawned by an initial gesture of refusal, our unacted history outgrows the narrow compass of accomplished lives. We cannot end, for time does not contain us; nor can we suffer change, for the structure of our negative biography rests on the unchangeable foundation of nothingness. We are more than mortal, we two. All lovers envy us. 13. In a sense, I’ve never seen my thirteenth wife. If, as I help her slip out of her winter coat with the thick fur collar, I look away from her green eyes to watch her pale-yellow hair lift up and fall onto the white wool of her sweater, then when I return my gaze to her face I’m lost in admiration of her rich brown eyes and the convolutions of her mahogany-dark hair against her crimson blouse. A moment later, returning from the closet, I’m cast into reverie by her melancholy gray irises with little flecks of amber around the pupil. On a single walk across the carpet, she displays her calves in black nylon tights shimmery as liquid, striped orange-and-white kneesocks turned down once at the top, rose-colored silk stockings imported from Italy, and paint-spattered jeans with the cuffs rolled up, while each turn of her neck reveals a new profile, each movement of her wrist a new hand. The incessant changefulness of my thirteenth wife may, of course, arise from something deceptive in her nature, as if she’s continually casting up new images in an effort to evade responsibility for any one of them, but I incline to a different explanation. Her clothes, her gestures, her faces, all are familiar to me, though sometimes so faintly that the memory is a kind of tremor at the back of the brain. It’s the peculiar fate of my thirteenth wife to evoke innumerable pasts that aren’t hers; she is composed of my memories of other women. To see her is to experience all the women barely noticed in public parks and crowded bus terminals, the half-seen women sitting at wrought-iron tables under the awnings of outdoor restaurants or waiting in line at ice-cream stands at the edges of small towns on hot summer nights, all the women passing on suburban sidewalks through rippling spots of sun and shade, the briefly stared-at women rising past me on escalators with glossy black handrails in busy department stores, the silent women reaching up for books on the shelves of libraries or sitting alone on benches under skylights in malls, all the vanished girls in high-school hallways, the motionless women in wide-brimmed hats standing in gardens in oil paintings in forgotten museums, the black-and-white women in long skirts and high-necked blouses packing suitcases in lonely hotel rooms in old movies, all the shadowy women looking up at departure times in fading train stations or leaning back drowsily on dim trains rushing toward dissolving towns. My thirteenth wife is abundant and invisible; she exists only in the act of disappearing. This perpetual annihilation is her highest virtue, for by ceasing to exist she increases her being; by refusing to be a particular woman, she becomes a multitude. Though I am denied my thirteenth wife, who is always other, denial is her generosity, and I’m grateful to her for more lasting gifts: the gift of memory, the gift of desire, the gift of astonishment. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Dark Arts	Credit Illustration by Brendan Monroe On a dark winter morning at the Müllerhaus men’s hostel, Julian Bledstein reached for his Dopp kit. At home, he could medicate himself blindfolded, but here, across the ocean, it wasn’t so easy. The room stank, and more than one young man was snoring. The beds in the old gymnasium were singles, which didn’t keep certain of the guests from coupling when the lights went out. Sometimes Julian could hear them going at it, fornicating as if with silencers on. He studied the sounds when he couldn’t sleep, picturing the worst: animals strapped to breathing machines, children smothered under blankets. In the morning he could never tell just who had been making love. The men dressed and left for the day, avoiding eye contact, mesmerized in the glow of their cell phones. Julian held his breath and squeezed the syringe, draining untold dollars’ worth of questionable medicine into the flesh of his thigh. He clipped a bag holding the last of his money to the metal underside of his bed. His father’s hard-earned money. Not enough euros left. Not nearly enough. He’d have to make a call, poor-mouth into the phone until his father’s wallet spit out more bills. He left the hostel and took the stone path down to nothing good. This morning he was on his way, yet again, to meet Hayley’s train. Sweet, sweet Hayley. She would fail to appear today, no doubt, as she had failed to appear every day for the past two weeks. It seemed more and more likely that his lovely, explosively angry girlfriend wouldn’t be joining him in Germany—even though they’d spent months planning the trip, Julian Googling deep into his unemployed afternoons back home, Hayley pinging him sexy links from work whenever she could. A food-truck map, day treks along the Königsallee. First they’d destroy England and France, lay waste to the Old World, then drop into freaking Düsseldorf for the last, broken leg of the journey. It was meant to be a romantic medical-tourist getaway, a young invalid and his lady friend sampling the experimental medicine of the Rhine. But they’d fought in France, and he’d come to Düsseldorf ahead of her. Now he waited not so hopefully, not so patiently—dragging himself between the hostel, the train station, and the Internet café, checking vainly for messages from Hayley—while seeking treatment at the clinic up on the hill. Treatment—well, that perhaps wasn’t the word for it. His was one of the incurable conditions. An allergy to his own blood, as he not so scientifically thought of it. An allergy to himself was more like it. His immune system was confused, fighting against the home team. Or his immune system knew exactly what it was doing. These days, autoimmune diseases were the most sophisticated way to undermine yourself, to be your own worst enemy. Back home, he’d tried it all—the steroids, the nerve blocks, the premium plasma—and felt no different. He’d eaten only green food until it ran down his legs. Then for a long time he’d tried nothing. He’d tried school, then tried dropping out, living, in his mid-twenties, in his old room in his father’s house. Through it all, though, he had mostly tried Hayley, as in really, really tried her, and he could see how very tried she’d become. It was Hayley who’d pushed for this trip, so that Julian could finally have a shot at the new medical approach they’d read so much about, a possible breakthrough with rare autoimmune disorders. In Germany, a shining outpost on the medical frontier, doctors tried what was forbidden or unconscionable elsewhere. And for a fee they’d try it on you. Massive doses of it. You could bathe in its miracle waters. You could practically get stem-cell Jell-O shooters at the bar on Thursday nights. So long as, you know, you waived—yes, waived—goodbye to your rights, your family, your life. It was not such a terrible trade. On Julian’s first day, the clinic staff had brandished a very fine needle. It had gleamed in the cold fluorescent light of the guinea-pig room. From Julian’s wheezing torso, the doctors had drawn blood and marrow, his deep, private syrup—which they then boiled and spoon-fed back to him until he sizzled, until he just about glowed. Of course, the whole thing was more complicated than that, particularly the dark arts they conjured on his marrow once they’d smuggled it out of him. They spun it, purified it, damn near weaponized it, then sold it back to him for cash. Zero-sum medicine, since he’d grown it himself, in what Hayley, digging into his ribs, had called “the Julian Farm.” Except that the sum was a good deal larger than zero. And after a few weeks, or so the idea was, you’d be better. In his wellness fantasies, Julian always pictured himself scrubbed clean, nicely dressed, suddenly funny and charming. Better in every goddam way. But, of course, throughout these treatments, as he’d discovered, the frowning doctors hedged and balked and shat caveats, until the promise of recovery was off the table, out of the room, nowhere near the building. This morning, he ducked the stares of shopkeepers, who guarded their doors against him, the pale American who spent no money. They must have come to recognize his sickly figure by now. What was left of it. God knows they gawked. To Julian, it seemed that they could see right through his clothes, and they were not amused. You’d need more than clothing to hide a body like his. You’d need a shovel, a tarp. Tarps were designed to cover men like him. Julian could only walk faster, wincing, until the shopkeepers released him from eye contact. Had anyone, he wondered, ever studied the biology of being seen? The ravaging, the way it literally burned when you fetched up in people’s sight lines and they took aim at you with their minds? He wanted to summon a look of kindness and curiosity in return, a look that might make them forgive his miserly ways, his trespass on their ancient, superior city. But his face lacked the power to convey. He’d stopped trying to use it for silent communication—the gestures you tendered overseas, absent a shared language, to suggest that you were not a murderer. Such facial language was for apes, or some mime troupe in Vermont. Mummenschanz people who emoted for a living. He ate with his face and spoke with it. Sometimes he hid it in his hands. That should have been enough. Anyway, why not let them think that he meant them harm, these people of Düsseldorf? Give them a good scare. A man dressed up as his own corpse, in a costume called simply “Julian.” Too bad he couldn’t distribute his gray pelt en masse, so that a population of sunken-eyed Julians could limp through Germany, begging for candy, muttering, “Trick or treat, Süsses oder Saures.” For now, he was the only one who got to wear it. It took him just one sucking sprint on a cigarette to reach the train station, a fearsome building in rust-colored stone. After a few mornings inside, braving the crush of travellers reeking of chowder, he figured he didn’t need to enter the dank space to wait for Hayley. A granite ledge opposite the station offered a perfect view of the decamping passengers. Every morning, locals poured out of the building wrapped in hemp and straw. The fancier ones wore the waxed canvas coats of hunters. Occasionally, an American or two spoiled the tasteful palette with vacation colors. They shot into the town square like clowns fired from a cannon, mugging their snack-smeared faces at some imagined camera and releasing high-strung moods as if by megaphone: I have arrived in your historic city, and I am the happiest person you will ever know! Let me rub my joy on you! Even if some rare Americans were shrewd enough to go native, shoeing themselves in the earth-brown padabouts of Europeans, wearing sweaters and satchels instead of parkas and backpacks, their faces, haunted by the tourist advisories, gave them away. Julian pictured them on the train ride into town, the German landscape scrolling by in fairy-tale colors outside the window while they huddled over their Fodor’s, steeling themselves when they came to the warning that visitors who showed fear or uncertainty were the first to be singled out. Targeted through binoculars by cunning locals, led down unmarked streets into alleys, where they’d be robbed and erased from the world. Even in modern Germany. Even in the civilized world. Especially in the civilized world! Tourists and, for that matter, all people were merely accidents of physics, foamy chuff in the wake of a larger activity. That wouldn’t be explicitly stated in the Fodor’s. Not in so many words. Bodies were the jettisoned waste of something too great to comprehend. And the so-called “inner life” of these bodies was just biological sewage, produced by an organism that was, itself, a higher form of waste. Duh! People were statistically insignificant, a rounding error. Since he’d got sick, since he’d started frequenting online illness forums, particularly the terminal-illness ones, where the goddam sunny side of life was systematically shut down, this had become obvious. And boo freaking hoo. Maybe, though, in terms of day-to-day survival, it was best to put this stuff out of his mind. One’s smallness, the very, very convincing ways in which one’s presence failed to matter, sometimes had to go without saying. That was a tombstone inscription for you: Julian Bledstein. He went without saying. Or: Here lies Julian Bledstein. He lied to himself, and now he lies here. Two weeks had gone by like this. Trains had rolled in from Paris, Salzburg, Dresden, Berlin. A disappointment of trains, failing each time to spit from their insides the girl Julian had fought with in Strasbourg. In fact, he and Hayley had fought in several cities on this trip, a road show of freeze-outs and recriminations. For the most part, they’d warred silently, with so much stealth that sometimes Julian wasn’t sure whether they were actually quarrelling. Hayley could look so serious beneath her pixie haircut. She was too stubbornly self-contained, too confident, too O.K. with it all, which was decidedly not O.K. with Julian. A self needed to spill out sometimes; a body should show evidence of what the hell went on inside it. But Hayley had built a firewall around her feelings and moods. There was no knowing her, and fuck you if you tried to pierce her privacy. You were a creep and an invader, and you’d be rebuffed, then shamed. Even in bed, as she hobbyhorsed on top of him with the focus of a child doing homework, grimacing when her moment came, he wondered if she was mad at him. Their mating activity was hardly sexier than a needle in the back. But at least he got to see her naked. “Be patient. We’ll soon be pigging out on lemmings.”Buy the print » Hayley would fall quiet if Julian suddenly touched her hand, when all he wanted was to be touched back. That was the consolation prize available to the bottoms in a relationship, right? The mules, the dinguses, the shitbags? Touchbacks were supposed to be free. But she’d be clearly annoyed at the transparency of Julian’s desire when out of nowhere he pounced. Poking her to be cute, which was not, he knew, cute. Was there a subcategory of shit-eating grin, depending on whose shit you ate? He’d gone to a different school of etiquette, the school of no shame, the school of I need more from you. He’d been fucking homeschooled in emotional helplessness, scoring off the charts. By touching Hayley and waiting for her response, Julian could pursue the kind of emotional research you didn’t get to conduct in graduate school, a dissertation-level inquiry into the limits of revulsion regarding people who ostensibly love each other. Which always turned out to be a really stupid move. Hayley would smell his need, and it stank, it really, truly stank. But she didn’t flee, even though his salient feature as a man was his leavability. He created occasions for departure in others. Until now, Hayley had hung in there. Her loyalty alone was an aphrodisiac, even though his medication sometimes gave him the cold, dull crotch of a mannequin. Hayley also believed in Julian’s illness, found it true and real and even pretty damn interesting, a faith that had turned out to be rare. Hayley and Julian’s father and the occasional stranger on the Internet, where the ill go in search of one another, humping one another’s empathy slots—these were the believers. Even if, sometimes, maybe, Julian did not entirely believe in the illness himself. Hayley wasn’t coming. It was pretty obvious. Julian sat shivering in the chill, listening for the 9:13. Then the 9:41. Then the 10:02. He was tired. In winter, he sometimes caught a fever. His arms burned hot, as if a flame were being held to his skin. This was the nerves dying, an Internet confidant had explained. Of course his immune system wanted him dead. It knew. It was making the call on behalf of the wider society. It was taking him out. In the larger project of the universe, of which he must necessarily be kept in the dark, his own existence appeared to be an obstacle. So the species makes an adjustment. It redacts. No one else was waiting outside today. No one else was stupid enough to sit and freeze on a granite ledge in middle Germany, watching the trains come in. People here knew where their loved ones were. Loved ones’ coördinates were simply available. Such was the nature, the very definition, of a loved one. Normal people didn’t need to risk exposure and illness waiting outside and wondering, letting their minds work up end-times scenarios. They did not need to dream up future sorrows for themselves. After the first trains of the morning failed to produce Hayley, Julian stood at a café for a scorched espresso, then returned to his lookout to wait. When Hayley still didn’t come, he took shelter at the crêpe stand, where the day’s crêpes had already been cloaked in black jam. A death bread, for two euros. He wasn’t hungry. He was never hungry. But some dim sense of duty haunted him, his father’s voice, gentle and girlish, suggesting that food might help. Food, food, food. “Please, Julian, eat something,” his father was always saying, as if noxious, soon to be spoiled material from the earth would do anything but poison him further. For Julian’s whole life, his father had stood at the stove and made pancakes for him, grilled cheese, oatmeal, eggs, burgers. Later, when the alternative-care community had thrust nutritional strategies their way, when the Prednisone and the Lyrica, the off-label intravenous immunoglobulin, and the chemotherapy worms had fattened and ruined and bleached and burned and defeated him, his father had steamed bushels of kale. But Julian had only ever picked at his plate, as if dissecting roadkill for shards of glass. His father, especially after Julian’s mother travelled underground to spend the rest of eternity inside a luxury coffin, had removed Julian’s untouched food and spooned it into the trash. Only to try again a few hours later, smiling and kind. So now Julian thought that eating something might be smart, but the tourist’s gesture for plain crêpe eluded him. Or perhaps the vender just enjoyed watching him pretend to scrape something foul from his hand. Scraping it and scraping it, souring his face to indicate his distaste for the jam, while the vender grinned at him and winked, as if Julian were demonstrating something the two of them might do together later, in private. Why were such gestures always considered sexual, one hand doing something untoward to the other hand? Why wasn’t this seen as a semaphore of the beginning of the world, God the Creator digging life from the soil and brushing it off, sending it without a headlamp into the darkness? Julian might finally consent to play charades, maybe, if instead of celebrities the pantomime were restricted to events surrounding the big bang. Religious scenarios. The cold narrative of physics. Reënactments from the very, very beginning of time. Very fucking very. And, on the eighth day, God made his creatures so lonely they wept. Picture that charade, he thought. Julian was early for his transfusion. This was probably good, because he had to navigate a ritual confusion at the clinic’s front desk. It concerned the existence of Hayley. “You do not come alone?” the receptionist quizzed him, as per fucking usual. She rose slightly in her chair and peered behind him. He stepped aside so that she could see the emptiness. “I do.” As in, regardez how goddam alone I am. See it once and for all. There seemed to be no way to permanently establish the fact of his solitude. He shrugged at her and showed, via sneer, what he considered to be justified disgust. It made his face ache. The receptionist failed to notice. “You are not supposed to be coming alone,” she insisted, waving the form. It was true. He’d agreed to be accompanied—they didn’t give a shit by whom—because the treatments left you weak, woozy. The treatments left you worse than that. Supine, prone, drooling, horny. Never mind how problematic that was, how much that confirmed that “treatment” was the wrong word. What should you call it when afterward you needed to be led from the premises? When, owing to the obliterating immunosuppressants, which preceded the perfectly refreshing speedballs of marrow, the body lacked the power to remove itself? Probably they didn’t care, at this first-class medical establishment, if the body was dumped in the Rhine. Just get it out of the clinic. Did they call it “the body”? Did they ask each other, peeking from behind their German curtain: Has the body gone? It is all clear, ja? Anyway, he’d done fine most days without Hayley, weaving through the granite lobby after his treatment, baby-stepping down the broad white stairway overlooking the town. On some days, well, at least once, he’d even felt strong and alert, with a fresh dose of doctored stem cells running through his blood. Julian leaned in, showed his teeth. These were the gray teeth, he knew, of someone threatening not to bite you but to crumble his mouth on your face, leaving bits of horrid ash. “Would you like me to leave?” he hissed at her. “Because I will. Is that what you want?” Ooh, boy. What a tremendous threat, not to follow through on his own treatment, which his father had already paid for! He really had her now. He’d backed her into a corner! The receptionist sighed. She was a human being after all. “This person exists for you?” “Not just for me.” “And you say she is coming?” The receptionist struck a hopeful tone. Oh, God, he thought, let’s not be hopeful anymore. Where has it got us, really? “No,” Julian said. “I’d say she is not.” The clinic wasn’t what he’d been expecting when he first arrived. The place lacked a porch with rocking chairs, where dignitaries convalesced deep in thought, staring out over a thundering gorge. Nurses did not come by with blankets to cover your lap. You did not take the clean, healing air, or hike up mossy trails into the mountains. Convalescence here was presented as an essentially professional activity, like day-trading. The reception lounge was smartened up like a bank; the treatment rooms were hidden in vaults. Photographs of athletic prowess, framed in metal, lined the hallways. Bodies performing impossible maneuvers, in full color, glistening, mostly nude. These images were hung, no doubt, to flatter the rumored celebrity clients, who must have had their own entrance, their own goddam wing, because Julian never saw them. Rich and arthritic American athletes, willing to take injections of liquid horse penis or whatever into their stiff joints, able to afford exceedingly rare and hazardous attacks on their bodies. Sea sponge in the neck, cartilage-fortifying worms, administered via cream. In the waiting room, patients gazed at their phones or read or looked anywhere but at one another. A certain shame lingered over people who were going out of pocket on experimental health care, paying too much to keep feeling worse far from home. How humiliating to be seen like this, failing to rage, rage against the dying of the light. Failing even to fucking complain. When his name was called, the technician led him to the semi-private room where patients reclined in blue vinyl chairs, watching television they could not understand. In transfusion chair No. 3, Julian submitted to the usual pre-treatment shenanigans. He confirmed his name and birth date, signing, yet again, a German-language consent form. A nurse practitioner arrived to stick him for blood, filling a vial from his leg until it looked like a long black bullet. She waved it at him, and it foamed. “You are O.K.,” she said. “I am?” “Yes.” She smirked. “I know this.” She tapped her head. A universal sign of certainty. He needed to remember to tap his head when he spoke, no matter what. He should always tap his head. “Ready?” the nurse asked, and he nodded to her. He wasn’t. She wheeled up the apparatus and switched it on. Inside its wire frame rested the clear bag sloshing with his new life, frothy and pink. It produced a not unpleasant hum. He let his arm fall into the syringe basket and closed his eyes, waiting for the dreams that sometimes came when the long needle, loaded with marrow, was raised over his body. After the treatment, Julian’s father assured him from the lobby pay phone that money was not a problem. He’d wire it over on his lunch break, which meant that Julian could get it later tonight. But how was he feeling, his father wanted to know, and how were his side effects and was he able to sleep, because you don’t get better if you don’t sleep well, that’s just common sense, and of course the city must be tempting, the museums and the old opera house and the Latin food festival that had begun last night, according to what his father had read online—what an exciting thing for Germany to be doing! his father said—but he shouldn’t go crazy amid the delights of Düsseldorf. The delights! Was his hotel clean? He should take care of himself, and money, seriously, was not a problem. This, Julian knew, was his father’s way of not saying that money was a problem, a very big problem, and that his father worried about it night and day, but never spoke of it. Never. Julian was simply allowed to lick money from his father’s body whenever he wanted to, and his father had pledged never to cry out in pain. They would find a way, his father said. He’d send more than Julian had asked for, because worrying about money was the last thing Julian needed right now. He needed to heal. Was he healing? “Pinpoint havoc, gentlemen, accuracy of mayhem. And yet our dress blues remain crisp and sharp, our hands soft and pink.”Buy the print » Julian glanced at his needle-kissed arm. He imagined the German blood product sluicing through his body, trouncing the free radicals, persuading his white blood cells not to eat through bone. He guessed that he was healing. Quite. “How’s Hayley?” his father asked. “She keeping you fed?” Julian pictured Hayley prying his mouth open with her fist, pouring sauce down his throat. “She’s fine,” Julian answered. No doubt this was true. Hayley was probably having a glass of wine, smoking, sitting at an outdoor café somewhere. France, still? Berlin? They’d spoken of Berlin in a vaguely flirty way, as if they might like each other more there. “Is she with you now? Can you put her on?” His father and Hayley and their whisper time: they were his armchair doctors, his medical curators, who earned their authority because they cared more about his health than he did. “Oh, she went ahead to scout out a good place for dinner. I’m starving.” “That’s what I like to hear,” his father said. How about that, having something you like to hear. For Julian, it would be what, exactly? Maybe something Hayley-related. Even just her name. Preferably spoken by her. As in: Hey, Jules, it’s me, Hayley. I miss you, and I’m on my way. “O.K., Dad, well, thank you.” His father breathed into the phone. He could tell, all the way from Germany, that back in New Jersey his father was O.K., maybe even smiling. He could feel it. This was something nice. It was very nice. It would do. He should never, until the very second he died, stop knowing that he had a father who would do anything for him. What a crime to forget this. He was a criminal if he ever stopped thinking this for even a minute. “I love you, honey,” his father said, and they hung up. Julian took a shortcut to the Old Town, up along Adersstrasse, dipping around the Graf-Adolf-Platz. Germany was deadly cold this time of year, the trees slick with ice, the grass so scarce it seemed the whole country had been poured in cement. The weathered stone, the weathered people—even the language was weathered. It was genius, Julian thought, to create a language from strangled cries, deathbed wheezing. There was perhaps no truer way to communicate. If he spoke German, his inanities would escalate into parable. Everything out of his mouth would be a eulogy. German was the end-times language, the only tongue worth speaking as the sun shrank and went cold. Instead, Julian was stuck with whiny, nasal English, in which every word was a spoiled complaint, a bit of pouting. In English, no matter what you said, you sounded like a coddled human mascot with a giant head asking to have his wiener petted. Because you were lonely. Because you were scared. And your wiener would feel so much better if someone petted it. How freakishly impolite, how shameful, to let these things be revealed by one’s language. At least overseas he didn’t speak much English. He didn’t speak much anything. Julian ate no dinner. He found a wine bar and drank cautiously from a communal bottle of something red and sparkly, a kind of alcoholic soda. He sat in a sea of couches, and every now and then some grinning celebrant poured a swallow into his glass and raised it vaguely at the others. A kind of listless cheers, offered to the room. Each time, Julian raised his own glass in response, nodding his head. Cheers, indeed. When the bottle was empty, and he’d paid far more than he owed, he walked back down to the station and took his position on the ledge. There was something tremendously good about sitting there and not looking out for Hayley, a habit he’d decided to break. He didn’t even know the train schedule tonight. The trains could do what they liked. He would take an evening off from feeling incomplete without her. A paid vacation. He’d done this shit on his own so far, and if Hayley had been there he would have tried to scrape her, day and night, for pity and understanding. She would have been empty by now, empty and seething, but still he would have kept scraping with his spoon, digging deep into her sweetest parts until they were completely gone. He’d been doing fine without Hayley, and he would do fine, and he fucking was fine. He sat and he froze and he shivered, and it was perfectly terrific. He had no good reason to be at the station, and yet so far, since he’d arrived, this was his best night in Germany. He even felt sort of healthy, although it made him nervous to think so, and damned if he knew what healthy meant anymore. He’d long ago lost track of how he was supposed to feel, and on days like this, nights like this, treatment or not, it was hard not to be worried, a little bit, that some of the reactionary, conservative doctors whom Hayley had railed against at home, the ones who’d scorecarded Julian in the normal range, might actually have been right. Perhaps he had been fine this whole time. He wasn’t legitimately sick. Perhaps this was just what it felt like to be alive. Or so those doctors had seemed to be saying. Did everyone else, he wondered, feel listless, strange, anxious, dull, scared—you could pretty much go shopping from a list of adjectives—and did other people just clench their jaws and endure it, without running to the doctor, as he did, again and again? For hours, it seemed, no trains came into the station. The tracks were quiet and the whole city was perfectly still, as if perhaps there’d been some agreement, deep in the brain of the city, that all machines would be shut down at this hour, all vehicles grounded. A scheduled hiatus of activity on this clear, cold evening in Düsseldorf. Travellers still occasionally made their way out through the station’s tall glass doors, locals mostly, pulling dark suitcases across the ice. How they’d got to town without a train was a mystery to Julian, until he realized that they must have arrived hours ago and waited inside, where it was warm, for someone to come and get them. That was what happened to arrivals. Not all of them got met. They’d stared out at the square all evening, as tiny, fuel-efficient cars ripped here and there without stopping for them. Finally, they must have realized that their rides weren’t coming, so they’d bundled up and walked out alone into the cold. That night at the hostel, a visitor came to Julian’s bed. Some uninvited man crept under his covers while he slept, and Julian woke up—suddenly, rudely, confused. This man was taking liberties. Before much could happen—before disgrace and shame and, who knows, the implication that he was even remotely O.K. with this—he’d fled to the bathroom. His heart was blasting, his sleep shirt damp and twisted. From the bathroom, looking back out into the gymnasium, the air thick with sleep, he saw no sign of anything. No man, no sounds, just beds and bodies and darkness. It was as if the stranger had vanished. Hands had been on him while he slept, and when he thought about it he saw himself lying there reciprocating. He couldn’t piece it together. What in the goddam hell had happened? He checked his body everywhere, testing. For evidence? Damage? He’d been touched, that he was sure of. He’d been touched, it had happened, and now there was nothing to be done about it. He crouched in a bathroom stall, trying to think. Some scene in whatever he’d been dreaming—he’d been having some kind of intense dream, oh, God—had allowed this to happen, had made him stay longer in his bed than he should have. As if he were enjoying it. He’d been dreaming of cuddling, and not with Hayley, but big deal. That was how it worked. You could date the whole world in your dreams, and it was O.K. You could, actually, date-rape the whole world in a dream, too. You could kill and clean up after yourself. Or not—you could leave evidence all over the world and get caught and go to jail forever and wake up crying. So fucking what. The point is, he was cuddling someone in his dream, and he was doing it in that squirming way, he had to admit, that he hoped might lead to more, and then he woke up beside a body, and what were you supposed to do? There was no way not to respond. Anyone would. It could have been a dog and he would have nuzzled into it, feeling something. He was aroused, technically, but he had been aroused before the man crawled into bed with him, so this was bullshit. Oh, God. He wanted to cry foul. In the morning he asked about other accommodations, and they offered him a private room, for twice the money. Then, no, they withdrew that offer, because it seemed those rooms were taken. The only available beds were in the Turnhalle, where he was staying, and if he would like to change beds he could do that, for a fee. Would sir like a bed in another part of the room? He lurked outside the hostel, watching the men light their cigarettes and head into town. They filed out silently, squinting against the day. Which one of them had done this? He realized, once the men were gone from Müllerhaus, that he was exaggerating his indignation. He was worked up for nothing. No one was watching, and he was putting on the fucking Ritz, for God’s sake, as if there were something so terribly wrong with someone’s kissing him in the night. Was he really supposed to care at this late date who kissed him? Wasn’t it enough to be kissed by someone? What was the saying—beggars can’t be complete and total losers? “Your friend is here,” the nurse told him as he was finishing his treatment that afternoon. Friend, Julian thought. Not possible. The word made him picture animals. Pets he’d never had. “Your friend waits there now,” the nurse said, pointing up. If he followed in the direction she was pointing, he’d float through the ceiling and into the sky before crashing to the ground. Head in this direction, sir, even if it takes you over a cliff. Waiting for you, maybe, will be someone who cares. Julian cleaned up in the patients’ bathroom. On his way out, a nurse directed him to the doctor’s office, where his very own doctor, whom he hadn’t seen for days, was hanging film in a light box. The doctor greeted Julian and waved him over to a stool. Julian, instead, stepped up to the light box. The scan was mostly black, a portrait of darkness. “Is this me?” Julian asked. “My head?” The doctor nodded. “We are looking at your scan while you are here this day.” “A warming spell caught him with too much coat.”Buy the print » Julian studied the doctor. He was trim, and his skin glowed. Like most doctors, he seemed offensively healthy, as if he kept the real secret of vitality to himself. He would live forever while people crumbled and died around him. If necessary, he would eat you to survive. “Well, we see something sometimes,” the doctor was saying, “in this kind of white-blood person. The scan is really. This is why we scan. And,” the doctor continued, “we have this discovery to show you.” The doctor pointed his pen at a scuff in the film. “A little discovery. You can discover it here.” The doctor traced the outline of nothing that was, perhaps, a shade lighter than the nothing around it. Maybe Julian could see it. A very small shape, like a cloud. In his brain. Weather passing through. If you could draw a headache, this is what you would draw. “This is a concern,” the doctor said, looking at Julian hopefully. “O.K.,” Julian said. “Where is it?” That mattered, right? His entire personality could perhaps be explained by this cloud. A cluster of rogue cells pushes on a nerve, blocks a vessel supplying blood to the deep limbic system, and suddenly you’re funny, witty, and charming. That was what a personality was, the blood thirst of rogue cells, a growth in the mind. The doctor pointed again at the cloud. “It is here,” he said, more slowly. “No, I mean in me. Where is this thing?” Julian tapped his head. Maybe it wasn’t in the brain itself. “This is not our work.” “You didn’t make this tumor?” Julian grinned. “Well, tumor,” the doctor said, as if there might be some doubt. “We see a shape, yes? We do not make that name for it. We do not work on this kind of area. We do not fix this.” “Does anyone?” “Someone must know what this is. Who treats the brain where you live.” Yes, someone must. “We will be sending this scan to your American doctor. And we think that the stem-cell transfusions is not, for now, a good idea. Until this.” The doctor pointed at the cloud and tried, again, to look stumped. “This first. To understand this. Then, maybe.” Julian was impressed. He had to hand it to him. The doctor had devised a pretty good tombstone inscription. This first. To understand this. Then, maybe. Julian laughed. “What is it?” the doctor said, smiling. As in, thank God this moron is going into denial now. He’s going to be one of those people who crack jokes after getting news of a tumor. I will not need to wash his tears from my doctor’s coat. “It’s just that, if you tell me it’s all in my head now,” Julian said, “you won’t be lying.” “Aha. I see what you say. This is truly funny. But we will not be lying to you ever, Mr. Bledstein.” Oh, feel free, Julian didn’t say. Lie to me all you want. The nurse brought in the papers to terminate his treatment, seal off liability, sever connections between Julian and the clinic. He signed and signed and signed. The doctor, frowning thoughtfully, stood by. “I am sorry we do not have a way to give you your money back,” the doctor was saying. “I could help you,” Julian said. “If you want.” “Excuse me?” “I could show you a way to give me my money back,” Julian explained. “You know, how to transfer it back to my credit card. It’s not so hard.” “Oh, you must misunderstand.” The doctor blushed. “Yes, I must,” Julian said. Outside the clinic, standing on the steps in her long corduroy thrift-store coat, nearly hidden by a plaid scarf, was Hayley. She gave him a shy little wave, sheepishly smiling, forgiving, forgetting, denying, all in one cute fucking face. How on earth. “Jules! Oh, my God, you took forever!” “I took forever?” He tried to sound arch. Here Hayley actually was. Jesus Christ. “It’s freezing,” she said, laughing. She had a gift for killing off oddity, making shit like this—sudden encounters in foreign countries—seem routine. Julian agreed that it was cold. Germany in February and all that. “Are you O.K.?” she asked. “You look good.” How nice if that were true. He’d never looked good, not even as a baby. Hayley should be ashamed of herself. He looked good. Still, he had to applaud her strategy. Cheer, denial, exuberance. If only he could. “Come here already!” Hayley shouted. “Come hug me, you stupid bastard. How are you? Oh, my God, I can’t believe I’m seeing you.” He succumbed to Hayley’s hug, giving little back. “Oh, you,” she kept saying. “I missed you, you know.” They walked through the icy streets of Düsseldorf, stopping to sit and shiver on a cold metal bench by the Rheinturm. Julian took Hayley through the Old Town, along Carlsplatz, pointing out cultural zones with the indifference of a local. He lied, effortlessly, about places he hadn’t even seen, like the Kunstakademie—looking at art was the last thing he’d wanted to do—and invented a day trip to Cologne. Which he’d taken last Wednesday? Or maybe Thursday? Hayley beamed up at him, her brave and adventurous boyfriend, snuggling into his coat as they walked. Hayley kept saying that she couldn’t believe she was here. I mean, could he? she asked. Could he believe it? And he disappointed her by saying, that, well, yeah, he could, because she had been supposed to come, hadn’t she? “I know, but it’s crazy, right?” she said. Julian steered Hayley clear of Müllerhaus, but he kept it in his sights, a secret back door he could fall through. He didn’t interrogate her on her whereabouts these past two weeks, on the matter of who or what had detained her in the brighter, more exciting ports of Europe, and she didn’t mention it. She hardly spoke. Maybe they hadn’t fought or maybe they weren’t still, in some quiet, effortlessly Zen way, fighting right now. One day, people would swab each other with animosity sticks, and there’d be no way to hide it. Just as you could be tested for cancer, you could be tested for fury. Your anger would show, or your resentment, your detachment, your ambivalence, your reduced sexual attraction, no matter what you said or did. Your mood would be a chemical fact, and, if you lied about it, then poor, poor you. You’d be found out! Looking at Hayley, seeing her radiate, feeling her cozy up against him, it was ridiculously hard—in fact, it was impossible—not to feel that the affection she was suddenly smothering him with was meant for someone else. Maybe that person shared his name, and looked like him—the poor fuck—but so what. Hayley wanted a stranger—You are dead to me, he wanted to say to himself—and Julian couldn’t help her. Instead of breaking up with your girlfriend, could you break up with yourself? “So I talked to your dad,” Hayley said. “Why?” “Well.” She looked at him funny. “Because I wanted to know where you were.” She punched him softly in the arm. Maybe she wanted to say: play along with this, Julian, please, please, because this is how it works. I am trying so hard right now. “You knew exactly where I was,” he said. “I’ve been right here the whole time. I’ve been at the clinic every day for two weeks. Where else would I be?” “I wanted to know that you were doing O.K., and, you know, where you were staying.” “So you asked him?” “I knew you’d have been in touch with him.” “Yeah.” “I can care about you, Julian.” “I know you can, Hale.” She could care about him in theory, and maybe in real life, too. But he must have migrated to some other place, because both of those territories seemed very far off to him now. They crossed the Oberkassel bridge, where the wind destroyed them, and finally Hayley admitted to being impossibly, horribly cold. And hungry. The poor thing’s nose was running, and her face was red. Could they maybe head back now? she wanted to know. “Back where?” he said. “To the room.” “Room? There is no room.” “At the Am Volksgarten. You know, where we . . . They had rooms. I didn’t know where you were, and you weren’t checked in there.” “Oh, are you Madame Düsseldorf now? What have you been here for, like, eleven minutes? Plus, I have a place to stay. And there isn’t room there for you.” “What do you mean?” Julian vowed not to look at that area of her that seemed to be crying. “I am perfectly lodged, thank you.” “Would you please stop it?” “I doubt it.” “Jules, please. I want to stay with you tonight.” He turned away and crossed the avenue, and she spoke his name, but not so urgently. This is what a favor looks like, he thought. Probably there was a favor being done right now. Except, as he turned uphill and left Hayley behind, he had to wonder who, exactly, was doing this favor, and who was the fucking favor even for? It was getting dark. Soon the hostel lights would go off. The men would tuck in, and some of them would be snoring in seconds. The whole room would hum with desire, forty or fifty men who required darkness for their work. This was where he belonged. This time, he’d stay in his bed, no matter what. He would not bolt. He’d listen all night for footsteps. If none came, then perhaps he would be the stranger. He would find someone sleeping in the Turnhalle, someone who needed badly to be visited, and he would oblige. Julian would reach out his hand. He wouldn’t say it out loud, but he could certainly think it. He’d been thinking it for so long now. Wouldn’t you like to join me? And wouldn’t that phrase serve as the perfect inscription on the tombstone they would finally, mercifully, place, when the time came, over his grave? ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Art Appreciation	Credit Photograph by Tim Flach, “Kinda Ready” (2010) Henry Taylor had always known he would have money one day, and this confidence was vindicated when his mother won the lottery on a Thursday in August of 1961. Still, he wasn’t sure he could afford to quit his job, so he went in to the office the day after he heard the news. The sun came through the window blinds in long tedious slats, while time passed outside, far below, with the noise of the road and the joy of boys on bicycles. Women walked among the men delivering coffee and papers. They were all decorous, even the young ones—even those reproachable few who lingered with one hip against the corners of desks. One particular girl had caught Henry’s attention. She was new to her job, but she had made a name for herself with her prettiness and her good nature. She dressed modestly, but there was a sense of pleasures offered all the same: a heightening of her body’s attractiveness through her polite attempts to conceal it. Her name was Eleanor, and she called herself Ellie. Henry thought that, now that he had money, he would marry her. He didn’t tell anyone that his mother had won the lottery, and a considerable amount of his delight the day after he heard the news had to do with his windfall’s being secret. That was the great thing: to sit at his desk, observing, the way he always did, the movements of the office—and Ellie’s movements among them—but as a profoundly different man, with a new and superior perspective. There was no longer anything to keep him from approaching Ellie, but he held off even so, not out of doubt but in order to savor his own intentions. Henry noticed that she stole frequent looks at him. She had the quality of a bird among grasses, peering out in nervous excitement, eager for a mate but afraid to abandon her safety. He was certain that she had taken this job not to make flimsy dates with different men but to find a husband. As he was leaving work that Friday afternoon, Henry made sure to say good night to Ellie. She was flattered and demure. “Enjoy your weekend,” he said, and she said—she almost sang—“You, too!” Henry, as usual, took the stairs to the ground floor of the building—this was part of his fitness regimen, to exercise his legs by taking the stairs in the morning and the evening—and, when he reached the lobby, the elevator doors sprang open, and Ellie stepped out from between them. “Fancy that,” Henry said. He looked at her with pleasure. Her waist was small, and she had pale, plump arms and a healthy, round chin. Ellie stood swinging her handbag this way and that. “Walk me to the station?” she asked, and he offered his arm. It had begun to rain, and they walked beneath his umbrella, which was large and black and reassuring. She tucked herself in beside him and her small, uneven steps limited his stride. He wanted to lift her up in his arms the way you might a child at a parade. “I’d like to take you out sometime,” Henry said. “That would be lovely,” she said, with a small frown. “I’d like to take you out right now,” Henry said. “Tonight’s impossible,” she said. “I have a class on Fridays. But some day next week?” “What kind of class?” Ellie gave a little smile, the bashful twin of her frown, and said, “Art appreciation.” They arrived at Wynyard Station, and there, amid the sound of the trains passing underneath the street and the sound of traffic passing on the street, she leaned her head into his shoulder for one unexpected moment. Then she ran down the steps into the station. Henry watched her bright-brown head move among the commuters and disappear in the direction of the North Shore line. He considered her his girl from that moment. Henry was fond of Sydney on a Friday afternoon. It was late winter, so the sky lowered early, and there was that weekend feeling of relief and consequence. He went to a place near the station where he often liked to eat after work. The whole establishment smelled boiled—boiled meat, wet raincoats, and the undersides of shoes. He ordered a hamburger—no onions, never onions—and ate it while imagining Ellie on the way to her Friday-night class. He had a vague sense that art appreciation involved bowls of fruit and flowers. But his mind didn’t stay on her for long; he began, without quite knowing it, to think about his money. He wondered how much of the ten thousand pounds his mother would give him, and concluded that it would be at least half. He thought of her clutching his arm the night before, saying, “I’ll set you up, you’ll get married.” Although Henry’s mother had promised to set him up, he still went to the dog track, because it was Friday. He had a weekend routine: Friday night the dogs, Saturday night the horses, Sunday lunch with his mother, and Sunday night with Kath, a girl he knew. For so long he had dreamed of a windfall, of a sudden fortune, and of what it might make possible, because every week there was a chance: the dogs ran, the horses flew, and Henry was always there to see them. There was money on every race. He won, and sometimes he didn’t, but he won more than he lost. This was the greatest pleasure he knew: a little profit, and a little loss. He also liked the company of gamblers. They’re cheerful people, he would say; they’re optimists. Henry might have taken a bus to the dog track, but he preferred to walk: down George Street and Broadway, through Glebe, and into Wentworth Park. The Friday city was so festive in the rain, full of women running from warm taxis into warm houses and men standing at street corners waiting for the lights to change, holding newspapers over their heads. The gum trees lining the streets of Glebe took up the easing rain and shook it out again in heavier drops. In every one of the terraced houses Henry passed, a woman like Ellie waited for a man she loved, amid the furniture and finery he had bought her. Because he was careful with his money, and lived with his mother, Henry had a small but steadily growing savings account, which was commendable for a man of twenty-eight with a mid-level job in an insurance firm. The thought of his nest egg produced in him a simple, serious satisfaction as he entered the track. It pleased him to think that he would be here, with money he could afford to bet, whether or not his mother had won the lottery. It didn’t occur to Henry to bet any more recklessly than he normally would have. Still, he had an unusually successful night. He sat amid the good feeling of the crowd, as it hung on those few moments that mattered, when the dogs flattened against time and won, or failed to win. Then men erupted around him in victory or rage, and there was a surge toward the bookmakers, who stood illuminated above the crowd. The bookies were the men Henry admired most of all. They spoke in a ribald and rhythmic way, singing out the odds like a sea chantey. Henry was covetous of their easy authority, which he believed came from handling large sums of money. Henry stayed for three hours, joked with his track acquaintances, rolled on the balls of his feet as he waited to see which dogs would emerge from the starting tangle, and collected his winnings. Then he walked to Central and took a train south. He never drank at the track (he hated a fogged mind), and that night, as he walked home from the station—late, with the streets dark and his mother waiting for him, even in her sleep—he felt a new clarity to his brain, as if a frost had settled on it. It was still there the next night, at the horses, and he won again—a larger sum this time, and again without undue risk. It interested him, in an offhand way, that his weekend could look the same as always, even when his life had changed. But his wealth had already altered things: made Ellie possible, aided him at the track, kept his mind clear. At lunch on Sunday his mother told him that she was planning to move to Victoria to live near her sister. “I’m giving you this house,” she told him. “I want to see you settled.” His mother was a small woman—it was as if her thrift extended even to the size of her body—but on this day she ate heartily of lamb and potatoes. She seemed to have entered a new and generous state of perpetual surprise; she’d bought lottery tickets for so many years, without the least expectation that she would profit by them. Now well-being radiated from her unlikely face, with its thick nose and thin eyebrows. “That’s the second day this week you’ve given me good news,” Henry said. His mother answered, “Good things come in threes,” and Henry wondered, What will the third thing be? Ellie? A car? A big win at the dogs? And so he limited himself. He would sell the house, of course, and buy something closer to the city, where he would be known in the neighborhood, known by the greengrocer and by the paperboys, and he would keep a straight garden path leading to his front door, flanked by a hedge that he would trim himself on Saturday mornings. Because, he thought, I’m a working man, and I won’t forget it. He would buy a car and drive to the track; he would still go to the track, because it was the spectacle, not the money, that drew him there. And there would be days with Ellie by the Harbour, visiting all those brief bays on the northern shore where she lived, swimming and picnicking and maybe sitting on the water in a little boat. The benevolent future spread out before him, and he felt an immense satisfaction. After lunch with his mother, Henry visited Kath. He lingered into the evening with Kath’s compact body, then read the newspapers by lamplight; Kath preferred lamplight. Henry was an ambitious man, but he considered anyone who worked too hard for his success a dupe; he read in the newspapers of the rigorous transactions of wealthy men and stabbed at these pages with a contemptuous finger. Kath yawned on the bed. She had the kind of long, streamlined face you sometimes see in tall women. She was more beautiful than Ellie, but less pretty. Kath was always making distinctions of that kind. She worked in the beauty salon of a flash hotel. He had met her at the hamburger place at Wynyard Station; how odd and blazing and fine she had looked in that cheerful din. He shook the newspaper and told her that this would be their final Sunday. “What’s her name?” she asked. “Ellie,” he said. “You like your girls with cute little names, don’t you?” Kath said, and he considered this petty of her. “If you must know,” Henry said, without looking at her face, “I’ve won the lottery.” “How much?” she asked him, and when he told her she sat up in bed and hooted like an owl. “You’re not serious,” she said, swinging her long boyish legs over to rest her feet on the floor. “Let me pour you a drink, then, you bastard.” She began an uncharacteristic sprightly chatter, telling him of every lucky instance in which a person she knew had won something: money, meat, flowers, jewelry, large appliances. Then she handed him a drink and said, “I thought you didn’t rate the lottery. I thought you didn’t even buy tickets.” “Just this once,” he said, with a shrug of the papers, and she growled at him from the corner of her mouth and said, “No one’s that lucky.” That Sunday night, a wind moved over the city. It rolled through in one direction, out of the sea and into the west, bending trees and the tails of dogs behind it. The wind brought rain at times, in orderly diagonal sheets, but there was no chaos to it, only consistency. In the morning, Henry stepped over fallen leaves and other storm litter on his way from Kath’s flat to the office. The wind rearranged his hair, so he combed it with his hand as he climbed the stairs. While climbing, he considered the fact that he liked his job, that he liked the idea of insurance, that it suited his temperate, ready mind. It occurred to him that he might not quit, even now that his mother had promised him the house. There was no need to make big gestures; after all, she couldn’t spare him such an enormous sum of money that it would do for two people, and children, for another sixty years. He sat at his desk and watched for Ellie all day, and whenever she was in sight he made sure she knew it. He mentioned the lottery win to one or two people. He told them that he knew he could rely on their discretion. Ellie was waiting for him at the end of the day, wearing a funny little blue hat that hid most of her hair. “I wondered if you’d walk me to the art gallery,” she said. “There’s a lecture tonight, and then we could eat afterward.” She laid one hand against his shoulder, in the same spot where she had rested her head on Friday, and although he was reluctant about the idea of a lecture and the art gallery, and irritated that she had asked him before he could ask her, he said, “Let’s go, then.” He took the elevator with her down to the lobby, and Ellie leaned into his arm as if she couldn’t be near him without some sort of physical contact. The wind was still about, and it funnelled through the streets and caught at Ellie’s skirts until they reached Hyde Park. Ellie stood for a moment beside the park’s great circular fountain, looking up at the figure at its center. “Hi, Apollo,” she said. “I like to say hi whenever I pass. Isn’t he beautiful?” The statue was naked, with one green bronze hand pointing toward the cathedral and the other holding some kind of harp. Henry supposed that was art appreciation. He tried for a moment to replicate the position of Apollo’s knees. “He’s the god of poetry and music,” Ellie said. “Do gods let birds do their business all over them?” Henry asked, and Ellie laughed in just the right delighted way. “Come on,” he said, “or we’ll be late for your lecture.” In this way, holding his hand out to her, chiding, pleased, he corrected the tone of the outing. They were late, and Henry’s shoes squeaked on the marble floors of the gallery. There were chairs set up in the high, arched lobby, and some of the people sitting in them turned to look. Henry thought the audience seemed well fed, but somehow pinched. There were a number of fashionable hats. He saw a single vacant seat and urged Ellie into it; he stood at the back of the crowd with another young man. “Get dragged here, too, did you?” this man said, and Henry gave a mock grimace. They leaned together against a yellow wall in the easy company of their mutual conscription. Buy the print » The lecturer was a man who described himself as a “conceptual artist.” Like Henry, he wore a light-gray suit; in fact, he might have come, moments before, from an office like Henry’s, except that his hair was slightly longer than Henry would have allowed himself. He was talking about his latest work: a photograph of a chair, an actual chair, and a card printed with the dictionary definition of a chair. “Bet it took him half an hour and a couple of beers to come up with that one,” Henry said, in a low voice, to the man beside him. “You’re on,” the man said. “A fiver.” He shook the note out of his pocket like a magician producing a bird. But they only laughed, and the man put his money away. Henry could see the back of Ellie’s head from where he stood, and he watched her listen, her head tilted to the right. Her blue hat sat in her lap. The hat was for the wind, he realized, and he approved of her foresight. The artist coughed into the side of his mouth and said something about the impossibility of totality. Henry stirred with discomfort, the man beside him shifted, too, and Ellie turned in her seat to look at them. She gave him a small sweet smile. When the artist called for questions, she slipped from her row, took Henry’s arm, and hurried him out into the night. The Domain was dark under the fig trees, and Ellie walked with her head resting against Henry’s arm. “Now we can eat,” she said, as if the lecture had been a regrettable obstacle to this activity. The ground was soft underfoot with the ripe, wet leaves of the figs, and bats tittered in their intricate branches. He had no idea where to take her to dinner, but she steered him toward a place off William Street that she said was Italian. There were brothels on the street, and Ellie looked at their red lights with sad and serious eyes. American sailors, drunk and dressed in white, ran up out of Woolloomooloo. They called out to Ellie as they passed, and shook Henry’s hand. He was proud of her. Over dinner he said, “What was all that about totality?” And she answered, “Wasn’t he marvellous?” Apparently he was, but there was no more to say about it. Ellie ordered expensive things, and he paid for them. She seemed somehow to have been his girl for a very long time. For example, she spoke of her friends and family as if he already knew them. “And Jimmy,” she said, “is livid about Ann. But you can’t blame him.” Or, “When we see her, you have to ask Mary about her surfing accident. It’s the funniest thing I ever heard.” It was as if, with the new clarity of his mind, he had willed her into a relationship with him. She didn’t ask him any questions, but listened with her chin perched on the neat palm of one hand whenever he talked about himself. He told her about the money. He had been unsure whether to mention his mother or to claim the lottery win as his own, but was pleased to find himself telling the truth; it made him seem filial, respectful, the fortunate son of a lucky mother, and no dupe—he would never waste his daily bread on lottery tickets. Ellie listened, and watched him with her serious face. She was calculating, he thought, and he didn’t blame her. He wasn’t an unattractive man: there was his height and the vivid blue of his eyes, which Kath, in a mood, had once described as “hygienic.” But with his tall, loose frame he looked as if somebody had knitted him together, and his ears sat out too far from his head. There was nothing wrong with defects like these, as long as he was aware of them. Ellie leaned across the table and took his hands in hers. “I’m very happy for you,” she said, in a conclusive tone, as if the shape of her life had now been decided. They walked back through the park to St. James Station, neither of them speaking much, and he kissed her there for the first time. The wet winter became a clear, warm spring, and Henry bought a car and wooed Ellie through all the secret suburbs of Sydney’s northern coast, their palms and coves and their small sunny bays. They swam together in the hot honeymoon water and maneuvered behind the tricky rocks to kiss. She remained faithful to her Friday-night art-appreciation classes, so Saturday became their weekend night: Henry stopped going to the horses and took Ellie out instead. On Sundays he still lunched at home, and afterward—now that his Sunday evenings were free—he helped his mother sort through her possessions in preparation for the move to Victoria. She had acquired more in her quiet life than Henry could quite account for, and she spent a great deal of time over each object, as if every Christmas ornament or porcelain figurine were worthy of the same attention. Something was slowing her progress and delaying the move—a nostalgic tenderness, Henry thought, a formless sentimentality. It worried him, until he realized that she was waiting for him to announce his engagement. She would move when she knew that he was settled. During this period Henry cultivated a brittle beard. He bought a suit of navy wool and knew he looked significant in it. Naturally, his good fortune had become news in the office. He was promoted to a new floor of the building, where he didn’t see Ellie until he called to fetch her for lunch. Usually they ate sandwiches in Hyde Park, but sometimes he took her to a restaurant on Pitt Street, where the waiters wore bow ties and the wood-panelled walls made Henry think of a gentleman’s club. All around them sat feverish men in suits, eating steaks with their square teeth. Business was transacted here, true business, the acts of men. Secretaries and girlfriends and wives slipped neatly into and out of the booths. At the restaurant, Henry was expansive and proud. He was a little afraid of the waiters, but they would never know it. He was gracious with them, and paid the bill as if handing over a dowry. Ellie was always the prettiest girl there. One lunch, he asked her to stop attending her Friday-night classes. “Surely you know how to appreciate art by now,” he said. “It’s my passion,” she said, and averted her head in a becoming way, like all those Madonnas she’d shown him in books about Italian painters. Maybe it was just as well; he could keep going to the greyhound track. He made a profit every week now, though he took fewer risks. He studied the dogs more carefully. He was concerned about his savings, which had been depleted by the car and the courtship, and he was preoccupied with the idea of marriage: the pressed linens, the resolute ecstasy, the begetting of children (he had hopes of a dynasty). Henry’s mind vibrated with these possibilities. He sat among the men at the track and saw the singed quality of their thinning hair and the thick ridges of flesh in the back of every neck. He was less and less charmed by the singsong of the bookies, the pointless silks of the trainers, the false lights, and the sharp dogs—all that stinking fuss in the sweet evenings of spring. This dissatisfaction, he thought, was not a sign of growing maturity (he wasn’t ashamed of his past love of racing), but it suggested to him a loneliness that he had been unaware of before his mother won the lottery, a loneliness that had driven him out into the city and to public congregations of men. It had also sent him, he supposed, to Kath, whom he thought of infrequently now, with something bordering on wistful impatience, most often when Ellie stopped him short of handling some coveted part of her body. Ellie had a hasty, hot manner, girlish and at the same time proper, which in retrospect pleased him more than Kath’s smooth surety. They hadn’t slept together yet. He’d heard something, somewhere, about weak men redeemed by the society of good women. He brought Ellie to meet his mother one Sunday. He was disappointed to see towels on the clothesline; otherwise, the house was orderly, and he was proud of it. Perhaps, when they were married, he and Ellie needn’t have the largest of houses. There was something to be said for quality on a modest scale. Not modest, exactly; humble, in the sense of an extraordinary man who conceals the extent of his own greatness. That was dignity, Henry thought: to have, but in private. Possibly they would stay in this house and have work done to it. Ellie excused herself to use the bathroom and his mother leaned in close, with a confidential face, and whispered, “She’s a delight.” There was a newly set quality to his mother’s hair, a thin blush of color over her cheeks, and she wore an unfamiliar dress. He remembered her telling him that she had once worked in an office. Ellie returned from the bathroom with a water stain on her pale-blue blouse, and the way she held her hand over it—above her heart—made everything she said seem particularly sincere. It was as if she were swearing allegiance to the meal, to the house, to Henry’s mother, and to Henry. After lunch, he took her out into the garden and asked her to marry him. She answered, without hesitation, “Yes.” Unsure of what to do next, he held her hand and kissed her. It was one of those days on the very edge of summer, when blank light falls from a strong sky and the grass is already beginning to brown. The towels on the clothesline flipped in the wind. The kiss was not their most successful and, looking up from it, Henry saw his mother’s face hovering in a window. Ellie was gazing around the garden as if she were not so much excited as interested by the turn of events, and Henry was surprised by the grateful feeling of admiration that rose from somewhere beneath his feet and rushed toward his heart. His mother, unable to wait any longer behind the window, came running down the brick steps and embraced them both. She held Henry’s hand, and she held Ellie’s, and said that she would see them married and then she would move. So Henry had been right, after all: she had only been waiting for him, and now things would go more quickly. Ellie decided on an April wedding. Cool, blue April was her favorite month. Her mother approved, and so did Henry’s, who had finally set a date for her move: the first of May. She wanted to pay for the wedding, so Ellie arranged a meeting with her parents at a city restaurant. Her parents were a poised pair: he had been a teacher, but was now retired with back problems; she liked to paint, and had even sold one or two watercolors of the view from their dining-room window. There had once been money somewhere in her family. Everyone was appreciative of Henry’s mother’s generosity, and there was a minimum amount of embarrassment, which was a relief to Henry, who found himself unexpectedly nervous for his mother amid the sombre hover of the waiters. Ellie’s father also unsettled him, for no good reason; he was a pale, graying man, gentle with his back to the point of womanliness, but at one point he leaned across the table, took Henry’s wrist in a pinching grip, and said, in a low voice, “Aren’t you meant to ask my permission?” Then he winked—the kind of sharp, jovial wink that Henry had never mastered—and carried on eating. That summer was damp and close. Henry was busier at work since his promotion. It was the season of bushfires, and a midsized sugar company whose policy he managed lost a mill and much of a small township in the northern part of the state. This involved some travel for Henry, who had never ventured far from Sydney. He caught the train up the long, green coast, and although the sea on his right and the hills on his left looked very much like home, he was struck again by the new horizons opening up before him. He was now prepared to admit that he had been a lesser man before his mother’s win. He resolved, in the flickering carriage of the northbound train, to stop going to Wentworth Park on Friday nights. This resolution survived his return to the city. Ellie, pleased with his decision, and unusually permissive—she had missed him, she said—made no similar offer to give up her art classes. They spent Christmas at Ellie’s parents’ house, because Henry’s mother had gone to her sister’s. Henry was wary of the differences between this house and the one he would soon inherit: the strong gray-green light that filtered through the gum trees and was reflected in the vague watercolors hanging on the dining-room walls, the simplicity of the furniture, and the surprising number of books. The carpet was balding; his mother would have covered it with a rug. After the meal, Ellie’s father rose before the assembled crowd—there were quite a number of cousins—and delivered his annual speech, in which he summed up the events of the past year, both private and public. Henry, who was attentive to the gestures of other men, to the small and large ways in which respect is granted and withheld, noticed—much as he had noticed the worn carpet and the books—that Ellie’s father never once met his eye during the speech, not even when announcing his daughter’s engagement. Her mother, in contrast, peered anxiously at her future son-in-law from behind her glasses. At an appropriate time that evening, Henry steered Ellie out into the garden and quizzed her about her parents. At first she wouldn’t say much, except, shyly, “They have ideas.” “What does that mean?” he asked. Ellie made a small, fretful motion with her hands, as if someone, from a long way off, had thrown a ball in her direction. “Do they like me?” he asked. “I told them you wanted me to give up my art appreciation,” she said, without looking at him, and when he made a noise of irritation she began to speak very quickly about things that didn’t seem to matter. She told him that her mother was, in fact, a remarkable woman, and that if her family had held on to their money she would have done so much more—she’d have trained as an artist and would be famous now. Ellie said that her father had been adored by every student he had ever taught, but that his pride had suffered when he was forced to retire; that they wanted, more than anything else, to see her go to university, but that she was tired of living beautifully on too little money, tired of her parents’ belief that education was worth any sacrifice, and wanted to prove to them that it was possible to take a job in the world, so far into the heart of the world as an insurance firm, and still love art. Because she did love art. Then Ellie pressed herself into Henry’s arms and laid one cheek against his shoulder, all while the mynah birds plunged from the pepper trees, frightening other birds away. He said, gently, “Did you tell them about the lottery?” Ellie shook her hidden head to say no. He asked, “Why not?” And she raised her face and said, “They would think I was only marrying you for your money.” Her face disappeared again, and her thin shoulders rose and fell. Now she was crying. She was so young: only twenty, and passing into his keeping. If marriage was going to be like this, with Ellie pressed against him, exhausted by honesty and, despite her parents, sure of the way to happiness, then he could manage. He could flourish, in fact, and win; the bare carpet and the watercolors could no longer laugh at him. He moved his mouth in her dark hair and said, “My Ellie, my sweet girl.” “Oh, great! Here comes Valerie to raise the bar.â”Buy the print » Henry’s mother returned from Victoria on the arm of a man named Arthur. Arthur was short and fox-colored, with freckles and a muddled smile under a neat red mustache. Like Henry, he was in the “insurance game”; he also liked to bet his “bit of money” on a Friday night, and was disappointed to learn that Henry no longer went to the dogs. He had a habit of jogging his shoulders up and down as he talked. Henry viewed him with suspicion and wanted to know everything. His mother offered it all up: how they had met (on the train to Melbourne), where he lived (in Sydney’s west), what he expected of her and she of him (she couldn’t say—not yet). There was no question that she wouldn’t answer; there were also some she answered that he hadn’t asked. There had been no intercourse. She told Henry everything and then went away and told the telling of it to Arthur, so that Arthur sat Henry down one Sunday afternoon while Henry’s mother produced a purposeful clatter in the kitchen and said, “What you want to know is, am I on the make?” Henry liked Arthur’s candor; he liked straightforward talk. It showed respect, he thought, for all parties. So the two men talked it out in the shuttered light of the Sunday house: Arthur’s wages, his savings, what he knew of Henry’s mother’s winnings, what he knew her to have promised Henry. “Never an actual sum,” Henry said. “But it’s understood. She wants to see me set up in life.” “Like any good mother,” Arthur said, lifting and dropping his shoulders, “who has the means to do so.” Henry approved of Arthur after this discussion, and, when Ellie expressed doubts, came to his defense. She was jumpy in Arthur’s presence, and her refusal to respond to his mild flirtations made her seem prudish and ill-humored. Henry could see that his mother was happy and that happiness suited her; that she was made for contentment, for padded hips, for the kind vulgarity of a man like Arthur. When Ellie stayed away from the house and from Henry’s mother, Henry accused her of being a snob, which made her wrinkle her nose. He knew she was afraid of snobbery—she was afraid that she had caught it from her parents. Arthur made jokes about Ellie’s art appreciation, and Henry laughed at them without feeling disloyal. As the summer faded, he felt an increased impatience with the sanctity of Ellie’s Friday nights. One Thursday evening in mid-March, Ellie and Henry walked together in Hyde Park. Whenever Ellie made movements toward leaving, he held her by the hand and wouldn’t let her go. The water in the fountain threw light over the green legs of Apollo, who was otherwise lost in darkness. Here Henry pleaded with Ellie in a low, shameful voice to give him her Friday nights, to give him everything, to love him and only him, and he told her other things, which before tonight he could never have predicted he might feel, let alone say, about his need and his loneliness and all the ways in which she had changed him. She was angry, and wouldn’t promise; she said to him, hurt and soft, “I can’t believe you would even ask,” and when he began to defend himself she raised her voice to say, “I didn’t know you doubted me.” And then, without thinking much about it, Henry thrust one arm into the water that poured from the fountain until it had soaked far beyond the elbow of his navy suit, and he held it there, or, rather, the water seemed to hold it, although it was cold and Ellie begged him to stop. He saw her confusion, but from a distance. He felt her kiss his face and submerge her own arm in order to take his hand and draw it out of the water; only then did he seem to be free of the fountain. They held each other and cried, both of them—in public, in Hyde Park, with other lovers and lustful young men skirting them, whistling and smiling and making comments. Henry considered his behavior remarkable; he felt Ellie’s warm tears and the compassionate pressure of her shaking body, but was unable to believe that he was participating in any of it. Their wet arms chilled them both. She led him through the park and down William Street, and this time, instead of going to a restaurant, they went to a hotel she knew of—how did she know?—and there she let him see all of her, all at once. There was no doubt in his mind of her beauty and her devotion, and the most extraordinary thing about her giving herself to him was that he felt, in return, equally or perhaps with even more certainty, that he was giving himself to her. The room had a sour smell, like turning fruit, not unpleasant. Afterward, they lay together, damp and listless, until he felt himself return to his body, and then he forced them both into action: dressed her and himself, took her out to the street to find a taxi, and gave her the money to pay for it. He walked to Central Station in a state of luminous calm. It was two weeks until the wedding. The next day, after work, Kath was waiting for him at the hamburger place. “I don’t know what you think you’re doing,” he said, in a low voice, with a polite smile, as if someone might be watching him. “I stopped by for a bite,” Kath said. “It’s a free country, last I heard.” She was pert and proud. There was a new copper to her hair. “Suit yourself,” he said. He ordered his hamburger at the counter, distracted, and Kath called out, “No onions!” People turned to look at her, as they always did. He took a deep breath. “No onions,” he said. Nothing wrong, he thought, with sharing a quick meal with a good-looking woman, a friend of the family. He kept his eye on the station for any sign of Ellie, although he had already walked her to the train and ushered her with tender regret (on both sides) to her Friday class. “You look—greenish,” Kath said. “A bit green about the gills. You all right, Henry? Not eaten up by remorse, are you? Now that you’ve lost the best thing you ever had?” Kath laughed, delighted at herself. “What’s all this about?” His hamburger arrived, steaming. But the solitary pleasure of it was entirely lost. “I just wanted to know if you were off to the dogs tonight,” Kath said. “I fancied it, is all. Fancied a night out with a friend.” He had lifted his hamburger, and now there was no putting it down. This placed him at a disadvantage. The thick slice of beetroot threatened to slide onto his plate—it purpled his bread and his tongue—and juice of some kind, silky with fat, ran over his fingers. “I’m getting married in two weeks,” he said. “Where’s the bride, then? Shouldn’t you be painting the town? It’s Friday night.” There was something submerged about Kath’s face—something private and sly. Henry disliked it. It reminded him of how well suited they used to be; of how they’d liked to cultivate secret lives to which they could make coy allusions. “She’s got a class,” he said. “And you’re not invited?” He snorted. The final bites of the hamburger were impossible in company; he abandoned them. “Take me to the track, then,” Kath said. “We’ll go on a date.” “You never wanted to go on dates before,” Henry said. “You never won the lottery before,” Kath said, laughing, and two men at the counter turned to look at her. They laughed, too, and she seemed to absorb their approval and to turn it back on them, brighter. The men watched as she put her hand on his arm. “You’re not a married man yet.” Well, that was true, certainly. Kath smiled from her long immaculate face. “I guess I’ve missed you,” she said. They stood together and went out into the street. The city was scrubbed and pale after all that summer, and the buildings rose from the street with a mineral sheen. Henry was aware, as he hadn’t been in some time, of the anxious thrill of Friday afternoon. He bought a copy of the Daily Mail. “I usually walk to Wenty,” he said. “All that way?” Kath exhibited her heeled foot. Henry liked the authority of hailing a taxi with a girl on his arm. Kath was wearing a short blue coat, which drew attention to the bareness of her immoderate legs; Henry admired them, but with disapproval, as she stepped out of the taxi. Ellie was pretty in such a sensible way, but Kath required adjustments. She stood out on his arm. He and Ellie, he thought, stood out together. Ellie would be at her class by now. And here he was, at the dogs, with Kath. Passing through the gates with her at his side, Henry felt as if something had fallen over him: a soft cloak, maybe, made of heavy stuff, invisible, but hot with knowledge and pride. “How do we make a bet?” Kath asked, pressing him forward, lifting her face to the lights and the noise. “Over there,” Henry said, and he pointed to the bookmakers, who stood under their umbrellas above the crowd, shouting, with their heavy bags strung around their necks. “You leave that to me.” “No,” Kath said. “I want to know everything.” Henry found it gratifying to teach her. She frowned at the racing form in the Mail, tracing one polished finger over the names of the dogs, creasing her forehead and saying things like “I like Young Lightning. He’s got a good feel to him.” She took a small gold pen from her purse and, as she bent to mark the dogs she liked the names of, Henry saw a nest of short gray hairs on the crown of her head. She took his hand and let him lead her to the bookies, and once there she scolded him for wanting to bet so little on each race. “For a man who talks big, you have no ambition,” she said. Henry was enjoying himself. He felt as if he’d been drinking; he felt the warmth of the crowd, of Kath’s body against his, of having money to spend. If Kath liked Young Lightning, he would put five pounds on Young Lightning to win. Henry knew he would lose. Ellie, right now, was in a room on the northern side of the Harbour, among all those pink Madonnas, those green Apollos. She would never like it here with the noisy dogs. She would ask the wrong questions, and she was sentimental: she would worry about the treatment of the greyhounds. Kath sat beside him on the benches, tense in her blue coat, and watched every race. Young Lightning fell in the sixth race, but she only laughed; Henry couldn’t care about his five pounds. This time last night, he and Ellie had been on William Street, at the hotel. Kath turned to him and smiled. “These dogs love to run,” she said. It was the right thing to say, and he kissed her mouth. The kiss was friendly and without conviction. She squeezed his knee with her left hand. “I’ll just pop to the loo,” she said, and she went quickly, taking her purse with her. Then it was as if she’d never been there, as if she were only a good feeling Henry had every now and then. He wondered how many of the men sitting on the benches around him were married. They leaned easily on their comfortable knees; they wore open coats and drank from brown bottles. Henry loved them, and everyone. He turned around to look for Kath’s return, and there was Arthur, freckled and ruddy under the lights, sitting higher in the stands, with a paper folded over his knee. He was watching the dogs parade before the seventh race, and making notes; he wore the kind of flat green cap that Henry associated with butchers or publicans or plucky men down on their luck. Arthur gave no indication that he had seen Henry, but it was difficult to tell with a man like him, a man of winks and nods and innuendo, a man of showy discretion. Henry turned back to the track, where the dogs were filing into the starting traps, and Kath passed in front of him, one hand on his shoulder, in order to resume her seat. She wore fresh lipstick. “Who’ve we got in this one?” she asked, inspecting the form. “Is this Rowdy Jack?” Henry’s chest shook. He saw the future and Arthur in it, steering his mother by her happy elbow, smirking above the Sunday table, and always giving Henry quiet, confidential looks. And in this future Henry saw himself in his mother’s house, always and only the lucky son of a lucky mother. An inheritor before she was even dead. There was something indecent about it. He would live in debt to his mother and to Arthur and to Ellie, and they would all make demands on him, and on this free and shouting life he’d given up: the bookies under their umbrellas, and Kath beside him with her copper hair and lips. Generous Kath, who was his friend even now, who was so quick and alert, and had never asked him for anything. And then another life occurred to him, a life in which his wife came with him to the dogs, and the rest of the week was happy Sunday lamplight, with a bed and newspapers. Henry stood. “Let’s go,” he said, and she followed him out, her hand on his back, and he let it stay there. He didn’t look at Arthur. “Don’t we owe people money?” Kath asked, as he pulled her by the hand into the darkness of a stand of trees. This whole part of Sydney had once been a swamp, and then an abattoir. There was rot and filth under all of it. Kath’s lipstick tasted chalky and sweet, and he felt with hectic hands under her coat; but she pushed him away. “Henry,” she said, and he stopped. His face hung near hers. “That’s not why I’m here.” Her face was as pale as the bark of the gum behind her. “I could use some money,” she said. “Just a loan.” Henry waited for the shouting of the crowd inside the racetrack to subside, and then he asked, “How much?” “I could use a hundred,” she said. He didn’t answer. “That’s nothing to you. That’s a hundredth of what you won.” Henry reached out for her coat again, and this time she unbuttoned it for him. She was as thin as she had always been underneath it, and she shook like an arrow. She didn’t raise her face or body into his, and kept her arms behind her, wrapped around the trunk, so that he felt, kissing her, as if he were pressed to a tree that had once had a girl inside it. But her mouth moved. She was willing. It was her being willing that made him stop. Henry stepped away from the girl and the tree. He took all the notes he had in his wallet and passed them to Kath, who accepted them without looking. “Thank you,” she said. She began to button her coat. Henry walked out to the part of the street that was most illuminated by the floodlights of the racetrack. The cloak still lay across his shoulders; it was heavier in the light. He shook it off and walked home to his mother. His lucky mother, who was waiting now for Arthur with a lamp in her bedroom window. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Gray Goose	Credit Photograph by Weegee / ICP / Getty Hello, boys and girls, this is Burl Ives, and I’ve come to sing some songs for you. Here’s a song about a gray goose, the strangest goose. In 1948, the year Miriam’s father left, she was given an album. Last Sunday mornin’, Lord, Lord, Lord / Oh my daddy went a-huntin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. Miriam was forbidden to operate her parents’ hi-fi, built into a long rosewood cabinet that also included a radio, the most fantastical item of furniture in their lives, purchased on installment at Brown’s Appliance, on Greenpoint Avenue, and a fixture of contention in any number of speeches on the subject of what her father termed, in the grip of one of his baroque and finicky rages, their “slavery to commerce.” And along come the gray goose, Lord, Lord, Lord. Miriam had to request the Burl Ives each time. The way her mother handled the album reminded Miriam of the Jewish ritual actions Rose despised: the slipping of scrolls from a cabinet, her grandfather’s tender sheathing of the afikomen within its napkin at Passover, really anytime Miriam had ever witnessed a Jew handling papers of importance or turning the pages of a book as if unworthy, grateful, ennobled, discreetly defiant, all at once. Rose opened her political books in this way—her Engels and Lenin and Earl Browder, her volumes of Carl Sandburg’s life of Abraham Lincoln. And she tutored Miriam in the action of handling an LP: middle fingers paired at the label, steadying thumb at the disk’s outer edge. Never so much as a breath grazing the sacred dark-glinting music carved into the disk’s canyons, during its passage in and out of the crisp inner papers. A wrong glance could probably scratch the thing. God knew this was a house of wrong glances. For the girl seated at the record-player, fathoming the nature of her mother’s presence and her father’s absence was practically a full-time pursuit. If necessary, she’d offer it as justification for a report card’s testimony of mild disappointment: Miriam, though talented and capable, seems distracted from her assignments. Yes, she’d say. Too busy with my real study: the implausibility of my existence on earth! For what, after all, had Albert Zimmer and Rose Angrush’s marriage been if not an implausibility briefly entertained? Tolerated for an instant before being demolished, dismantled from at least three directions at once: her family, his family, and the Party. The high assimilated German joining up with Rose the Polack, Rose the Russian, Rose the immigrant, Rose the second-generation, raised-in-the-back-of-a-candy-store Brooklyn Jew? Unlike every comedy ever devised by Jewish writers mocking class difference from the sanctuary of Hollywood, these were divisions that truly couldn’t be overcome by the bonds of love. Rose and Albert’s marriage wasn’t screwball; it was you’re screwed. Not “It Happened One Night” but “It Happened Never.” Miriam’s origin myth centered on Rose and Albert’s first meeting. Even after her father had fled back to Germany, she could get Rose to tell the story. What child wouldn’t start there? Grasp this story, and you might even know what kind of meeting you could expect to make in the world, at some future time. It was at a packed hall near Gramercy Park, under a high ornate ceiling echoing with voices: there a mole met a mole. Rose seated on one side, in a creaky wooden folding chair, Albert seated across the room, in another. Both seeking to take the meeting’s floor, to steer its innocence and idealism in a given direction, both eager to run back to their contacts and brag of enlisting the group, and each obstructed, largely, by the other. Oh, it was ripe: Albert and Rose discovered each other because they’d been assigned, by their separate and poorly coördinated cells, to insinuate themselves into the same organization, the Gramercy Park Young People’s League. To introduce the possibility of solidarity with the coming workers’ revolution into this vague, well-intentioned gathering. Each was therefore forced, at some point, to bite a tongue and hear the other. Until, as they tussled for dominance in pursuit of the same outcome, the prospect of some other form of tussle emerged in the thoughts of both, and the hall’s other occupants melted away into irrelevance. Albert thinking, Who is this young Emma Goldman, this zaftig Brooklyn shtetl girl in the hand-sewn dress, covering the Yiddish parts of her speech with elegant rhetoric, with comical double-feature-at-the-Loew’s Britishisms? Rose thinking, Who is this fair Germanic professorially handsome fellow in suspenders and gold-rimmed glasses—and can he possibly be, as he claims in his speech, Jewish? Their infatuation was above all a meeting of two intellects gleaming with the same exalted certainties, two wills emboldened by the same great cause, and they were still uncovering the extent of their political sympathies (though “political” was too limited a term, insufficient to describe what joining the greatest movement of human history had done for their sense of what life itself was for), gabbing a mile a minute, barely able to stop talking to eat the food that sat cooling on the table where she’d cooked it for him in the kitchen of his flat, or to sip the wine they’d poured but in their intoxication with the cause hardly needed, when Albert first unbuttoned her dress and his trousers. So the tussle, begun in full public view, was now consummated behind closed doors. For a little while, Rose and Albert abandoned all urgencies, except those of a cell of two. Two fronts moving as one. Full synthesis achieved and lost on a nightly basis. Then, when Rose had missed three menstruations, they married. What could be so wrong? They were two Jews. Two humans. Two believers in revolution. In the eyes of anyone but their families, a matched pair. Any “real American” would have heard his German accent as close kin if not identical to her parents’ Yiddish. He was fair and she was dark, sure. But, spiritually, they could be taken for brother and sister. Certainly Albert and Rose found themselves allied utterly, proudly so, in the glance of any hater of Jews or revolutionists. Wouldn’t the Cause soon erase all distinctions of class and creed and race? Try telling it to the Jews. At their futzed-together, hasty wedding, Albert’s mother and her brother high-hatted the Angrush clan—that whole spilling array of Rose’s sisters and their husbands and their broods, the innumerable cousins. They treated Rose’s family like the servants they’d been forced to let go just before fleeing Lübeck. The Zimmers, the progressive, the enlightened, the worldly Zimmers, in the face of non-German Jews, semi-religious Jews, village Jews, felt their own place instantly: above them. This union was not what world revolution was meant to make possible, thank you very much! Then, as if to prove that the cosmos itself wanted no such union, the pregnancy lapsed, in the privacy of night, leaking out of Rose in gobs and streams, so discreetly that she was left to explain it to Albert herself, just weeks after the wedding. Now, girl, the doctor said, eat red meat and salad, avoid exotic fruits such as bananas, and try again. Try again? They hadn’t been trying. He’d meant to pull out. Now, married, they’d try. By now they’d settled, out of Manhattan, but not out of the heart of the world’s happy controversies: no. They’d made their home in the official Socialist Utopian Village of the outer boroughs, Sunnyside Gardens, where the houses bounded courtyard gardens, the neighbors venting their lives one to another across a shared common. Yet with such struggles as soon overtook Rose and Albert, truthfully, they might have wished to be a little better partitioned from their neighbors’ overhearing. That first accord between them, had it been only a fever of hormones? Their marriage only a panic of pregnancy in the wake of brain-befogging stints of sheer fucking? A baby would make it right. They tried and tried. Four years of trying before his seed would take in her again and make Miriam. The girl arrived just in time to be assigned her own booklet of wartime ration stamps, born into a new world that no longer resembled the nascent utopia in which Rose and Albert had come together to start a family. The marriage was by that time wrecked—on reefs of personality, on the lack of support from the two alienated families, and on Albert’s vanity, his uselessness at the task of anything but distant and unreachable revolutions. Rose worked as a bookkeeper in a pickle factory, toiling alongside the workingman. Albert was either above or beneath mere work: give him even a sheaf of pamphlets to distribute, and you’d find them stuffed into his suit’s pockets, his campaign to distribute them among the working classes having ended in some dialectical flirtation over drinks with a fellow-pamphleteer he just happened to run into. And then, soon enough, he was gone. By 1948, the top men in New York Communism had taken notice of Albert and decided that he needed correction, needed to be adjusted, from the status of dissolute husband and father, and pressed into service overseas. He was returned to Germany, where his courtly manners made him an asset instead of a sore thumb. Now Rose was a reverse war widow, divorced from but still married to the sole Jew who’d run back to Germany, run back because he wanted to dissolve his urbanity, his Jewishness, his Americanness, all in the solvent of the Soviet. Men got through the Sunnyside Gardens door after Albert. Handsome, heavy of chest, Rose was seen by men and didn’t always flinch from being seen. Yet none of them ever meant anything to her. Apart from Lincoln, that is. For Rose had erected a shrine on the half-circle table in the apartment’s foyer, on which the six volumes of Sandburg’s “Lincoln” were aligned, and in front of them a small cameo portrait of the martyred President was propped. Albert moved out and Lincoln moved in. For any other man, an hour in Rose’s bed but not so much as a cup of coffee afterward. Let alone permission to stay the night. In the apartment, only Rose, Lincoln, and Miriam, the daughter who was repository for Rose’s whole self, her insurance against being forgotten. He was six weeks a-fallin’, Lord, Lord, Lord / And they had a feather-pickin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. For what seemed a year of life as her father’s letters—not many of them—came from Rostock, from Leipzig, locations, thanks to Life magazine, impossible to envision except as wholly deserving ruins, palaces of rubble, Miriam sat entranced or bored, stilled anyhow, mulling what Ives seemed to have to impart, cheery parables of ducks and whales and goats and geese. Once, Sol Eaglin, making one of his mysterious visits—dapper, bullshitting Comrade Sol—stopped in the living room to jape at Miriam and her album. “What’s your kid know from ducks, Rose? You ever been to a farm, doll?” “She knows from ducks,” Rose said. “She’s been to a Chinese restaurant.” Animals, in Rose’s remorselessly unsentimental urban pragmatist’s views, were for eating, sure. (No filthy pets for Miriam.) Rose frowned at children’s books when they veered in directions zoological or anthropomorphic to any extent beyond Aesop, with his adamantine morals. (Always, with Rose, special emphasis on the bitterness of grapes, the inaccessibility of tidbits residing at the bottom of a vase: animals starved, animals rationalized, animals connived.) Sentimentalizing a duckling or a rabbit was associated, for Miriam, with her mother’s contempt for Catholic ritual: Easter eggs, bland milk-chocolate bunnies (“Only German chocolate is worth eating,” Rose would say, in irony and sorrow, then follow with her regular sighing incantation: “They made the very best of everything, of everything”), smears of ash, idiot Irish and Italian neighbors under the knuckle of idiot priests. So what was the anomalous gray goose, who wouldn’t be made a meal of, meant to signify? He was nine months a-cookin’, Lord, Lord, Lord / Then they put him on the table, Lord, Lord, Lord / And the knife couldn’t cut ’im, Lord, Lord, Lord / And the fork couldn’t stick ’im, Lord, Lord, Lord. Where was Aesop when you needed him? Of all the songs on the album, this was the one Miriam studied, helplessly. So they took him to the sawmill, Lord, Lord, Lord / Oh, it broke the saw’s tooth out, Lord, Lord, Lord. At last, one day, Rose took mercy on her daughter and explained. The answer, when it came, wasn’t difficult, though Miriam, at six, could never have guessed it. Now, tonight, more than a decade later, on the postage-stamp-size platform in a Greenwich Village club so small that any table was front and also rear, the grapevines of smoke clinging to the ceiling providing an illusion of distance in a room that, cleared of bentwood chairs and voices and clamor and filth, would have been revealed as no larger than the Sunnyside Gardens parlor where Miriam had memorized her mother’s albums, yet which somehow made room for not only a stage and a side bar featuring Italian coffee and red wine but also for an intricate social world that Miriam was just learning to parse—here the tenor folksinger on the tiny platform crooned out exactly Burl Ives’s version of the folk song. Note for note, vocal gesture for vocal gesture, syllable for syllable. The last time I see’d him, Lord, Lord, Lord / He was flyin’ over the ocean, Lord, Lord, Lord / With a long string of goslins, Lord, Lord, Lord. The raffish blond singer offered up a version cribbed from a children’s LP, as if it had been dredged out of some mossy Appalachian music-finding expedition, or salvaged during some hobo’s stint working in a train yard or begging at the kitchen door of the very farm that had raised the gray goose itself. Miriam laughed at how smugly the rendition was gobbled up by those unqualified to know the difference—or who if they knew it would endure fingernail splinters before confessing that they were familiar with Ives’s version. The boy at her side turned, as he had each time that night she’d laughed for no evident cause, and said, “What?” “Nothing.” All this she couldn’t explain, not to him. (Afterward, it would be his name, among so many here, that she, famous rememberer, resolutely couldn’t dredge up.) Then Miriam laughed again and said, “Do you know what the gray goose represents?” “Eh?” “You may have heard me on ‘Fresh Air with Terry Gross.’ I’m Terry Gross.”Buy the print » “I’m asking what the gray goose represents. I just wondered if you knew.” The song now finished, she’d gained the attention of their whole table, and the table beside theirs as well. Chairs, long since reversed so that chests creased against chair backs, cigarette-knuckled hands flung carelessly forward for ballast, now squeaked. The margin between different tables, between friends and strangers, those who’d arrived in one configuration and those who might later depart rearranged, in pairs or complicated threes or gaggles or alone, had been lost a while ago. “Enlighten us, Mim,” said Porter, the clever one in horn-rims, the Columbia man. Eying her for several nights now but too genteel to pry her from the boy. “Well, since you ask, the gray goose represents the irrevocable destiny of the working class.” Never had Miriam been so delighted to regurgitate a Roseism. Leaning in from the next table like a Disney wolf, Rye Gogan said, “Ach, fella, beware—your girl’s a Red.” Rye, middle baritone of the Gogan Boys, an act too big for this stage (not only reputation-wise but in strict bodily terms, the three Irish louts in their thick brocaded vests would never have fit on this club’s riser), was the celebrity among them, not that any of them would acknowledge it. Rye Gogan was also already famous as something worse than a wolf. A drunken shark at an evening’s end. The girl farthest from shore at that point was traditionally doomed. “No, really, she is one,” Porter said. “Not like us paper revolutionaries, gentlemen. Mim grew up in a cell, she’s been to secret meetings. Tell them, Mim.” “Meetings?” Rye growled. “Who hasn’t?” The Irish singer rounded his shoulders, that signature vest like a dank filthy sail hung from the rigging of his chest, and creaked his chair back toward his own party. Likely registering that engaging with Miriam’s table entailed simply too much smarty-pants confusion to be worth the bother now, even if he’d tabulated Miriam’s presence for some pending shark chase to shore. “You have no idea,” Miriam said to Porter, and Porter’s friend, named, she was fairly certain, Adam, and the Barnard girl Adam had brought along, who’d said she was from Connecticut, and who’d been looking sick for most of an hour already. “I have a pedigree. My father’s a German spy.” “Can he get us into Norman Mailer’s party?” Adam said. Adam knew, or pretended to know, where the real action was tonight. Any crowded smoky basement or throngs on MacDougal or St. Marks to the contrary, all persons visible to their gaze were, ipso facto, losers like themselves. “He’s not allowed into the United States,” Miriam said, surprising herself with where this was going, but then seeing it play, like nearly anything from her mouth, in this company: thrilled amazement at what the wild child from Sunnyside might say next. Her fiercest sincerities were translated by the male ego, on arrival, into daffy flirtation. For instance, when Miriam said she was bored by jazz (worshipping at its longueurs, its brilliant “passages,” induced the same claustrophobia she always felt at sitting hushed through Rose’s Beethoven symphonies, being instructed in their remorseless dire profundities) and preferred Elvis Presley (cutting class to hide in Lorna Himmelfarb’s basement, listening to Presley having been the sole salvation in the final semester of her senior year at Sunnyside High), men like Porter went into paroxysms of delight at how the female could want to provoke them, never grasping the notion that anyone they’d ever be seen squiring, let alone this raven-haired Jewess with a vocabulary like Lionel Trilling’s, could possibly possess such backward tastes. No one who actually didn’t get jazz would ever admit it! And if you got it, man, well, you got it. Miriam, therefore, was a tease, ironist supreme. And with a figure. “She’s dead serious,” Porter said now, fingering his frames Arthur Miller style, again sealing Miriam’s words with his only-I-get-it endorsement. Miriam’s original boy had been morosely toying with the red wax pooling in their table’s blunt candle, dipping his fingertips to coat them, then jostling the little inverted fingerprints off to assemble, like a series of mouse-size bowls on the tablecloth, or tiny bloody footprints, a mock crime scene. Maybe trying to say that someone had placed a tiny dagger in his tiny heart. Truly, Rye Gogan’s storm-cloud attentions had altered the barometric pressure at their table. While the folksinger interred his guitar to the mildest applause, a poet or comedian, some Lenny Bruce aspirant, stood waiting to commandeer the unnecessary microphone. He wore a cravat and clutched a sheaf of papers. Someone knew him. But someone knew everyone. Miriam believed she could get one or more of her admirers on their feet and outside, possibly even Porter among them, and suddenly wanted to prove that she could. “What the hey. I’ll get us into Mailer’s party.” “How?” “With my secret Commie powers, of course.” An hour later they stood braving a cold wind at the gentle summit of the Brooklyn Bridge’s rotting-plank walkway, the East River’s boardwalk, and surveyed the transistor gleamings of the island they’d exited, contrasting it with the low-roofed smolder of Brooklyn Heights, the murk of their promised destination, Mailer’s party, down there somewhere, one of those faint flares amid a hundred thousand darkened bedrooms, the sea of sleepers beyond. Here they halted, stared. Boroughphobia. Fear of Brooklyn. Miriam recognized it in her companions and laughed, but silently, not wanting to incite her unmemorable boy to another automatic, threatened “What?” Miriam felt it in them, this cohort she’d manufactured by calling them out of the folk basement: their collective reservations at being dragged to this brink, the bridge’s perihelion, the immigrant shores. For the moment, at least, this seventeen-year-old Queens College freshman dropout had called their bluff. The Barnard girl, Adam’s date; Adam himself; and solo, enchanted Porter, interested but too sweet to be predatory; and Miriam’s grown-sullen date, too. Miriam’s ad-hoc committee, her cell. So forget Rose’s secret meetings, her living rooms, her smoky kitchens. Forget Rose’s sidewalk speeches, her tirades against the residents of the dead utopia of Sunnyside Gardens, corrupted by the onrush of coming disappointment, seeking scapegoats for their stupid guilt at their wasted lives. This night, right here, with New York splayed before them, a banquet they feared to eat, Miriam understood clearly for the first time that her Secret Commie Powers were not actually a joke: Miriam Zimmer understood tonight she was a leader of men. Not just men slavering over her curves or astonished at her wit or haunted by her Jewish mysteries or dazzled by her fluency with the city’s mad systems—the subway lines, the Staten Island ferry terminal and its pigeon population, the significance of a Dave’s egg cream on Canal Street, the parsing of baseball affiliation since the Dodgers and the Giants had fled to California (no, you couldn’t just suddenly become a Yankee fan, not while Sandy Koufax and Jake Pitler still lived), her ease with Negroes, her allusions to veiled knowledge, the transparency to her of symbols like the gray goose—but all of it, all. Surviving Rose and Sunnyside Gardens, that suburb of disappointment, had made Miriam sublime, a representative of the League of Absconded Kings or Queens. And, seeing it, she laughed aloud, and of course Forgettable weighed in with “What?” “Listen.” Miriam’s favorite idiot bar bet gained a new allure here as they shivered on the bridge. The answer would be staring them in the face and they’d still blow it. “I’ll bet anyone here five bucks they can’t name an island in New York State that has a bigger population than forty-eight of the fifty states.” “That’s dopey,” Adam said. “Manhattan, of course.” “You’re dopey. It’s Long Island. You owe me five bucks or your last cigarette.” “But, hey, who’s counting?” Porter said, leaning in with his own still plentiful pack, tapping a cluster of cigs halfway out. Fingers mobbed in, and then for an instant the five smokers were melded in physical purpose, clustering to bell-jar Porter’s match from the night’s wind, each dipping a cigarette’s tip to the flame. Ladies first, then, once the match was inevitably doused, finishing with the square dance of touching lit to unlit tips. Night workers edged in darkness past them, heads bent, ignorant of the city’s splendor and misery, filing toward sour bedrooms. Fear of Brooklyn: there was plenty to fear, Miriam knew, though not what her companions imagined. “I’m freezing,” Forgettable said, evidently intending them to understand him to mean frozen out. Miriam’s date had given up petitioning with his shoulders and elbows to clutch Miriam to him, as Adam and his Barnard girl were clutched, the girl’s shoulder inside Adam’s tweed jacket, her arm vanished within his shirt at the waist. Forgettable’s last few attempts had been despondent anyhow, as though he sensed the turn things were taking. For Miriam was changing hands tonight, Porter sweeping her away, if something so completely under Miriam’s agency could be granted to Porter’s. It surely would be. Miriam being just a girl, after all. Miriam plunged her cigarette’s orange tip into the night. “Charge!” “Screw Mailer,” her former date said. As if that were an option, in lieu of what he’d never get from Miriam. “I’ve got to get up in the morning. I’m going back.” “We’ll walk you,” Adam said. This sudden defection sealed Miriam’s transfer more absolutely than she might have wished; after a flurry of embraces, she and Porter hoofed it down the Brooklyn slope of the bridge, just the two of them, while the others retreated to Manhattan. Miriam considered him entirely for the first time, her new courtier: with his funny knobbly gait, embarrassed or melancholic shoulders, and gigantic forehead, Porter was really drawn along Arthur Miller or Robert Lowell lines, though with his labored quipping he might be trying to pass as Mort Sahl. Leery Rose, in the right mood, might give him a chance on the basis of a resemblance to Abraham Lincoln. But then why would Miriam need her mother’s approval? She cancelled the thought. “Look,” she said, again pointing her cigarette past the bridge’s descent into Brooklyn Heights. “Remsen Street, it’s one of those, terminating at the Promenade.” In her imagining, the glamorous town houses would be visible, a crest of terraces peering back across the water at Manhattan, and one of them declaring itself by throbbing with jazz and cocktail clatter, clouds of marijuana smoke, genius conversation. In truth, all that was visible there was a dark barricade of greenery, seemingly more than a mile beyond and below them, across the silent river’s mouth. “Which?” Now, committed, Porter sounded nervous. “It’ll be obvious from the street. We’ll hear it a block away, I expect.” “If not, it isn’t worth going,” he bluffed, regaining his confidence. Yet that very bluff carried them merely a stride or two more on the bridge’s downward slope. Porter’s confidence had some other purpose, now that they’d shed their companions. Only when you’d finally shaken them free, those couple-disguising little mobs, the self-chaperoning cocoons that blobbed around everywhere together, were you reminded of their uses. Porter kissed her. Miriam kissed him back, just as ravenous, even if strategizing how to delay or undo it, or where they would go, or what it would have to mean. Porter’s cold fingertips had already found gaps in the buttons of her dress at her tailbone, causing some electrical outline to quiver along the contour of her buttocks, to her feet, which attempted to stay rooted on the walkway’s planks. Porter was tall. Miriam got up on her toes, a half-measure, a compromise with an impulse to drop in a swoon to her knees or lift off into the sky. Precisely to the same degree that she’d been mothered in disappointment, in embittered moderation, in the stifling of unreasonable expectations, in second-generation cynicism toward collapsed gleaming visions of the future, the morose detachment of the suburbs, Miriam was in fact a Bolshevik of the five senses. Her whole body demanded revolution, her whole character screamed to see high towers raised up and destroyed. Every yearning Rose might ever have wished to dampen had been doubly instilled in her daughter. For all her quashing of utopias, Rose had merely been proving Miriam’s innate suspicion that life was elsewhere. For God’s sake, you could see the Empire State Building framed at the foot of Greenpoint Avenue! And, for what felt like ten years, Miriam had been observing the special appearance and attitudes of the girls who had enrolled at City College but still lived at home, or at least kept rooms in their homes, in Sunnyside Gardens: the knowledge behind their new cat sunglasses, the cigarettes they sneaked and the gossip they ceased to spout on the communal back patios when nine- or ten- or twelve-year-old Miriam wandered up. Miriam knew that these girls were telling her her future and wondered why they bothered to conceal it. Miriam could see the Empire State Building now, past Porter’s shoulder as she pulled her mouth from his and leaned and gasped for air and stalled for time, her cheek against his arm. The stupid beckoning phallic symbol, brazenly named for the nation’s criminal aspirations yet paradoxically bearing with it the pride Rose had instilled in Miriam for being an American and a New Yorker, the dull amazing monument was always there, stabbing the air, calling to her, crushing her like a bug in advance. You’re nobody so special, Miriam Zimmer! Except here on the bridge, upper lip already raw in the high wind from Porter’s five-o’clock shadow’s scraping, Miriam felt all the freedom accorded to nobody special as a power equal to the Empire State’s mass and force. Had anyone ever already known what Miriam knew at seventeen? It seemed unlikely. And tonight she would know more. She was going to let Porter be the first to make love to her, because he was just special and not-special enough to be the one to do it. That night beginning on the bridge, as she’d already half started to call it. “Take me somewhere,” she said. “My neighbors bought new furniture.”Buy the print » There, with her words, to which Porter panted his grateful consent, began the insane night that had already had so many beginnings. First, withdrawal to Manhattan, not boroughphobia now but total uninterest in Mailer or the dark roofs or the cold sky or anything outside of themselves and their skins. If they could have left their clothing on the bridge, they might have done that. The I.R.T. at Brooklyn Bridge took them to Union Square, where in a high-backed booth in the Cedar Tavern they fondled and entwined tongues until asked to leave. They repeated the performance at the Limelight coffee shop, to which Miriam had dragged Porter after he’d expressed a dazed uncertainty as to where else to try—they’d have had more privacy in a corner of Mailer’s party, which she’d fully visualized by now as consisting of sultry Bennington girls being serially deflowered in piles of coats. They briefly had more privacy in Washington Square, where for another turbulent session they settled on a bench. But whenever they quit walking, and Porter’s hands resumed inching inside her already flimsy coverings, Miriam started to freeze. “Why can’t we go to your rooms?” she whispered. Porter looked at her, not for the first time, with an admiration suggesting that Miriam was Wuthering Heights mad. “There’s a strict dorm policy.” “I thought you Columbia men were trying to change that.” “Trilling stood against us,” Porter bragged, proud anytime he could cite that name. “He seemed confused that we’d even want women in the dorms, leaving their nylons around, as he put it—” “So why don’t you make a stand?” Miriam shamelessly gave this the Marilyn Monroe treatment, lips at his ear. “Protest for your cause.” “My roommate,” Porter said helplessly. “I couldn’t—” The virginity Miriam trailed around with her was an anchor, one she vowed to cast off before dawn. So they rode the subway again, to Grand Central, and she guided him downstairs to the track where the 7 line would carry them to Queens, then to the back of the platform. Miraculously, a train hovered, panting slightly with its doors open. They boarded and it took off as if it had been waiting for them. “After the river the train goes elevated, Porter. I’ll show you something you’ve never seen before.” “What’s that?” he said dreamily. They’d walked with their fingers enlaced, pulling downward to draw each other close, his hip at her waist, her breasts at his ribs, each awkward rubbing step a kind of prolongation of the endless makeout session the night had become. On the train, they stood against a door, unwilling to discontinue the contact between the lengths of their bodies, letting the car’s lurches buckle his knee into a place between her legs. “You’ll see. The greatest curve in the system,” Miriam teased. “I actually think I know what you’re talking about.” “That’s when you can be certain you’re wrong.” “Nothing you could show me that was curved could be wrong.” What was this talk, so stupidly enchanted, so seemingly drunk on each other’s wit and promise? Or should the question be: How much red wine had she unthinkingly guzzled at the Cedar Tavern? The Queens-bound train scraped moonward out of the darkness, into the constellation of streetlights and signage along Jackson Avenue. “Holy heck!” Porter shouted. “It’s like a roller coaster!” “No, I told you,” she said, styling her formulation after Porter’s manner, and leaning into his ear to put it over, above the elevated’s rattle and shriek. “That was nothing, brace yourself. The real curve’s the next one, watch.” She urged him against the door’s windows, to take it in fully. The 7’s lead cars obligingly jackknifed into Queensboro Plaza. “It’s the only place in the system where you can watch the front cars of the train you’re on pull into a station from the rear cars,” Miriam said. Hammering the point home, she felt like Rose. Like she’d picked up Rose’s hammer of personality to impress the Columbia boy, to bonk against his broad, pretentiously daft forehead. (How could you go to so much trouble to arrive in New York City, as the throngs at Columbia and Barnard had, and not ride the system?) As if Miriam’s life-exuberance pointed back toward Rose’s punitive ferocity, just the way the I.R.T. screamed in the direction of home. She tried to see Sunnyside’s Forty-seventh Street through his eyes. The slumbering apartment blocks, the tended shrubbery and flagstone walks, Miriam’s home borough some false vision of calm, an immigrant’s dull fantasy of American sanctuary that suddenly turned her stomach; she hurried him past. Only they had exited the train at the Bliss Street station, and now, on the sidewalks, they passed no one. The whole journey might have been a dream she’d had, once she’d tiptoed inside through the Gardens and the kitchen door, and swept Porter into her bedroom, only he was still blithering about the elevated’s rocket ride, so that she had to hush him until her door was safely shut. She stuffed a towel along the jamb as if to enjoy a secret cigarette. At this point, the dream of night—or morning, she’d glanced at Porter’s wristwatch on the street and the time was 3 A.M.—veered toward squalid comedy. The two of them remaining on their feet, in some shyness still unwilling to commit to her bed, Porter struggling with one or another of her fasteners and buttons, forcing Miriam to add her hands to his and solve whatever problem he’d been muttering over, so that before very long she was completely nude while he still wore his entire outfit. In exasperation she lay down on the bedspread. “Take off your shoes, at least,” she whispered. “Have you got an, um, pessary?” “Pessary?” She tried not to snort at the absurd term, which struck her as Midwestern, if not actually Victorian. “Do you mean a diaphragm?” What, was he afraid to remove his clothes for fear of pregnancy? Should she lie? Yes. “Yes.” “You do?” “It’s taken care of, Porter.” Miriam flashed on Rye Gogan and his reputation. Where was the masculine devourer when you needed him? Must you swim with sharks to get sharked? Take me, she wanted to tell Porter, yet refused to have to tell him, on the principle that even men in tortoiseshell glasses were meant to transform into animals in the dark. Perhaps especially men in tortoiseshell glasses, according to the cartoons in Playboy, Lorna Himmelfarb’s older brother’s copies of which she’d perused during Elvis-auditing sessions in the Himmelfarb basement. Something should be swarming Miriam, apart from her yearning to be swarmed. She got Porter onto the bed. Pulled him by the belt. Unzipped and researched inside. Oh, Lord, the boy, nicely long and rigid, Chinese-finger-trapped by desire in his too-tight boxer shorts, wasn’t circumcised. He also blurted his goop into her palm at the same instant that she groped the knob and discovered its stretchy hood. Then, sighing, Porter covered her lips and chin and nose with a flurry of seeking kisses, as if both grateful and falsifying the record. See, I’m ravishing you, therefore I must have been all along! Instead, she’d accidentally ravished him. And it was at that moment that Rose came barrelling in, a titan, Alice’s enraged Red Queen in her quilted robe, her gossamer nightdress beneath it, her expression a storm of reproach, and the story abruptly had nothing to do with their bodies, with Miriam’s nakedness and desire and what Porter was or wasn’t going to do about it. All that was left of that story was how fortunate Miriam could feel, in retrospect, that she’d got so little of Porter’s clothing off. Even knowing that Rose had seen nothing, Miriam had time for the stray, absurd thought: Abraham Lincoln wouldn’t have been circumcised, either, so Rose couldn’t object to that, could she? “Should I call the police?” “No, Mother.” “No Mother what?” Rose seized any occasion for a mental test, a verbal duel—why miss what was there for the taking? “Don’t overreact, Rose, for God’s sake.” The room flooded with light from the living room and foyer behind Rose, every lamp switched on, as though her mother had been awake for a duration of eavesdropping and pacing, and for expert selection of the awkwardest instant to make this confrontation. “Don’t tell me how I should react. Don’t tell me what to do. If I don’t call the police it’s less a mercy than the fear they might arrest me for parental dereliction.” Rose’s bold, rising, theatrically superb declaration ran over a thin, husky, stuttering sound, something that might have been an attempt on Porter’s part to apologize or introduce himself or both, even as he juggled his glasses back onto his face and pinched at his zipper and his disordered trousers. Rose detoured to a Barbara Stanwyckian quip: “By the way, it’s rape, Mister, unless you happen still to be in high school yourself.” “Nobody was raped,” Miriam said, letting her disappointment color the word with scorn for Rose and Porter both. “And I’m not in high school, thank you.” “You ought to be. This matter of skipping a grade makes you think you’re a woman now? The bosom on you fooled this young man, fair enough, but how can it have fooled you as well? Perhaps you’re ready to become parents of a child. It’s not as much pleasure as you’d think from the way it begins, making babies.” “Nobody’s making any babies.” Miriam thought of the word “pessary” again. As long as Porter was present, this scene was only comic overture to the crisis, the explosion struggling to begin. “I tried to raise a young woman but apparently produced an American teen-ager in her place. No doubt the fault is mine, yet it’s also the case that the result was sabotaged in a thousand ways. First by the father, who couldn’t be kept at home. In that, of course, the fault is surely mine. We fought terribly. I couldn’t keep him fascinated in ways a freethinker like you appears to have already mastered, but what two lovebirds like you couldn’t imagine is the world I brought this girl into. A battlefield. Not a playground for children in the bodies of adults. You’re in a hurry to grow up—we gave up our childhoods before we knew we’d given them up. Before I plunged my arms into pickle brine, I slaved in the back of that candy shop. This one, Miriam, ah! Look at the expression! He wouldn’t know what a barrel of halvah was if I shoved it in his face.” Halvah! Miriam found herself issuing a sharp guffaw. “How could you,” Rose cried at Miriam’s laughter. “If I was dying it wouldn’t stop you doing as you wished. No doubt you’d step over my body on your way to Greenwich Village or to a man like this one, whose name you won’t even condescend to share with me. Step over my dying body on your voyage to where the squares wouldn’t go. But I hardly imagined you’d shower me with laughter as you went past.” “You’re not dying, Rose.” “I am inside.” That’s how you know you’re still alive, Miriam wanted to tell her. Dying inside was for Rose a way of life. Within her mother was a volcano of death. Rose had spent her whole life stoking it, trying to keep the mess contained but fuming. In Rose’s lava of disappointment, the ideals of American Communism had gone to die their slow death eternally; Rose would never die precisely because she needed to live forever, a flesh monument, commemorating socialism’s failure as an intimate wound. Miriam started humming, the song entering her mind unbidden. Last Sunday morning, Lord, Lord, Lord. Oh my daddy went a-huntin’, Lord, Lord, Lord. It had been a trick question, she realized now, a paradox beyond even Aesop’s devising. How could you possibly learn the identity of the gray goose by asking the gray goose? For, after everything, this was at last unmistakable: the gray goose—inedible, adamantine, undead, warping any implement that dared glance in its direction, let alone one that dared to attack—was none other than Rose Zimmer. Oh, an intervention was desperately needed, but the difficulty was in how little offense Porter gave, how few grounds for ejection. He stood dopily awaiting his turn, which would never come. Miriam now wished Porter would make some move, any move, even in panic, to incite Rose into showing him the door. Instead, Rose, measuring his passivity, latched on to a listener. Miriam couldn’t count how many she’d seen frozen on a square of sidewalk at one of Rose’s stunning harangues, though she’d never been draped naked in a sheet while a would-be boyfriend played the part. Maybe Porter was about to begin taking notes, as if at Trilling’s own feet. Miriam had to do everything herself. She elevated from the bed like a ghost or a muse in her drapery and took Porter’s elbow and guided him past a momentarily jaw-frozen Rose, back through the kitchen. Though Porter was apparently properly dressed, he moved as awkwardly as if he wore his jacket backward, his shoes on his hands. “Go.” “I’m so sorry. When can I—?” When can I what? Miriam thought, an exact Rose Angrush Zimmer cadence, except Rose would have said it aloud. What in this performance was Porter eager to reflect on or repeat? She craned on tiptoe for a quick kiss, surprising herself by wanting one. She’d after all fondled Porter’s secret heartbeat, collected his private sigh. They had, after all, been romancing across a connect-the-dot map of Miriam’s city for hours past, hours of what now seemed another night, another life entirely. The light in the Gardens was morning light as Miriam stood at the kitchen door in a sheet, pushing her Columbia boy through the gap. Porter, she realized, could be from Mars for all he grasped of the creature with whom he’d passed the night. Miriam might be altering herself at a furious rate into that other thing, the girl Porter believed he’d deviously squired out of the basement club behind the stalking horse of her official date, then halfway across the Brooklyn Bridge and back, then to Queens to find himself more or less raped and accused of rape within a span of minutes, but she wasn’t there yet. And so, as Porter wobbled along the light-blotted lanes of the Gardens and vanished, Miriam closed the door and withdrew to face Rose. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Fragments	Credit Illustration by Eric Hanson “Here’s a question I’ve always wanted to ask. When you’re up there, are there coördinates you have to follow, or are you free to go anywhere you like?” “Depends on where in the city you are. If you come near any of the airports, obviously—” “Oh, sure.” “Which you need clearance to do, anyway.” “I’m just talking about, like, say you’re over midtown.” “I don’t do midtown. There’s another guy does midtown.” “I’m saying, what if you just happened to find yourself there?” “Let me tell you,” the second man said, laughing. “You never just find yourself inside a chopper in midtown.” He stopped eavesdropping on them when the call from Katy came in. He picked up, hoping that her deadline had been pushed back, that she’d changed her mind, that she’d be joining him after all. “Hey,” he answered. No reply. Static. A physical thing, a trail of it. Static heading somewhere, making progress down a hallway. “Katy?” he said. Static crumpling and ironing itself out. A quick vacuum silence, then more jostle. “Katy,” he said again. “Helloooo.” He stepped out of the bar, knowing by then that his wife hadn’t intended to call him. “Kaaa-teee!” he sang. Static shifting, churning, then lifting suddenly. He hollered to be heard. “Yoo-hoo, Katy!” “. . . no, he thinks I’m . . .” More static. “. . . just wish . . . could spend the night . . .” Then a man’s voice. “. . . too bad you live . . . have an extra hour . . .” More static. He plugged his other ear and listened intently. The words were torn before they reached him, irrecoverable. He was no longer saying her name, just listening. “. . . dinner, but if you’re not . . .” “. . . hungry all right, but not for . . .” He listened for ten minutes. Only fragments came through. Amplified, then muted. He strained to identify the man’s voice. It was low and familiar. Long periods of static gave way to discrete words, occasional phrases. He stood in the cold trying to interpret them. By then, he knew his life was over. He hung up, then called her back almost immediately. It went straight to voice mail. It went to voice mail a second time. Finally, it rang, but rang and rang. He went back inside the bar. The indiscriminate noise of the other patrons registered as a murmur. He didn’t take a seat but hovered over his drink, staring at it without touching it. In the morning, Katy was gone again. He had not woken when she came in the night before. It had been this way since her latest case started. He took his time leaving the apartment. He drifted through the rooms, looking at their things. When he left, he immediately fell in step with a girl on the phone. “No, he already graduated from law school,” she said. “He’s getting his master’s degree in real estate from N.Y.U.” There was a long pause. “A master’s degree in . . . I think real estate. Why are you laughing?” There was another pause. “Why would he lie about something so— Stop laughing!” The subway was packed. One kid said to his friend, “The scope was fat. She was at it for like an hour.” “How many shots?” the second kid asked. One of the seated women peered over. “Who cares when it’s dead?” the first kid said. On his lunch hour, he left the office and walked around, then all the way to Central Park and back. He watched the ground but remained oblivious of the pennies, the gum stamps, the pigeons twitching in the cold. For long passages, nothing penetrated the roar in his head. He stood at the crosswalk. “So we’re like a fund of funds, because we take a stake, but we can’t, you know, we have, what, a ten, maybe twenty per cent—” “Right,” the other guy said. “Anyway, he’s an asshole, but he knows how to make money.” “Best kind of asshole.” He passed two women without coats smoking outside a building. “Seriously, girl,” the one said. “I know, I know—but can I just tell you?” She drew closer and whispered. After work, he went to the gym. He sat down in the locker room and was removing his shoes as two guys he knew by sight were on their way out. “But not female masturbation, just male masturbation.” “So you fap yourself?” “But just dudes. The word for female’s like . . . no, I don’t remember.” He couldn’t bring himself to undress, so he sat there. Three young guys came in, smelling of recently smoked cigarettes, and waited for the one to change out of his street clothes. “But what are you going to eat at a buffet?” the first guy asked. “I mean, are you going to eat the sushi, or are you going to go straight for the fucking . . . the fucking—” “Not the fucking sushi.” “I’ll tell you why she wants to go there.” “Yeah, did she lose weight?” “Thirty pounds.” “Yeah, she looks good.” “Why do you think we’re . . . ?” The first guy quickly punched his fist in and out. He left the locker room, abandoning his gym bag, everything. “Goodbye,” the woman at the front desk said to him on his way out. “Have a good night.” On the street, a woman talking into a cheap cell came toward him. From the accent, she was Jamaican. “If something happen to you, then what I do?” she said as she passed. “Then what I do?” He ate at a diner uptown, far from the apartment. He sat alone, listening to the conversation going on in the booth behind him. “Like, he found a day job that makes him happy,” the hipster said. “He genuinely likes coffee. Where it’s from, blends, shit like that.” The Asian girl on the far side said something he couldn’t hear. “Because I don’t want to go back to Lafayette. Or Tulsa.” That night, Katy came home later than usual. He feigned sleep. With the lights off, she tiptoed into the bedroom, making no effort to wake him. He wanted to give her an opportunity to say something, he wanted her to say something, but she slid in lightly and was soon asleep. What hurt more—her peaceful sleep or the silence that preceded it? He got up and walked to the couch. It was late when he woke. There was no note. On the street, the free newspapers and all the ones on sale at the kiosks were shouting about the blizzard. The flakes were whitening shoulders and driving in a pattern that was hard to make sense of. “Excuse me,” he cried out. “Excuse me!” The man ahead of him had dropped a glove. “Oh, thanks,” the man said. “You’re welcome.” “I do that all the time,” the man said to his companion. “I don’t know if he bought it or not,” his companion continued. “Why would a scarf cost fifteen hundred dollars?” “Why would he buy it? That’s the question.” “I swear I lose these things all the time,” the man said, swatting the glove on his leg as he walked. “I’ve probably lost a hundred pairs.” On his lunch hour, another walk. This time, he made it down to Union Square. Sheets of buckled tin layered the sky, which hung low. He walked north, past Meatball Obsession, “Home of the Original Meatball in a Cup.” He passed Sol Moscot Opticians and all the chains along Sixth. He passed a former church, now Deify Laser and Beauty Lounge. “Scrubs,” the first man said. “Imagine that, scrubs!” “Well, you want everything to be sterile, don’t you?” The first man howled with laughter. On his way home from work, in the corridors of the subway, he overheard the woman tell the man to slow down. “Where we sitting at?” she asked. They were far from any bench, far from the platform. The man turned. “Why I’m sitting? Where?” “You ain’t sitting?” “Why I’m sitting for? Sitting for what?” “I’m just saying.” “I’m not sitting nowhere. I’m trying to get to the train. What I’m sitting for?” Again he lay in bed, waiting for her, but he got sleepy. When he woke up, she was dead weight beside him, facing away, still dressed in her work clothes. In the earliest hours, he lay there wondering what to do. Something had to be done. The next morning, he stopped for a bagel. The man in line behind him said, “Hey, it was her idea. I sleep just fine, thank you. That’s not for me to worry about, that’s his deal. And don’t tell me you’d have done anything different—” On the street, he threw the bagel away. He walked to work, all thirty-eight blocks. The blizzard had been cancelled, but a light dusting had fallen. It made him feel out of control every time his feet lifted off the pavement. “I need to place an order,” the man at the corner said. “Forsythe. Newark. Forty-two hundred gallons of crude.” He went into Brooklyn on his lunch hour, all the way to Coney Island on the train. It was cold on the boardwalk. The sky was overcast, clotted with bruised clouds. They turned the near distances blue. He didn’t go back in to work, but called in sick. “I was under the illusion that if I just kept moving from one to the other I’d never die.” “That just makes it easier for death to sneak up on you,” the second man said. “O.K., now, when a teacher comes out, everybody look straight up.”Buy the print » That night, as he returned home on the subway, guys were working on the track. They wore reflector vests and hard hats. One of them said, “You got the numbers written down? Clear it out. Clear it out—we’ll go to the other side. Was there a roll? Never mind, we’ll just go to the other side.” At home, he looked away from their things and out the window, at the city, and saw almost nothing: fading light, a growing density, shadows walking below. That was the night she didn’t come home. The blizzard was back on. The snow fell in an unrelieved trance. It slanted across every glow. In the morning, there was nothing, only white. The flakes came hissing to the ground, disappearing like wisps of ash burning out in midair. People walked like they were on the moon. He stopped for coffee. Everyone was talking about the blizzard. “No cab nowhere. I’m looking at two o’clock in the morning. By then, I swear to God, I’m going out of my mind.” “How is he now?” “Not good. Maybe . . . I don’t know, Cheryl, maybe I should have just put him down last week.” The second counter girl said, “Hello, can I take your order?” He didn’t go in to work that day. His breath in his ears, the scraping of a shovel in the distance, the crunch of every cumbered step—these were the only sounds, and they filled the silence of the snowbound world. The man with the sparking shovel whistled a tune as he passed. Then the taxis started to move. The snow got stamped down. It turned to slush at the street corners and churned in the traffic. When night fell, he stopped at a bodega near the apartment, looking for something to eat. The man said, “They taking them?” “Over my dead body they taking them. Them my two little girls, man.” They didn’t say anything more until he left the store. He went home and ate what he’d bought and then he went to the bar. “Everybody wants him,” the man nearest him said. “Everybody.” “B.L.A.?” “Everybody.” “That’s hard to believe.” “If I could kill myself without dying, if I could kill myself and instead of dying he died, I’d do it in a heartbeat.” “Wouldn’t that be murder?” On his way home, the woman threw her arms down, out of the man’s grasp. “No!” she cried. “It is not that easy! It is not that easy!” “Sh-h-h, sh-h-h, sh-h-h.” “Hands off me!” He went around them a little wide, then stopped and looked back. The man had turned her and lifted her off the ground while she struggled to free herself, legs kicking. He prepared himself to step in if the man went any further. The man let go, and the woman dropped to the ground, turned, and hit his coat with both fists over and over, blows he took laughing. “Fucking suck it, Dom!” she cried, and walked off. The man kicked a garbage bin and the sound echoed. The man turned almost immediately and shouted at him. “What the fuck are you looking at?” He turned away and moved on. He kept the lights off in the apartment. He was sitting on the sofa, snow melting at his feet, when the phone rang. “Hello?” “Hey!” she said. “So, I’m going to be late again.” He didn’t say anything. “Cooke wants all the new discovery done by Monday morning. So . . . I don’t know, around midnight, maybe?” “How come you didn’t come home last night?” “No, no—not the McKinley docs. The Byrne docs, the Byrne docs!” “Katy?” “Sorry,” she said. “Idiots.” “Did you hear me?” “What did you say?” “You didn’t come home last night.” “I know. This case. It’s driving everyone crazy.” He remained silent. “Hello?” she said. He hung up. He leaned over and turned on the light. He went around turning on all the lights. They had a lot of stuff. There were books and magazines and travel guides and framed prints on the wall. There were lamps and stockpots and beds. There were stacks of CDs and milk crates of shoes and the bikes they rode in the summer. There were things that were “his” and things that were “hers,” a distinction from long ago that now reasserted itself with a cruel and vivid haste. Every “her” thing was a reminder. She was “her” now, just that, no longer Katy, no longer his wife. He would call her “her” for the rest of his life. He walked through the apartment. He’d done this two nights in a row. He was sick of doing it. Everything that was “hers” hurt one way. Things that were “theirs” hurt differently. The last thing he wanted was to have to sort and divide it all. He wanted things to go back to the way they had been, neutral, undifferentiated. But there was no going back. Everything mocked him and made him sad. He took out his phone, intending to call someone, one of his friends. He could no longer keep it to himself. But he put the phone away, as he had before. He couldn’t face it. And yet he needed to talk. He went to the window. He looked down on the people passing below. Except for a patch in front of the church, most of the sidewalk on both sides of the street had been cleared of snow and people moved freely. To his surprise, he called out. “Hey,” he said. It wasn’t loud enough. “Hey!” The man looked up without slowing down but couldn’t locate him. He refrained from calling out a third time, and the man moved on. He hadn’t anticipated calling out at all. A minute later, a woman walking her dog came down the street. “Hey!” he said to her. She looked directly at him. Well? she and the dog seemed to be asking. “Sorry,” he said. He closed the window and walked away. A few minutes later, he was back, calling out to a man and a woman. This time, he said, “Stop for a second!” The couple went quiet but continued walking. “I have to tell you something!” he cried. The man stopped and said, “Is everything O.K.?” He wanted to be honest with the man. “No,” he said. “Nothing is O.K.” He climbed up and crouched in the open window, steadying the tips of his shoes and most of his weight on the jutting brick. “My life’s over,” he said. The man took a step in his direction and removed his hands from his pockets. “What are you doing up there?” After a while, the man said, “It’s dangerous up there.” Eventually, he stepped back inside. “What the hell?” the man said as they resumed walking. “Some kind of joke?” his companion said. He was back at the window a few minutes later. Now he said, “My wife’s having an affair.” The man he addressed was trying to make it over the icy patch in front of the church. The affair was embarrassing to admit out loud, but he wanted to stop the man, make him understand. After clearing the icy patch, the man raised his eyes to the window. “Did you hear me?” he hollered. “My wife’s having an affair!” It was easier to say the second time. “Good for you,” the man said, and kept moving. A minute later, he said, “Hey!,” and that man didn’t stop, but the next one did. “My wife’s having an affair!” he said. “Yeah?” the man said. He was almost directly below him and really had to crane his neck. “What are you going to do to her?” the man asked. He didn’t like the way the man was just standing there looking up at him, smiling. He’d picked the wrong man. “You gonna kill her?” the man asked. He stayed away from the window until the man was gone. The next man who stopped listened for a while. He told him about his long nights and drifting days. Then he said, “Hey, you want something of hers?” The man seemed confused. “Come up, take something of hers. Take whatever you want.” “No, thanks,” the man said. He started to move on. “But good luck to you.” “Hey!” he cried out to the next guy. “You want something from up here?” Without stopping, the man said, “Huh?” “Come up! Come up, take something.” To his surprise, the man stopped and began to deliberate. “I’m serious, come up. I’ll buzz you up.” “What for?” “Just to take. Whatever belongs to my wife you can have. She’s having an affair. She’s cheating on me.” The man continued to stand there. He explained to him that there were “her” things and “his” things now, and “their” things, too, and none of it, nothing in the apartment, could stay. It was just a pile of stuff now, and had to go in one direction or another. A life that had once been, with every added thing, full of hope and purpose, was lost. The man seemed to understand. He buzzed the man in and heard him on the stairs. “This place belong to you?” the man asked. “It’s my apartment,” he said. “Go ahead, take what you want. Take whatever you can carry.” The man looked around. “This lamp?” he asked. The lamp was a “their” thing. What were they going to do, saw it in half? “The lamp’s fine,” he said. “Take the lamp.” “You sure this stuff is yours?” “All mine,” he said. “Mine and hers.” “This pillow?” “Take it.” “All these pillows?” The man headed down the stairs with the lamp and the pillows. He went back to the window. An hour later, she came down the street. “You think no more surprises, and then,” one of the men coming toward her said. “Then you get free luggage,” the second man said. She recognized the polka-dot roller bag that the first man was pulling behind him. When she reached the landing, he was standing in the open doorway, going through their wedding album with another man. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Mexican Manifesto	Credit Illustration by Owen Freeman Laura and I did not make love that afternoon. In truth, we gave it a shot, but it just didn’t happen. Or, at least, that’s what I thought at the time. Now I’m not so sure. We probably did make love. That’s what Laura said, and while we were at it she introduced me to the world of public baths, which from then on, and for a very long time, I would associate with pleasure and play. The first one was, without a doubt, the best. It was called Montezuma’s Gym, and in the foyer some unknown artist had done a mural where you could see the Aztec emperor neck-deep in a pool. Around the edges, close to the monarch but much smaller, smiling men and women bathe. Everyone seems carefree except the king, who looks fixedly out of the mural, as if searching for the improbable spectator, with dark, wide-open eyes in which I often thought I glimpsed terror. The water in the pool is green. The stones are gray. In the background, you can see mountains and storm clouds. The boy who worked at Montezuma’s Gym was an orphan, and that was his primary topic of conversation. On the third visit, we became friends. He was only eighteen, and wanted to buy a car, so he was saving everything he could: tips were scant. According to Laura, he was a little slow. I thought he was nice. In every public bath, there tends to be a fight from time to time. We never saw or heard any there. The clients, conditioned by some unknown mechanism, respected and obeyed every word of the orphan’s instructions. Also, to be fair, there weren’t very many people, and that’s something I’ll never be able to explain, since it was a clean place, relatively modern, with individual saunas for taking steam baths, bar service in the saunas, and, above all, cheap. There, in Sauna 10, I saw Laura naked for the first time, and all I could do was smile and touch her shoulder and say I didn’t know which valve to turn to make the steam come out. The saunas, though it might be more precise to call them private rooms, were a set of two tiny chambers connected by a glass door. In the first, there was usually a divan—an old divan reminiscent of psychoanalysis and bordellos—a folding table, and a coatrack; the second chamber was the actual steam bath, with a hot and cold shower and a bench of azulejo tiles against the wall, beneath which were hidden the tubes that released the steam. Moving from one vestibule to the next was extraordinary, especially if the steam was already so thick that we couldn’t see each other. Then we would open the door and head into the chamber with the divan, where everything was clear, and behind us, like the filaments of a dream, clouds of steam slipped by and quickly disappeared. Lying there, holding hands, we would listen or try to listen to the barely perceptible sounds of the gym while our bodies cooled. Practically freezing, submerged in silence, we would finally hear the purr welling up through the floor and the walls, the catlike whir of hot pipes and boilers that stoked the business from some secret place in the building. One day I’ll wander around in here, Laura said. Her experience raiding public baths was greater than mine, which wasn’t saying much, considering I’d never before crossed the threshold of such an establishment. Nevertheless, she said she knew nothing of baths. Not enough. She’d gone a couple of times with X and, before X, with a guy who was twice her age and whom she always referred to with mysterious phrases. In total, she hadn’t been more than ten times, always to the same place, Montezuma’s Gym. Together, riding a Benelli—they were everywhere then—we attempted to visit all the baths in Mexico City, guided by an absolute eagerness that was a combination of love and play. We never succeeded. On the contrary, as we advanced the abyss opened up around us, the great black scenography of public baths. Just as the hidden face of other cities is in theatres, parks, docks, beaches, labyrinths, churches, brothels, bars, cheap cinemas, old buildings, even supermarkets, the hidden face of Mexico City could be found in the enormous web of public baths, legal, semilegal, and clandestine. Setting our course was simple at first: I asked the boy at Montezuma’s Gym to point me in the direction of some cheap baths. I got five cards and wrote the addresses of a dozen establishments on a piece of paper. These were the first. From them, our search branched off countless times. The schedules varied as much as the buildings did. We arrived at some at 10 A.M. and left at lunchtime. These, as a rule, were bright places with flaking walls, where we could sometimes hear the laughter of teen-agers and the coughing of lost and lonely men, the same men who, a little while later, having collected themselves, would get up and sing boleros. The essence of those places seemed to be limbo, a dead child’s closed eyes. They weren’t very clean, or maybe the cleaning was done later in the day. At others, we’d make our appearance at four or five in the afternoon and wouldn’t leave until dark. That was our most common schedule. The baths at that hour seemed to enjoy, or suffer from, a permanent shadow. That is, a trick shadow, a dome or a palm tree, the closest thing to a marsupial’s pouch; at first you’re grateful for it, but it ends up weighing more than a tombstone. The baths were most crowded at seven, seven-thirty, eight at night. On the sidewalk next to the door, teen-agers stood guard, talking about baseball and pop songs. The hallways echoed with the sinister jokes of workers who’d just come from factories and workshops. In the foyer, old fags, birds of passage, would greet the receptionists and those killing time in the armchairs by first name or nom de guerre. Getting lost in the hallways, nourishing a kind of indiscretion in small doses, like pinches, never ceased to be highly informative. Open or half-open doors, like landslides, like cracks in the earth, usually offered live paintings to the happy observer: groups of naked men who left all movement and action entirely to the steam; teen-agers lost like jaguars in a labyrinth of showers; small but terrifying gestures of athletes, bodybuilders, and loners; a leper’s clothes hanging; little old men drinking Lulú and smiling as they leaned against the wooden door of the Turkish bath. It was easy to make friends, and we did make some. Couples, after passing a few times in the hallways, felt obliged to greet one another. This was owing to a kind of heterosexual solidarity; women, in many public baths, were an absolute minority and it wasn’t uncommon to hear extravagant stories of attacks and harassment, even though, truth is, those tales weren’t very credible. These kinds of friendships rarely went beyond a beer or a drink in the bar. We’d say hi to one another in the baths and at most we’d take neighboring saunas. After a while, the first to finish would knock on their friends’ door and, without waiting for an answer, holler that they’d be in such-and-such restaurant, waiting. Then the others would leave, they’d go to the restaurant, have a drink or two, and say goodbye until next time. Sometimes the couple would take you into their confidence, the woman or the man, especially if they were married but not to each other; they’d tell about their lives and you’d have to nod, say that’s love, that’s a shame, that’s destiny, that’s children. Tender but bored. The other friendships, which were a bit more turbulent, were the ones where they’d visit your private room. These could get to be just as boring as the first type, but were much more dangerous. They’d show up without prelude, just knock on the door, a strange quick knock, and say, Let me in. They were rarely alone, almost always in threes, two men and a woman or three men; the motives they put forth for such visits tended to be stupid or not too believable: to smoke a little weed, which they couldn’t do in the group showers, or to sell us something or other. Laura always let them in. The first few times, it made me tense, ready to fight and fall blood-soaked on the tiles of the private room. I figured the most logical thing was they were coming to rob us or to rape Laura, or even to rape me, and my nerves were on edge. The visitors knew this, somehow, and they addressed me only when necessity or good manners made it impossible to avoid. All the propositions, deals, and whispers were addressed to Laura. She was the one who let them in, she was the one who asked what the fuck they wanted, she was the one who let them pass through to the room with the divan. (I would listen, from the steam, to how they sat down—first one, then another, then the next—and Laura’s back, unmoving, could be seen through the frosted-glass door separating the steam from that antechamber, which had suddenly been transformed into a mystery.) Finally, I’d get up, put a towel around my waist, and go in. Or a man, a boy, and a girl, who would wave hesitantly when they saw me, as if all along, against all reason, they’d been expecting only Laura and not the two of us; as if they’d only expected to find her. From the divan, their dark eyes never missed a single gesture of hers, while their hands independently rolled the weed. The conversations seemed coded in a language I didn’t know, and certainly not in the teen-age slang prevalent at that time, of which I now remember barely a couple of expressions, but in a much more ominous slang where each verb and each sentence had a touch of funeral and of holes. Maybe the Air Hole. Maybe one of the deformed faces of the Immaculate Grave. Maybe. Maybe not. In any case, I joined the conversation, or tried to. It wasn’t easy, but I tried. Sometimes, along with the pot, they’d pull out bottles of alcohol. The bottles weren’t free, but all the same we never paid. The visitors’ business was selling marijuana, whiskey, turtle eggs in the saunas, rarely with the approval of the receptionist or the janitorial staff, who relentlessly pursued them; that’s why it was of the utmost importance that somebody shelter them. They also sold theatre, which was really where they made their dough, or arranged private performances in the bachelor pads of contracting parties. The repertoire of these travelling companies could be paltry or multifarious, but the dramatic crux of their mise en scène was always the same: the older man stayed on the divan (thinking, I suppose) while the boy and girl, or the two boys, followed the spectators into the steam chamber. The performance, as a general rule, didn’t last more than half an hour or three-quarters of an hour, with or without the participation of the spectators. When the time was up, the man on the divan would open the door and announce to the respected public, between coughs brought on by the steam, which immediately tried to slip into the other room, the end of the show. Encores were very expensive, though they lasted only ten minutes. The boys would shower quickly, then take their clothes from the man’s hands. I remember they’d get dressed while they were still wet. The downcast but enterprising artistic director would take advantage of the last few minutes to offer satisfied viewers the delicacies in his basket or suitcase: whiskey served in paper cups, joints rolled by expert hands, and turtle eggs he’d open with his enormous thumbnail, and which he’d sprinkle with lemon and chili when they were in the glass. In our private room, things were different. They’d talk softly. They’d smoke marijuana. They’d let time pass, checking their watches now and again as their faces became covered with beads of sweat. Sometimes they’d touch each other, touch us—something that was inevitable, regardless, if we were all sitting on the divan—and the brushing of legs, or arms, could get to be painful. Not the pain of sex but of the unpardonably lost or of the last shred of hope roaming the Impossible Country. If they were acquaintances, Laura would invite them to undress and join us in the steam. They rarely accepted. They preferred to smoke and drink and listen to stories. To relax. After a while, they’d close the suitcase and take off. Then, two or three times in the same afternoon, they’d come back and the routine was the same. If she was in a good mood, Laura would let them in; if not, she wouldn’t even bother to tell them through the door to quit bugging us. “Did management say you could go off the grid?”Buy the print » The relationships, with the exception of one or two isolated quarrels, were always harmonious. Sometimes I think they treasured Laura long before they’d even met her. One night, the old man who brought them (there were three of them that time, an old man and two boys) offered us a show. We’d never seen one. How much does it cost? I said. Nothing. Laura told them to come in. The steam room was cold. Laura took off her towel and turned the valve: steam started rising from the floor. I felt like we were in a Nazi shower and they were going to gas us; the feeling grew more intense when I saw the two boys come in, very skinny and dark, and behind them the old procurer, covered only by some indescribably dirty underpants. Laura laughed. The boys looked at her, a little shy, standing in the middle of the room. Then they, too, laughed. Without removing his horrific undergarment, the old man sat between Laura and me. Do you just want to watch, or watch and participate? Watch, I said. We’ll see, Laura said, very given to this sort of risk. The boys then, as if they’d heard a commanding voice, knelt down and started to lather each other’s privates with soap. In their gestures, learned and mechanical, you could see how tired they were and glimpse a series of tremors that could easily have been related to Laura’s presence. Time passed. The room recovered its density of steam. The actors, however, motionless in their starting pose, seemed frozen: kneeling down face to face, but kneeling in a grotesquely artistic way, masturbating each other with the left hand while keeping balance with the right. They looked like birds. Metal engravings of birds. They must be tired, they aren’t getting it up, the old man said. Indeed, the soapy cocks pointed only timidly upward. Don’t lose her, boys, the old man said. Laura started to laugh again. How do you expect us to concentrate if you keep laughing all the time? one of the boys said. Laura got up, passed by them, and leaned against the wall. Now the two tired performers were between us. I felt like time was tearing apart inside me. The old man mumbled something. I looked at him. He had his eyes closed and appeared to be sleeping. We haven’t slept in such a long time, one of the boys said, letting go of his partner’s penis. Laura smiled at him. Next to me, the old man started to snore. The boys smiled, relieved, and adopted a more comfortable posture. I heard their bones crack. Laura let herself slide down the wall until her butt was on the tile. You’re very skinny, she said to one of them. Me? He is, too, the boy responded, and you. In fact, we were all skinny. The whistle of the steam, on occasion, made it hard to distinguish the voices, which were too quiet. Laura’s body, back against the wall, knees lifted, was covered in sweat: the drops slid down her nose, down her neck, made grooves between her breasts, and even hung from her pubic hair before falling onto the hot tiles. We’re melting, I mumbled, and suddenly felt sad. Laura nodded. She seemed so sweet at that moment. Where are we? I thought. With the back of my hand, I wiped away drops that slid from my eyebrows to my eyes and kept me from seeing. One of the boys sighed. I’m so tired, he said. Sleep, Laura recommended. It was strange: I felt like the lights were dimming, losing intensity; I was afraid I might faint. Then I figured it must be the excess of steam changing the colors and tones, so much darker now. As if we were seeing the sunset, here, inside, without windows, I thought. Whiskey and Mary Jane are not good company. As if reading my mind, Laura said, Don’t worry, everything’s fine. And then she started smiling again, not a mocking smile, not as if she were enjoying herself, but a terminal smile, a knotted smile somewhere between a sensation of beauty and misery, though not beauty and misery per se, but Little Beauty and Little Misery, paradoxical dwarves, travelling and inapprehensible dwarves. Relax, it’s just steam, Laura said. The boys, ready to accept everything Laura said as irrefutable, nodded over and over. Then one of them let himself drop to the tiles, head propped on his arm, and fell asleep. I got up, careful not to wake the old man, and moved closer to Laura; squatting next to her, I buried my face in her humid and fragrant hair. I felt Laura’s fingers caress my shoulder. In a little while, I realized that Laura was playing, very gently, but it was a game: her pinkie was sunbathing on my shoulder, then her ring finger would pass and they’d greet each other with a kiss, then the thumb would appear and both pinkie and ring finger would flee down the arm. The thumb was then king of the shoulder and would lie down to sleep; it seemed to me that he even ate some vegetable that was growing there, for the fingernail dug into my flesh, until the pinkie and the ring finger returned, accompanied by the middle and index fingers, and all together they would frighten the thumb, who hid behind an ear and spied on the other fingers from there, without understanding why they’d thrown him out, while the others danced on the shoulder and drank and made love and, out of sheer drunkenness, lost their balance and fell off the cliff and down the back, an accident Laura would take advantage of in order to hug me and lightly touch her lips to mine; in the meantime, the four fingers, terribly bruised, would climb up again, clinging to my vertebrae, and the thumb would observe them without ever thinking to leave his ear. Your face is glistening, I whispered. Your eyes. The tips of your nipples. You, too, Laura said, a little pale, I guess, but you’re glistening. It’s steam mixed with sweat. One of the boys was watching us in silence. Do you really love him? he asked Laura. His eyes were enormous and black. I sat on the floor. Yes, Laura said. He must be madly in love with you, the boy said. Laura laughed like a housewife. Yes, she said. With good reason, the boy said. Yeah, I said, with good reason. Do you know what steam mixed with sweat tastes like? It depends on the particular flavor of each person. The boy lay down next to his partner, on his side, his temple pressed right against the tiles, without closing his eyes. His cock was hard now. He touched Laura’s legs with his knees. He blinked a few times before speaking. Let’s fuck a little, he said. Laura didn’t answer. The boy appeared to be speaking for his own benefit. Do you know what a little steam mixed with a little sweat tastes like? What it would really taste like? What the flavor would be? The heat was putting us to sleep. The old man slipped until he was lying down completely on the bench. The sleeping boy’s body had curled into a ball, his arm wrapped around the waist of the one who was awake. Laura stood and watched us at length from above. I thought she was going to turn on the shower, which would have had fatal effects on those who were sleeping. It’s hot, she said. It’s unbearably hot. If they weren’t here (she was referring to the trio), I’d ask the bar to bring me a soda. You still can, I said; no one’s going to come all the way in here. No, Laura said, it’s not that. Should I turn off the steam? No, Laura said. The boy, head slanted, stared fixedly at my feet. Maybe he wants to make love to you, Laura said. Before I could answer, the boy, almost without moving his lips, pronounced a laconic no. I was kidding, Laura said. Then she kneeled down beside him and with one hand caressed his buttocks. I saw, in a fleeting and disturbing vision, how the drops of sweat moved from the boy’s body to Laura’s and vice versa. The long fingers on my friend’s hand and the boy’s buttocks glistened humid and identical. You must be tired, Laura said. That old man is crazy. How can he expect you to fuck each other here? Her hand slid over the boy’s buttocks. It’s not his fault, he whispered. The poor guy has forgotten what a bed is. And what clean underpants are, Laura added. He’d be better off wearing nothing. Yeah, I said, it’s more comfortable. Less awkward, the boy said, but wouldn’t it be great to put on clean white underpants? Tight ones, but not too tight. Laura and I laughed. The boy scolded us calmly: Don’t laugh, this is serious. His eyes seemed erased, gray eyes like cement in the rain. Laura grabbed his cock with both hands and yanked it. I heard myself saying, Should I turn off the steam?, but the voice was weak and far away. Where the fuck does your manager sleep? Laura said. The boy shrugged. You’re kind of hurting me, he whispered. With one hand, I held on to Laura’s ankle; with the other, I wiped away the sweat getting into my eyes. The boy straightened until he was sitting up, with restrained gestures, trying not to wake his partner, and kissed Laura. I bowed my head to see them better: the boy’s lips, thick, sucked on Laura’s lips, closed, where you could just barely make out a smile. I squinted. I’d never seen her smile so peacefully. Suddenly, the steam hid her. I felt a kind of detached terror. Fear that the steam would kill Laura? When their lips separated, the boy said he didn’t know where the old man slept. He put one hand to his neck and made a slicing gesture. Then he caressed Laura’s neck and pulled her even closer. Laura’s body, elastic, adapted to the new posture. Her gaze was fixed on the wall, on what the steam allowed her to see of the wall, her torso forward, breasts grazing the boy’s chest or pressed against him with gentle strength. The steam, at times, made them invisible, or half covered them, or silvered them, or plunged them into something like a dream. Finally, it was impossible for me to see her. First one shadow on top of another shadow. Then nothing. The chamber seemed about to explode. I waited a few seconds, but nothing changed; on the contrary, I got the impression that the steam was thickening more and more. I reached out a hand and touched Laura’s back, arched on top of what I assumed was the boy’s body. I stood and took two steps along the wall. I heard Laura calling me. A Laura with her mouth full. What do you want? I said. I’m suffocating. I went back, less carefully than before, and bent down, feeling my way around the place where I figured they must be. I touched only hot tiles. I thought I was dreaming or going crazy. I bit my hand so I wouldn’t scream. Laura? I moaned. Beside me, the boy’s voice sounded like distant thunder: the boy according to whom steam mixed with sweat tastes distinctly. I stood up again, this time ready to start kicking blindly, but I checked myself. Turn off the steam, Laura said, from somewhere. In fits and starts, I was able to get to the bench. While ducking to look for the main valves, I heard the old man’s snores practically in my ear. He’s still alive, I thought, and turned off the steam. At first, nothing happened. Then, before the silhouettes recovered their visibility, someone opened the door and exited the steam chamber. I waited. Whoever it was was in the other room and making quite a bit of noise. Laura, I called quietly. No one answered. Finally, I could see the old man, still sleeping. On the floor, one in fetal position and the other stretched out, the two actors. The insomniac appeared to really be sleeping. I jumped over them. In the room with the divan, Laura was already dressed. She threw me my clothes without saying a word. What happened? I said. Let’s go, Laura said. We saw this trio again a couple of times, once at those same baths, the other time in Azcapotzalco, the baths of hell, as Laura called them, but things were never the same. At most, we smoked a cigarette then adios. We kept visiting those places for a long time. We could have made love elsewhere, but there was something about the route of public baths that attracted us like a magnet. Obviously, there was no shortage of other incidents: desperate guys racing down hallways, an attempt at statutory rape, a raid we were able to avoid by luck and cunning—cunning, Laura’s; luck, the bronze solidarity of bathers. From the sum total of all the establishments, now just an amalgam that gets confused with Laura’s smiling face, we mined the certainty of our love. The best of all, maybe because that’s where we did it the first time, was Montezuma’s Gym, which we always went back to. The worst, a place in Casas Alemán conveniently called the Flying Dutchman, which was the one that looked most like a morgue. Triple morgue: of hygiene, of the proletariat, and of bodies. Not of desire. Two memories I still have from back then are the most ingrained. The first is a succession of images of Laura, naked (on the bench, in my arms, under the shower, stretched out on the divan, thinking), until the steam, gradually increasing, makes her disappear completely. The end. Blank image. The second is the mural at Montezuma’s Gym. Montezuma’s eyes, bottomless. Montezuma’s neck suspended above the surface of the pool. The courtiers (or maybe they weren’t courtiers) who laugh and converse, trying with all their might to ignore whatever it is the emperor sees. The flocks of birds and clouds that mix together in the background. The color of the pool’s rocks, doubtless the saddest color I saw in the course of our expeditions, comparable only to the color of some faces, workers in the hallways, whom I no longer remember, but who were certainly there. ♦ (Translated, from the Spanish, by Laura Healy.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Night of the Satellite	Credit Installation by Bryan Christie What we were arguing about that night—and it was late, very late, 3:10 A.M. by my watch—was something that had happened nearly twelve hours earlier. A small thing, really, but by this time it had grown out of all proportion and poisoned everything we said, as if we didn’t have enough problems already. Mallory was relentless. And I was feeling defensive and maybe more than a little paranoid. We were both drunk. Or, if not drunk, at least loosened up by what we’d consumed at Chris Wright’s place in the wake of the incident and then at dinner after and the bar after that. I could smell the nighttime stink of the river. I looked up and watched the sky expand overhead and then shrink down to fit me like a safety helmet. A truck went blatting by on the interstate, and then it was silent, but for the mosquitoes singing their blood song, while the rest of the insect world screeched either in protest or accord, I couldn’t tell which, thrumming and thrumming, until the night felt as if it were going to burst open and leave us shattered in the grass. “You asshole,” she snarled. “You’re the asshole,” I said. “I hate you.” “Ditto,” I said. “Ditto and square it.” The day had begun peaceably enough, a Saturday, the two of us curled up and sleeping late, the shades drawn and the air-conditioner doing its job. If it hadn’t been for the dog, we might have slept right on into the afternoon, because we’d been up late the night before, at a club called Gabe’s, where we’d danced, with the assistance of well rum and two little white pills Mallory’s friend Mona had given her, until we sweated through our clothes, and the muscles of our calves—my calves, anyway—felt as if they’d been surgically removed, hammered flat, and sewn back in place. But the dog, Nome—a husky, one blue eye, one brown—kept laying the wedge of his head on my side of the bed and emitting a series of insistent whines, because his bladder was bursting and it was high time for his morning run. My eyes flashed open, and, despite the dog’s needs and the first stirrings of a headache, I got up with a feeling that the world was a hospitable place. After using the toilet and splashing some water on my face, I found my shorts on the floor where I’d left them, unfurled the dog’s leash, and took him out the door. The sun was high. The dog sniffed and evacuated. I led him down to the corner store, picked up a copy of the newspaper and two coffees to go, retraced my steps along the quiet sun-dappled street, mounted the stairs to the apartment, and settled back into bed. Mallory was sitting up waiting for me, still in her nightgown but with her glasses on—boxy little black-framed things that looked like a pair of the generic reading glasses you find in the drugstore but were in fact ground to the optometrist’s specifications and which she wore as a kind of combative fashion statement. She stretched and smiled when I came through the door and murmured something that might have been “Good morning,” though, as I say, the morning was all but gone. I handed her a coffee and the Life section of the newspaper. Time slowed. For the next hour there were no sounds but for a rustle of newsprint and the gentle soughing suck of hot liquid through a small plastic aperture. We may have dozed. It didn’t matter. It was summer. And we were on break. The plan was to drive out to the farmhouse our friends Chris and Anneliese Wright were renting from the farmer himself and laze away the hours sipping wine and maybe playing croquet or taking a hike along the creek that cut a crimped line through the cornfields, which rose in an otherwise unbroken mass as far as you could see. After that, we’d play it by ear. It was too much trouble to bother with making dinner—and too hot, up in the nineties, and so humid the air hung on your shoulders like a flak jacket—and if Chris and Anneliese didn’t have anything else in mind, I was thinking of persuading them to join us at the vegetarian place in town for the falafel plate, with shredded carrots, hummus, tabbouleh, and the like, and then maybe hit a movie or head back over to Gabe’s until the night melted away. Fine. Perfect. Exactly what you wanted from a midsummer’s day in the Midwest, after the summer session had ended and you’d put away your books for the three-week respite before the fall semester started up. We didn’t have jobs, not in any real sense—jobs were a myth, a rumor—so we held on in grad school, semester after semester, for lack of anything better to do. We got financial aid, of course, and accrued debt on our student loans. Our car, a hand-me-down from Mallory’s mother, needed tires and probably everything else into the bargain. We wrote papers, graded papers, got A’s and B’s in the courses we took, and doled out A’s and B’s in the courses we taught. Sometimes we felt as if we were actually getting somewhere, but the truth was, like most people, we were just marking time. At any rate, we made some sandwiches, put the dog in the car, and drove through the leafy streets of town, until the trees gave way and the countryside opened up around us, two bottles of marked-down shoppers’ special Australian Zinfandel in a bag on the floor in back. The radio was playing (bluegrass, a taste we’d acquired since moving out here to the heart of the country), and we had the windows rolled down to enjoy the breeze we were generating as the car humped through the cornfields and over a series of gently rolling hills that made us feel as if we were floating. Nome was in the back seat, hanging his head out the window and striping the fender with airborne slaver. All was well. But then we turned onto the unmarked blacktop road that led out to Chris and Anneliese’s and saw the car there, a silver Toyota, engine running, stopped in our lane and facing the wrong direction. As we got closer we saw a woman—girl—coming toward us down the center of the road, her face flushed and her eyes wet with what might have been the effects of overwrought emotion or maybe hay fever, which was endemic here, and we saw a man—boy—then, too, perched on the hood of the car, shouting abuse at her retreating back. The term “lovers’ quarrel” came into my head at the very moment the girl lifted her face and Mallory yelled, “Stop!” “It’s a lovers’ quarrel,” I said, ever so slightly depressing the accelerator. “Stop!” Mallory repeated, more insistently this time. The guy was watching us, something like an angry smirk on his face. The girl—she was no more than a hundred feet away now—raised her hand as if to flag us down, and I eased up on the gas, thinking that maybe they were in trouble after all, something wrong with the car, the engine overheating, the fuel gauge on empty. It was hot. Grasshoppers flung themselves at the windshield like yellow hail. All you could smell was tar. The car slowed to a halt and the girl bent to my window, letting her face hover there a moment against the green tide of corn. “You need help?” I asked, and those were tears in her eyes, absolutely, tears that swelled against her lids and dried in translucent streaks radiating out from her cheekbones. “He’s such a jerk,” she said, sucking in her breath. “He’s, he’s”—another breath—“I hate him.” Mallory leaned over me so the girl could see her face. “Is he your—” “He’s a jerk,” the girl repeated. She was younger than us, late teens, early twenties. She wore her blond hair in braids and she was dressed in a black tank top, cut-off jeans, and pink Crocs. She threw a look at the guy, who was still perched on the hood of the car, then wiped her nose with the back of her hand and began to cry again. “That’s right,” he shouted. “Cry. Go ahead. And then you can run back to your mommy and daddy like the little retard you are!” He was blond, too, more of a rusty blond, and he had the makings of a reddish beard creeping up into his sideburns. He was wearing a Banksy T-shirt, the one with the rat in sunglasses on it, and it clung to him as if it had been painted on. You could see that he spent time at the gym. A lot of time. “Get in the car,” Mallory said. “You can come with us—it’ll be all right.” I turned to Mallory, blocking her view of the girl. “It’s between them,” I said, and at the same time, I don’t know why, I hit the child lock so the door wouldn’t open. “It’s none of our business.” “None of our business?” she shot back at me. “She could be abused or, I don’t know, abducted, you ever think of that?” She strained to look around me to where the girl was still standing on the blacktop, as if she’d been fixed in place. “Did he hit you, is that it?” Another sob, sucked back as quickly as it was released. “No. He’s just a jerk, that’s all.” “Yeah,” he crowed, sliding down off the hood, “you tell them all about it, because you’re Little Miss Perfect, aren’t you? You want to see something? You, I’m talking to you, you in the car.” He raised one arm to show the long red striations there, evidence of what had passed between them. “You want her? You can have her.” “Get in,” Mallory said. Nome began to whine. The house was no more than half a mile up the road, and he could probably smell Chris and Anneliese’s dog, a malamute named Boxer, and maybe the sheep the farmer kept behind the fence that enclosed the barn. The girl shook her head. “Go ahead, bitch,” the guy called. He leaned back against the hood of the car and folded his arms across his chest as if he’d been at this awhile and was prepared to go on indefinitely. “You don’t have to put up with that,” Mallory said, and her voice was honed and hard, the voice she used on me when she was in a mood, when I was talking too much or hadn’t got around to washing the dishes when it was my turn. “Come on, get in.” “No,” the girl said, stepping back from the car now, so that we got a full view of her. Her arms shone with sweat. There were beads of moisture dotting her upper lip. She was pretty, very pretty. I eased off the brake pedal and the car inched forward even as Mallory said, “Stop, Paul, what are you doing?” and I said, “She doesn’t want to,” and then, lamely, “It’s a lovers’ quarrel, can’t you see that?” Then we were moving up the channel the road cut through the greenest fields in the world, past the pissed-off guy with the scratched forearms and a hard harsh gloating look in his eyes, down into a dip and up the next undulating hill, Mallory furious, thumping at the locked door as if it were a set of drums and craning her neck to look back, as the whole scene receded in the rearview mirror. “I don’t know–my gut tells me I should have another beer.”Buy the print » By the time we got to Chris and Anneliese’s, Mallory was in full crisis mode. The minute we pulled into the driveway I flicked off the child lock, but she just gave me a withering look, slammed out of the car, and stalked up the steps of the front porch, shouting, “Anneliese, Chris, where are you?” I was out of the car by then, Nome shooting over the front seat to rocket past me even as Boxer came tearing around the corner of the house, a yellow Lab pup I’d never seen before at his heels. The dogs barked rhapsodically, then the screen door swung open and there were Chris and Anneliese, spritzers clutched in their hands. Chris was barefoot and shirtless, Anneliese dressed almost identically to the girl on the road, except that her top was blue, to match her eyes, and she was wearing open-toed flats to show off her feet. Before grad school she’d been a hosiery model for Lord & Taylor in Chicago and she never missed an opportunity to let you know it. As for the rest of her, she was attractive enough, I suppose, with streamlined limbs, kinky copper-colored hair, and the whitest teeth I’d ever seen or imagined. My own teeth tended toward the yellowish, but then neither of my parents was a dentist and both of hers were. Mallory didn’t say “Hello” or “How are you?” or “Thanks for inviting us.” She just wheeled around in exasperation and pointed down the road. “I need a bicycle,” she said. “Can I borrow somebody’s bicycle?” Anneliese showed her teeth in an uncertain smile. “What are you talking about? You just got here.” The explanation was brief and vivid and unsparing with regard to my lack of concern or feeling. All three of them looked at me a moment, then Anneliese said, “What if he’s dangerous?” “He’s not dangerous,” I said reflexively. “I’m going with you,” Anneliese said, and in the next minute she was pushing a matching pair of ten-speed bicycles out the door, hers and Chris’s. Chris waved his glass. “You think maybe Paul and I should go instead? I mean, just in case?” Mallory was already straddling the bike. “Forget it,” she said, with a level of bitterness that went far beyond what was called for, if it was called for at all. I’d done what anyone would have done. Believe me, you just do not get between a couple when they’re in the middle of a fight. Especially strangers. And especially not on a sweltering afternoon on a deserted country road. You want to get involved? Call the cops. That was my feeling, anyway, but then the whole thing had happened so quickly I really hadn’t had time to work out the ramifications. I’d acted instinctively, that was all. The problem was so had she. Mallory shot me a look. “You’d probably just wind up patting him on the back.” She gave it a beat, lasered in on Chris. “Both of you.” That was when things got confused, because before I could respond—before I could think—the women were cranking down the drive with the sun lighting them up, as if we were all in the second act of a stage play, and the dogs, spurred on by the Lab pup, chose that moment to bolt under the lowest slat of the bleached wooden fence and go after the sheep. The sheep were right there, right in the yard, milling around and letting off a sweaty ovine stink, and the two older dogs—mine and Chris’s—knew they were off limits, strictly and absolutely, and that heavy consequences would come down on them if they should ever slip and let their instincts take over. But that was exactly what happened. The pup, which, as it turned out, was a birthday present from Chris to Anneliese, didn’t yet comprehend the rules—these were sheep and he was a dog—and so he went for them and the sheep reacted and that reaction, predator and prey, drove the older dogs into a frenzy. In that instant we forgot the women, forgot the couple on the road, forgot spritzers and croquet and the notion of chilling on a scalding afternoon, because the dogs were harrying the sheep and the sheep had nowhere to go and it was up to us—grad students, not farmers, not shepherds—to get in there and separate them. “Oh, shit,” Chris said, and then we both hurdled the fence and were right in the thick of it. I went after Nome, shouting his name in a fury, but he’d gone atavistic, tearing wool and hide from one bleating animal after another. I had him twice, flinging myself at him like a linebacker, but he wriggled away and I was down in the dirt, in the dust, a cyclone of dust, the sheep poking at my bare arms and outthrust hands with their stony black hooves. There was shit aplenty. There was blood. And by the time we’d wrestled the dogs down and got them out of there, half a dozen of the sheep had visible gashes on their faces and legs, a situation that was sure to disconcert the farmer—Chris’s landlord—if he were to find out about it, and we ourselves were in serious need of decontamination. I was bleeding. Chris was bleeding. The sheep were bleeding. And the dogs, the dogs we scolded and pinched and whacked, were in the process of being dragged across the front yard to a place where we could chain them up so they could lie panting through the afternoon and contemplate their sins. That was the moment, that was what we were caught up in, and if the women were on their bicycles someplace wearing a scrim of insects or stepping into somebody else’s quarrel, we didn’t know it. A car went by then, a silver Toyota, but I only caught a glimpse of it and couldn’t have said if there were two people in it or just one. We never did get around to playing croquet—Mallory was too worked up, and, besides, just moving had us dripping with sweat—but we sat on the porch and drank Zinfandel-and-soda with shaved ice, while the dogs whined and dug in the dirt and finally settled down in a twitching fly-happy oblivion. Mallory was mum on the subject of the couple in the Toyota except to say that by the time she and Anneliese got there the girl was already in the car, which pulled a U-turn and shot past them up the road, and I thought—foolishly, as it turned out—that that was the end of it. When six o’clock rolled around, we wound up going to a pizza place, because I was outvoted, three to one, and after that we sat through a movie Anneliese had heard good things about but which turned out to be a dud. It was a French film about three non-specifically unhappy couples who had serial affairs with one another and a troop of third and fourth parties, against a rainy Parisian backdrop that looked as if it had been shot through a translucent beach ball. At the end there was a closeup of each of the principals striding separately and glumly through the rain. The three actresses, heavily made up, suffered from smeared mascara. The music swelled. Then it was Gabe’s and the pounding air-conditioned exhilaration of an actual real-life band and limitless cocktails. Chris and Anneliese were great dancers, the kind everybody, participants and wallflowers alike, watches with envy, and they didn’t waste any time, not even bothering to find a table before they were out there in the middle of the floor, their arms flashing white and Anneliese’s coppery flag of hair draining all the color out of the room. We danced well, too, Mallory and I, attuned to each other’s moves by way of long acquaintance, and while we weren’t maybe as showy as Chris and Anneliese, we could hold our own. I tried to take Mallory’s hand, but she withheld it and settled into one of the tables with a shrug of irritation. I stood there a moment in mute appeal, but she wouldn’t look me in the eye, and it was then that I began to realize it was going to be a long night. What did I want? I wanted to dance, wanted joy and release—summer break!—but I went to the bar instead and ordered a spritzer for Mallory and a rum-and-Coke for myself. The bar was crowded, more crowded than usual, it seemed, even though most of the undergrads had gone home or off to Europe or Costa Rica or wherever they went when somebody else was paying for it. There were two bartenders, both female and both showing off their assets, and it must have taken me five minutes just to get to the bar and another five to catch the attention of the nearest one. I shouted my order over the furious assault of the band. The drinks came. I paid, took one in each hand and began to work my way back through the crowd. It was then that someone jostled me from behind—hard—and half the spritzer went down the front of my shirt and half the rum-and-Coke down the back of a girl in front of me. The girl swung around on me with an angry look and I swung around on whoever had jostled—pushed—me and found myself staring into the face of the guy from the blacktop road, the guy with the distraught girlfriend and the silver Toyota. It took a beat before I recognized him, a beat measured by the whining nasal complaint of the girl with the Coke-stained blouse—“Jesus, aren’t you even going to apologize?”—and then, without a word, he flashed both palms as if he were performing a magic trick and gave me a deliberate shove that tumbled me back into the girl and took the drinks to the floor in a silent shatter of glass and skittering ice cubes. The girl invoked Jesus again, louder this time, while the guy turned and slipped off into the crowd. A circle opened around me. The bartender gave me a disgusted look. “Sorry,” I said to the girl, “but you saw that, didn’t you? He shoved me.” And then, though it no longer mattered and he was already passing by the bouncer and swinging open the door to the deepening night beyond, I added, my own voice pinched in complaint, “I don’t even know him.” When I got back to the table, sans drinks, Mallory gave me a long squint through her glasses and said—or, rather, screamed over the noise of the band—“What took you so long?” And then, “Where’re the drinks?” That was the defining moment. My shirt was wet. I’d been humiliated, adrenaline was rocketing through my veins and my heart was doing paradiddles, and what I was thinking was, Who’s to blame here? Who stuck her nose in where it wasn’t wanted? So we got into it. Right there. And I didn’t care who was watching. And when the band took a break and Chris and Anneliese joined us and we finally got a round of drinks, the conversation was strained, to say the least. As soon as the band started up again, I asked Anneliese to dance and then, out of sympathy or etiquette or simple boredom, Chris asked Mallory, and for a long while we were all out on the dance floor, Chris eventually going back to Anneliese, but Mallory dancing with a succession of random guys just to stick it to me, which she succeeded in doing, with flying colors and interest compounded by the minute. And that was how we found ourselves out in that dark field on the night of the satellite, letting things spill out of us, angry things, hurtful things, things that made me want to leave her to the mosquitoes and go off and rent a room on the other side of town and never talk to her again. She’d just told me she hated me for maybe the hundredth time—we were drunk, both of us, as I’ve said, the encounter on the road the tipping point and no going back—and I was going to retort, going to say something incisive like “Yeah, me, too,” when I felt something hit my shoulder. It was a blow, a palpable hit, and my first thought was that the Toyota guy had followed us in order to exact some sort of twisted revenge for an incident that never happened, that was less than nothing—the girl hadn’t got in our car, had she?—but then I felt whatever it was skew off me and drop into the wet high grass with an audible thump. “What was that?” Mallory said. I wasn’t making the connection—not yet—with the streak of light that had shot overhead as we’d slammed out of the car. “I don’t know.” “Here,” she said, pulling out her phone to shine the light on the ground. The object was right there, at our feet, cradled in a gray-green bowl of broken stalks. It was metallic, definitely metallic, some sort of steel or titanium mesh six inches long and maybe three wide, like a sock, the size of a sock. And it wasn’t hot, as you’d expect, not at all. In fact—and this was when it came to me—the heating had taken place twenty-three miles up and by the time it had got here, to earth, to me, it was as lukewarm as a carton of milk left out on the counter. “Just in case the conference call runs long.”Buy the print » It was a sign, but of what I wasn’t sure. I went online the next day and found an article confirming that the streak in the sky had been produced by the reëntry of a decommissioned twenty-year-old NASA climate satellite that scientists had been tracking as it fell out of orbit. The satellite had been the size of a school bus and weighed six and a half tons and that fact alone had caused considerable anxiety as it became increasingly clear that its trajectory would take it over populated areas in Canada and the United States. A picture of it, in grainy black-and-white, showed the least aerodynamic structure you could imagine, all sharp edges and functional planes, the whole overshadowed by a solar panel the size of the screen at a drive-in movie. The article went on to claim that all debris of any consequence had most likely been incinerated in the upper atmosphere and that the chances of any fragment of it hitting a given person anywhere within its range had been calculated at one in thirty-two hundred. All right. But it had hit me, so either they needed to recalculate or Mallory and I should get in the car and go straight to Vegas. I brought my laptop into the kitchen, where she was sitting at the table in the alcove, working a serrated knife through the sections of her grapefruit. “What did I tell you?” I said. She took a moment to scan the article, then glanced up at me. “It says it was incinerated in the upper atmosphere.” “ ‘Most likely,’ it says. And it’s wrong, obviously. You were there. You saw it.” I pointed through the doorway to the living room, where the piece of mesh—stiff, twisted, blackened from the heat of reëntry—occupied a place on the bookcase, where formerly a vase had stood, between Salinger and Salter in the American Lit section. “Tell me that’s not real.” The night before, out in the field, she’d warned me not to touch it—“It’s dirty, it’s nothing, just some piece of junk”—but I knew better. I knew right away. I took it up gingerly between thumb and forefinger, expecting heat, expecting the razor bite of steel on unprotected flesh, and thinking of “The War of the Worlds” in its most recent cinematic iteration, but after we’d had a moment to examine it under the pale gaze of the cell phone and see how utterly innocuous it was, I handed it to her as reverently as if it were a religious relic. She held it in one hand, running her thumb over the braid of the mesh, then passed it back to me. “It feels warm,” she said. “You don’t really think it came from that meteor or whatever it was?” She turned her face to the sky. “Satellite,” I told her. “Last I heard they said it was going to come down in Canada someplace.” “But they were wrong, is that what you’re saying?” I couldn’t see her features, but I could hear the dismissiveness in her voice. We’d been fighting all day, fighting to the point of exhaustion, and it infuriated me to think she wouldn’t even give me this. “They’ve been wrong before,” I said, and then I cradled the thing under one arm and started back across the field without bothering to see if she was coming or not. Now she said, “Don’t be crazy. It’s just some piece of a car or a tractor or something—or a lawnmower. It fell off a lawnmower, I’ll bet anything.” “A lawnmower in the sky? It hit me. Right here, on the shoulder.” I jerked at the neck of my T-shirt and pulled it down over my left shoulder in evidence. “I don’t see anything.” “There’s a red mark there, I’m telling you—I saw it in the mirror this morning.” She just stared at me. A week slid by. The heat never broke, not even after a series of thunderstorms rumbled in under a sky the color of bruised flesh—all the rain managed to do was drive up the humidity. We were supposed to be enjoying ourselves, we were supposed to be on vacation, but we didn’t do much of anything. We sat around and sweated and tried to avoid contact as much as possible. Dinner was salad or takeout and we ate at the kitchen table, where the fan was, books propped in our hands. It was hard on the dog, what with the complication of his fur, which was made for another climate altogether, and I took him for increasingly longer walks, just to get out of the house. Twice I led him to the park where the satellite had sloughed its skin, and if I combed the grass there looking for evidence—metal, more metal, a screw, a bolt—I never said a word about it to anybody, least of all Mallory. What did I find? A whole world of human refuse—bottle caps, cigarette lighters, a frayed length of shoelace, plastic in its infinite varieties—and the bugs that lived in and amongst it all, oblivious. I came back from the second of these excursions and found Mallory on the couch, where I’d left her, her bare feet and legs shining with sweat, magazine in one hand, Diet Coke in the other. She didn’t even glance up at me, but I could see right away there was something different about her, about the way she was holding herself, as if she knew something I didn’t. “I took the dog to the park,” I said, looping his leash over the hook in the entryway. “Hotter down there than here, I think.” She didn’t say anything. “You want to go down to Gabe’s for a drink? How does a G. & T. sound?” “I don’t know,” she said, looking up at me for the first time. “I guess so. I don’t care.” It was then that my gaze happened to fall on the bookcase, on the gap there, where the old paperback of “Nine Stories” had fallen flat. “Where’s the thing?” I said. “What thing?” “The mesh. My mesh.” She shrugged. “I tossed it.” “Tossed it? Where? What do you mean?” In the next moment I was in the kitchen, flipping open the lid of the trash can, only to find it empty. “You mean outside?” I shouted. “In the dumpster?” When I came thundering back into the room, she still hadn’t moved. “Jesus, what were you thinking? That was mine. I wanted that. I wanted to keep it.” Her lips barely moved. “It was dirty.” I must have spent half an hour out there, poking through the side-by-side dumpsters that served our building and the one across the alley from it. I was embarrassed, I’ll tell you, people strolling by and looking at me like I was one of the homeless, a can man, a bottle redeemer, and I was angry, too, and getting angrier. She had no right, that was what I kept telling myself—she’d done it just to spite me, I knew it, and the worst thing, the saddest thing, was that now I’d never know if that piece of mesh was the real deal or not. I could have sent it to NASA, to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, to somebody who could say yea or nay. But not now. Not anymore. When I came back up the stairs, sweating and with the reek of rotting vegetables and gnawed bones and all the rest hanging around me like a miasma, I went right for her. I took hold of her arm, slapped the magazine away, and jerked her to her feet. She looked scared, and that just set me off all the more. I might have pushed her. She might have pushed back. Next thing I was out the door, out on the street, fuming, the sun still glaring overhead, everything before me looking as ordinary as dishwater. There was a bar down the street—air-conditioning, music, noise, people, a change of mood that was as easy to achieve as switching channels on the TV—and I was actually on my way there, my shoulders tense as wire, when I stopped myself. I patted down my pockets: wallet, keys, cell phone, a dribble of dimes and quarters. I didn’t have a comb or a toothbrush or a change of underwear, I didn’t have books or my iPod or the dog, but none of that seemed to matter, not anymore. A couple in shorts and running shoes flashed by me, breathing noisily. A motor scooter backfired across the street. We kept the car in the lot out back of the apartment. I went the long way around the building, keeping close to the wall, in case Mallory was at the front window, looking to see where I’d gone off to. The tank showed less than a quarter full, and my wallet held three fives and three singles—along with the change, that gave me a grand total of nineteen dollars and ninety-five cents. No matter. I’d stop at the A.T.M. on the way out of town, and if things got desperate I did have a credit card, which we reserved for emergencies only, because we really struggled just to make the minimum payment every month. Was this an emergency? Mallory wouldn’t think so. The geniuses from NASA might not think so, either—or the farmer whose sheep bore crusted-over scabs on their legs and throats and sad white faces. But as I wheeled the car out of the lot I couldn’t help thinking it was the biggest emergency of my life. I didn’t know where I was going. I had no idea beyond the vague notion of putting some miles behind me, heading north, maybe, until the corn gave way to forest, to pines as fragrant as the air that went cold at night and seeped in through the open window so that you had to pull a blanket over you when you went to sleep. The car—the rusted-out Volvo wagon Mallory’s mother used to drive to work back in Connecticut—shuddered and let out a grinding mechanical whine as I pulled up in front of the bank. I got out, mounted the three steps to the concrete walkway where the A.T.M. was, and waited the requisite six feet six inches away from the middle-aged woman in inflated khaki shorts who was just then feeding in her card. The heat was staggering. My shirt was wet as a dishrag, my hair hanging limp. I wasn’t thinking, just doing. It was then that I glanced up and noticed the silver Toyota parked in the lot of the ice-cream parlor next door. A woman and two kids emerged from the building, licking cones, and went off down the street, and then the door swung open again and there was the blond girl, her own cone—the pale green of pistachio—held high and her face twisted in a grimace as she said something over her shoulder to the guy behind her. He was wearing the same T-shirt he’d worn that day on the road and he didn’t have an ice cream of his own, but as he came through the door he twisted his face, too, and snatched at the girl’s arm. She let out a cry, and then the ice cream, double scoop, which had already begun to melt in green streaks across the back of her hand, slipped from the cone to plop wetly at her feet, just like anything else subject to the law of gravity. “You creep!” she shouted. “Look what you did.” And he said something back. And then she said something. And then I was no longer watching them, because, as far as I was concerned, they could go careering around the world on any orbit they wanted, just so long as it never intersected mine again. Space debris that collides in two wide bands of low Earth orbit, at six hundred and twenty and at nine hundred and thirty miles up, can fragment and fragment again—things as big as satellites and rocket boosters and as small as the glove the astronaut Ed White lost on the first U.S. space walk. Eventually, it’s all going to come down, and whether it’ll burn up or crush a house or tap somebody on the shoulder in a dark field on a dark night is anybody’s guess. The woman at the A.T.M. seemed to be having trouble with her card—no bills had yet appeared, and she kept punching at the keys and reinserting the card as if sheer repetition would wear the machine down. I had time. I was very calm. I pulled out my cell and called Mallory. She answered on the first ring. “Yeah?” she snapped, angry still. “What do you want?” I didn’t say anything, not a word. I just pressed my thumb to the off switch and broke the connection. But what I’d wanted to say was that I’d taken the car and that I’d be back, I was pretty sure I’d be back, and that she should feed the dog and pay the rent, which was due the first of the month, and if she went out at night—if she went out at all—she should remember to look up, look up high, way up there, where the stars burn and the space junk roams, because you never can tell what’s going to come down next. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Valentine	Credit Illustration by Beata Boucht / Nu Agency Madeleine and I are waiting at the bus stop at the bottom of Beech Grove in our school uniforms: green print dresses, short white socks and sandals, blazers. In the summer, we are allowed to leave off our hated green felt hats. It’s June, and summer is thick everywhere, a sleepy, viscous, sensuous emanation; hot blasts of air, opaque with pollen from the overblown suburban gardens, are ripe with smells from bins and dog mess. We are mad with summer, chafing and irritable with sex. We are fifteen, studying for our O levels; we have breasts (small in my case, luscious in Madeleine’s) and pubic hair and periods. A breeze, stirring the dust in the gutter, tickles up around our thighs, floats our dresses—we can hardly bear it. Our talk is rococo with insincerity, drawling, lascivious. Everything seems to have an obscene double meaning, even though it’s only quarter past eight in the morning and, behind us in our homes, our mothers are still clearing the breakfast tables, scraping soggy Rice Krispies and burned toast crusts into the bin, wiping the plastic tablecloths. My mother is bending over my little brother, Philip, in his high chair, playing pat-a-cake to trick him into letting her wipe his face and hands, making his mouth spill open with delighted laughter. She lifts up his shirt and kisses his belly; I might be jealous, if I had time to crane that way, back toward home and the cramped circle of old loves. But my attention is all thrusting forward, onward, out of there. I’ve burned my boats, I can’t go back—or, rather, I do go back, dutifully, every evening after school, and do my homework at the same table in the same stale olive-green dining room, and still get the best marks in the class for everything, nearly everything. But it’s provisional, while I wait for my real life to begin. I feel like an overgrown giant in that house, bumping up against the ceiling like Alice in Wonderland after she’s found the cake labelled “Eat Me”: head swollen with knowledge and imagination, body swollen with sensation and longing. Madeleine is my next-door neighbor and best friend. She and I have never even kissed boys: we have no actual sexual experience except a few things we’ve done with each other, experimentally, and out of desperation. (Not shamefaced afterward—flaunting and wicked; it is the nineteen-seventies, after all. But it’s boys we want.) At an all-girls school, we don’t get many chances to meet boys, although there are usually some on the bus, on their way to the Grammar School. This is part of our excitement, at quarter past eight. There are certain boys we are expecting to see, and we may even pluck up the crazy courage to speak to them, a word or two; any exchange will be dissected afterward in an analysis more nuanced and determined than any we ever give to poems in English lessons. (“What do you think he really meant when he said that his friend said yesterday that you weren’t bad?”) Anything could happen on the bus in the next half hour; even something with the power to obliterate and reduce to dust the double maths, Scripture, double Latin, and (worst) P.E. that lie in wait at the end of the journey—a doom of tedium, infinitely long. And, after P.E., the nasty underground shower room with its concentrated citrus-rot stink of female sweat, its fleshly angsts, its tin-pot team spirit, the gloom of girls passed over, the P.E. teacher’s ogling, the trodden soaking towels. Something has to happen. Into our heat that morning comes Valentine. He walked down to join us at the bus stop. We’d never seen him before: into the suburban torpor his footsteps broke like a signal for adventure on a jaunty trumpet. I loved his swaggering walk immediately, without reserve. His eagerly amused glances around him—drinking everything in, shaking the long hair back from his face—were like a symbol for morning itself. (His energy was no doubt partly a result of the Do-Dos—caffeine pills—he’d have swallowed in the bathroom as soon as his mother got him out of bed. Soon we were all taking them.) A Grammar School blazer, hooked by its loop around one nicotine-stained finger, was slung over his shoulder; his cigarette was cocked up cheekily between lips curved as improbably, generously wide as a faun’s. The pointed chin was like a faun’s, too, and the flaunting Caravaggio cheekbones, pushing up the thick flesh under his eyes, making them slanted and mischievous. He was tall, but not too tall. His school trousers slid down his impossibly narrow waist and hips; he tucked his shirt half in with a careless hand. The school tie that others wore resentfully as a strangled knot became under his touch somehow cravat-like, flowing. The top two buttons of his shirt were undone. He was sixteen. He grinned at Madeleine and me. At me first, then at Madeleine—although Madeleine was willowy and languorous, with long curls and a kitten face, pink cheeks. I was too small, too plump and shapeless, and my eyes, I knew, were blackly expressive pits in a too-white face. Madeleine, trying kindly to advise me on my sex appeal, had said that I might be “too intense”—but I didn’t know how to disguise my intensity. Valentine stopped and offered us his cigarette, me first. It was not an ordinary cigarette. (We went to school stoned for the first time, but not the last.) “Hello, girls,” he said, beaming. “Does this bus go into town? Do you catch it every day? That’s good. I like the look of you.” We met each other’s eyes and giggled, and asked him what he liked about us. Thinking about it, surveying us up and down, he said we looked skeptical. What did he mean, skeptical? Thank God we weren’t wearing our hats. I longed for the bus not to come. Proximity to his body—a glimpse, via his half-tucked shirt, of hollowed, golden, masculine stomach, its line of dark hairs draining down from the belly button—licked at me like a flame as we waited. His family, he explained, had just moved to one of the posher streets behind Beech Grove. When the bus did come, he sat on the back seat and took Beckett out of his rucksack: “Endgame.” The very title, even the look of the title—its stark, indiscreet white capitals on a jazzy orange cover—was a door swinging suddenly open into a new world. I’d never heard of Beckett; I think I was plowing through “The Forsyte Saga” then. None of the other boys on the bus read books. Val smiled at us encouragingly, extravagantly, over the top of his. “He was gorgeous. I liked him,” Madeleine conceded as we trudged in a tide of other green-gowned inmates up the purgatorial hill from the bus stop to where school loomed, the old house frowning like a prison in the sunlight. “But I couldn’t actually fancy him, could you? There was something weird.” I was disappointed in her; I was already wondering if I’d find Beckett in the local library. (The librarian, warmly supportive of my forays into Edwardian belles-lettres, would startle and flinch at my betrayal.) Madeleine didn’t insist on her doubt—she never insisted—and I closed the door on that early intimation of danger. I wanted Val because he was different—as I was different. What I’d felt at my first sight of him that summer morning was more than ordinary love: something like recognition. When I read later in Plato about whole souls divided at birth into two halves, which move around in the world ever afterward mourning each other and longing for their lost completeness, I thought I was reading about myself and Valentine. And it was the same for Val; I do believe that it was. He recognized me, too. “What a scarecrow,” my stepfather, Gerry, said, after Val came to my house for the first time. “I can’t believe the Grammar School lets him get away with that hair.” “He looks like a girl,” my mother said. “I’m not that keen, Stella.” Following up the stairs behind Val, I had been faint from the movement of his slim haunches in his tight white jeans. How could she think that he looked like a girl? Yet all we did in my bedroom was cozy up knee to knee, cross-legged on the bed, to talk. We swapped our childhood stories. He was born in Malaya; he’d had an ayah. “What was your family doing in Malaya?” “You don’t want to know.” “I want to know everything.” “My father worked for the government; he was an awful tax expert. Now that he’s retired, he’s just awful and old. What does yours do?” “Gerry’s not my real dad. My real dad’s dead.” Mum brought in a pile of ironed clothes to put away in my chest of drawers. Then she called up to ask if we wanted coffee. Philip came knocking at the door, asking us to play with him. Afterward, Mum spoke to me awkwardly, about self-respect. The familiar solidity of the house and its furniture melted away around Val; after he’d left, I couldn’t believe I really lived there. I couldn’t hold my two worlds in the same focus. I wanted Val to be brilliant for my parents, and he wouldn’t, or couldn’t. He never made any concessions to them. If they asked him questions, he sometimes didn’t even seem to hear them; his eyes were blank. It was as if he simply paused the flow of his life, in the presence of anyone unsympathetic. Yet among our friends he was magnetic, commanding, funny. He was a clever mimic. We started getting together at Madeleine’s in the evenings—a gang of six or seven of us from the streets round about. Madeleine’s father was often away; her mother, Pam, was bored and liked flirting with teen-agers. She brought homemade brownies and cheese straws and jugs of weak sangria to Madeleine’s room, and we cadged her cigarettes. Madeleine fancied a boy who played the guitar and wrote his own songs; we tried to talk a shy blond girl out of her faith. Madeleine bought a red bulb to put in one of the lamps; we draped the others with colored scarves. When Gerry was sent over to fetch me home, he never stepped across the low fence between our front gardens but went punctiliously via both front paths and gates. He said that if Pam wanted teen-agers carrying on under her own roof it was her business. “What’s this?” he joked, when I brought Beckett back from the library. “He’s a play writer. Haven’t you heard of him?” “Playwright.” (Gerry did crosswords—he had a good vocabulary.) “Aren’t they all waiting for some chap who never turns up?” Gerry had been so keen for me to go to the High School, yet he was hostile to the power my education brought me. He thought I was putting on airs—and I expect I was. I was probably pretty insufferable, with my quotations from Shakespeare and Gerard Manley Hopkins, my good French accent. (I corrected his: “Ça ne fait rien,” not “San fairy ann.”) He could still usually trip me up, though, in geography or history—my sense of how things fit together was treacherously vague. Gerry knew an awful lot; he was always reading. He subscribed to a long series of magazines about the Second World War, which he kept in plastic folders on a shelf. Already, invidiously, however, I had an inkling that the books he read were somehow not the real books. He was amused and patient, correcting my mistakes. He did it to my mother, too: as long as he had the upper hand, he was kind. If I had given in gracefully to that shape of relations between us—his lecturing me and my submitting to it—we might have been able to live happily together. My mother didn’t care about his corrections; she just laughed at him. (“Oh, for goodness’ sake, Gerry—as if it mattered!”) But I couldn’t give in. I wanted everything I learned to be an opening into the unknown, whereas Gerry’s knowledge added up to a closed circle, bringing him safely back to where he began, confirming him. I took Beckett up to my room. It wasn’t the kind of writing I was used to. I’d taught myself to stir in response to the captured textures of passing moments—the subtle essence of unspoken exchange, the sensation of air against the skin. Now I learned to read Beckett (and then, under Val’s influence, Ginsberg, Burroughs, Ferlinghetti) like a convert embracing revolutionary discipline, cutting all links with my bourgeois-realist past. “Is he your boyfriend, then?” Madeleine wanted clarification. I was disdainful. “We don’t care about those kinds of labels.” “But is he?” “What does it look like?” Val and I were inseparable. We saw each other almost every day—not only on the bus going to school and coming back but in the evenings, as often as my parents allowed me to go out or said he could come round. They claimed they were worried about my schoolwork, but I didn’t believe them. I saw my mother recoil from what she dreaded—the dirty flare of sex and exposure; my making a fool of myself. (They were so innocent, I don’t think they guessed about the drugs until much later.) Sometimes I went out even when they’d forbidden me to, and then there was trouble. When I got home, Gerry took me into the lounge for one of his lectures, screwing up his forehead, leaning toward me, pretending to dole out impartial justice. From my dizzy vantage point (high as a kite), I believed I could see right through him to his vindictiveness, his desire to shoot me down when I was flying. “They hate me,” I said to Val. “Under his pretense of being concerned for my future, he really hates me. And she doesn’t care.” “Don’t mind them,” Val said, his eyes smiling. He blew out smoke. He was serene, bare feet tucked up on his knees in lotus position. “They’re just frightened. They’re sweet, really, your parents.” “You’re the reason nations fail.”Buy the print » We were talking in his bedroom: a drafty attic where his books and clothes lay around in chaos on a Turkish carpet gray with cigarette ash, so unlike my little pink cell. Val’s attitude toward his own parents was coolly disengaged. I was afraid of them—I tried to avoid meeting them on my passages through the rambling house (built when Stoke Bishop was still the countryside). They were both tall and big-boned. His father was stooped, with brown-blotched skin, long earlobes, and thinning white hair. His mother had a ruined face and huge, watery eyes; she wore pearls and Chinese jade earrings at the dining table in the evenings. (Unlike us, Val’s family actually ate in their dining room.) They were polite with me, and their conversation was as dully transactional as any in my house, yet in their clipped, swallowed voices they seemed to talk in code above my head. They never came up to his attic room. Sometimes his mother shouted up the stairs, if a meal was ready or Val was wanted on the telephone. We were private up there. I loved the evening shadows in the complex angles of the sloping ceiling. In summer, the heat under the roof was dense; in winter, we cuddled up for warmth under the blankets on his bed. Our bodies fit perfectly together—my knees pressed into the backs of his, my breath in the nape of his neck, his fingers knotted into mine against his chest; we lay talking, or listening to the Velvet Underground, Janis Joplin, Dylan. The shape of the long, empty room seemed the shape of our shared imagination, spacious and open. I couldn’t believe the long strides he made in his mind, all by himself. Sometimes, depending on what pills he’d taken, he would talk and talk without stopping. “How do you know that I really exist, outside you?” he asked me urgently. “I might be a figment of your imagination.” Our heads were side by side then on his pillow. How lucky I was to lie like that, so intimate with his lovely looks that I couldn’t see them whole: teasing green eyes, down on his upper lip, curving high hollows in his cheeks. I longed for him to begin kissing me, as he sometimes did, but I had learned that I must not try to initiate this—he didn’t like being hurried into it. “I just know!” I insisted, stroking his face as if the feeling in my fingers were proof. “And I’m not a figment of yours, either. I’m really here, I promise.” “I believe in you. I’m not so sure about me. You’re solid. You’re fierce.” I wasn’t as solid as I had been. Since meeting Val, I’d stopped bothering to eat. I couldn’t bear my mother’s gluey gravy any longer; I drank black (instant) coffee and gave up sugar. The weight had flown off me. Although I was small and Val was taller, we came to look like a matching pair: skinny and striking. By this time, we were on the fringes of a set who gathered at weekends in a sleazy bar behind a cinema in town. Val had a good instinct for the people worth getting to know: a man with freckled hands and a mane of red hair who sold him speed and other things; a clever art student, half Greek, who played in a band (they sounded like art-punk before punk had really happened). These men were older and more powerful, and a lot of people were eager to be their friends, but Val was able to impress them with his quick wit and cultural know-how. I knew it mattered to Val that I look right. I wore his shirts and his sleeveless vests and his Indian silk scarves, over the tight jeans that he helped me buy. I put kohl around my eyes, and so did he sometimes. We both dyed our hair the same dark licorice color. (My mother was aghast, another scene—“Whatever are they going to say at school?”) I paraded up and down the attic in different outfits for his approval, getting the effect just right—and yet when we went out we looked as if we didn’t care what anyone thought. Val’s idea of me was that I was single-minded, fiery, uncomplicated, without middle-class falsity. (“But aren’t I middle class?” I asked, surprised.) And I performed as his idea, became something like it. We made plans to live abroad together—in Paris or New York. He’d been to both these places; I hadn’t been anywhere except Torquay and Salcombe. He talked about how we’d earn money and rent an apartment, and I believed that he really could make these things happen. There was a rare blend in him of earnestness and recklessness. And he seemed to know instinctively what to read, where to go, what music to listen to. He was easily bored, and indifferent to anything he didn’t like. Psychological novels were dreary, he said. The Beatles were consumer culture. I didn’t talk to him about the old-fashioned books I’d loved before I met him. “In New York, I’ll work as a waitress,” I said. “And you can write.” “Sometimes I think I could do something with my life,” he said. “But then, in the middle of the night, something awful happens.” “What kind of awful?” “I feel as if I’d already done it, this important thing—writing a book, or whatever it is. I feel as if it were a mountain to climb, and I’ve toiled up the mountain and achieved the thing and then I’m coming down the other side and it’s behind me, and it’s nothing. It doesn’t alter anything in the world by one feather’s weight. And then when I wake up I panic that, because I’ve already dreamed the end of the work, I’ll never be able to begin.” But, more often, Val’s mood was buoyant and exhilarated—he was impatient to get started. Everyone assumed he would take the Oxbridge entrance exam, go to university. For the moment, he went along with the idea. “My English teacher at school,” he said, “he’s invested a lot of hopes in me. He’s giving me special tuition. I don’t know how to tell him I’m leaving, not yet. Soon I will.” “Wherever you go,” I said, “I’ll follow you.” We ran into him once—the English teacher, Mr. Harper. Val and I were arm in arm, walking down Park Street on a Saturday in the crowds of people milling about and looking in the shops—jeans boutiques, bookshops, places selling Indian and Chinese knickknacks and silver jewelry. A stubby middle-aged man was staring in a shop window; he veered away from it as we passed, almost walking right into us and then recognizing Val, putting on a show of surprise that seemed contrived, as if he’d actually seen us coming from miles off and prepared for this scene. I thought at the time that he was socially inept because he was such an intellectual. I knew that Val respected him, and that it was he who’d put Val onto Pound and Beckett and Burroughs. But I could see that Val wished we hadn’t met him—he seemed shocked by this collision of the worlds of school and home. “Hello, Valentine,” Mr. Harper said. He was staring leeringly at me. “What a good way to spend your Saturdays. Aren’t you supposed to be revising?” “We’re on our way to the reference library,” Val said sulkily, blushing. “Oh—then I mustn’t get in the way of virtue! God forbid. But I will see you Tuesday, after school?” “Is it Tuesday?” Val was vague. “I’m not sure.” “You must come on Tuesday. We’re broaching the divine Marianne.” I was disappointed. Val had talked about Fred Harper (the boys doing the Oxbridge entrance called him Fred) as if he were a portal to higher things, yet here he was chaffing and prodding about work like any other teacher. Also, he was rumpled and pear-shaped, with pleading eyes, and a bald patch in his hair, which was dark and soft like cat fur. He had a drawling posh voice. I knew that there was a Mrs. Harper and also children; and that Mrs. Harper got bored if her husband and Val talked for hours about poetry. Sometimes she went to bed, leaving them to it. “Who’s the divine Marianne?” I said jealously when we’d walked on. Valentine shrugged, irritated. “A poet in the A-level anthology.” Mum and Gerry were afraid I was bringing a contamination into their house. When I bought junk-shop dresses, Mum made me hang them outside in case of fleas. Val found an old homburg and wore it pulled down over his eyes. “What does he think he looks like?” Gerry said. “What’s the matter with that boy?” Mum asked. “What’s he hiding from?” He stood in our neat kitchen with its blue Formica surfaces, as improbable—in his collarless shirt, waistcoat, and broken canvas shoes, with a scrap of vermillion scarf at his neck—as an exotic bird blown off course. Even in those days, when he was fresh and boyish, the drugs left some kind of mark on him—not damage, exactly, more like a patina that darkened his skin to old gold, refining its texture so that minute wrinkles appeared at the corners of his lids when he frowned. His eyes were veiled and smoky. He smelled, if you got up close: an intricate musk, salty, faintly fishy, sun-warmed even in winter—delicious to me. “Hello? Anybody home behind that hair?” my mother said. Val looked at me quickly, blissfully. Later, he would imitate her for our friends. While he was with me, everything was funny. Without him, I was exposed, on a lonely pinnacle—afraid of tumbling. They were still strong, my parents. I couldn’t, wouldn’t, yield to their judgment of what I loved, but it weighed on me nonetheless, as monumental as a stone. If I tried to carelessly condescend to them, they found me out. I was clever, I was still doing well at school, but Gerry was clever, too. “What’s so wrong with Communism?” I’d lightly say, trying to be amused at their naïve politics. I really was amused—I knew about so much beyond their blinkered perspective. I’d read poets and visionaries, and “The Communist Manifesto.” “Doesn’t it seem fairer that everyone should start out equally, owning a share of the means of production?” “It’s a nice idea, Stella,” Gerry said. “Unfortunately, it doesn’t work out in practice. People in those countries wouldn’t thank you for your high ideals; they’d rather be able to buy decent food in the shops. The trouble is, a command economy just isn’t efficient. Breaks down because of human nature in the end. Every man naturally wants to do better than his neighbor.” Because he knew those words—“command economy”—and I didn’t, how could I answer him? His knowledge was flawed, but substantial—an impregnable fortress. My attacks on it—so effective when we were apart, and Gerry dwindled in my imagination to a comic miniature—faltered in his actual presence, so that I battered at the fortress with weak fists. Even in the seventies, the old order hadn’t changed much. Young people wore their hair long and had afghan coats and went to music festivals—some young people did those things. But at the top, bearing down on everyone, there were still those ranks of sombre-suited men (and the occasional woman): politicians, professors, policemen—inflexible, imperturbable in their confidence about what was to be taken seriously and what was not. You could jeer at them, but their influence was a fog you breathed every day, coiling into your home through their voices on radio and television and in newspapers. Gerry said that Africans suffering in a famine should know better than to have so many children, or that feminists did women no favors when they went around like tramps, or that there was no point in giving to charities because it was well known that they spent all the money on themselves. As for my mother, cleverness could never beat her. In my mind, I was convinced that her life—housework and child care—was limited and conventional. But, in my body, I was susceptible to her impatient brisk delivery, her capable hands fixing and straightening—sometimes straightening me, brusquely, even when I had half grown away from her: a collar crooked or a smudge on my cheek, which she scrubbed at with spit on her handkerchief. She was in her late thirties then, and no doubt she was very attractive, though I couldn’t see it—compact good figure, thick hair in a short bouffant cut, definite features like strokes of charcoal in a drawing. Probably she was sexy, too. In her withholding and dismissing manner, she seemed to communicate that women knew the prosaic and gritty and fundamental truth that underlay all the noise of men’s talk and opinion. Something I ought to know, too, or would come to know sooner or later. I wanted to resist knowing it with all my force. The summer I got my O-level results (all A’s, apart from a C in physics), my uncle Ray got me a job at the chocolate factory where he worked. I wept to Val about how the women there hated me and gave me the worst tasks (I had to take the molds off the hot puddings—at the end of the first day my fingers were blistered), because I was only a student worker and because I took a book to read during my breaks. I wanted him to tell me to give it up, but he didn’t. I think that he actually liked the romance of my working there—it was not “middle class.” He said he loved my Bristol accent. Really? Did I have one? I didn’t think so; my mother had always strictly policed the way I spoke at home (“ ‘I wasn’t doing anything,’ Stella, not ‘I weren’t doing nothing’ ”). Apparently, however, I said “reely” for “really,” and “strawl” for “stroll.” “Your mother has an accent, too,” he said. “Broader than yours. Can’t you hear it? But I prefer it to the way my parents speak.” Valentine and I were bored one night with the flirting in Madeleine’s bedroom. He rolled a joint—quickly, with the fingers of one hand, as only he could—and we went outside to smoke. The moon, watery white, sailed in and out behind dark rags of cloud blown by the wind; we lay spread-eagled on our backs on Pam’s lawn. Only our fingertips were touching—through them we communicated electrically, wordlessly, as if we were emptying ourselves into each other. As the dope went to my head, I thought I felt the movement of the world turning. “We took everything that was nice and got rid of it.”Buy the print » Then I was sure that someone was spying on us from our garden next door. Madeleine’s garden was perfunctory, compared with ours: there was a patio swing with chintz cushions, and a birdbath on the scrappy lawn, a few plants in the flower beds. Ours was densely secretive behind fences top-heavy with clematis and rose and honeysuckle; it had a trellised arbor and young fruit trees and a rockery, which Gerry had built to make a feature of the old tree stumps left behind by the developers. I despised his prideful ownership, the ceaseless rounds of pruning and spraying and deadheading. And it occurred to me now that he might be hidden in there. He did walk out into the garden in the dark sometimes—“to cool off,” he said. If he was there, he’d be skewered with irritation, snooping involuntarily. Val began to stroke my hand, rubbing his thumb around my palm, then pushing it between my fingers, one by one, over and over, until I was sick with love for him. But I knew better than to make any move toward him—he didn’t like me all over him. There was a rustling from among the shrubs next door, and a head like a pale moon-blob rose above the top of the clematis mound. “My stepfather thinks that I should get a job in a bank, when I leave school,” I said aloud to Val. Surprised, Valentine turned his head toward me. “Do you want a job in a bank?” “Of course not. I’d rather kill myself. But he thinks it would be good for me, and provide for my future.” “He’s a cunt,” Valentine said. “What does he know about your future?” “I know, he’s a cunt.” The blob spoke. “Stella, come inside. You’ll catch your death. That grass is damp.” Gerry’s voice in the night was sepulchral, ridiculous, tight with disapproval. Only when I heard it was I aware of myself sprawled so provocatively on my back, with my legs spread wide apart, my arms flung open. Let him look, I thought. I didn’t move. I pretended I didn’t see him. “Did you hear something?” I said to Val, squeezing his hand in mine. We were going to laugh—I knew we were. “Come inside, Stella, now, at once,” Gerry said—but keeping his voice low, as if he didn’t want my mother to know what he had to witness. “I’m telling you. Get up!” Pointedly, he didn’t address Valentine, ignoring his existence. “I think I heard something,” Valentine said. “Or was it cats?” Leisurely, Val sat up, crouching over the cold end of the joint, his hand held up to shield it from the wind and his hair falling forward, hiding his face. Then came the scratch and flare of the heavy, shapely silver lighter that had been his mother’s until she gave up smoking. Fire bloomed momentarily in Valentine’s cave; I saw him aflame—devilish, roseate. I scrambled to my feet. I really was stoned. The garden swung in looping arcs around me. “Oh,” I cried, exulting in it. “Oh . . . oh!” We were laughing now. Under my soles, the world rocked, and steadied itself, and rocked again. “What’s the matter with you?” Gerry hissed. He must have been standing on something—a rock? a box?—on the other side of the fence, because it was too high ordinarily to see over; his two fists, hanging on, were smaller moon-blobs against the night. “Are you drunk?” (My parents still hadn’t understood what we were smoking.) “You’d better come back the front way. Come round by the front door.” “Back the front way, Stella?” Valentine imitated softly, looking at me, not at Gerry. “Front the back way? Which way d’you like?” I had always had a gift of seeing myself as my stepfather saw me—only in this vision I used to be a small and thwarted thing, blocking him. Now, in the moonlight, I was transfigured: arms outstretched, veering like a yacht tacking, I was crossing the garden, flitting ahead of the wind, like a moth, weightless. Valentine and I looked so consummately right as a couple: stylish, easily intimate, his arm dropped casually across my shoulder, our clasped hands swinging together. We looked sexy. I knew that because I saw it in others’ faces. But the truth was, we didn’t have sex. In all the time we’d spent lying on his bed (or, occasionally, on mine), we hadn’t done an awful lot for Mum and Gerry to disapprove of. We did work ourselves up; there was some touching and fumbling. I touched him, mostly; if he touched me he turned it into a joke, put on a funny voice as if my breasts were little animals squeaking and crawling around on my chest. Kissing, he pecked dry kisses all over my face with a satirical, popping noise, smiling at me all the time with his eyes open. Then sometimes, if his mother banged the gong for supper, or the phone rang and she called upstairs to say that Val was wanted, he grabbed my hand with sudden aggression, pushed it down inside his jeans, and used it to rub himself fiercely and greedily for a moment, before he flung himself off the bed and ran to the phone, zipping up as he went, cursing, pushing his erection away inside. I wasn’t disgusted—actually, I’d say I was more fascinated—by my transgression into that crowded heat inside his stretched underpants, his smell on my fingers afterward. But also I was confused: if that was desire, it was unmistakably urgent. So what was the matter? Who wants to remember the awful details of teen-age sex, teen-age idiocy? I loved him because he was my other half, my twin, inaccessible to me. One evening I was supposed to baby-sit while Mum and Gerry went out to a Masonic Ladies Night. I liked my baby brother very much: Philip was an enthusiast, always entertaining us with jokes and little performances, looking quickly from face to face for approval; he sat on his hands to keep them from waving about and swung his legs under his chair until it rocked. When Mum came downstairs, perfumed and startling in a silver Lurex bodice and a stiff white skirt, he and I were laughing at “Dad’s Army” on the telly. She stood clipping on her earrings by feel, giving us her instructions. The whole process of her transformation, she managed to convey, was just another duty to discharge. “Stella, I don’t want anyone coming round.” “Madeleine said she might.” “I don’t want Valentine hanging around Philip if I’m not here.” I wasn’t even expecting Val: he was at one of his sessions with Fred Harper. But out of nowhere—everything had been all right, the previous moment—I was dazzled by my rage. “What’s the matter with you?” I shouted. “Why have you got such a nasty mind?” I knew in that moment that she regretted what she’d said, but only because she’d miscalculated and hadn’t meant to start an argument. She was afraid it would make them late: she glanced at the wristwatch on a silver bracelet that had been Gerry’s wedding present to her. “Who you choose as your friends is your own business, Stella,” she said stiffly. “But I’m not obliged to have them in my house.” “Your house? Why d’you always call it your house? Don’t I live here or something?” My stepfather hurried downstairs in his socks, doing up his cufflinks. He’d heard raised voices. I loathed him for the doggy eagerness with which he came sniffing out our fight. “What’s going on, Edna?” He irritated my mother, too. “For goodness’ sake, get your shoes on, Gerry. We’re late already.” “I won’t let her get away with talking to you like that.” “I’ll talk to her how I like,” I said. “She’s my mother.” Philip went off into a corner, dancing on tiptoe with his head down, shadowboxing, landing tremendous punches on the air: this was what he did when we quarrelled, trying to make us laugh. “Dad’s Army” wound up; the ordinary evening melted around us; then they were too late for their dinner dance, their treat spoiled. Mostly, I shouted and they pretended to stay calm. Soon I couldn’t remember how it had all started: I felt myself washed out farther and farther from the safe place we usually cohabited. I couldn’t believe how small and far away they seemed. It was suddenly easy to say everything. “You think you’re so sensible and fair,” I protested to Gerry. “But, really, I know you just want to destroy me.” “Don’t be ridiculous,” he said. “Oh, Stella. D’you have to make such a performance out of everything?” Gerry said that I wasn’t a very easy girl to like, that I was arrogant and selfish. He crossed the room to close a window, because he didn’t want the neighbors to hear us. At some point, Philip went quietly upstairs. I said that I would die if my life turned out to be as boring and narrow as theirs. “Just you wait,” my mother warned. “Boring or not, you’ll have to get on with it like everybody else.” Gerry called my friends dropouts and deadbeats, a waste of space. “That’s what we think you are,” I said. “We think you’re dead.” “I’d watch out for Valentine if I were you,” my mother said. “You might be barking up the wrong tree.” Gerry did lose his temper eventually. “Get out, Stella, if you can’t respect this house. Just get out.” Mum remonstrated with him, halfheartedly. “Don’t worry,” I said. “I’m going. I wouldn’t stay in this house if you begged me.” They didn’t beg me. I let myself out the front door, into the street. Freezing without my coat, and weeping, I went to Val’s. His mother let me in and I waited for him in his attic, getting under the blankets to keep warm. When he came home from Fred Harper’s, I heard her expostulating downstairs, saying that I couldn’t stay, she wouldn’t put up with it. So she didn’t like me, either. And I heard Val’s voice raised, too, yelling awful things. (“You silly bitch. Don’t touch me!”) An infectious rage was flashing around between us all that night, like electricity. “I can’t go back,” I said, when he erupted into the room. And he understood that it was true. Anyway, he’d had a row, too—with Fred Harper. He was leaving school. We’d both leave school. We’d leave home, too. This, I felt, was the beginning of my real life, of everything I had been waiting for. My real life, in my imagination afterward, always had that attic shape, high and empty and airy, cigarette smoke drifting in the light from a forty-watt bulb. Val said he knew someone who had a flat where we could stay. Tomorrow he’d sort it out. For tonight, I could stay here. He didn’t care what his mother thought. “Poor little Stella,” he said. “Poor little you. I’m so sorry.” He was stroking my arms and nuzzling between my shoulder blades, trying to warm me up where I was rigid with cold. And there you are: that night he made love to me, properly—or more or less properly. Anyway, we managed penetration. And we did it another time, too, in the early morning a few days later, in a zipped-up sleeping bag in the front room of a fantastically disgusting ground-floor flat belonging to Ian, the freckled red-haired man who sold Valentine his drugs. We lay in the dawn light, crushed together on our narrow divan in the blessed peace of the aftermath, Val’s head on my breast: proudly, I felt the trickling on my thighs. I suppose we must have heard the milkman’s float passing—or perhaps by that time we had dozed off. Then someone threw a full milk bottle through the closed window. I didn’t understand at first what had happened: it was just an explosion in the room, appalling and incomprehensible, the crashing glass as loud as a bomb, milk splashed violently everywhere. (It seems unlikely that the drug dealer had a daily delivery—the bottle must have been picked up from someone else’s doorstep.) “What the fuck?” Val struggled up out of the sleeping bag, naked. Ian came running in, pulling jeans on. “What the fuck?” He cut his feet on the glass. I saw in Val’s face that he knew what the explosion was, and who. Some other girl, I thought. Some old love. Someone he loves, or who loves him and is desperate for him the way I am. But of course it wasn’t any girl. It was his English teacher. I thought—when the whole truth came out, when at last I’d understood about the sex, and Ian was so fucked off with Val about the window and was looking for him everywhere, and Val got some money from his older sister and went to the States, and it was all such a collapse of my hopes—I thought I could still go back, defeated, to my old life. Back home and back to school, and pick up where I’d left off, and be a clever girl again, and get to university. Even if I could never ever again, in my whole life, be happy. But I wasn’t that clever, was I? Had I forgotten everything they’d taught us at school? That you only had to do it once, just once, to get into trouble. We had even done it twice. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Marjorie Lemke	Credit Photograph by Honjo She was only twenty but had an old person’s name. How she despised her name: its merry singsong, its too many vowels, its very M.L., benign initials that in fourth grade inspired Tommy Sugarman to crow, “Major Loser, Major Loser, Major Loser.” Was she a loser? Yes. Now. But then? An eight-year-old in nubby knit tights, a girl with glistening pigtails who carried a Muppets lunchbox? No. Back then she had been merely a girl. A girl with a certain open-eyed, owlish look, good posture, a knack for the Rubik’s Cube. She had not yet got her period in Algebra or made out with Len Dugan in the janitor’s closet or been fired from Rite Aid for stealing a can of Pepsi. She had not yet tripped over herself at the cheerleading tryouts and gone home to scrape the skin of her forearm with a safety pin. Bobby Miller. Keith Paulsen. José who had no last name, who gave her a pill to swallow, who said, “Think of me as Superman,” and took off his shirt and on whose hairless chest she saw a giant red “S,” and she kissed it, kissed it, full of incredulous relief, believing she had found at last the one who would perform the rescue. Those things and people had not yet happened. Her nose was still unpierced. No butterfly tattoo above her anklebone. No snake eating its tail on her shoulder blade. No Clive. She had not yet become a pregnant nineteen-year-old. She was not yet that girl in the back of Parenting 101 being lectured by a social worker about not shaking your kids and how you’ve got to give them whole milk and lots of vegetables—peas, carrots, zucchini—as if she needed reminding what a vegetable was. The baby was Della. She slept all through the social worker’s talk and the diaper-changing demonstration, slept on the bus ride home, slept the whole time Marjorie was watching TV and eating Cheerios, and then, just as Marjorie dropped off, she woke up and screamed through the night. Tommy Sugarman had been wrong back then, but now—she wouldn’t deny it—he was exactly right. Marjorie slept on a pullout sofa in her aunt’s basement, Della in a playpen next to her. “The world performs miracles,” her aunt often said. “Don’t forget that. Work hard, wait, and something extraordinary might happen.” Her aunt’s income was alimony and lotto tickets; Bell’s palsy had slackened half of her pretty face. She didn’t seem to be in a position to talk about miracles. Still, Marjorie maintained a vague hope that her aunt was right, and then something extraordinary did happen. Marjorie got a job cleaning rooms at a motel. She pushed a cart from room to room. It was a two-tiered cart, which meant that Della could ride on the lower level, on top of the towels, tiny pink socks on her hands to keep her from scratching her face. Sometimes she cried, and then Marjorie propped a bottle in her trembling mouth and the girl submitted to the milk right away, or the better word was “surrendered,” eyes glazed and distant, like Clive’s eyes when the needle went in. Della didn’t cry too much during the day, and Marjorie was grateful that the baby didn’t give her boss a reason to fire her. They were in it together, Marjorie and Della, a team—that’s how it felt. At work, Marjorie wore her hair in a high, cheerful ponytail like “I Dream of Jeannie.” Sometimes she inhaled the cleansers, not on purpose, but what could you do? Ammonia, bleach, some creamy product for the laminate dresser. Cleaning motel rooms was work that needed to be done. It was work that made a person invisible. She was invisible; Della was, too; and, later, people would arrive—guests—and would make love in the beds she’d prepared and look at their faces in the mirrors in which she’d adjusted her ponytail. She had been sober seven months. Not even cigarettes. She drank decaf. She sang, “Della Della Della is a happy little girl, Della Della Della is as precious as a pearl,” until the baby fell asleep on the pile of towels. One day, in Room 207, she found a man. “Oh, I’m sorry. I’ll come back.” She had knocked, had called out “Housekeeping,” and no one had replied; yet here was a man, shirtless, sitting up in bed, a newspaper spread out over his lap, a few books next to him. She turned to leave. “Wait,” he said, and she turned back. He had a tan, moonish belly, like a Third World baby’s. She assumed he was masturbating but then saw that he was holding a cup of coffee. He said, “Do your job, please. Ignore me. We need new towels. I’d like some more shampoo.” He touched his thinning hair, the color of wheat. “Work around me? Can you do that?” She paused. Perhaps he was a masturbator. He said, “Trabajas? Sí?” “I understand you.” “Oh, I thought you might be—” She shook her head. Her hair was dark but she was not Mexican. People often made this mistake. He said, “Listen. Do your job. I’d appreciate it. No funny business.” His smile was a shy flicker. “Or I can wait in the lobby? It’s pouring out”—he jabbed a thumb at the window, streaked with rain—“and I don’t have a car. I’m stuck inside. Should I wait in the lobby? I’m happy to.” Oh, no, she said, he didn’t have to sit in the lobby, and then Della woke up and made a high, warbling noise like a cat poked by a stick. The man looked startled, but when he saw the baby, when Marjorie reached her hand down to pat the baby’s belly, he smiled. It was a different smile now. “A baby!” he said, happily. The baby was Mexican, but partly, but legal, but she didn’t tell him this. “Della,” she said, and immediately wished she hadn’t. It wasn’t his business. Clive always said mind your own business. Or “M.Y.O.B.!” Delivered with such force that it felt like religious law. But she knew, even back then, that Clive was paranoid, convinced that people are evil and want to take your business and smash it, his finger always ready on some trigger or other. “Della,” she said again, patting the girl’s belly. “Pretty,” the man said. Then, matter of factly, “Like her mother.” He returned to the newspaper and read while she straightened, wiped surfaces, replaced old towels with new ones. The room was cozy, dim, the beating rain a comfort. He didn’t watch her. Every time she stole a glance she saw him immersed in his reading, brow furrowed, chewing his lower lip. Once she heard the newspaper rustle, heard him murmur, “Flipping Congress,” and she was pretty sure he’d forgotten she was there. The next day, the sun came out. The rooms were so much uglier in sunlight. You could see all the flaws, the carpet snags and fingerprints and streaks and spots. Her work would take longer today. She stood before 207 for a moment, wondering if he’d be there. Marjorie knocked, called out her warning, and slipped in the key. There he was, shirtless again, sitting in sweat-pants and slippers on the bed, on top of the covers, holding something up to the overhead light. Sunshine rushed through the window. In the harsher light she saw that his cheeks were faintly pitted. His face reminded her of that craggy movie actor who always played the genius cop. Was there only one of them? No, there were dozens. But no craggy genius women cops. “Hi!” she said, pulling the cart in behind her. Then, shyly, needlessly, “Housekeeping.” “Oh, hey,” he said. “You need to do your thing?” “Whenever it’s convenient.” Her heart picked up. She knew what was in his hand. She had seen one of those in her aunt’s bedside table: a diaphragm. Then the bathroom door opened and a woman emerged in a red satin robe. She crossed her arms over her chest, as if modestly, but her legs were planted far apart, showing one of her thighs. The woman said, “We’re about to take a nap.” “Excuse me,” Marjorie said. “I’m sorry to barge.” “You weren’t barging,” the man said. The woman inhaled through her nostrils as though breathing caused her pain. She had a pinched mouth and long blond curls. The hair belonged to a princess, the mouth to a witch. “I’m really sorry,” Marjorie said. “I knocked. I’ll come back.” The woman said, “We’ll be staying here a number of weeks. We’ll need you every other day.” “Four weeks,” the man said. “Five at the most.” “I fear there are only so many bamboo metaphors the average reader can tolerate.”Buy the print » Marjorie had never heard of anyone staying at the Beacon for that long. She nodded. “This is Violet,” the man said. “My wife. I’m Gabe.” “My husband,” Violet said. “Marjorie,” Marjorie said. “She’s got a baby in there, Vi,” Gabe said, gesturing to Della. “Ah, yes, I see.” Violet took a quick glance, nodded, as if a baby in a motel cart were perfectly ordinary. “Della,” Marjorie said, and again regretted it. It wasn’t anyone’s business what her baby’s name was. Why did she always say it? She supposed it was to make people like the baby. She feared someone might complain to management—maybe they wouldn’t if they knew the baby’s name. A name mattered. It had been Marjorie’s instinct to say her own name when Bobby Miller’s uncle had taken her into the basement. If you knew someone’s name you’d be gentler—or that was the idea. “I’m Marjorie,” she had said several times. “Marjorie Lemke.” He had done what he was going to do, but who knows how much worse it could have been. “Della,” the woman in the robe repeated. “Della Marie Lemke.” And Marjorie’s instinct turned out to be a good one, because Violet’s face softened, and she gave a quick tight smile and said, “We appreciate the work you’ll do for us. You’ll get a sizable tip when we leave.” “Thank you,” Marjorie said. “But please knock next time.” Marjorie agreed to knock. Gabe apologized for being shirtless. Marjorie said not to worry, not to worry at all, and left, wondering how sizable was sizable. He was butter rum all the way. She was a Sweet Tarts and Laffy Taffy girl. In the motel bed, fully clothed, leaning against the headboard, they started by talking candy. As a kid she’d loved black licorice in the shape of an old-fashioned pipe. Sherlock Holmes candy. Did he remember it? He did, but black licorice tasted like paint to him. Next they examined the easy things: hairlines, knuckles, ears. Then it was time to show, just a little. He pointed to his appendix scar and the glazed place on his back where an iron once passed, the tattoo of an ox on his upper arm. She unbuttoned her uniform and there, on the warm saddle of her belly, were the stretch marks. When looking felt like too much, they talked again. He wanted to know if she had any nicknames. No, she said. She didn’t say that Clive used to call her Buttercup. It seemed too ridiculous; its sweetness—now, given all that had happened—felt like an assault. Gabe told her that he had been nicknamed Sesame as a baby. He’d been premature, a speck of a thing. His mother still used it. A middle-aged man with an ox tattoo, called Sesame—this made Marjorie laugh. Gabe told her he was recovering from surgery, feeling better every day. What kind of surgery? she wanted to know. He blushed, admitted he used to weigh three hundred pounds. He’d had his stomach stapled. He drummed his fingers atop his ribs when he said the word “stapled.” Marjorie imagined her fifth-grade teacher, wicked Mrs. McKay, how she’d slam the metal stapler with her closed fist, terrifying the class. “I’m feeling great,” he said. “New lease on life. But I have to take small bites. And chew real slowly. I count to thirty before I swallow.” “Poor baby,” she murmured. “Violet likes me better this way,” he said. “Who can blame her?” “I bet you carried it real well.” That’s what her aunt said when people complained about their weight. “Violet didn’t think so. Who can blame her? She married a man with a thirty-four-inch waist. The body you get married with, that’s like a contract.” Marjorie asked where Violet went every day, and Gabe said she was a union buster who went from factory to factory sniffing out trouble. A real Norma Rae killer, he said. He laughed, but Marjorie didn’t. When Marjorie said she had married a man named Clive who had jumped onto a freight train in front of her very eyes, leaving her pregnant and broke, Marjorie laughed, but Gabe didn’t. Della slept the whole time. On their first day together, Marjorie didn’t want to touch. She didn’t think it was fair to touch when Della was in the room with them, asleep in the cart. But Marjorie kissed the back of his neck and thought, What is the word for this part? “Nate”? “Tape”? It didn’t matter what the word was. That part was so warm. It smelled like the shampoo. In this way it was her smell. Marjorie went to 207 every other day. She would knock and open the door. Gabe would be in bed, in sweatpants, a newspaper spread around him, an open book on the nightstand. One day, he asked to hold the baby. Could he hold the baby? Just for a minute? Babies were good for the blood pressure, he said. She liked seeing the baby in his big arms. Soon she didn’t feel guilty that Della was in the room. One day, lying together on top of the covers, she said, “Why don’t you go out? Don’t you get bored in here?” “Where should I go?” She thought of the miles of strip malls surrounding the motel, the beauty parlors and bars and dollar stores. She thought of the OTB and the V.F.W. and the food pantry where you could get a mini-carton of chocolate milk and a P.B. & J. and feel like a schoolchild, and the alley behind it, where you could buy crack. The constant rumble of the interstate. The greasy sky. The whole city was like an arcade that takes your quarters and spits tickets back at you. “It’s sad out there,” she admitted. “And you’re in here,” he said. “And my books are here.” He gestured to the nightstand, to a pile of books about Presidents and wars. “I think you and Lincoln are my two favorite people in the world right now.” “And Violet,” Marjorie said, without really knowing why. “You, Abe, and Violet. That’s right. You know we’ve been on the road for six months, me and Vi? Akron, Cleveland, Detroit, Tulsa . . . where else?” He heaved a theatrical, exhausted sigh. “Everywhere else. This is our last stop. We’re going home after this, and I get to do what I want. That’s what she says. Role reversal. I did what she asked—lost weight, kept her company. I’m all for working women, equal pay, trust me. But I won’t lie: I’m looking forward to the change. I get to rule the roost and she takes care of me. She’s going to cook—she loves to cook. Low-fat lasagna whenever I want it.” “What’s it like, your roost?” “A pretty split-level. Two acres. A brook—a brook when it rains. In the meantime, I’m keeping her company and becoming a history buff.” “But you don’t get bored?” She felt panic on his behalf—to sit in this room for weeks on end with some books and only herself for occasional company. It seemed purely awful. Not that she wanted him to leave. She did not. He shrugged. “Vi’s got a rental car, and we go out for dinner most nights. Sparky’s or the Ninety-Nine.” “I love Sparky’s.” “You do? Poor thing.” He gripped her hand. She knew he was right and loved him for saying so. But she pretended to be offended. “The fries are amazing! Have you had better French fries in your whole life? Tell me.” “I do the salad,” he said, nuzzling her neck. “Dressing on the side.” “You need to try the fries.” Suddenly she felt offended for real—protective of her city. “I’ll steal one from her plate,” he agreed. Then he started talking about Lincoln, about his crazy prophetic dreams, until she got spooked, and shivered, and kissed him to make him stop. Violet always returned at four, so at three-thirty-five Marjorie would dress. Then she would clean. She would clean twice, so she could stay a little longer. Gabe watched. “You are the most lovely maid I’ve ever known,” he said once. “And I’ve seen a lot.” She wanted to hear it again. “What did you say?” He blushed, said, “You are so dedicated.” At three-fifty-five she would give a kiss to the air and he would pretend to catch it. Then she would take the cart, wait at the end of the hall, and watch Violet, tall and proud, return to her husband. Buy the print » Della didn’t care that her mother had a new lover. She didn’t care that her father was gone and that her mother could not sleep and that the mattress of the sofa bed squeaked provocatively, perversely, when Marjorie merely rolled over. The only thing Della cared about was that there was a sore on her gum that would not heal, though Marjorie was pretty certain that the baby didn’t have the language to think this. Della’s cries seemed to come from underneath her body. Marjorie rubbed an ice cube on Della’s gums and sang, “Della Della Della is a happy little girl, Della Della Della is as precious as a pearl, Della Della Della is a lover of the moon, Della Della Della will make all the fellows swoon!” Della drank her bottle with resigned vigor, sucked and sucked, her face damp and unlit. Then, for an hour afterward, she cried. Marjorie called the clinic and talked to a nurse, who said, “Let it run its course.” Marjorie kept her hand on Della’s forehead. She said, “That doesn’t seem fair.” “Look,” the nurse said. “Babies have a higher tolerance for pain than anyone thinks.” Marjorie thought about that. How much tolerance was a person supposed to have? Was it good to have tolerance for pain? Why? How much did she have? What about Clive? Clive had cried like a baby the time he dropped a jar of mayo on his foot. She remembered how she sedated him, how quickly the impulse to sedate arrived in her, how she had gone to her knees, kissed the injured foot, kissed his shin, his thigh, all the way up to his button fly. She kissed each button. “That’s right, Mama,” he’d said. He always called her “Mama” during the high points. Once he referred to the needle as “Mama”—as in, give that Mama over here, pronto. And Marjorie, who abstained from needles, who was too squeamish, who viewed her inability to shoot up as a personal failing, who preferred the juvenile pleasures of beer and spray paint and glue, felt enormous jealousy. “I’m Mama,” she said. “Damn right,” Clive whispered, in his ghost-in-the-attic voice, so far away that as soon as the words were spoken you couldn’t be sure he’d said them at all. With new ferocity Marjorie cleaned. In Gabe’s heavy arms she cried. Then, with unfamiliar abandon, with sweet little moans (moans that wouldn’t wake the baby but felt sincere all the same; moans she trusted more than any moans she’d heard before), they had sex. Afterward, she said, “My baby is too little. They don’t know why. It’s my fault.” “She’ll grow up. All of it will be in the past.” That was true, Marjorie knew, and also not the point. She put on her uniform. “I was a sesame seed,” he said. “And look at me now.” No one had ever reassured her before; no one who wasn’t paid or related had made such an effort. She fought the impulse to say she loved him, went back to work. Gabe said, “So lovely and dedicated.” He had a chocolate bar for her. “Where’d you get this?” It was the extra-big kind, bigger than her hand. She stared at the purple wrapper, gold foil peeking out. “What do you mean, where?” He grinned. “At the gas station.” “At the Exxon across the street?” She held it to her nose, sniffed. “Is something wrong with it? Or with the Exxon?” She didn’t know how to say what it felt like to be given a gift. To say how happy it made her that he’d got out of bed, that he’d put on a shirt and shoes and gone downstairs and across the street and searched the candy racks at the Exxon. “You said it’s your favorite kind. Or did I misremember?” “You remembered.” Her throat clenched. “Let’s share it.” “I can’t eat chocolate,” he said, tapping his stomach. “It’s gone the way of the dodo. New regime. New times . . . Oh, look at you! You look so sad. You feel sorry for me?” She did, it was true, though she shook her head. “It’s not fair.” She suddenly felt like crying. “The best things . . .” She shook her head. “It’s just not fair. The best things.” She didn’t know how to say what she meant. “I’m not saying I don’t get cravings, but I’ve learned to live with them. It’s like a dog barking next door. The neighbor’s wild puppy. I’ve learned to tune it out. When I’m eighty, I’ll let myself get fat again. Maybe seventy-five. That’s what I’ve decided.” She would not last that many years. She wasn’t sure she could get through this one. “I’ll eat it later.” She moved to put the chocolate away, out of sight, to tuck it into the towels on the cart, under Della. She knew she was overreacting in all directions, in gratitude and sympathy, but she couldn’t help it. He said, “Please eat it. Let me watch you enjoy it. Let me watch.” “Now?” “It would make my day.” So she ate while he studied her. He wore a fond, baffled expression, glassy-eyed, like a man startled by his luck, a bridegroom as his better half floats toward him down the aisle. She sang, “Della Della Della will make all the fellows swoon! Della Della Della in her happy basement room!” She put numbing ointment on Della’s sore. Then she tried a chamomile tea bag. She called the doctor’s office again. The nurse said, “If it’s not gone in three days, bring her in.” “It’s been a week already.” The nurse said, “These things are a ten-day affair.” Marjorie hung up, sat down on the sofa bed, the baby in her arms. Della’s eyelids fluttered sweetly, like a baby’s in a movie. Marjorie had the urge to run upstairs, to look under the kitchen sink. Just to breathe the under-sink air, to breathe the air around the pipes and the bottles and the dried-out sponges, even that, that little, just the air. Her head would narrow and the world would expand. For a few minutes she wouldn’t worry about her bank account. Her molar that twinged when she drank ice water. Wouldn’t wonder about next week or the week after, wouldn’t think about “weeks,” and wouldn’t have to fight to suppress the suspicion that the best thing for Della was a box on the church steps—a box! steps!—which was as absurd and as comforting as imagining the baby in a sling suspended from a stork’s beak. Just to open the tile-gunk remover. To stick her nose in for two seconds. An assault of nothing. But her aunt was upstairs. Her aunt was in the kitchen, clearing dishes, singing a song from “Phantom of the Opera.” Her aunt had such a beautiful voice. Marjorie closed her eyes and listened, pictured that phantom wearing half a hockey mask (her aunt had a T-shirt), until the desire passed. Marjorie kissed Gabe’s palm and wished she knew what its lines said. His future was somewhere else, she knew—she wasn’t deluding herself. But where was it and how long and with whom? The lines in his hand were deep and soft but told her nothing. And what was Marjorie’s future? She was a motel maid. This would go on and on. She did not need to look at her palm. But what about Della? She wanted Della to be healthy and sober and big, to smoke nothing except pipe licorice. Gabe said, “I can give you some money. You take her to someone who knows about growing. Take Della to a specialist.” “You and Violet, are you happy? Do you love her?” “Don’t worry about Violet.” “But you do love her, don’t you? Even though . . .” She gestured to her naked body. “Take the baby to a specialist. I’ll give you money.” “You will? You would?” But suddenly she was afraid. The word “specialist” was sinister. “I would,” he said. Marjorie closed her eyes. She said, “She’ll be fine. She’ll have a growth spurt and it’ll all be in the past. Like you said. I’m only five-two-and-a-half. How big can she be?” Gabe said, “It’s not your fault.” “You love Violet. I know you do.” She breathed his skin. The motel soap was the best smell she knew, a chemical peppery floral, totally unnatural and totally comforting. It reminded her of the scratch ’n’ sniff stickers she’d collected as a little girl. Gabe made a low sound. It might have been a cry. Marjorie squeezed her eyes shut. She didn’t want to know if he was crying. “I do love her,” Gabe whispered, “more than anything. I met her when I was twenty-two. I’d never had a real girlfriend.” “Never?” “I wasn’t a virgin, but real close. There’s this bar called the Jack Frost, and Violet comes in wearing a red dress. Low cut. Real bright red and tight, but she was shy, kind of nervous—I could tell she was shyer than a dress like that.” “That’s a nice way to say it.” “I forget–are you not speaking to me or just not listening to me?”Buy the print » “Her boyfriend was Zeke Gray. Like he’d just hopped off the tractor. Mean eyes, dirty hands, did a shot before he ordered her a drink. It wasn’t like me, but I followed her to the bathroom. I stood outside the door, and when she came out I said—oh, I’m embarrassed to say. It wasn’t like me. I minded my own business. I wasn’t even drunk. My father always said, ‘Leave well enough alone,’ and I did, I really did, until that night. I had a thirty-four-inch waist, Marjorie. I was a kid.” “What did you say to her?” “Her shoes were red, too, like Dorothy’s, like in the movie. She was softer than she is now. Plumper. I loved how plump she was. I was thin and she was plump, and now it’s the other way around.” “What did you say?” “It was nothing. I just said, ‘You’re better than all of this.’ Later I learned those shoes were too small for her. She had horrible blisters.” “That’s a sweet story,” Marjorie said. “Maybe the sweetest.” She imagined being that girl. She imagined Gabe’s awkwardness, imagined him waiting outside the bathroom, doing this thing that was not in his nature, and she held him tighter. “I gave her Band-Aids,” he said. The cleaners tricked Marjorie’s nostrils into believing she was at the beach. They made her close her eyes and feel the sea air and made her believe she was sitting on a dock in a plaid sundress, or a polka-dotted sundress, she had a whole closet of sundresses, and the sun was fierce, it was always noon, her toes tickled the surface of the water. The cleaners made her throat constrict, and sometimes—when she held a rag or a paper bag to her nose, just one more time, she wasn’t making a habit of it—the salty sea filled her nasal passages, the sun beat down, and then if she vomited it wasn’t awful. It wasn’t gross. She tasted salt, as if she’d been swimming, as if she’d been swimming and had been playfully battered by a giant wave and now lay sprawled on the beach, spread out in shimmering sand, pretty, immovable, like a mermaid. Or like a piece of glass that went in jagged and came out polished and whole. Her body was smooth. She was whole. A closet of dresses. Not a cloud in sight. It was always noon. Gabe napped one day while Marjorie was cleaning. Quietly, Marjorie opened the dresser drawer. Inside were many pairs of ladies’ underwear: paisleys, polka dots, lace. In a square box, pink and plastic and hinged like a clamshell, she found the diaphragm. Marjorie held it to the light and saw a pinprick hole. Marjorie imagined Violet in labor, Violet with a mustache of sweat, yelping and crying and clutching Gabe’s big hand. There would be no social worker. There would be no drug tests or reminders about vegetables. She began to cry. She woke him up. “She wants a baby,” Marjorie cried. “Be careful.” “Sh-h-h,” he said. He touched her cheek. “I saw her diaphragm,” Marjorie said. “It’s full of holes.” Gabe shook his head. “But it’s full of holes!” “There’s just one hole,” he said. That afternoon, from the end of the hall, Marjorie watched Violet return from work. She imagined Violet’s healthy baby, her pink and loud baby, and all the blankets and spoons that it would get for being born. Violet wore a business suit and pointed shoes and dark stockings, and her long hair was trapped in a shellacked bun. “Excuse me,” Marjorie called. Violet turned. Gabe was right—she was a person who would look better plumper. The thinness of her face was what made it look mean. Marjorie pushed her cart toward Violet, her heart speeding up, and heard herself say, “I just want to make sure you have everything you need. That you’re comfortable here.” “We have everything.” Violet’s voice was sharp but not cruel; it was a work voice, a woman-visiting-a-factory voice. Her posture was excellent. “The room is fine,” Violet said. “Very clean. No complaints.” “Great,” said Marjorie. “Excellent.” She wanted terribly to offer an amenity, an insider tip. “Sometimes the air-conditioning acts funny,” Marjorie told her. “It makes a noise—” “It clicks. Yes, we noticed.” “I can send Jerome up to take a look.” “We’re good sleepers.” Violet shrugged. “It’s not bothersome. But send him up if you’d like.” Marjorie realized she didn’t feel guilty. Not at all. She felt—what was it, exactly? She felt that she had just happened to slip for one moment into this woman’s lucky life. She didn’t feel guilty, because she knew she’d slip right out again and nothing would be different for any of them. Gabe was a lonely man who wanted to touch someone smaller and less powerful than him. Marjorie understood it—she hoped one day she’d get to do it, too. And not with a baby, that wasn’t the same thing. She was making Gabe happier, she knew this in her heart, and Violet would receive that happiness like a blessing of her own making. Marjorie heard Della shifting in the cart, heard the start of her soft, wet mewing. “I guess I better get back to work.” “Ticktock,” Violet said. She gave Marjorie the smallest smile; she lowered her eyes to the baby. “Ticktock,” Marjorie said, and she, too, looked at the baby. Della’s mouth was moving but her eyes remained closed. Marjorie turned back to Violet, ready to share a commiserating look, but Violet had turned away. On the tenth day, Marjorie looked, but the cold sore was gone. Marjorie held Della to her chest and hummed and laughed. She said, “Poor brave baby. Poor baby who is braver than her own mother!” Then Marjorie lifted Della over her head and the baby opened her mouth and for a moment, maybe, seemed to smile. “My own,” Gabe said. He was in the shower. She stood with her back to the sink, looking at the plastic salmon-colored shower curtain that she sprayed every other day with citrus-scented mildew repellent. He turned off the water. “My own,” he said again, through the curtain. Water swirled down the drain. She could smell the pine liquid she used to scrub the floor, and the tiny perfumed soaps in their waxy wrappers. Her limbs felt hollow. No woman in her position should meet resistance. No woman should be forced to tolerate this for any longer than absolutely necessary. “But you want one,” she said. “A little one who needs you. There are plenty out there who need—” She did not intend to yell. She listened to the water drip from his body and down the drain. “My own,” he said, still hidden by the curtain. “Is that all you can say?” “Isn’t that fair?” She thought about it. “Yes,” she admitted. It was the kind of thing a person thought was fair until one had one’s own child and pushed it around in a motel cart all day. It was fair until you realized it was the furthest thing from fair. “But there are so many out there . . . so many . . .” She was losing her will. It was a vapor, her will, like the steam in the room, evaporating fast. He pulled back the curtain. They looked at each other. His body was large and soft and didn’t look capable of making anything. “You should think about it,” she finally said. Her voice was flat. It surprised her, how her voice could be so level while her heart jumped all over the place. “Would you do that? Think about it, at least?” He stepped out of the shower. “Are you serious, Marjorie?” Was she? Was she? Was she? Her heart pumped these words. She handed him a towel. He didn’t dry himself but clutched the towel to his big belly. “I want my own.” But he said it now with less conviction. “They become your own.” “You think?” She paused. “I do,” she said. She might have begged him. She prepared herself to beg. But then he put his hands on her shoulders, and water dripped onto her chest, and she tilted her head up and he looked down at her, his eyes wide open, and she knew that she wouldn’t have to beg. Her uniform was getting soaked. He said her name. The baby in the bedroom made a high, fluttering, flutelike sound. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Judge’s Will	Credit Photograph by Chiara Goia After his second heart attack, the judge knew that he could no longer put off informing his wife about the contents of his will. He did this for the sake of the woman he had been keeping for twenty-five years, who, ever since his first attack, had been agitating about provisions for her future. These had long been in place in his will, known only to the lawyer who had drawn it up, but it was intolerable to the judge to think that their execution would be in the hands of his family; that is, his wife and son. Not because he expected them to make trouble but because they were both too impractical, too light-minded to carry out his wishes once he was not there to enforce them. This suspicion was confirmed for him by the way Binny received his secret. Any normal wife, he thought, would have been aghast to learn of her husband’s long-standing adultery. But Binny reacted as though she had just heard some spicy piece of gossip. She was pouring his tea and, quivering with excitement, spilled some in the saucer. He turned his face from her. “Go away,” he told her, and then became more exasperated by the eagerness with which she hurried off to reveal the secret to their son. Yasi was the only person in the world with whom she could share it. As a girl growing up in Bombay, Binny had had many friends. But her marriage to the judge had shipwrecked her in Delhi, a stiffly official place that didn’t suit her at all. If it hadn’t been for Yasi! He was born in Delhi and in this house—a gloomy, inward-looking family property, built in the nineteen-twenties and crowded with heavy Indo-Victorian furniture inherited from earlier generations. Binny’s high spirits had managed to survive the sombre atmosphere; and, when Yasi was a child, she had shared the tastes and pleasures of her Bombay days with him, teaching him dance steps and playing him the songs of Hollywood crooners on her gramophone. They lived alone there with the judge. Shortly after Yasi was born, the judge’s mother had died of some form of cancer, which had also accounted for several other members of the family. It seemed to Binny that all of the family diseases—both physical and mental—were bred in the very roots of the house, and she feared that they might one day seep into Yasi’s bright temperament. The fear was confirmed by the onset of his dark moods. Before his first breakdown, Yasi had been a brilliant student at the university, and although he was over thirty now, he was expected shortly to resume his studies. More like a brother than like a son, he had always enjoyed teasing her. When she told him the news of his father’s secret, he pretended to be in no way affected by it but went on stolidly eating his breakfast. She said, “Who is she? Where does he keep her? I don’t know what’s wrong with you, Yasi. Why can’t you see how important this is for us? Why are you asking me why? Because of the will. His will.” “And if he’s left it all to her?” Yasi asked. “He’d never do that. Oh, no.” Better than anyone, she knew the pride the judge took in himself and his ancestral possessions. “I’m sure she’s a you-know-what. He must have taken her out of one of those houses—he owns half of them, anyway,” she said, stifling her usual wry amusement at that sector of her husband’s substantial family properties. A day or two later, the judge had to be returned to the hospital. He stayed there for a week, and when they sent him home again he began to spend all his time in his bedroom. Apart from a few irritated instructions to Binny, he accepted her ministrations in silence; now and again, he asked for Yasi—reluctantly, as if against his own inclination. It took him some time to overcome his pride and demand a visit from his son. Binny was so excited. It was probably to do with his will, with the woman. “You have to go! You must!” she urged Yasi. He agreed, on condition that she not listen at the door. “As if I would!” she cried indignantly, though both of them knew that she would be crouching there—and, in fact, when he emerged from his father’s bedroom he found her hastily scrambling up from that position. “What is it? What did he say?” On the rare occasions when the judge had tried to talk alone with his son in the past, Yasi had recounted the conversations to his mother, with some embellishments: how the judge had had to clear his throat several times and had still been unable to come out with what he wanted to say, and instead had babbled on about his student days in London and the wonderful English breakfasts he had enjoyed, bacon and eggs and some sort of fish—“kippers, I believe they are called,” Yasi had repeated, in the judge’s own accent, to entertain his mother. But now it was as if he were protecting his father: he wouldn’t tell her anything. It wasn’t until she challenged him, “Whose side are you on?,” that he said, “He wants to see her.” “He wants to bring her here?” “He’s sending the driver.” “The fool, the first-class idiot,” Binny said. Her scorn for the judge soon turned to angry defiance: “What do I care? Let him bring her—bring all the women he’s been keeping for twenty-five years.” But, beneath it all, there was a sort of thrill—that at last something dramatic was happening in their lives. There was nothing dramatic about the woman the driver brought the next day. She arrived in a plain white cotton sari and wearing no jewelry—“as if she were already a widow,” Binny commented. Binny herself was a far more appealingly feminine figure: short and plump, in tight-fitting harem pants and very high heels, draped with the costume jewelry she preferred to the family jewels; at the salon they had bobbed and curled her hair and made it gleam with golden streaks. By contrast, Phul—that was her name, Phul, meaning “flower”—was as austere as a woman in constant prayer. Leaving her shoes at the threshold, she glided into the judge’s bedroom; and though Binny lingered outside, no sound reached her to indicate what might be going on. This performance, as Binny called it, was repeated the next day, and the next. After the fourth visit, she declared to Yasi, “This can’t go on. You have to do something.” She had always depended on Yasi to get her out of difficult situations. In earlier years, when she still had a few woman friends, Yasi had helped her cover up some secret expenditures—such as losing at cards, which she and her friends had played for money. She appreciated the way Yasi had circumvented the judge’s disapproval. She had always been proud of her son’s intelligence, which he had inherited, she had to admit, from his father. Friends had asked her why she had married the judge, who was in every way so different from her. But that was the answer. Before meeting him, she had lived in an adolescent world of flirtations carried on in the cafés and on the beaches of Bombay. The judge, some twenty years older than she, was already a highly regarded lawyer with a private practice in Delhi when she met him. He was working on a professional assignment in Bombay with Binny’s father, an industrialist, who had invited him to the family table—usually the dullest place in the world for Binny. But, with the judge there, she had sat through every course, not understanding a word but understanding very well that the guest’s attention sometimes strayed in her direction. Afterward, she lingered in the vestibule to give him the opportunity to talk to her, though all he did was ask, in the weighty tones of a prosecutor in court, about her studies. A tall, heavy person, he habitually wore, even in the humid heat of Bombay, a suit, a waistcoat, and a tie, which made him stand out from everyone else, especially from her friends, who floated around in the finest, flimsiest Indian garments. She loved describing him to these friends, who exclaimed, “But he sounds awful!” That made her laugh. “He is awful!” By which she meant that he was serious, sombre, authoritarian—everything that later oppressed her so horribly. One day, after posing his usual question about her studies, he went to her father to ask for her hand—for her hand! How she laughed with her friends. Wasn’t it just like an old-fashioned novel—Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth Bennet! Or, from another book on their matriculation list, Heathcliff. In fact, she began to refer to him as Heathcliff, and to think of him as the gypsy lover who had come to steal her away. The driver was sent to Phul every day, and every day she remained with the judge in his bedroom. Although this bedroom had meant nothing to Binny for many years, now her thoughts were concentrated on it, as they had been at the beginning of the marriage. The judge had been an overwhelming lover, and those nights with him had been a flowering and a ripening that she’d thought would go on forever. Instead, after about two years, the judge’s presence in their bed was changed into a weight that oppressed her physically and in every other way. It had been a relief to her when Yasi was born and she could move with him into her own bedroom. She never returned to the judge’s, and, when he came to hers, she was impatient with his need. Mostly she used Yasi as an excuse—“Sh-h-h! The child is sleeping!”—ignoring her husband’s protest that a boy that age shouldn’t still be in his mother’s bed. The judge’s visits became less and less frequent, and finally they ceased altogether. She hardly noticed, and, until Phul came, thought nothing of it. On his good days, Yasi was always there for her, and she for him. He had a large group of friends and went out most nights. She would wait up for him, and, however late he came home, he would perch on the edge of her bed to tell her about the music festivals he had attended, the poetry recitals, the places where he had dined and danced. He was quite frank with his mother about the girls he slept with—she knew the sort of modern, fashionable girls who formed his social circle, and had even learned to recognize the subtle Parisian perfumes that clung to him. Then there were his bad days, when he didn’t get out of bed, and, when he did, he was silent and sombre—yes, just like his father. But whereas the judge’s anger was always contained, controlled, Yasi’s was explosive—sometimes he would hurl a glass, a vase, a full cup of coffee, not caring where it landed. A few times he had struck her, suddenly, sharply. Afterward she pretended that it hadn’t happened, and never spoke of it to anyone, and certainly not to him. This silence between them was a mutually protective one. Living so closely together, perpetually intent on each other, each was wary of disturbing the other’s balance, so precariously achieved, of anger and resignation, revolt and submission. Buy the print » Alert to every sound from Yasi’s room, one night she heard voices from there that made her tiptoe to his door. She found it open and the judge standing inside, ghostlike in his long white nightshirt. He was talking to Yasi, but as soon as he saw her he shut the door in her face. She had every right to open the door, to know what her husband was saying to their son, but it was not only the judge’s prohibition that prevented her, it was Yasi’s, too; for there were times when he was as forbidding as his father. The next day, she impatiently waited to question him. But he had hardly begun to speak when she interrupted him. “Probably he’s left her everything. Very good! Let her have everything. Only don’t think I won’t get the best lawyer in the world to see that she has nothing.” “He knows how difficult it will be for you to accept the will. To accept her. He says she has no family at all.” “She doesn’t? Then where did he find her? Wasn’t there a whole tribe of them, in one of those rooms where they play music and people throw money?” “He took her away before she was fifteen, and she’s stayed all those years where he put her. So now he thinks she’s like some tame thing in a cage—with a wild creature waiting to get her as soon as she’s released. He made me promise to protect her.” “Against me?” She shouted so violently that he shushed her. They were speaking in English but they knew the servants would be listening and, even without understanding the language, would be perfectly aware of the drift of the conversation. Now she spoke more quietly, and more bitterly. “That’s what he’s wanted from the day you were born. To turn you against me. To have you on his side—and now on hers, too.” Tears, rare for her, streamed from her eyes, streaking her makeup, so that she did at that moment look like a wild creature. At first, Yasi felt like smiling, but then he felt sorry for her, as he had felt sorry for his father, that proud man pleading for a promise. Binny had never allowed her circumstances to depress her. She had been very impatient with her women friends’ constant complaints about unreliable servants, bad marriages, worse divorces. By the time she was in her fifties, she had dropped all of them except one. And, finally, there came the day when this friend, too, had to be abandoned. It happened over cocktails in their favorite hotel lounge. Binny was speaking about her close relationship with her son when the other woman interrupted her: “It’s all Freud, of course.” “I see,” Binny said, after a long silence. “Freud.” She got up. She took out her purse and deposited her share of the check on the table. She gave a brief, cold laugh. “Freud,” she repeated. It was the last word she ever spoke to this friend. So nowadays she comforted herself with her own amusements: shopping for new outfits and jewelry, intense sessions at a salon run by a Swiss lady. Her last stop was always Sugar & Spice, for Yasi’s favorite pastries. If the judge warned her that Yasi was getting too fat, she suppressed her own observation that Yasi was getting too fat. She countered that it was the judge himself who should be careful: a man with two heart attacks, she reminded him. But that morning when she arrived home with the pastries and said to the servant, “Call Yasi Baba,” she was told that he had gone out. “In a taxi?” she asked casually, licking cream off her fingers. The servant said no, Judge Sahib had sent Yasi in the car—and by the way he said it, with lowered eyes, she realized that it was something she wasn’t supposed to know. She stood fighting down a flush of anger, then suddenly she shouted, “Don’t we have any light in this house?” All the shutters and curtains were closed to keep the sun out. The servant turned on the chandelier, but its lustre was absorbed by the Turkish rugs, leaving only a thin shaft of silver light. Binny alone illumined the dark room, with her embroidered silks and the golden glints in her hair. The judge’s longtime driver was always at her disposal, and she had arranged with him that some of her destinations should be kept secret from his employer. She hadn’t realized that the judge had made a similar arrangement. It didn’t take her long to persuade the driver, to whom she had always been generous, to reveal the address where he had taken Yasi, as well as his instructions to take him there again the following night. She called for a taxi for the same time and went there herself. It was across the river, in one of the first new colonies to be built in the area some twenty-five years before, far from the judge’s prestigious neighborhood of shady old trees and large villas. Binny’s taxi took her into a lively bazaar—the open stalls lit up with neon strip-lighting, the barrows of fruit and nuts with Petromax lanterns. Radios played film songs; chickens hung in rows from hooks. Opposite Phul’s residence was a clinic, with patients waiting inside, and next to it a shoe shop, where Binny could try on a variety of ladies’ footwear. This absorbed her so much that she almost missed Yasi’s arrival. She glanced up at the opposite house when she heard the downstairs tenant assuring Yasi that the upstairs tenant was at home. Then she quickly returned her gaze to her feet, which were being fitted into a pair of bright-blue sandals with silver heels, which she liked so much that she bought them there and then. Yasi returned home very late, and as usual he perched on his mother’s bed to tell her where he had been and what he had done. He had attended a music festival, he told her, and he sang her a phrase and swayed to it, his eyes closed. He loved music, which was something he’d got from Binny, though for him it was classical music, whereas she loved swing and jazz. “So that’s where you were all night?” Alerted by her tone, he opened his eyes. She said, “That’s not what I was told.” Yasi said, “He sent me with the driver. I couldn’t say no. She played her harmonium and sang. It was horrible, and I left as soon as I could.” “Then where were you until two in the morning?” “I told you: I was at the music festival. You always think the worst of me. Oh, I’m sick of it! No, don’t talk to me! My head’s bursting!” And, indeed, his face had changed in a way she knew and had dreaded since the first breakdown. The next day, he slept late, and she sat beside him in his bedroom, where he lay with the tousled, tortured look of his sickness. She blamed herself for having been angry at him. She looked at the array of medicine bottles on his bedside table—she didn’t know which were his sleeping pills and which were those prescribed for his moods, or how many he had taken. Usually so particular in his personal habits, he hadn’t even changed out of the shirt he had been wearing the night before. A faint smell rose from it, not the delicate scent of his girlfriends but the heavy bazaar perfume she smelled whenever Phul entered the house. Her pity for him turned into rage against his father. In earlier years, whenever she had felt her life to be intolerable, she had packed her suitcase and announced her decision to return to Bombay. At first, the judge had used a defense attorney’s arguments to dissuade her; later, he had said nothing but simply waved his hand dismissively over the packed suitcase. And after a while she had unpacked it again. But this time she would not do so, would not retreat from her decision; for now it was not she who had to be considered but her son. Leaving Yasi asleep, she walked through the house, through the many unused rooms, some shrouded, others shuttered, and, before she had even closed the judge’s door behind her, she announced, “I’m taking him to Bombay.” These days, she hardly ever entered the judge’s bedroom. Everything was still in its place—his colonial armchair with the extended leg rest, his big bed and bigger chest of drawers, its brass handles too heavy for her to pull, and the mirror too high for her to look into—but there was a subtle change of atmosphere. Well, not so subtle! For there was Phul squatting on the floor by the judge’s feet, massaging them as any devoted wife might do. He was gazing down at her with a look that Binny recognized as the expression—of father as much as of lover—that had so thrilled her in her youth. When Binny entered, Phul turned and smiled—partly in apology but also with some pride at fulfilling a duty that she clearly felt was her right. She was a woman in her early forties, but her smile was peculiarly childlike: her teeth were as small as milk teeth and her gums showed up very pink against her complexion, which was much darker than Binny’s. When she noticed that her sari had slipped off her shoulders, she tugged it back, though not before Binny had seen that she was very thin and with no breasts worth mentioning. “Get up, child,” the judge told Phul, his voice as tender as his gaze on her. Child! Binny thought. Never since the day of their marriage had he called her anything except Bina—never Binny or Baby, as everyone had called her at home in Bombay. And now, as he shifted his eyes from Phul to her, his expression changed completely: for Binny was not at his feet but standing upright and facing him in hostility. She said, “We’re taking the evening plane.” “The boy stays here,” the judge pronounced. “Here with you? And with her?” Since the judge’s last return from the hospital, a carved Kashmiri screen had been placed around the washstand installed for his minor ablutions. Although husband and wife were speaking in English, which she couldn’t understand, Phul had quietly retreated behind this screen. Her absence made no difference to Binny, who continued, “And now you’re sending him to her house at night! Shame on you—your own son! To take her off your hands and do what with her, with a woman old enough to be his mother?” “You’re an educated woman,” the judge said. “You can count. You know that she would have had to be a very precocious seven-year-old to become a mother.” “Not a day longer in this house! We’re going to Bombay. He has to see a doctor.” “We have very good doctors here.” “And what have they done for him, stuffing him full of drugs meant for psychos. He’s nervous, high-strung, like his mother—yes, I know you think I’m strong as a horse and, yes, I’ve had to be, to bear almost forty years of marriage with you. But now—today, he and I . . .” The judge was facing the door and he saw Yasi before she did. “Your mother wants to take you to Bombay,” he told their son. Binny spun around. “Tonight. The seven-thirty plane.” “Why do I always have to be caught between the two of you?” Yasi said. “Between a pair of scissor blades.” He spoke in Hindi, and his parents looked warningly toward the screen. There was no sound or movement from behind it. Binny said, “Come out,” but it was not until the judge repeated the command that Phul emerged. Yasi made a sound that was not like his usual laugh but was meant to express amusement. “I think we’re in the middle of an old-fashioned French farce.” “This is what your father has become, an impotent old man in a farce with his young what’s-it, except this one isn’t young.” She smiled grimly, expecting Yasi to smile with her. Instead he was looking at Phul, as was the judge. She stood humbly, wrapped from head to foot in her widow-like sari, and she pleaded in a low voice, “Send me home.” “Is there anything sadder than an underfunded wax museum?”Buy the print » “Home?” Binny cried. “You are home. This is your home. You can move in right now with my husband—please, I beg you, the house will be empty. I’m taking my son to Bombay.” Before she had finished speaking, Yasi had sunk to a footstool, embroidered years ago by a great-aunt now deceased. He buried his head in his hands and sobbed. His parents exchanged helpless looks. Binny said, “He’s not well. It’s his headaches. He mustn’t be upset.” And the judge said, “You’re right. We mustn’t upset him.” United in concern like any two parents, they spoke as though they were alone in the room. Now Phul came up behind Yasi and laid her hands on his forehead, pressing it as she had done with the judge’s feet. He seemed to relax into her touch, and his weeping stopped. Binny noticed—and hoped the judge did, too—that Phul’s fingers were thick and coarse, unlike Binny’s own, which were adorned with several precious rings, some of them inherited from the judge’s mother. Yasi resumed his lively social round and soon became so preoccupied with helping one of his girlfriends with a private fashion show that he was often out all night. So he was absent the morning the driver returned alone from his daily mission with the report that Phul was sick. At once, the judge asked for his three-piece suit, but when Binny found him trembling with the effort of getting his thin legs into his trousers—how frail he had become!—she put him back into his nightshirt and forced him into bed again. He pleaded with her to ask Yasi to take a doctor and some medicine to Phul. “She’s alone,” he told his wife. “She has no one.” Binny regarded him with angry concern, then turned away. “Yes, yes, yes,” she agreed impatiently to his request. It was almost night when she called for the car and driver. The bazaar was even more alive than on her previous visit—music and lights and announcements on megaphones, vegetables trodden into the gutters, bits of offal thrown for the overfed bazaar dogs. She took the outside staircase that Yasi had climbed as she watched him from the shoe shop. The room she entered had a very different ambience from the one in which Phul presented herself in the judge’s house. Gay and gaudy, with little pictures and little gods, and hangings tinkling with tiny bells, it seemed more innately Phul’s, as though arising from memories of the places and the people among whom she had lived before meeting the judge. A garland of marigolds had been hung around an image of a naked saint with fleshy breasts. Amid the few bolsters scattered on the floor, there were only two pieces of furniture, both large: a colonial armchair, the twin of the one in the judge’s bedroom, and a bed, on which Phul lay. She wore a sort of house gown, as crumpled as the bed and with curry stains on it. When she saw Binny, she started up, and her hand flew to her heart—yes, Binny thought, she had every reason to fear the judge’s wife, after he had kept her holed up in this secret den for twenty-five years. But it turned out that her fear was for the judge—that there was bad news about him that would leave her forever penniless, alone, unprotected. She let out a wail, which ceased the moment she was reassured. Then her first words were of regret for her inability to serve a guest. She blamed her servant boy, who regularly disappeared when needed. She spoke in a rush and in a dialect that Binny found hard to follow. When the servant boy reappeared, Binny sent him for the doctor from the clinic next to the shoe shop. Phul lay resigned and passive on her bed, though her moaning grew louder at the doctor’s arrival. He was dismissive—some sort of stomach infection, he said. It was going around the city; he saw dozens of cases every day. He scribbled a prescription, ordered a diet of rice and curds. To Binny, it seemed that the room itself was a breeding ground for fevers and infections, with sticks of smoking incense distilling their synthetic essence into the air shimmering with summer heat. There was only one window, which was stuck. Watching her visitor wrestle with it, Phul got up and tried to help her and in her weakness almost fell, before Binny caught her. Struggling then to free herself—“No, no!” she cried—she threw up in a spasm that spattered over Binny’s almost new blue-and-silver shoes. Then she allowed herself to be carried to the bed and lay there with only her lips moving. What she seemed to be saying was the English word “sorry”—Binny thought how typical it was of the judge that among the few English words he had taught her was this abject one of apology. Binny was wiping the judge’s face after his meal when he asked, quite shyly, “Is she better?” “For all I know, she may be, but not well enough to come here and infect us all.” She wrung out the facecloth in the basin behind the screen. When she emerged, she saw that he was deep in thought. He made a gesture as though communicating with himself; his hand was unsteady but his voice was determined. “Yasi must take care of her. He promised. Send him again; send him every day.” “If you go on fretting this way, you’ll have another attack and kill the rest of us with having to nurse you.” But it was she herself who went every day, with specially prepared dishes of healthy food. She ascribed the slowness of Phul’s recovery to the unfresh air in her room. With the one window now propped open, the incense and the bazaar perfume blended with the street smells—wilted produce, motor oil, and a nearby urinal. And what was worse were the unhealthy thoughts in Phul’s mind, the despair that kept her moaning, “What will happen to me?” One day, Binny found her up and dressed and ready to go to the judge; she sank back only when Binny asked her, did she really want to expose that sick old man to her infection? Then, for the first time, Phul spoke of Yasi and begged to see him. It was also the first time that Yasi was told about her sickness. “Oh, the poor thing,” he said. “I’d go to see her, but you know as well as I do that I catch everything.” “No, no, of course you mustn’t.” He promised to go once the danger was past. Binny couldn’t help warning, “Only don’t stay with her all night and then tell me lies about music and poetry.” “If you’d just listen for once in your life!” His exasperation lasted only a moment and he continued patiently, “I never stayed all night. I tried to get away as soon as I could, but she’s very clinging. And she’s also very stupid. And her singing, oh, my God, I wanted to pay her to stop. It’s his fault. It was her profession to entertain but he took her away to keep for himself before she could learn anything. Would you believe it, she can hardly read and write. I’d try to teach her, but it would be hopeless. Poor little Phul, and now’s she’s over forty.” He had accumulated a fund of feeling, first for his mother and then for all women whom he considered to have had a raw deal. In the early years of their marriage, the judge had taught Binny to play chess. Now, alone with him in his convalescence, she brought out the neglected chess board and set up a table in his bedroom. He was a keen player, but that day his mind was not totally on the game. Instead of deploring her wrong moves, he asked if Yasi was looking after Phul. She said, “He’s done enough for you. Send someone else.” “There is no one else. I have no one.” “No one except her? And all she’s thinking is: What will happen to me? That’s all I ever hear from her—Yasi ever hears,” she corrected. “That is what she thinks about. Not about you, about herself.” “I’ve told her about the will and the boy’s promise, and still she’s afraid.” “Of me? Tell her she can vomit all over me and still there’s no need.” The judge clicked his tongue in distaste. He pointed at her castle, which she had just stupidly exposed. He wouldn’t allow her to take the move back, but scolded her for not keeping her mind on the game. It was true: she was distracted. If she hadn’t been, she wouldn’t have made her next move, which put his bishop in jeopardy. She was usually more careful—she knew how much he hated losing. Intensely irritated, he reproached her, “It’s as impossible to have a serious game of chess with you as it is to have a serious conversation.” She reared up. “Then let me tell you something serious. Whatever happens, God forbid, she’s safe in her cage: there’s no wild creature waiting for her outside. She can have everything. Tell her! Yasi and I want nothing.” Without a qualm, she took his bishop. In a voice like thunder, the judge shouted, “Call him! Call your son!” He had leaped up and with one sweep of his hand he scattered the chess pieces, so that some fell in her lap, some on the floor. This sudden strength frightened her. She grasped his shoulders to make him sit in the chair again and, though withered, they still felt like iron under her hands. She had to match her strength against his; it didn’t take her long to win, but what she felt was not triumph. She bent down to pick up the pieces from the floor and tried to replace them on the board. He waved her away, as though waving everything away. “You can’t do this,” she said. “In your condition.” “Yes, my condition,” he echoed bitterly. “Because of my condition, I lose my bishop to someone with no notion of the game.” He allowed her to lead him from the chair to his bed. She brought him water, and after he had drunk it he gave the glass back to her and said, “I’m sorry.” “Oh, my goodness!” she cried in shock. He had often done this—scattered the pieces when he was losing—but he had never before apologized for it. She understood what this was about and tried again to reassure him. “Everything will happen as you want it, the way you’ve written it. You have my promise, and Yasi’s promise.” “The boy is weak. It’s not his fault—no, not yours, either. You’ve done your best.” “Who knows what is best and what is not best,” she said. Freud, she thought, bitter in her mind against her friend. “Fortunately, you’re strong enough for both of you. Sometimes too strong.” He smiled, though not quite in his usual grim way. He was looking at her, considering her, as she was now, as she had become; and though what she had become was not what she had been in her youth, he showed tolerance, even affection. It made her put her hands to her hair; she could guess what it looked like, what she looked like to him, how wild. She was overdue at the salon. She had been meaning to go for weeks—but what time did she have, between the judge and Yasi and this home and the secret one across the river, day after day, running from here to there? ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Checking Out	Credit Illustration by Jashar Awan In London, night came too soon. It hung in the morning air like a threat and then in the afternoon a blue-gray dusk descended, and the Victorian buildings all wore a mournful face. In those first weeks, the weightless menace of the cold startled Obinze, drying his nostrils, deepening his anxieties, making him urinate too often. He would walk fast, his hands swallowed up by the sleeves of the gray wool coat his cousin had lent him. Sometimes he would stop outside a tube station, often by a flower or a newspaper vender, and watch the people brushing past. They walked so quickly, as if they had an important destination, a purpose to their lives. His eyes would follow them, with a lost longing, and he would think, You can work, you are legal, you are visible, and you don’t even know how fortunate you are. It was at a tube station that he met the Angolans who would arrange his marriage, exactly two years and three days after he had arrived in England; he kept count. “We’ll talk in the car,” one of them had said over the phone. Their old black Mercedes was fussily maintained, the floor mats wavy from vacuuming, the leather seats shiny with polish. The two Angolans looked alike, with thick eyebrows that almost touched, and they were dressed alike, too, in leather jackets and long gold chains. Their tabletop hair, which sat on their heads like tall hats, surprised him, but perhaps having retro haircuts was part of their hip image. They spoke to him with the authority of people who had done this before, and also with a slight condescension; his fate, after all, was in their hands. “We decided on Newcastle because we know people there and London is too hot right now—too many marriages happening in London, yeah?—so we don’t want trouble,” one of them said. “Everything is going to work out. Just make sure you keep a low profile, yeah? Don’t attract any attention to yourself until the marriage is done. Don’t fight in the pub, yeah?” “I’ve never been a very good fighter,” Obinze said dryly, but the Angolans did not smile. “You have the money?” the other one asked. Obinze handed over two hundred pounds, all in twenty-pound notes that he had taken out of the cash machine over two days. It was a deposit, to prove that he was serious. Later, after he met the girl, he would pay two thousand pounds. “The rest has to be up front, yeah? We’ll use some of it to do the running around and the rest goes to the girl. Man, you know we’re not making anything from this. We usually ask for much more, but we’re doing this for your cousin,” the first one said. Obinze did not believe them, even then. He met the girl, Cleotilde, a few days later, at a shopping center, in a McDonald’s whose windows looked out onto the dank entrance of a tube station across the street. He sat at a table with the Angolans and watched people hurry past, wondering if one of them was she, while the Angolans whispered into their phones; perhaps they were arranging other marriages. “Hello there!” she said. She surprised him. He had expected someone with pockmarks smothered under heavy makeup, someone tough and knowing. But here she was, dewy and fresh, bespectacled, olive-skinned, almost childlike, smiling shyly at him and sucking a milkshake through a straw. She looked like a university freshman who was innocent or dumb, or both. “I just want to be sure that you’re sure about doing this,” he told her. Then, worried that he might frighten her away, he added, “I’m very grateful, and it won’t take too much from you—in a year I’ll have my papers and we’ll do the divorce. But I just wanted to meet you first and make sure you are O.K. to do this.” “Yes,” she said. He watched her, expecting more. She played with her straw, not meeting his eyes, and it took him a while to realize that she was reacting more to him than to the situation. She was attracted to him. “I want to help my mom out. Things are tight at home,” she said, a trace of a non-British accent underlining her words. “She’s with us, yeah,” one of the Angolans said impatiently. “Show him your details, Cleo,” the other Angolan said. His calling her Cleo rang false; Obinze sensed this from the slight surprise on her face. It was a forced intimacy: the Angolan had never called her Cleo before. Obinze wondered how the Angolans knew her. Did they have a list of young women with European Union passports who needed money? Cleotilde pushed at her hair, a mass of tight coils, and adjusted her glasses, as though preparing herself, then presented her passport and license. Obinze examined them. He would have thought her younger than twenty-three. “Can I have your number?” Obinze asked. “Just call us for anything,” the Angolans said, almost at the same time. But Obinze wrote his number on a napkin and pushed it across to Cleotilde. The Angolans gave him a sly look. The next day, on the phone, she told him that she had been living in London for six years, and was saving money to go to fashion school; the Angolans had told him that she lived in Portugal. “Would you like to meet again?” he asked. “It will be much easier if we try to get to know each other a little.” “Yes,” she said without hesitation. They ate fish-and-chips in a pub, a thin crust of grime on the sides of the wooden table, while she talked about her love of fashion and asked him about Nigerian traditional dress. She seemed a little more mature this time; he noticed the shimmer on her cheeks, the more defined curl of her hair, and knew that she had made an effort with her appearance. “What will you do after you get your papers?” she asked him. “Will you bring your girlfriend from Nigeria?” He was touched by her obviousness. “I don’t have a girlfriend.” “I’ve never been to Africa. I’d love to go.” She said “Africa” wistfully, like an admiring foreigner, loading the word with exotic excitement. Her black Angolan father had left her white Portuguese mother when she was three, she told him, and she had not seen him since, nor had she ever been to Angola. She said this with a shrug and a cynical raise of her eyebrows, as though it had never bothered her, an effort so out of character, so jarring, that it showed him just how deeply it did bother her. There were difficulties in her life that he wanted to know more about, parts of her thick, shapely body that he longed to touch, but he was wary of complicating things. He would wait until after the wedding, until the business side of their relationship was finished. She seemed to understand this without their talking about it. And so, as they met in the following weeks, sometimes practicing how they would answer questions during their immigration interview and other times just talking about football, there was, between them, the growing urgency of restrained desire. It was there in how close they stood, not touching, as they waited at the tube station, and in their teasing each other about his support of Arsenal and her support of Manchester United. After he paid the Angolans the additional two thousand pounds, she told him that they had given her only five hundred. “I’m just telling you. I know you don’t have any more money. I want to do this for you,” she said. He wanted to kiss her, her upper lip pinker and shinier with lip gloss than the lower, to hold her, to tell her how deeply, irrepressibly grateful he was. She would never flaunt her power over him. One Eastern European woman, Iloba had told him, had asked a Nigerian man, an hour before their wedding, to give her a thousand pounds extra not to walk away. In a panic, the man had had to call all of his friends to raise the money. When Obinze asked the Angolans how much they had given Cleotilde, they said, “Man, we gave you a good deal,” in the tone of people who knew how much they were needed. It was they, after all, who took him to a lawyer, a low-voiced Nigerian in a swivel chair, who slid backward to reach a file cabinet as he said, “You can still get married, even though your visa is expired. In fact, getting married is now your only choice.” It was they who provided water and gas bills, going back six months, with his name and a Newcastle address. And it was they who found a man who would “sort out” his driver’s license, a man called Brown. Obinze met Brown at the train station in Barking; he stood near the gate, amid the bustle of people, looking around and waiting for his phone to ring, since Brown had refused to give him a phone number. “Are you waiting for somebody?” Brown asked, when he appeared. He was a slight man, his winter hat pulled down to his eyebrows. “Yes. I’m Obinze,” he said, feeling like a character in a spy novel. Brown led him to a quiet corner, handed over an envelope, and there it was, his license, with his photo. It had the genuine, slightly worn look of something owned for a year. A small plastic card, but it weighed down his pocket. A few days later, he walked with it into a London building that looked like a church, steepled and grave from the outside, but inside was shabby, harried, knotted with people. Signs were scrawled on whiteboards: Births and deaths this way. Marriage registration this way. Obinze, his expression carefully frozen in neutrality, handed the license over to the registrar behind the desk. A woman was walking toward the door, talking loudly to her companion. “Look how crowded this place is,” she said. “It’s all sham marriages, all of them, now that Blunkett is after them.” Perhaps she had come to register a death, and her words were merely the lonely lashings-out of grief, but he felt the familiar tightening of panic in his chest. The registrar was examining his license, taking too long. The seconds lengthened and curdled. “All sham marriages, all of them,” rang in Obinze’s head. Finally, the registrar looked up and pushed across a form. “Getting married, are we? Congratulations!” The words came out with the mechanical good cheer of frequent repetition. “Thank you,” Obinze said, and tried to unfreeze his face. “We’re good.”Buy the print » Behind the desk, a whiteboard was propped against a wall, with venues and dates of intended marriages scrawled in blue; a name at the bottom caught his eye. Okoli Okafor and Crystal Smith. Okoli Okafor had been his classmate in secondary school and at university, a quiet boy who had been teased for having a surname for a first name, who later joined a vicious cult at university, and then left Nigeria during one of the long strikes. The memory, clear as a beam of light, took Obinze back to a time when he still believed the universe would bend according to his will. Once, during his final year at university, the year that people danced in the streets because General Abacha had died, his mother had said, “One day, I will look up and all the people I know will be dead or abroad.” For a moment, he felt as if he had betrayed her by having his own plan: to get a postgraduate degree in America, to work in America, to live in America. Of course, he knew how unreasonable the American Consulate could be—the vice-chancellor, of all people, had once been refused a visa to attend a conference—but he had never doubted his plan. He would wonder, later, why he had been so sure. Perhaps it was because he had never just wanted to go abroad, as many others did; some people were now even going to South Africa, which amused him. It had always been America, only America. A longing nurtured and nursed over many years. An advertisement on NTA for “Andrew Checking Out,” which he had watched as a child, had given shape to his longings. “Men, I’m checkin’ out,” the character Andrew had said, staring cockily at the camera. “No good roads, no light, no water. Men, you can’t even get a common bottle of soft drink!” While Andrew was checking out, General Buhari’s soldiers were flogging adults in the streets, lecturers were striking for better pay, and Obinze’s mother decided that he could no longer have Fanta whenever he wanted but only on Sundays. America became a place where bottles of Fanta could be had without permission. Obinze would stand in front of the mirror and repeat Andrew’s words: “Men, I’m checkin’ out!” Later, when he sought out magazines and books and films and secondhand stories about America, his longing took on a minor mystical quality. He saw himself walking the streets of Harlem, discussing the merits of Mark Twain with his American friends, gazing at Mt. Rushmore. Days after he graduated from university, bloated with knowledge about America, he applied for a visa at the Consulate in Lagos. He already knew that the best interviewer was the man with the blond beard, and, as the line moved forward, he hoped that he would not be interviewed by the horror story, a pretty white woman famous for screaming into her microphone and insulting even grandmothers. Finally, it was his turn, and the blond-bearded man said, “Next person!” Obinze walked up and slid his forms underneath the glass. The man glanced at the forms and said, kindly, “Sorry, you don’t qualify. Next person!” Obinze was stunned. He went three more times in the next few months. Each time, he was told, with barely a glance at his documents, “Sorry, you don’t qualify,” and each time he emerged from the air-conditioned cool of the Consulate into the harsh sunlight stunned and unbelieving. “It’s the terrorism fears,” his mother said. “The Americans are now averse to foreign young men.” She told him to find a job and try again in a year. But his job applications yielded nothing. He travelled to Lagos and to Port Harcourt and to Abuja to take assessment tests, which he found easy, and then attended interviews, answering questions fluidly, but only long silences followed. Some of his friends got jobs, people who did not have his second-class upper degree and who did not speak as well as he did. He wondered if employers could smell his America-pining on his breath, or sense how obsessively he still looked at the Web sites of American universities. One day, his mother left him a note on the bathroom sink: “I have been invited to an academic conference in London. We should speak.” He was puzzled. When she came home from her lecture, he was in the living room waiting for her. “Mummy, nno,” he said. She acknowledged his greeting with a nod. “I’m going to put your name on my British visa application as my research assistant,” she said quietly. “That should get you a six-month visa. You can stay with Nicholas in London. See what you can do with your life. Maybe you can get to America from there. I know that your mind is no longer here.” He stared at her. “I understand this sort of thing is done nowadays,” she said, sitting down on the sofa beside him, and trying to sound offhand, but in the uncommon briskness of her words he sensed her discomfort. She was a woman who asked no favors, who would not lie, who would not accept even a Christmas card from her students, because it might compromise her. Yet here she was, behaving as though truth-telling were a luxury that they could no longer afford. She had lied for him. If anyone else had lied for him, it would not have mattered as much or even at all, but she lied for him and he got a six-month visa to the United Kingdom. He felt, even before he left, like a failure. He did not contact her for months, while he stayed with his cousin Nicholas, in Essex. He did not contact her because there was nothing to tell and he wanted to wait until he had something to tell. Throughout his stay in England, he had spoken to her only a few times, strained conversations during which he felt her wondering why he had made nothing of himself. But she never asked for details; she only waited to hear what he was willing to tell. Everyone joked about people who went abroad to clean toilets, and so Obinze approached his first job with irony: he was indeed abroad cleaning toilets, wearing rubber gloves and carrying a pail, in an estate agent’s office on the second floor of a London building. Each time he opened the swinging door of a stall, it seemed to sigh. The beautiful woman who cleaned the ladies’ toilet was Ghanaian, about his age, with the shiniest dark skin he had ever seen. He sensed, in the way she spoke and carried herself, that she came from a background similar to his, a childhood cushioned by family, regular meals, and dreams in which there was no conception of cleaning toilets in London. She ignored his friendly gestures, saying only “Good evening” as formally as she could, but she was friendly with the Polish woman who cleaned the offices upstairs, and once he saw them in a deserted café, drinking tea and talking in low tones. He stood watching them for a while, a great grievance exploding in his mind. He was too close to what she was; he knew her nuances, while with the Polish woman she was free to reinvent herself, to be whoever she wanted to be. The toilets were not bad—some urine outside the urinal, some unfinished flushing. So he was shocked, one evening, to walk into a stall and discover a mound of shit on the toilet lid, solid, tapering, centered as though it had been carefully arranged. It looked like a puppy curled on a mat. It was a performance. He thought about the famed repression of the English. There was, in this performance, something of an unbuttoning. A person who had been fired? Denied a promotion? Obinze stared at that mound of shit for a long time, feeling smaller and smaller as he did so, until it became a personal affront, a punch to his jaw. And all for three quid an hour. He took off his gloves, placed them next to the mound of shit, and left the building. Obinze had not remembered that Iloba now lived in London; he had last seen him days before graduation. Iloba was merely from his mother’s home town, but he had been so enthusiastic about their kinship that everyone on campus assumed that they were cousins. Iloba would often pull up a chair, smiling and uninvited, and join Obinze and his friends at a roadside bar, or appear at Obinze’s door on Sunday afternoons. Once, Iloba had stopped Obinze on the General Studies quad, cheerfully calling out “Kinsman!” and then giving him a rundown of marriages and deaths of people from his mother’s home town whom he hardly knew. “Udoakpuanyi died some weeks ago. Don’t you know him? Their homestead is next to your mother’s.” Obinze nodded and made appropriate sounds, humoring Iloba, because Iloba’s demeanor was always so pleasant and oblivious, his trousers always too tight and too short, showing his bony ankles; they had earned him the nickname Iloba Jump Up. Obinze got his phone number from Nicholas and called him. “The Zed! Kinsman! You did not tell me you were coming to London!” Iloba said, using Obinze’s old nickname. “How is your mother? What of your uncle, the one who married from Abagana? How is Nicholas?” Iloba sounded full of a simple happiness. There were people who were born with an inability to be tangled up in dark emotions, in complications, and Iloba was one of them. With such people, Obinze felt both admiration and boredom. When Obinze asked if Iloba might be able to help him find a National Insurance number, he would have understood a little resentment, a little churlishness—after all, he was contacting Iloba only because he needed something—but it surprised him how sincerely eager to help Iloba was. “I would let you use mine, but I am working with it and it is risky,” Iloba said. “Where do you work?” “In central London. Security. It’s not easy, this country is not easy, but we are managing. I like the night shifts, because it gives me time to read for my course. I’m doing a master’s in management at Birkbeck College.” Iloba paused. “The Zed, don’t worry, we will put our heads together. Let me ask around and let you know.” Iloba called back two weeks later to say that he had found somebody. “His name is Vincent Obi. He is from Abia State. A friend of mine did the connection. He wants to meet you tomorrow evening.” They met in Iloba’s flat. A claustrophobic feel pervaded the concrete neighborhood with scarred walls and no trees. Everything seemed too small, too tight. “Nice place,” Obinze said, not because the flat was nice but because Iloba had a flat in London. “I would have told you to come and stay with me, the Zed, but I live with two of my cousins.” Iloba placed bottles of beer and a small plate of fried chin-chin on the table. The ritual of hospitality raised a sharp homesickness in Obinze. He was reminded of going back to his mother’s village with her at Christmas, aunties offering him plates of chin-chin. “Autonomous lawnmowers were a bad idea. I see that now.”Buy the print » Vincent Obi was a small round man, submerged in a large pair of jeans and an ungainly coat. As he and Obinze shook hands, they sized each other up. From the set of Vincent’s shoulders and the abrasiveness of his manner, Obinze sensed that he had learned early on, as a matter of necessity, to solve his own problems. Obinze imagined Vincent’s Nigerian life: a community secondary school full of barefoot children; a polytechnic paid for with the help of a number of uncles; a family of many children; and a crowd of dependents in his home town who, whenever he visited, would expect large loaves of bread and pocket money carefully distributed to each of them. Obinze saw himself through Vincent’s eyes: a university staff child who grew up eating butter and now needed his help. At first, Vincent affected a British accent, saying “innit” too many times. “This is business, innit, but I’m helping you. You can use my N.I. number and pay me forty per cent of what you make,” Vincent said. “It’s business, innit. If I don’t get what we agree on, I will report you.” “My brother,” Obinze said. “That’s a little too much. You know my situation. I don’t have anything. Please try and come down.” “Thirty-five per cent is the best I can do. This is business.” He lost his accent and now spoke Nigerian English. “Let me tell you, there are many people in your situation.” Iloba spoke in Igbo: “Vincent, my brother here is trying to save money and do his papers. Thirty-five is too much. Please just try and help us.” “You know that some people take half. Yes, he is in a situation, but all of us are in a situation. I am helping him, but this is business.” Vincent’s Igbo had a rural accent. He put the National Insurance card on the table and started to write his bank-account number on a piece of paper. That evening, as dusk fell, the sky muting to a pale violet, Obinze became Vincent. The warehouse chief looked like the archetype of an Englishman that Obinze carried in his mind: tall and spare, sandy-haired and blue-eyed. But he was a smiling man, and in Obinze’s imagination Englishmen were not smiling men. His name was Roy Snell. He vigorously shook Obinze’s hand. “So, Vincent, you’re from Africa?” he asked, as he took Obinze around the warehouse, which was the size of a football field and alive with trucks being loaded, flattened cardboard boxes being folded into a deep pit, and men talking. “Yes. I was born in Birmingham and went back to Nigeria when I was six.” It was the story that he and Iloba had agreed was most convincing. “Why did you come back? How bad are things in Nigeria?” “I just wanted to see if I could have a better life here.” Roy Snell nodded. He seemed like a person for whom the word “jolly” would always be apt. “You’ll work with Nigel today—he’s our youngest,” he said, gesturing toward a man with a pale doughy body, spiky dark hair, and an almost cherubic face. “I think you’ll like working here, Vinny Boy!” It had taken him five minutes to go from Vincent to Vinny Boy and, in the following months, when they played table tennis during lunch break, Roy would tell the men, “I’ve got to beat Vinny Boy for once!” And they would titter and repeat “Vinny Boy.” It amused Obinze how keenly the men flipped through their newspapers every morning, stopping at the photo of the big-breasted woman, examining it as though it were an article of great interest, different from the photo on that same page the previous day, the previous week. Their conversations, as they waited for their trucks to be loaded up, were always about cars and football and, most of all, women, each man telling stories that sounded similar to stories told the day before, the week before. Each time they mentioned knickers—“the bird flashed her knickers”—Obinze was even more amused, because knickers, in Nigerian English, were shorts rather than underwear, and he imagined these nubile women in ill-fitting khaki shorts, the kind he had worn as a junior student in secondary school. Roy Snell’s greeting every morning was a jab to his belly. “Vinny Boy! You all right? You all right?” he would ask. He always put Obinze’s name up for the outside work that paid better, always asked if he wanted to work weekends, which was double time, always asked about girls. It was as if Roy held a special affection for him, which was both protective and kind. “You haven’t had a shag since you came to the U.K., have you, Vinny Boy? I could give you this bird’s number,” he said once. “I have a girlfriend back home,” Obinze said. “So what’s wrong with a little shag, then?” A few men nearby laughed. “My girlfriend has magical powers,” Obinze said. Roy found this funnier than Obinze thought it was. He laughed and laughed. “She’s into witchcraft, is she? All right, then, no shags for you. I’ve always wanted to go to Africa, Vinny Boy. I think I’ll take a holiday and go to Nigeria when you’re back there for a visit. You can show me around, find me some Nigerian birds, Vinny Boy, but no witchcraft!” “Yes, I could do that.” “Oh, I know you could! You look like you know what to do with the birds,” Roy said, with another jab at Obinze’s belly. Roy often assigned Obinze to work with Nigel, perhaps because they were the youngest men in the warehouse. That first morning, Obinze noticed that the other men, drinking coffee from paper cups and checking the board to see who would be working with whom, were laughing at Nigel. Nigel had no eyebrows; the patches of slightly pink skin where his eyebrows should have been gave his plump face an unfinished, ghostly look. “I got pissed at the pub and my mates shaved off my eyebrows,” Nigel told Obinze, almost apologetically, as they shook hands. “No shagging for you until you grow your eyebrows back, mate,” one of the men called out as Nigel and Obinze headed for the truck. Obinze secured the washing machines at the back, tightening the straps until they were snug, and then climbed in and studied the map to find the shortest routes to their delivery addresses. Nigel took bends sharply and muttered about how people drove these days. At a traffic light, he brought out a bottle of cologne from a bag he had placed at his feet, sprayed it on his neck, and then offered it to Obinze. “No, thanks,” Obinze said. Nigel shrugged. Days later, he offered it again. The truck interior was dense with the scent of his cologne and, from time to time, Obinze would take deep gulps of fresh air through the open window. “You’re just new from Africa. You haven’t seen the London sights, have you, mate?” Nigel asked. “No,” Obinze said. And so, after early deliveries in central London, Nigel would take him for a drive, showing him Buckingham Palace, the Houses of Parliament, Tower Bridge, all the while talking about his mother’s arthritis, and about his girlfriend Haley’s knockers. It took a while for Obinze to completely understand what Nigel said, because of his accent, each word twisted and stretched. Once Nigel said “male” and Obinze thought he had said “mile,” and, when Obinze finally understood what Nigel meant, Nigel laughed and said, “You talk kind of posh, don’t you? African posh.” One day, months into his job, after they had delivered a fridge to an address in Kensington, Nigel said, of the elderly man who had come into the kitchen while they were installing it, “He’s a real gent, he is.” Nigel’s tone was admiring, slightly cowed. The man had looked dishevelled and hungover, his hair tousled, his robe open at the chest, and he had said, archly, “You do know how to put it all together,” as though he did not think they did. It amazed Obinze that, because Nigel thought the man was a “real gent,” he did not complain about the dirty kitchen, as he ordinarily would have done. If the man had spoken with a different accent, Nigel would have called him miserly for not giving them a tip. They were approaching their next delivery address, in South London, and Obinze had just called the homeowner to say that they were almost there, when Nigel blurted out, “What do you say to a girl you like?” “What do you mean?” Obinze asked. “Truth is, I’m not really shagging Haley. I like her, but I don’t know how to tell her. The other day, I went round her house and there was another bloke there.” Nigel paused. Obinze tried to keep his face expressionless. “You look like you know what to say to the birds, mate,” Nigel added. “Just tell her you like her,” Obinze said, thinking how seamlessly Nigel, at the warehouse with the other men, contributed stories about shagging Haley, and, once, about shagging her friend while Haley was away on holiday. “No games and no lines. Just say, ‘Look, I like you and I think you’re beautiful.’ ” Nigel gave him a wounded glance. It was as if he had convinced himself that Obinze was skilled in the art of women; he expected some profundity, which Obinze wished, as he loaded a dishwasher onto a trolley and wheeled it to the door, that he had. An Indian woman opened the door, a portly, kindly housewife, who offered them tea. Many people offered tea or water. A sad-looking woman had once offered Obinze a small pot of homemade jam, and he had hesitated, but he sensed that whatever deep unhappiness she had would be compounded if he said no, and so he had taken the jam home, where it was still languishing in the fridge, unopened. “Thank you, thank you,” the Indian woman said, as Obinze and Nigel installed the new dishwasher and rolled away the old one. At the door, she gave Nigel a tip. Nigel was the only driver who split the tips down the middle with Obinze; the others pretended not to remember to share. Once, when Obinze was working with another driver, an old Jamaican woman pushed ten pounds into his pocket when the driver wasn’t looking. “Thank you, brother,” she said, and it made him want to call his mother in Nsukka and tell her about it. One morning in early summer, Obinze arrived at the warehouse and knew right away that something was amiss. The men avoided his eyes, and Nigel turned swiftly—too swiftly—toward the toilet when he saw Obinze. They knew. They had somehow found out. They saw the headlines about asylum seekers draining the National Health Service, they thought of the hordes further crowding a crowded island, and now they knew that he was one of the damned, working with a name that was not his. Where was Roy Snell? Had he gone to call the police? Was it the police that you called? Obinze tried to remember details from the stories of people who had been caught and deported, but his mind was numb. He felt naked. He wanted to turn and run, but his body kept moving, against his will, toward the loading area. Then he sensed a movement behind him, quick and violent and too close, and, before he could turn around, a paper hat was pushed onto his head. It was Nigel, and with him a crowd of grinning men. “Happy birthday, Vinny Boy!” they all said. “It must be for you–my people love me.”Buy the print » Obinze froze, frightened by the complete blankness of his mind. Then he realized what it was. Vincent’s birthday. Roy must have told the men. Even he had not remembered to remember Vincent’s date of birth. “Oh!” was all he said, nauseated with relief. Nigel asked him to come into the coffee room, where all the men were trooping in, passing around the muffins and Coke they had bought with their own money in honor of a birthday they believed was his. A realization brought tears to his eyes: he felt safe. Obinze was mildly surprised when Vincent called him that night, because he had called him only once before, months ago, when he changed his bank and wanted to give him the new account number. He wondered whether to say “Happy birthday” to Vincent, whether the call was indeed related to his birthday. “Vincent, kedu?” he said. “I want a raise.” Had Vincent learned that from a film? The words sounded contrived and comical. “I want forty-five per cent. I know you are working more now.” “Vincent, ahn-ahn. How much am I making? You know I am saving money to do this marriage thing.” “Forty-five per cent,” Vincent said, and hung up. Obinze decided to ignore him. He knew Vincent’s type; he would push to see how far he could go and then he would retreat. If Obinze called back and tried to negotiate, it might embolden Vincent to make more demands. But he would not risk losing Obinze’s regular weekly deposit entirely. And so when, a week later, in the morning bustle of drivers and trucks, Roy said, “Vinny Boy, step into my office for a minute,” Obinze thought nothing of it. On Roy’s desk was a newspaper, folded at the page with the photo of the big-breasted woman. Roy slowly put his cup of coffee on top of the newspaper. He seemed uncomfortable, and wouldn’t look directly at Obinze. “Somebody called yesterday,” he told Obinze. “Said you’re not who you say you are—that you’re illegal and working with a Brit’s name.” There was a pause. Obinze was stung with surprise. Roy picked up the coffee cup again. “Why don’t you just bring in your passport tomorrow and we’ll clear it up, all right?” Obinze mumbled the first words that came to him. “O.K. I’ll bring my passport tomorrow.” He walked out of the office knowing that he would never feel again what he had felt moments ago. Was Roy merely asking him to bring in his passport to make the dismissal easier for him, to give him an exit, or did Roy really believe that the caller had been lying? Why would anybody call about such a thing unless it was true? Obinze had never made as much of an effort as he did the rest of the day to seem normal, to tame the rage that was engulfing him. It was not the thought of the power that Vincent had over him that infuriated him but the recklessness with which Vincent had exercised it. He left the warehouse that evening for the final time, wishing more than anything that he had told Nigel and Roy his real name. The Angolans told him that things had “gone up,” or were “tough,” opaque words that were supposed to explain each new request for more money. “This is not what we agreed to,” Obinze would say, or “I don’t have any extra cash right now,” and they would reply, “Things have gone up, yeah,” in a tone that he imagined was accompanied by a shrug. A silence would follow, a wordlessness over the phone line that told him that it was his problem, not theirs. “I’ll pay it in by Friday,” he would say, finally, before hanging up. Nicholas gave Obinze a suit for the wedding. “It’s a good Italian suit,” he said. “It’s small for me, so it should fit you.” The trousers were big, and they bunched up when Obinze tightened his belt, but the jacket, also big, shielded the unsightly pleat of cloth at his waist. Not that he minded. He was so focussed on finally beginning his life that he would have swaddled his lower parts in a baby’s napkin if it had been required. He and Iloba met Cleotilde near City Center. She was standing under a tree with some friends, her hair pushed back with a white band, her eyes boldly lined in black; she looked like an older, sexier person. Her ivory dress was tight at the hips. He had paid for the dress. “I haven’t got any proper going-out dress,” she had said, in apology, when she called to tell him that she had nothing that looked convincingly bridal. She hugged him. She looked nervous, and he tried to deflect his own nervousness by thinking about them together after this—how, in less than an hour, he would be free to walk with surer steps on Britain’s streets, and free to kiss her. “You have the rings?” Iloba asked her. “Yes,” Cleotilde said. She and Obinze had bought them the week before, plain, cheap matching rings from a side-street shop, and she had looked so delighted, laughingly slipping different rings on and off her finger, that he wondered if she wished it were a real wedding. “Fifteen minutes to go,” Iloba said. He took pictures, his digital camera held away from his face, saying, “Move closer! O.K., one more!” His sprightly good spirits annoyed Obinze. On the train up to Newcastle the previous day, while Obinze had spent his time looking out the window, unable even to read, Iloba had talked and talked, until his voice became a distant murmur, perhaps because he was trying to keep Obinze from worrying too much. Now he talked to Cleotilde’s friends with easy friendliness about the new Chelsea manager, about “Big Brother,” as if they were all there for something ordinary and normal. “Time to go,” Iloba said. They walked toward the civic center. The afternoon was bright with sunshine. Obinze opened the door and stood aside for the others to go ahead, into the sterile hallway, where they paused to get their bearings, to be sure which way the registry office was. Two policemen stood behind the door, watching them with stony eyes. Obinze quieted his panic. There was nothing to worry about, nothing at all, he told himself; the civic center probably had policemen present as a matter of routine. But he sensed in the sudden smallness of the hallway, the sudden thickening of doom in the air, that something was wrong. Then another man approached him, his shirtsleeves rolled up, his cheeks so red that he looked as though he were wearing terrible makeup. “Are you Obinze Maduewesi?” the red-cheeked man asked. In his hands was a sheaf of papers in which Obinze could see a photocopy of his passport. “Yes,” Obinze said quietly, and that word was an acknowledgment to the red-cheeked immigration officer, to Iloba, to Cleotilde, and to himself that it was over. “Your visa is expired and you are not allowed to be present in the U.K.,” the man said. One of the policemen clamped handcuffs around his wrists. He felt himself watching the scene from far away, watching himself walk to the police car outside, and sink into the too-soft seat in the back. There had been so many times in the past when he had feared that this would happen, so many moments that had become one single blur of panic, and now it felt like the dull echo of an aftermath. Cleotilde flung herself on the ground and began to cry. She may never have visited her father’s country, but he was convinced at that moment of her Africanness; how else would she have been able to fling herself to the ground with that perfect dramatic flourish? He wondered if her tears were for him or for herself, or for what might have been between them. She had no need to worry; the policemen barely glanced at her. It was he who felt the heaviness of the handcuffs during the drive to the police station, he who silently handed over his watch and his belt and his wallet and his phone. Nicholas’s large trousers were slipping down his hips. “Your shoes, too. Take off your shoes,” the policeman said. He took off his shoes. He was led to a cell. It was small, with brown walls, and metal bars so thick that his hand could not get around one. It reminded him of the chimpanzee cage at Nsukka’s dismal, forgotten zoo. From the high ceiling, a single bulb burned. There was an emptying, echoing vastness in the tiny cell. “Were you aware that your visa had expired?” “Yes,” Obinze said. “Were you about to have a sham marriage?” “No. Cleotilde and I have been dating for a while.” “I can arrange for a lawyer for you, but it’s obvious you’ll be deported,” the immigration officer said evenly. When the lawyer came, puffy-faced, dark arcs under his eyes, Obinze thought of all the films in which the state lawyer is distracted and exhausted. He came with a bag but did not open it, and he sat across from Obinze, holding nothing—no file, no paper, no pen. He was pleasant and sympathetic. “The government has a strong case. We can appeal, but, to be honest, it will only delay the case. You will eventually be removed from the U.K.,” he said, with the air of a man who had said those same words, in the same tone, more times than he wished to, or could, remember. “I’m willing to go back to Nigeria,” Obinze said. The last shred of his dignity was like a wrapper slipping off his waist that he was desperate to retie. The lawyer looked surprised. “O.K., then,” he said, and got up a little too hastily, as though grateful that his job had been made easier. Obinze watched him leave. He was going to check a box on a form that said that his client was willing to be removed. Removed. The word made Obinze feel inanimate. A thing to be removed. A thing without breath and mind. A thing. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Kattekoppen	Credit Photograph by Grant Cornett Logar, Afghanistan We went through a number of howitzer liaisons before Levi. His predecessors, none of whose names I remember, were able to build artillery plans in support of our night raids. They were skilled enough to communicate these plans to the soldiers who would fire the howitzers. In fact, any one of them would’ve been perfectly fine as a liaison to a normal organization. But ours was not a normal organization. Sometimes what went on gave normal men pause. And if they paused we’d send them back and demand a replacement. After a few rounds of this, the lieutenant in charge of the howitzer battery said, “Enough.” Which was understandable, but not acceptable. So on our first night without a mission Hal and I took a walk to the howitzer camp. We set out from the dog cages under a full moon, which seemed to cast X-rays rather than light. Thus the dogs’ ribs were exposed, as was the darkness below the ice on our steep climb uphill. The steel barrels of the howitzer guns were visible as shadows, and the plywood door of the howitzer camp was illuminated as if it were bone. Hal knocked on this door with an ungloved fist. The lieutenant answered. “Hey, guys,” he said. Hal pushed past him into an empty room. “Get your men in here,” he said. The room filled with soldiers feigning indifference, but every one of them had ideas about the war. The variety of ideas among soldiers developed into a variety of ideas among units, which necessitated an operational priority scheme. As SEAL Team Six, we were at the top of that scheme. Our ideas about the war were the war. Therefore, we could knock on any unit’s door in the middle of the night, assemble the soldiers in a room, and tell them what was what. On this night, Hal told them that we needed a goddam liaison. Then he searched the room for one. Levi’s height—he was by far the tallest man there—made it easy for Hal to point and say, “How about you?” You put a normal man on the spot like that and he’ll get this look. Levi did not get that look. This may have been, at least partly, because Levi was Dutch, born and raised. Why he had joined the United States Army was anyone’s guess. “Yes,” Levi answered. “I am available. Howeffer, I have a pregnant wife in Texas, and in two weeks’ time I would like to go there for the burt of my son.” Hal, with his scar like a frown even when he was smiling, nodded my way. I nodded back. “We can work that out,” Hal said. So Levi became our howitzer liaison. He moved into our compound and had his mail delivered to our tactical-operations center. Packages arrived from his mother in Amsterdam. Inside the packages was a variety of Dutch candy. Levi opened these packages at his desk. He removed the Vlinders and the Stroopwafels, but he always left the licorice Kattekoppen in the box. Apparently, Levi had loved these candies as a kid, and his mother was under the impression that he still loved them. But he didn’t. So he set the Kattekoppen on the shelf by the door, where we kept boxes of unwanted food. Perhaps “unwanted” is too strong a word. Better to say that no one wanted that particular type of food at that particular time. Everyone knew that a time would come, born of boredom, curiosity, or need, when we would want some Carb Boom, squirrel jerky, or a Clue bar. But, until that time, the food sat on the shelf. And the Kattekoppen sat longer than most. American licorice was red or black. It came in ropes or tubes. Kattekoppen were brown cat heads with bewildered faces. They made me think of a bombing attack I’d been involved in, in Helmand, during a previous deployment. We’d dropped a five-hundred-pound laser-guided bomb with a delayed fuse on a group of men standing in a circle in a dusty field. The round hit at the center of the circle and buried itself, by design, before the fuse triggered the explosion. The blast killed the men instantly, crushing their hearts and bursting their lungs, then flung their bodies radially. The dead landed on their backs, and a wave of rock and dirt, loosed by the explosion, sailed over them. The dust, however, floated above. As we walked in from our covered positions, it descended slowly. By the time we reached the impact site, it had settled evenly on the dead, shrouding their open eyes and filling their open mouths. Those dusty faces, their uniform expressions of astonishment, were what I thought of when I saw Kattekoppen. Nevertheless, the day came when I pulled a Kattekoppen out of the bag and held it up. “How’s this taste?” I asked Levi. “Goot,” he said. So I popped it in my mouth and chewed, and I found that it did not taste goot. In fact, it tasted like ammonia. I ran outside and spat the chewed-up bits on the snow, but the bad taste remained. Thinking that snow might help, I ate some. When that failed, I ate dirt. But nothing worked. Others who tried the Kattekoppen didn’t even make it outside. They simply spat their vociferous and obscene rejections right into the trash can next to Levi’s desk. If these rebukes of his childhood favorite bothered Levi, he never let on. He just sat in his little chair, which was actually a normal chair dwarfed by his abnormal size, and, with his wee M16 lying by his side, he drew circles. In a perfect world, there would be no circles. There would be two points, launch and impact, and between them a flawless arc. But in reality our maps were best guesses, the winds erratic, and every howitzer barrel idiosyncratically bent. Not to mention the imperfect men who operated the howitzers—those who lifted the shells into the breech, who loaded the charges, who programmed the fuses. These men were exhausted, lonesome, and fallible. So Levi’s circles were graphic depictions of possible error. They described, factoring in the permutation of variables, where the howitzer rounds might fall. He drew them around our most likely targets and, since everything was subject to change, he did so in grease pencil on a laminated map. Every circle contained a potential target, along with a subset of Afghanistan proper, its wild dogs, hobbled goats, ruined castles, and winter stars. Before a mission, I’d study the contour lines within these circles in order to understand how to navigate the rise and fall of the terrain. Similarly, I’d study the stamps on the packages sent by Levi’s mother. Buy the print » These stamps paid tribute to the painter Bruegel. Each stamp focussed on a particular detail within a particular painting. For example, the image on the stamp featuring “Hunters in the Snow” was of the hunters and their dogs returning from the hunt. Staggering through knee-deep drifts, they crested a hill that overlooked their tiny village. Returning from our manhunts through the snowy mountains west of Logar, I felt the weariness of Bruegel’s hunters. Cresting the hill that overlooked our frozen outpost, I saw their village. And, within its fortified boundaries, I watched men go about their daily tasks as if unaware of any higher purpose. As the time for Levi’s trip home approached, the howitzer lieutenant correctly predicted that, rather than work anything out, we’d simply take another of his men to cover Levi’s absence. So he raised the issue with his headquarters. He did so via an e-mail to the 1st Infantry Division’s command sergeant major, requesting an increase in manpower to cover our requirement for a liaison. The lieutenant forwarded us the sergeant major’s response, in which the sergeant major said that the only fucking way he’d even consider this horseshit request was if we provided him with written justification A.S.A.P. The chances of our providing justification, written or otherwise, to anyone, for anything, were zero. So the night before Levi went home Hal and I paid another visit to the howitzer camp. That night, a blizzard clobbered Logar. I met Hal by the dog cage, as usual. The heavy snowfall had caused us to cancel that night’s mission, and the dogs, which on off nights normally hurled themselves at the chain link, setting off the entire dog population of Logar, were still. Likewise, Hal was not himself. He shivered, and his scar was barely visible. When we reached the door of the howitzer camp, he had to knock twice. The lieutenant answered. “Hey, guys. I’m really sorry about all this,” he said. “Yeah, yeah,” Hal said. He poked his head in and saw a chubby kid playing mah-jongg on a computer. “We’ll take him.” “Uh, O.K.,” the lieutenant said. “But the sergeant major’s going to be pissed.” “Not my problem,” Hal said. Hal returned to the compound to sleep, and I waited outside until the kid pushed through the door with a variety of coffee mugs carabinered to the webbing of his enormous ruck. “Ready!” he announced. And, with his headlamp on high, we set off down the steep, icy road. Falling snow converged to a vanishing point in the beam of the kid’s headlamp. When he fell behind, I could almost reach out and touch this point. But then he’d trot up alongside me, mugs clattering, and it would recede. On one such occasion, he presented me with a handful of bullets. “Can I trade these in for hollow-point?” he asked. “I heard you guys roll with hollow-point. I also heard you guys muj up, in turbans and man jammies and shit, with MP5s tucked up in there. Like, ka-chow! That must be wicked! And I heard you guys have makeup artists that turn you into village elders so you can drop mad PSYOP on the GENPOP. Is that true? You don’t have to tell me, but holy fuck! ” The kid fell behind, caught his breath, and trotted up beside me again. “So can I get an MP5?” he asked. I ushered the kid to the T.O.C. and showed him Levi’s computer. After booting up mah-jongg, he was quiet. My next task was to put Levi on the rotator at dawn. The rotator was a cargo helicopter that every morning ran a clockwise route around the A.O.R. From our outpost, it would fly to Bagram, where Levi could catch a transport home. With daybreak less than an hour away, I poured myself a cup of coffee and sat back to watch the drone feed. The drone was on the wrong side of the storm that sat over Logar, and its camera, which normally looked down on our targets, was searching a dark wall of cumulonimbus for a hole. Not finding one, it punched into the thick of the storm. For a moment, it seemed like it would be O.K., then ice piled onto its wings as if a bricklayer had thrown it on with a trawl, and the drone hurtled toward earth. I wrote down its grid, because if it crashed we’d have to go out and fetch its brain. But, as the drone fell into warmer air, the ice peeled away, and, when it levelled off, its camera remained facing aft. I watched the drone pull a thread of the storm into clear morning air. By the time I heard the rotator’s approach, the storm had passed. Outside, covering everything was a pristine layer of snow, which dawn had turned pink. I started the pink HiLux. I honked the horn and it made a pink noise. Levi emerged from his pink tent with his pink ruck. I drove him down a pink road to the pink L.Z. The rotator came in sideways, and its thumping rotors kicked up a thick pink cloud. Crouching, Levi and I ran through the cloud to a spot alongside the warm machine. A crewman opened the side door and handed me the mail, which included a package from Levi’s mother. Then Levi hopped aboard and was on his way home. The sun rose as I drove back to the T.O.C., and the whole outpost sparkled at the edge of the war. The stamps on the package from Levi’s mother featured “Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.” The detail chosen was Icarus drowning. What was not shown was how the world went on without him. The new liaison was asleep in Levi’s chair when I got back. I opened the package quietly, so as not to wake him. More Kattekoppen. I put it on the shelf with the rest and was about to go to bed when the phones started ringing. Two soldiers on their way home from a bazaar south of Kabul had taken a wrong turn. They’d hit a dead end and been ambushed. Bloody drag marks led from the scene, which was littered with M9 and AK brass. Witnesses said that the soldiers had been taken alive, which meant a rescue operation, led by us. We received pictures of the soldiers from a search-and-rescue database. One soldier had a chin and the other did not. The T.O.C. filled with C.I.A., F.B.I., and O.D.A. Then a massive helicopter slung in the missing soldiers’ ruined truck. Its windows had been shot through, and bullet holes riddled the skin. The door creaked open, and blood trickled out. Their smell was still in it, along with the stuff they’d bought at the bazaar, intact in a flimsy blue bag. “I love your early work.”Buy the print » The drag marks at the scene led to a tree line. The tree line opened onto a number of compounds, which we raided that night. Those compounds led to other compounds, which we raided the next day. The second set of compounds led to a village, which, over two days and one night, we cleared. That delivered us to a mountain. It took two nights and a day to clear all the caves up one side and down the other. Which led us to another village. And so on. Time became lines on a map leading in all directions from Chin and No Chin’s ambush. We searched for them night and day. One night, we were moving along slowly, with the moon casting our shadows on the snow and the wind in our faces, when an air-raid siren blasted and a small village suddenly appeared on our left in an explosion of light. The village was just beyond a tree line. I could feel the siren in my throat. Fearing an ambush, I radioed the howitzers for a fire mission. “Send it,” they replied. While calculating the target coördinates, I noticed that the leaves shone like silver dollars in the wind. Kids in the village, awakened by the ruckus, quit their beds to run under the streetlights. Women chased after them. Men appeared on their roofs to wave to one another, and to shout back and forth over the siren’s blare: Isn’t this something! This, we later learned, was the unexpected restoration of power after months without—the opposite of a rolling blackout. The resulting commotion continued until one light went out, then another. Until the women had chased the kids inside and the men had waved goodbye. Until all the lights were out. Then someone shut down the air-raid siren, and its blare died to a whistle, and the whistle died to a tumble of bearings. After which all was dark and quiet. “Send your fire mission,” the howitzers repeated. “Never mind,” I said. And we continued on our search. If we’d been asked how long we’d go on searching, our answer would have been: as long as it takes. Think of the families back home. Baby Chin. Mother No Chin. But in truth there were limits, and we had methods for determining them. From the streaks of blood found in the drag marks, we ascertained wounds. From the wounds, we developed timelines. And we presented these timelines on a chart, which read from top to bottom, best case to worst. By the time that village lit up beside us, we were at the bottom of the chart. The next night, we started looking for graves. And although it seemed as if we were forever tripping over graves, when it came time to actually locate a specific one we couldn’t. There was no time to sleep. My fingernails stopped growing. My beard turned white. Cold felt hot and hot felt cold. And, soon enough, I began to hallucinate. One night, as we approached a well, I watched Chin jump out and run away, laughing. Another night, I saw No Chin ride bare-ass up a moonbeam. Meanwhile, the Mah-jongg Kid had proved himself worthy by having the howitzers fully prepped for that pop-up non-ambush, and for every close call since. At first, I preferred Levi’s circles to M.J.’s hyperbolas, which opened onto an infinity that no howitzer could possibly reach. But then, as the search for our missing comrades wore on, producing only dry holes and dead ends, the idea of thrusting death somewhere beyond the finite gained a sort of appeal. We were down to almost nothing on the unwanted-food shelf. Only the Kattekoppen and some kind of macaroni that required assembly were left by the time we found No Chin’s body in a ditch outside Maidan Shar. No Chin had a note in his pocket indicating the whereabouts of Chin. We would find Chin buried under a tree by a wall. We hiked to trees without walls, walls without trees, graveless walls, and treeless graves, until finally, by a process of elimination, we stumbled on the right combination and dug. Under a thin layer of dirt was a wooden box. Crammed inside the box was Chin. Prior to the mission, I’d filled my pockets with Kattekoppen, which came in handy, because Chin was decomposing and covered with malodorous slime. The smell only got worse as our medic stuffed Chin into a bag. Others gagged and puked. But I popped a steady supply of Kattekoppen, which kept the smell at bay. The next morning, when the rotator arrived, we slid Chin in one door and Levi hopped out the other. It was a bright warm morning. The snow had melted and the sun rose on a muddy world. Levi and I got into the HiLux and, on the ride away from the L.Z., I congratulated him and asked how it felt to be a father. “It is strange,” Levi said. “I have never much worried, but sefferal times a night now I wake up afraid the boy is dead. And I sneak into his room and, like this”—he wet an index finger and held it under his nose—“I check his breeding.” From Levi, hunched over, with his finger under his nose and his knees above the dash, I looked out the windshield at the war, which, stamp-wise, could’ve been a scene from Bruegel’s “Triumph of Death”—one that, even without a skeleton playing the hurdy-gurdy, or a wagon full of skulls, or a burning shipwreck, or a dark iron bell, still raised the question of salvation. At the smoldering trash pit, I turned and drove toward the artillery range. “We will make a fire mission?” Levi asked. “Yes,” I said. Excited, Levi got out the big green radio and started messing with freqs. I parked at the edge of the range, where the ashen hulks of what might once have been tanks had been bulldozed into a pile. Presumably, the same dozer that had cleared these wrecks had also scraped the giant concentric rings in the field of mud before us. Way out on top of the bull’s-eye was our target, Chin and No Chin’s truck, right where I’d asked for it to be slung. Hal and I had met at the dog cage the night before to discuss the rise of M.J., and whether or not Levi still had a place with us. While the dogs rolled around, we’d devised this test. I sat on the hood of the HiLux, as Levi shot a bearing to the target with his compass, and gauged the winds by the smoke blowing off the trash pit. Then he called it in, his Dutch accent somehow thicker after two weeks in Texas. But the howitzers’ read-back was good. And, soon enough, I saw iron scratches against the clear blue sky. I followed them to impact, where fountains of mud ascended from white-hot flashes. The mud fell, the booms rolled by, and I saw that the hits were good: the truck was badly damaged. Still, enough of it remained to be hit again, without question. While Levi questioned, the magnetic pole upon which his bearing was anchored drifted ever so slightly; the breeze against which he’d applied his correction stiffened, and the men cradling the heavy shells of his next barrage cursed the unknown reasons for the holdup. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Summer of ’38	Credit Photograph by José Manuel Navia / Agence VU / Aurora Montse held the door of the lift open for her daughter and put her hand in her coat pocket to make sure that she had her keys. She would walk Ana to her car, which was parked nearby, then, once Ana had driven away, continue on the short distance to the town center to get some groceries. It was easier like this, easier than having Ana say goodbye to her in the apartment, easier than hearing the lift door close, knowing that there was nothing except the night ahead, no other sound but the traffic outside and the birdsong, which would die out when darkness fell. “Oh, I meant to say that the man—you know, the man from the electric company—” Ana looked at her as though the man were someone she should know. “The one I told you about—he knew I was your daughter and he’s writing a book about the war in his spare time and he asked me where you lived.” “I don’t know that man at all,” Montse said as she closed the front door of the building. “I’ve never had anyone from FECSA in the apartment. He is mixing me up with someone else.” She liked to sound firm and in control. It saved her daughters from having to worry about her living on her own. “Well, anyway, he said he knows you, and I gave him the address. So if he calls on you, that will be why.” “The war?” “He’s collecting information on the war.” “Does he think I was in the war?” “I don’t know what he’s doing exactly. He’s writing a book.” “Well, I am sure he can write it without my help.” “He’s nice. I mean, if there’s ever a problem with the electricity, he comes.” “Don’t be giving my address out to people.” They had reached Ana’s car. Montse saw that Ana was not even listening to her. Her youngest daughter, the one who lived closest by, took things lightly. She was, Montse thought, probably relieved that her weekly visit to her mother was over and she was on her way home. Montse went out three times a day, even in winter. There was always something to buy, if only a loaf of bread or a newspaper. It meant that she took some exercise and saw people. The week after Ana had mentioned the man from the electric company, Montse saw him waiting at the front door of her building when she came home with a bag of fruit. She did know him, she realized; he was someone she often saw on the street. She must have been aware, too, that he worked for FECSA, although she couldn’t think how she knew this. She didn’t think she knew his name or anything else about him. Once he had introduced himself, she realized that he wanted to come up to the apartment with her. She was unsure about this. Since Paco died, she had become protective of her own space and she disliked surprises. She even asked her daughters to phone at appointed times. But there was something both eager and easygoing in this man’s manner and she knew that it would sound rude if she asked him to say whatever he had to say in the hallway of the building. Also, she thought, if something ever went wrong with her electricity, it would be useful to know a man who could fix it. “Ana may have told you what I am doing,” he said, once he was sitting in the armchair opposite hers with a glass of water in his hand. She nodded but said nothing. “I am trying to chart every event of the war, just in this valley and the mountains,” he said. “I wasn’t involved in the war,” she replied. “My father wasn’t even involved. And I had no brothers.” “Oh, no, it wasn’t to ask you anything, but to say that a retired general in Madrid—actually, he’s from Badajoz—who was here during the war is coming back to show me where the dugouts were and exactly where the guns were positioned. He hasn’t been here since then.” “One of Franco’s generals?” “Yes, though he wasn’t a general during the war. I found his name and address and wrote to him. I didn’t expect a reply, but he is coming. I spoke to him on the phone and the only person he remembered here, besides the other soldiers, was you. He remembered your name and said that he would like to see you. I asked around, because I didn’t recognize your maiden name. I asked around without telling anyone why.” “And what is his name?” “Ramirez. Rudolfo Ramirez. He was high up in the Army when he retired. I didn’t ask him how old he was, but he sounded in good shape. Still drives a car.” Montse nodded calmly and then looked toward the window, as though distracted by something. “There were a few of them,” she said. “I’m not sure I would remember him. We didn’t have much to do with them, as you can imagine.” “Anyway, he’s coming here on Saturday of next week. There will be no big fuss—I’ve assured him of that. I’ve told no one that he is coming, except you. He’ll show me what he needs to show me and then I’ll take him to Lleida to catch the train back to Madrid. But he said that he would come for lunch at Mirella’s, and when I told him that you were still living here he asked if you might join us.” “I’m here all right,” she said, “but I don’t go out much.” “I understand. But no one will know who he is. I could collect you and drop you back if that would suit you.” “The war was a long time ago.” She was going to say something else and then hesitated. “It was fifty years ago. More.” “I know. It was hard for all of you who lived through it. The more I find out about it, the clearer it is how much it divided people. I’m trying to get the facts right while there is still time. It’s history now—at least, for the younger generation it is.” She smiled. “Anyway, yours was the name he gave me, and he seemed delighted to hear that you were well.” “I’m not sure I would know him. In fact, I’m sure I wouldn’t.” “Shall I drop by next week and see what you think?” “If you want, but I don’t go out much. I’ve never been to Mirella’s.” “Well, it’s Saturday week at two o’clock, and, as I said, it would be just the three of us and no one any the wiser. He won’t be in uniform, or anything like that.” “I’m sure he hasn’t been in uniform for a long time if he was one of Franco’s generals,” she said, and then instantly regretted having sounded so sure, so up to date, since she wished to give the impression that she was old and living in her own world. “It is good of him to come,” the man said. “I was surprised.” Montse looked back toward the window and did not reply. She hoped that it was clear to her visitor that he should go. Rudolfo would be over eighty now, she calculated. But he would still have something of what he had then, even if it lurked beneath sagging flesh and stiff hesitant movements. She pictured an old man getting slowly out of an old-fashioned car, his hair white, his frame frail. Maybe he would still have something of the effortless charm that had come to him that summer as naturally as light did to the morning. It was the summer of ’38, when the prisoners had all been taken to Lleida or Tremp. Those who had avoided capture had fled to the mountains or crossed the border into France or fled south to Barcelona. The town was quiet for a week or more—no one was sure who would come back or what would happen. The dam was being protected by Franco’s soldiers, that was all. Then more of his soldiers began to pile in, and they took over the town hall, and they put up tents on the grounds of the school. Orders were given that shops and bars were to resume their normal hours. At first, she remembered, people were afraid and stayed indoors. There were rumors that they were all going to be taken away, every house cleared, even the houses that had nothing to do with the war. Under cover of darkness, some people made their way into the mountains or toward the border. Everyone was waiting for something to happen. But nothing happened except that ordinary life came back, or something like it. Once the shops had reopened and there was Mass again on Sundays, the talk was about the dam and how carefully it was being guarded, and about a clearing that the soldiers had made by the edge of the water and the makeshift bar they had built and the fire they lit every night to keep the mosquitoes away. The talk was of the supplies of food they had, and the guitar playing and singing and dancing. She did not go there at first, but girls she knew did and even some of the older people who wanted to forget about the war. Later, Rudolfo told her that he had seen her on the street, noticed her as she went shopping with her mother and her sisters, but she did not think that that was true. However, she was sure that she had noticed him the night she first went down to the makeshift bar. It was the way he seemed to be amused by things that drew her attention, the way he smiled. His hair was cut short; he was not as tall as some of the others. He was in uniform, his shirt unbuttoned. As he sat there watching, the soldiers began to play music you could dance to, slow songs. Some of them danced with girls from the town. “With your idea and my nothing, we could be rich.”Buy the print » There was, she remembered, a swagger about the soldiers, which faded slowly as the night wore on, and there was something uneasy, too, which meant that when the music became sad they all seemed more comfortable, even the ones who were not dancing. When the soldiers were joined by others, who had just come off duty, there were sudden bursts of gaiety—shouting and clapping and drinking. Only Rudolfo sat quietly, observing the scene. She realized that he had noticed her. Once, he nodded to her. It could have been a casual gesture, except that it was not. She knew that it was not. After a while, when one of her friends left, she left, too. She did not go there the following night. The next time she went, he was there as before, apart from the others, watching, amused by it all. He did not stir, merely made it clear that he knew she was there; once again, he took no part in the dancing or the showing off around the fire. He let her know by looking at her that he wanted her and that the rest—the drinking, the dancing, the boyish antics—did not interest him. He was shy, almost retiring, but seemed also entirely sure of himself. She didn’t believe that anything would happen between them. She didn’t think that he would move toward her or do anything to damage his self-contained observation of the scene around him. Yet he kept his eye on her, and she returned his glances, careful that none of her friends were looking. One night, there was a full moon and a clear sky. When the crowd moved to the edge of the water and let the fire die down, neither he nor she moved with them. When he spoke to her, she could not hear him, so he moved closer. She realized that no one had noticed that she had not joined the others by the water. Some of the soldiers there had stripped down and were swimming and splashing. Away from them, close to the dying embers, he touched the back of her hand and then turned it and traced his fingers on the palm. There was an old ruined building nearby. They walked slowly toward it and when they leaned against the wall she was relieved that all he wanted to do was kiss her and smile at her in between the kisses. In all the years since, she had never forgotten the sweet smell of his breath, his eagerness and good humor. The next night, he found them a place where they could lie together undisturbed, and that was what they did every night until September came. Every day that summer she waited for the evening. Her friends knew that she was with Rudolfo, but most of the girls who went to the makeshift bar had found boyfriends among the soldiers. No one ever talked about it. When her mother asked her if she had been to the soldiers’ parties, she shrugged and said that she had passed by once or twice, but had walked on with her friends. When her mother asked her a second time, a few nights later, she was careful to come home early for once, so that no one at home would have an idea what she was doing. She wondered now if she remembered correctly that the weather had changed as soon as the bombardment of the villages on the other side of the river began. Perhaps the man from the electric company would know. The bombardment began, in any case, toward the end of summer. The sound came in the night but often in the day, too, the sound of heavy artillery from up the valley. The villages that had remained with the Loyalists were being attacked. She remembered her father saying that the soldiers had spent the summer preparing for this assault, that they had been building dugouts and finding the best positions and carrying the heavy guns there. They had left nothing to chance, once they secured the dam. He added that there was no hospital on the other side and no medicine, and the soldiers were letting no one cross the footbridge at Llavorsí or the bridge in Sort. People were trapped, he said, and the injured were dying of their wounds. It struck her that the parties by the water were where the troops who’d been working all day preparing the guns came to relax. But she did not feel guilty. Instead, she hoped that those who had noticed her presence at the soldiers’ bonfires would have their own reasons to keep silent about it. In the years afterward, everyone—even those who had been there every night—pretended that none of it had happened. It was the change in the weather that changed everything—she was almost sure of that. It was a gray day, with the mist that came over the valley in September, when she realized that she knew only Rudolfo’s name and that he came from Badajoz. By that time he was gone, and it struck her that he would, in all likelihood, not be returning. The realization broke the spell that had been cast on her, by the war itself as much as by Rudolfo. It was not until then that she began to worry that she was pregnant. It was not only that she had missed her period; something in her body had changed. She waited and hoped that she was wrong. She woke in terror some nights, but in the day she tried to behave normally. In the meantime, the war went on up the valley, and jeeps and trucks full of soldiers and supplies drove through the town, and the town was often desolate, the main square empty, even though the bars and most of the shops remained open. When she was sure that she was pregnant she decided that she would marry Paco Vendrell. For years at the town festivals he had followed her around, offering to buy her drinks, asking her to dance and, when she refused, standing on his own and observing her with a single-mindedness that made her shiver. He was ten years her senior, but had seemed middle-aged even when he was younger. Since he had begun working in the control room of the dam, when he was fourteen or fifteen, he had spoken of little else: the levels of water in the two rivers, or in the lake itself, or the flow of water that could be expected soon, or the difference between this year and last year. Montse’s father laughed at him, and for her mother and her sisters the idea that he had been pursuing her since she was sixteen or seventeen was a source of regular jokes. She did her best to avoid him, and if she could not avoid him then she openly rebuffed his efforts to speak to her. Now she urgently wanted to meet him. For a few days, she watched to see if she could run into him on his way to work. Since she did not see him walking to the dam, she supposed that he was taken there by military jeep now, and brought home in the same way in the evening. No one, she knew, was allowed to approach the road that led to the control tower overlooking the dam. The only time she could be sure that she would encounter Paco, she thought, was at Sunday Mass. She would have to be brave and move fast and not worry about other people watching and commenting. The opportunity to meet him might not come every Sunday. Fortunately, there was only one Mass on Sunday these days, and the church was more crowded than it had ever been, as the people of the town, even those who had no interest in religion, or who were known to have been with the Loyalists, set out to show the troops whose side they were on now. By the beginning of that winter, it had become clear to all of them who was going to win the war, and it was clear, too, that as soon as the war ended there would be many more accusations and arrests. She understood that there would be little pity for someone in her situation, no matter who the father of the child was. That Sunday, she went to the church early, walking quietly and demurely in the street with a mantilla on her head and a prayer book in her hand. She was sure that Paco would go to Mass if he wasn’t working; he was not the sort of man who stayed away. But she could not remember actually seeing him in the church and did not know if he stood at the back, as many of the men did, or if he walked right up and found a place close to the altar. She would need to find a good vantage point from which she could see everyone, but she could not, she thought, sit at the back of the church, as she had never done so before and might be spotted by neighbors or by her family, who would wonder what she was doing there. She sat in one of the side pews and was early enough to witness the two priests arriving, the older one, whom she knew, and the younger one, whom she had never met. What she noticed, as they walked up the aisle to go to the vestry, was their bearing, how proud they seemed and severe. They could easily, she imagined, have approached the vestry from outside, but approaching it like this gave them more dignity and more importance. Soon, they were followed by a group of soldiers in full uniform. For a second, she was startled by the idea that Rudolfo could be among them. She looked at them carefully, however, and did not see him. Even if he did appear, she thought, whatever had happened in the atmosphere between the summer and now would mean that he would not come near her or acknowledge her. She was sure that, even were she to approach him and try to talk, he would avoid her. She shivered for a moment and then watched warily as the pews began to fill up with people who kept their eyes averted. She wondered when the war would be over and wondered also, as the panic that often came to her in the night returned, what would happen to her if she could not persuade Paco to marry her. It occurred to her that she would be sent away, that her father and mother would not be able to protect her, even if they wanted to. “I don’t know what’s going on, either, sire, but I don’t like the look of it.”Buy the print » But how would she marry Paco? How could it be done? She had been so rude to him in the past, so dismissive. How could she make it clear to him that she had changed her mind? What reason would she give? In this uncertain atmosphere, with the chance that many more people were going to be killed or locked up, no one was thinking of romance or marriage, least of all someone like Paco, who was cautious and whose daily work at the dam was likely more and more difficult. But there was no one else she could think of who might marry her. In the reaches of the night, one other option had come to her, and it appeared to her again now. There was a secluded place above the river, about a kilometre up the valley, where the current was strong and the water deep. Over the years, two or three people had used this place to kill themselves and their bodies had not been found for days. She thought that maybe soon she should go and look at that spot, check if it was guarded by the troops. She closed her eyes at the thought of it and bowed her head. When Communion was almost over, she saw Paco walking up the aisle. She knew then that he must have been standing at the back. She studied him carefully as he returned. His lips were moving in prayer; his hands were joined. He seemed even odder and more isolated than usual. She almost smiled at the courage, or the self-delusion, it must have taken for him to pursue her the way he had; she wondered what thoughts he must have had before going out on those evenings and how disappointed he must have been to go home alone, knowing that he had no chance with her. It struck her, too, that, since he worked at the dam with the soldiers, he would have known about the parties at the water’s edge and might have heard that she was among the girls who had gone there. He might even have heard about her and Rudolfo. It occurred to her as she waited for Mass to end that he might want to have nothing to do with her now. And if he, who had been so enthusiastic, did not want her, then she was sure, absolutely sure, that no one else would want her, either. She moved quickly as the ceremony came to an end. Paco was not the sort of man who stood at the church gates after Mass with a group of friends. In any case, no one would want to be seen standing around now. When she walked out of the church grounds she saw that he was already a block away. She followed him as quickly as she could, hoping that no one would see her. She had prepared what she would say to him. It was important to make it seem plausible, natural. When he turned, he gave her a look that was anxious and withdrawn, and then almost hostile, as if to say that he had enough problems without her chasing him down to let him know yet again that she had no interest in him. He turned his back to her before she had a chance to smile. As he walked faster, she grew more determined. If he had wanted her before, she figured, he would still want her now. All she had to do was be careful and hide all signs of panic as she spoke to him. Eventually, when he looked back again and saw her, he stopped. “I have to go home to change my clothes,” he said, “and then they’ll collect me. They are very busy at the dam. Everything has to be noted and written down.” She smiled. “Well, I’ll walk along with you so I won’t delay you,” she said. “We are all worried at home. You know, I have no brothers. And my father says that we cannot go out alone now, not even just to the shops. So I am locked in the house or that’s what it seems like.” They continued walking. She feared that if she stopped talking for one second he would tell her something about the dam and everything she had already said would be forgotten. “If you were free some time, it would be great if you could call at the house and maybe we could go for a walk, if only through the town and then home again. But maybe you are too busy.” “There’s a new captain from Madrid and he’s a stickler for notes, and they all watch me in case I decide to pull one of the levers when they are not looking. You know, I’m the only one who fully understands the switching system, though the new fellow from Madrid is beginning to get the hang of it.” She wondered whether, if she concentrated hard enough, she might get through to him. But she said nothing as they came to the town center and then it was too late. “Anyway,” he said, “I’d better get going. I can’t use this suit in the control room. It’s the only good suit I have.” When Paco called two days later, one of her sisters answered the door and did not disguise her amusement or keep her voice down. Montse found her coat and left with him. During the weeks that followed he called every few days. Her sisters and her mother made jokes about him, at first, then expressed puzzlement, and finally grew silent. Not one of them asked her what she was doing walking around the town with Paco Vendrell and having hot chocolate with him in one of the granjas. He talked to her about the dam, explaining its strategic importance and how old some of the systems were, which meant that only someone experienced could deal with the levers, someone who knew that a few of them would not respond if pulled too fast, and also that if one of them was pulled halfway it would have the same effect as pulling it the whole way. She already knew that he lived with his mother but found out now that his father had died when he was young. She discovered that he liked routines, liked going to work at the same time every day, and disliked the soldiers’ efforts to vary his timetable. Within a week, she, too, was part of his routine. Chatting to her, he seemed comfortable. She realized that he would be content to meet this way for months, maybe even years. He was not someone who would make a quick decision or want a sudden change in his life. And, like everyone, he knew that things would be very different when the war was over. He had a way of addressing the matters that interested him slowly and deliberately. Her efforts to speed things up, to ask him, for example, if he was happy living with his mother, failed completely. He did not register anything that interfered with the current of his own conversation. When Christmas came, there were more and more rumors. Whole families disappeared, and houses became vacant. Her father said that anyone who had the slightest reason to leave should go now. She continued seeing Paco, although he was more cautious as they walked around the town, hoping not to be noticed by the troops. One evening as she stood up from the table she saw her mother’s eyes resting on her belly. She waited until they were alone in the kitchen. “How soon?” her mother asked. “Five months, maybe a bit less.” “Is Paco the father?’ “No.” “Does he know?’ “No.” “Is that why you are seeing him—so that he will marry you?” “Yes, but he’s in no hurry.” “Was it one of the soldiers?” “Yes.” “And he has disappeared?” “Yes.” Her mother looked at her. “Let me deal with Paco,” she said. For the next two weeks Paco did not come around. The weather grew cold and there was snow. Sometimes they could hear rifle fire in the distance, even during the day. Feigning sickness, Montse stayed in bed, joining the others only for meals. She waited for her mother to come into the bedroom and tell her that it could not be done, that Paco would not marry her. She imagined then how she would have to brave the cold and avoid the soldiers, find a quiet time and move as though invisible. She tried to imagine what it would be like to jump into a deep and fast-moving river, wondered how quickly she would sink, how long it would take her to drown. As she lay in bed, another scenario came to her: she would be sent to a convent or an orphanage somewhere and the baby would be taken from her as soon as it was born. She would not be allowed to come home. Maybe that would be preferable. Eventually, when the house was silent one day, her mother came to tell her that the wedding was arranged. It would happen in a few days in a side chapel and Paco would take full responsibility for the child. “His mother seemed surprised and almost proud,” her mother said. “She thinks the baby is his. Paco said that he has always wanted to marry you, that you are the girl for him, so at least someone is happy. There is a small flat at the top of the building where his mother lives. He is moving furniture in there right now. It would be lovely, Montse, if we didn’t have to see too much of him. He has a way of wearing me down with his talk.” When her mother had finished speaking, Montse turned away from her and did not move again until she was sure that her mother had left the room. As soon as Rosa was born, Paco wanted to hold her. In the days that followed, Montse watched him to see if he was holding the baby merely for her sake. She saw no sign of that, however. When Paco came home from work he wanted to know what the baby had been doing. Even being told that she had been sleeping was enough for him. As they walked through the town with the baby, Montse was aware that other men were laughing at Paco because of his devotion to the baby. She knew that her family laughed at him, too. But Paco remained impervious to the laughter. When he was at home, he tried to amuse the baby; he soothed her if she cried. And, once Rosa learned to walk, Paco loved taking her out, moving as slowly as she wanted and holding her hand with pride. “I’ll be damned if I’ll let society tell me who’s fluffy and who’s not.”Buy the print » Being married to him was strange. He never once asked about the father of the child. He seemed grateful and content with everything. Montse was grateful to him in return, but that did not keep her from feeling relieved when he left for work each day or when he fell asleep beside her in the bed. She was careful to disguise this, though. And slowly, as they had two more daughters and moved to a bigger apartment, she found that being polite to him took on a force of its own. She tolerated him, and then grew fond of him. Slowly, too, as she realized that her parents and her sisters were still laughing at him, she saw less of them. She began to feel a loyalty toward Paco, a loyalty that lasted for all the years of their marriage. Rosa did not look like Montse or Paco, or her two sisters. Nor, Montse thought, did she resemble Rudolfo. All she had of her natural father was her way of staying apart. She had little interest in the company of other girls and yet everyone liked her. Although Paco was proud of his two other daughters, it was always clear that he loved Rosa best. While the others settled locally, Ana in Sort and Nuria in La Seu, Rosa went to Barcelona and studied medicine. She married a fellow-doctor and opened a private clinic with him, using money that his family had given them. When Paco was dying, when his heart was giving out, Rosa insisted on looking after him herself. She sat with him in a private room at the clinic day and night. When he opened his eyes, all he looked for was Rosa. By that time Rosa had three sons of her own, and it was in the sons, especially the eldest, Montse noticed, that Rudolfo appeared again. It was in their eyes, their coloring, but also in the slow way they smiled, in their shyness. Each year, when Rosa and her family holidayed close to Santa Cristina, on the Costa Brava, Montse spent two weeks with them. Once the oldest boy could drive, he would come to collect her. That journey, alone in the car with him, gave her pleasure. When the man from the electric company came by again, she told him that she did not want to have lunch with him and the general, and that he should not press her as she was not feeling well. “He will be very disappointed,” the man said. “Yes, I’m sure,” she replied, realizing that the edge of bitterness in her voice had given away more than she’d meant to. “We are all old now,” she added in a softer tone, “and we can only do what we can.” “If you change your mind, perhaps you will let me know,” the man said. He left her a phone number. As soon as he had gone she phoned the clinic and left an urgent message for Rosa. “I wonder if you could come here on the Saturday of next week,” she asked, when Rosa called her back. “And if you could come on your own. If you can, I promise I won’t ask you for anything for a long time.” “Are you sick?” “No.” “Is it something else?” “Don’t ask, Rosa. Just come that day. Come for lunch. You needn’t stay the night or anything.” She held her breath now and waited. “I’ve looked at my diary,” Rosa said. “I have a dinner that night.” “Great. So if you leave my house at four or five you’ll be there in plenty of time.” “Have you seen a doctor?” “You’re a doctor, Rosa. I’ll be seeing you.” “I’ll bring my stethoscope.” Rosa laughed. “Just bring yourself.” She came not only with a stethoscope but with a device for measuring blood pressure and a set of needles to take blood samples and a cooler to keep the samples cold until she got back to Barcelona. She made her mother remove her blouse so that she could listen to her heart and her lungs. She drew blood slowly without speaking. “I’m old,” Montse said. “There is no point in checking me.” “You didn’t sound well on the phone.” “No one my age ever sounds well on the phone.” “Why did you want me to come today?” “Because I thought if I gave you an exact day you might be more likely to come than if I said just come any day. I hardly ever see you.” “I wish my husband knew me as well as you do,” Rosa said. She seemed to be in good humor. The table in the dining alcove was already set. Now Montse put a tray of canelones into the oven and brought a bowl of salad and two plates to the table and some bread. She asked Rosa about her husband and her sons. “They are all wonderful. The only worry we have is that Oriol failed chemistry and has to repeat it.” “Does he still have that nice girlfriend he had in the summer?” “He does, which is why he failed chemistry.” When they had eaten, she brought Rosa her coffee at the table near the window. “I found a box of photographs,” she said. “Some of them were taken before the war. They must have come from the old house when my mother died. I found them a year ago but I put them away because they made me too sad.” She went into her bedroom, where she had the box waiting on the chair where she normally put her clothes for the next day. “I wondered,” she said when she came back, “if we could pick out the best photos, the clearest, and if one of your boys, when they have time, could make copies for you and your sisters.” She began to put bundles of photographs on the table. “This was my grandmother,” she said, holding one up. “She lived with us until there was a falling out of some sort and then she lived with my aunt. She came from Andorra and my father always thought she had money, but, of course, she had none.” “Who is the baby on her lap?’ “That’s me. There was a man who would come once a year with a camera and a booth and people would queue up.” They began to flip through other photographs. Most of them were of Montse and her sisters, taken on summer outings. “I have some here with no people in them—one of the river when it was flooded, which my father must have taken, and one of the dam being built. I can’t remember what year that was.” Rosa moved these aside and began to examine another bundle of photographs of Montse and her sisters and their friends. “Those were taken well before the war,” Montse said. “After the war I don’t think people took photographs as much.” Rosa was studying a large-format photograph of a group on an outing with mountains in the background. “Where is my father in this? Why isn’t he in any of the pictures?” she asked. “Your father always took the photographs,” Montse replied. She reached for another bundle. “He might be in one of these, but he was the only one who had a camera in the years before the war and he liked taking photographs.” She glanced at Rosa, who was nodding. “Anyway, if you want to take the whole box and select the best ones—and if the boys had time they could make copies. It all must seem like ancient history to them, but maybe it will mean more when they have their own families.” “I’ll be very careful with them,” Rosa said, picking up a photograph of herself as a teen-age girl with Paco, smiling, beside her. “I think I took that one,” Montse said. “I might get it blown up a bit bigger and frame it,” Rosa said. When it was time to go, Montse carried the box of photographs to the lift and Rosa carried the medical equipment. Montse insisted on going down with her to her car. “If that’s too heavy, just tell me,” Rosa said. The car was parked close by. They put the box and the equipment on the back seat, and then Rosa embraced her, before opening the door and getting into the driver’s seat. Montse waved as the car pulled away. She knew that she could easily be seen by anyone approaching. She looked up the street toward the town center to check if there was a car coming. The lunch would be over around now, she thought, and Rudolfo and the man from the electric company would pass by as they drove toward Lleida. She waited a few minutes, but when she saw no car she decided to go back inside and clear away the dishes. Later, she thought, she would walk to the town center and do a bit of shopping. Soon, she knew, there would be an old man standing at the station in Lleida as the train to Madrid arrived. He would get on the train slowly and then walk along the aisle to find his seat. He would, she imagined, be polite to those around him as he settled in for the journey. Rosa would be on the motorway that led in the other direction, her driving steady and competent as it always was. Montse sighed with quiet satisfaction as she thought of the two of them, moving so easily away from each other; they would both be home before night fell. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Furies	Credit Illustration by Tomer Hanuka “I now belong to an incredibly exclusive club,” Ray Testa said in his speech at his wedding reception. He savored the moment, then winked and added, “There are not many men who can say that they’re older than their father-in-law.” He was fifty-eight, his new wife, Shelby, thirty-one, his father-in-law fifty-six and seemingly at ease with the idea of this balding man marrying his daughter. “She’s an old soul,” he said. Ray Testa was a dentist, and for seven years Shelby had been his hygienist. “I’m thinking of leaving,” Shelby said one day. Ray urged her to stay and finally pleaded, “You can’t leave. I love you.” She didn’t smile. She swallowed air and said that she had feelings for him, too. Then, “What about Angie?” He confessed everything to his wife. Angie took it badly, as he’d guessed she might, but unexpectedly she said, “Why didn’t you leave me years ago, when I might have met someone who really cared for me?” He hadn’t imagined that she’d object in this peevish way, for such a coldly practical reason—because his timing was inconvenient for her. He’d thought she was going to tell him how much she’d miss him, how miserable she’d be without him, not that she might have been better off with someone else. As she stared at him, her eyes went black and depthless, and she seemed to swell physically, as though with malevolence. Ray expected a shout, but her voice was the confident whisper of a killer to his helpless victim. “I know I should say I wish you well, but I wish you ill, with all my heart. I’ve made it easy for you. I hope you suffer now with that woman who’s taken you from me. These women who carry on with married men are demons.” She sounded like her mother, Gilda—Ermenegilda—sour, mustached, habitually in black, pedantically superstitious, Sicilian, always threatening the evil eye. He told himself that Angie was bitter, cruel with grief, demented by the breakup. She didn’t mean what she was saying. They had no children; they divided their assets in half, the proceeds of his more than thirty years of dentistry. Angie got the house, the dog, a lump sum; Ray the vacation home on the South Shore—he’d commute to his office from there, Shelby by his side. Shelby wasn’t greedy. She said she’d never been happier. Ray did not repeat to her the vindictive curse that Angie had uttered. He had what he wanted now, a new life with a woman he loved. People said that a second wife was often a younger version of the first one, but Shelby was in every way the opposite of Angie. She was a treasure, unconventionally beautiful, not the fleshy new graduate she’d been when he first hired her but tall and sharp-featured, with the lean, feline good health of the jogger she now was. Her mouth was almost severe—she hardly parted her lips when she spoke, and spoke always in a low, certain voice that got his attention, as in, “What about Angie?” With the unwavering judgment of someone untested, someone innocent and upright, Shelby was alert to the obvious. Her eyes were gray, blinkless, catlike. Ray had desired her from the first, but thought that the feeling would diminish as he got to know her better. Time had passed, and his desire to possess her had become a set of physical symptoms: hunger, a swollen tongue, a drone in his head, a tingling in his hands. Now she was his. He could not believe his luck, how she had come into his life, to lead him confidently into a future he’d once hated to contemplate. He sometimes eavesdropped on her when she was working on a patient in her focussed way and he was almost tearful with gratitude that she was his wife. They had never argued, and so their first argument, a few months after their marriage, came as a shock to Ray. It concerned his high-school reunion—the fortieth. Ray wanted to take Shelby. She protested that she’d feel out of place. Everyone knew that a high-school reunion was hell for a spouse. She said, “I think you’ll regret it.” But Ray was a big smiling boy with a boast, and Shelby eventually agreed, even to their staying the night at the hotel in his home town, where the reunion was being held. Medford had changed. It was denser and, divided now by the Interstate, much busier, but still full of memories, as he told Shelby on their tour through the place—the brick façades that had once been the entrances to single-screen movie theatres, the armory that bulked like a granite citadel, the stairs that had led down to Joe’s basement poolroom, the Italian cobbler, the Chinese laundry, the post office with the old murals of ship-building in its lobby. Now Medford had a new hotel, with a ballroom large enough to accommodate the high-school reunion. “One night, non-smoking, king-size bed,” the hotel clerk said, tapping the check-in card with her pen, but she kept glancing at Shelby, uneasily, almost with pity, as though suspecting that she had been abducted. They drew stares later, too, as they searched the table for their name tags. “I don’t really need one. It’s your night,” Shelby said. But, as she said it, Ray peeled the paper backing from a label marked “Shelby Testa” and stuck it to her beaded jacket. A woman in a black shawl approached them as Ray was patting the label flat. The woman flourished a large yellow envelope and drew a black-and-white photograph from it, saying, “Miss Balsam’s class. Third grade. Do you recognize yourself?” “That’s me, third row,” Ray said. “And that’s you in the front with your hands in your lap. Maura Dedrick, you were so cute!” “Aren’t I still cute?” the woman said. She was small and thin and deeply lined, with weary eyes. No makeup, a trace of hair on her cheeks, fretful lips, her open mouth like a grommet in canvas. “Of course you are,” Ray said. She smiled sadly, as though he had satirized her with his quick answer. Then she turned, because two other women had come to greet her. “You remember Roberta and Annie,” Maura said. Ray said, “You married Larry,” to Roberta. “He left me,” Roberta said. “I’m divorced, too,” Annie said. Ray was aware that while they were talking to him they were eying Shelby. Annie was bigger than he remembered, not just plump and full-faced but taller—it was probably her shoes—and she was carrying a handbag the size of a valise. Roberta was heavily made up, wearing ropes of green beads, Gypsy-like. Ray had known them as girls. They were almost old women now—older than him, he felt, for their look of abandonment, tinged with anger. When they became aware of his gaze, they recoiled in a way that made him feel intrusive. They were fifty-eight years old—everyone in the room was that age, though when he surveyed the growing crowd he could see that some had aged better than others. “May I introduce my wife?” Ray said. “This is Shelby.” The women smiled, they clucked, but Ray saw that Maura had narrowed her eyes, and Annie had leaned closer, and Roberta seemed to snicker. Putting a protective arm around Shelby, he felt the sudden pulsing of an odd circuitry in her shoulders. Maura said to Shelby, “Angie was so mad when I went to the junior prom with Ray. Angie was my best friend—still is.” Roberta hovered over Shelby and spoke in a deaf person’s shout, “He took me to Canobie Lake. He got fresh!” “Remember what you wrote in my yearbook?” Annie said. “ ‘You’re the ultimate in feminine pulchritude.’ ” “I guess I had a way with words,” Ray said. “You had a way with your hands,” Roberta said, shouting again. Maura said to Shelby, “I’ve known Ray Testa since I was seven years old.” Everything that he’d forgotten was still real and immediate to them—the prom, the lake, the yearbook, Miss Balsam’s third-grade class. He had lived his life without looking back, and he’d been happy. Had their disappointment made them dwell on the past, as a kind of consolation? He said, “Shel and I need a drink.” Maura said, “I’ll get it.” “Don’t bother.” But she insisted, and after she slipped away they spoke with Annie and Roberta. While they chatted about the changes in Medford, he remembered the rowboat at Canobie Lake, the fumbled kiss, the way he had gripped Roberta as she snatched at his hands. And Annie—the summer night on her porch, her arms folded over her breasts, and “Don’t, please.” And when Maura returned with the drinks he recalled the back seat of his father’s car at the drive-in, the half pint of Four Roses, and her “Cut it out.” Horrible. Maura handed over two glasses of white wine. Ray sipped his, while Shelby just held hers in both hands as if for balance. “Drink up,” Maura said. Shelby put her glass to her lips, and Ray did the same. The warm wine had the dusty taste of chalk, and a tang he couldn’t name, perhaps a metal—zinc, maybe, with the smack of cat piss. He found it hard to swallow, but to please Maura he swigged again, and he knew he was right in thinking it was foul, because Shelby did no more than wet her lips with it. Seeing Shelby struggle, Maura looked on with what he took to be satisfaction. He remembered these women’s flesh, and he sorrowed for what they had become, parodies of the girls he’d known. They had badly neglected their teeth. He had never been more keenly aware of the age difference between him and Shelby. In the ballroom, where a small band was playing, some couples had begun to dance. As he steered Shelby onto the floor, he could feel her body go heavy, resisting the music. “How you doing?” he heard. It was Malcolm DeYoung, gray-haired now. “Hey, who’s this fine lady?” “Shelby, I want you to meet my old friend Malcolm.” Malcolm said, “What about some food? There’s a buffet over there.” They stood in the buffet line, and afterward they sat together at a table. Ray said, “I used to know everyone. But the only people I’ve recognized so far, apart from you, are those three”—Maura, Roberta, and Annie were at a nearby table. “The funny thing is, they were all my girlfriends, at different times.” Malcolm said, “You got a target on your back, man,” and he winked at Shelby. “I really wanted to introduce Shel to my old friends.” “Oh, and give the executive the right to rain down death from on high.”Buy the print » Malcolm put his fork down. He stood up and said, “I don’t drink these days. But let me tell you something. In a little while these people are going to get toasted. I don’t want to be here then. I don’t think you want to, neither.” Then he left them. Ray didn’t speak again, nor did Shelby say anything more. She put her knife and fork on the uneaten food in her plate, and her napkin on top, like a kind of burial. Ray squeezed her hand and said, “Ready?” She said, “I was ready an hour ago.” They left quickly, not making eye contact, and in the hotel lobby Ray said, “Shall we go upstairs?” “What did you do after the prom?” “We watched the submarine races up at the Mystic Lakes.” “Show me.” He drove her through the town to the familiar turnoff, and down to the edge of the lake, where he parked, the house lights on the far shore glistening, giving life to the black water. He held Shelby’s hand and kissed her, as he had in the first weeks of their love affair. He fumbled with her dress, loving its complications, delighting in the thought of her body under those silky layers slipping through his fingers, and she seemed as eager as he was. “Here?” he asked. “Now?” “Why not?” She shrugged the straps from her shoulders and held her breasts, and as she presented them to him their whiteness was illuminated by the headlights of a car, swinging up to park beside them. “Cops,” Ray said. Shelby gasped and covered herself, clawing at her dress, while Ray rolled down his window. A bright overhead light came on inside the other car, which seemed full of passengers. “You pig.” It was Maura Dedrick, her face silhouetted at her window, someone beside her—Annie, maybe; someone else in the rear seat. Ray was in such a hurry to get away that he started the car without raising the window, so he could hear Maura still calling out abuse, as he drove off, her shouts mingling with Shelby’s choked sobs. Back at the hotel (the reunion was still in progress—fewer people, louder music), Shelby lay in bed, shivering, repeating, “That was awful.” Ray tried to soothe her, and in doing so felt useful, but when he moved to hug her she said, “Not now.” In a dark hour of the night, the phone rang like an alarm. Ray grabbed for it, and the voice had claws, the accusations of a woman wanting to hurt him. “Wrong number,” he mumbled, and hung up, but was unable to get to sleep again. In the morning, Shelby slid out of bed before he could touch her. She said, “Show me whatever you’re going to show me, then let’s go home.” He drove her to his old neighborhood and then slowly down the street where he had lived as a boy. The trees were gone, the wood-frame houses faded and small. Shelby sat, inattentive, distracted. At one point, he urged her to get out of the car, and he walked her to the side of a garage, where he’d carved a heart on a cinder block with a spike, the petroglyph still visible after all these years. It was here, in the garage between two houses, that he’d kissed a girl—what was her name?—one Halloween night, crushing her against the wall, tasting the candy in her mouth and running his hands over her body. “Hello, stranger.” A great fat woman with wild hair stood, almost filling the space between the garage and the nearby house. She laughed, and put her hands on her hips. She wore bruised sneakers and no socks, and when she opened her mouth Ray could see gaps in her teeth, most of her molars missing. She raised one hand, clapping a cigarette to her lips, then blew smoke at him. “I’ve been waiting for you.” “Is it—” He squinted to remember the name. “Louise?” “Who else?” she said, then, “Who’s that—your daughter?” and laughed again. Shelby said, “I’ll meet you in the car.” “She’s scared,” Louise said, hooting. Ray was frightened, too, but didn’t want to show it. The woman was hideous, and her sudden appearance and weird confidence made him want to run. But he sidled away slowly, saying, “Wait here. I’ll be back.” “That’s what you told me that night. I’ve been waiting ever since!” Had he said that? Probably. As a boy, he’d told any lie for the chance to touch someone. She had scared him then; she scared him now. He had the sense that she wanted to hit him, and when she took another puff of her cigarette and tossed the butt aside he feared that she was coming for him. “Please,” he said, and put his hands up to protect his face and ran clumsily to his car. Louise did not follow him. She watched from the passageway, potbellied, her feet apart, and as he started the car she shook another cigarette from her pack. “I haven’t seen her for years,” Ray said. Shelby did not reply; she was mute, her arms folded, facing forward. “Imagine, she still lives there.” “Waiting for you.” “That’s crazy.” But when they got home there was a further shock. As Ray parked, he noticed a white slip of paper thumbtacked to the front door. The idea that someone had come up the long driveway and through his gate to leave this note disturbed him. And he was more disturbed when he read it: “Ray, you must of gone out. Sorry I missed you—Ellie.” “Who’s Ellie?” Shelby said. He was thinking “must of,” and he knew it had to be Ellie, his college girlfriend. She’d become pregnant at just about the time they were breaking up. She’d told her parents, who’d arranged for her to have an abortion in another state—it was illegal in Massachusetts then. When it was over, her parents had written to his parents denouncing him, saying that he’d ruined their daughter’s life. He had not seen her since. That was who Ellie was—Ellie Bryant. But he said, “I don’t know anyone by that name.” It was the first lie he’d told Shelby in all the time he’d known her. “Maybe an old patient,” he added. For days, every evening when he returned home from the office with Shelby he expected Ellie to be waiting for him. Friday came. He knew something was wrong when he saw that the front gate, which was always latched, was ajar—a small thing, but for a frightened house owner, alert to details, it had significance. Then he heard the creak of the porch swing at the side of the house. Shelby said, “There’s someone here.” “I’ll check—don’t worry,” he said, and braced himself for Ellie. She was on the porch swing, facing away; he saw her back, her cold purple hands—it was November—on the chains that held the seat, the kerchief tightened around her head. She turned and the swing squeaked again. “You!” The snarled word made her face ugly. He had no idea who the woman was, and, before he could speak, Shelby came up behind him and said, “What are you doing here?” “Visiting my old friend Ray Testa,” the woman said. “Are you Ellie?” The woman frowned at the name. She said, “No. Ask him who I am. Go on, Ray, tell her.” But he didn’t know. He started to gabble in fear. “Think,” she said. “You used to visit me and my husband in New Hampshire. He was a photographer. You pretended you were interested in his pictures. You were very chatty. And then, when he was away, you came back. You couldn’t keep your hands off me. Always sneaking around, sniff-sniff.” To Shelby, she said, “This man drove two hundred miles just to touch me.” And the effort did seem preposterous now, because the woman was gray, with papery skin, and sad eyes, and reddened gums showing in her downturned mouth. He said, “Joyce.” “See? He knows who I am.” “What do you want?” “Just to pay a friendly visit.” “Please go.” The woman said, “Isn’t it funny? You drove all that way to see me—took half a day to get to my house—and all the probing, to make sure Richard was away. And now you can’t wait to get rid of me.” With that, she stamped on the porch floorboards and hoisted herself out of the swing. She stood, leaning sideways, and she came at him with that crooked posture and a slight limp, as if she were about to fall down. “This is how he’ll treat you one day, sweetheart,” she said to Shelby. Ray let Joyce pass, then followed her to the driveway, and kept watching her—where was her car? how had she got there?—but she seemed to vanish before she reached the road. Shelby was on the sofa in tears, her face in her hands. She recoiled when he reached for her. “You know them,” Shelby said. “All of them.” She refused to allow him to console her. She was disgusted, she said. She didn’t eat that night. She slept in the spare room thereafter. He regretted their sleeping apart, until one night, soon after Joyce’s visit, when he woke in his bed and became aware not of breathing but of a swelling shadow in the room. He said, “Shelby?” The soft laugh he heard was not Shelby’s. “You probably think you had a hard time,” the woman said, becoming more substantial, emerging from the darkness as she spoke. “In those days, an abortion was a criminal offense. A doctor could lose his license for performing one. And it was painful and bloody and humiliating. It had another effect—I was never able to bear another child. My husband left me when he realized we’d never have children. I became a teacher, because I loved kids. I recently retired. I live on a pension. You destroyed my life.” Just when he thought she was going to hit him, she disappeared. In the morning, Shelby said she’d heard voices. “Who was it?” “Talking in my sleep. I must have been dreaming.” Certain that he was lying, Shelby said that she could not bear to hear another word from him. She added, in her unanswerable, unwavering voice, “You keep saying how old and feeble they all are, and how repugnant. But don’t you realize who they look like?” He gaped at her, futilely. “They all look like you. I sometimes think they are you. Each person in our past is an aspect of us. You need to know that.” Ray called his ex-wife, but got her answering machine. “Angie,” he pleaded into it, “I don’t know how you’re doing it, but please stop. I’ll agree to anything if you stop them showing up.” “I’m gonna talk to her. How’s my breath?”Buy the print » For several weeks, no women from his past intruded, and Ray believed that Angie had got the message. He even called again and left a thank-you on the answering machine. Shelby demanded that they see a marriage counsellor. Ray agreed, but on the condition that the counsellor be in Boston, far from their home, so that their anonymity was assured. “I want it to be a woman,” Shelby said, and found a Dr. Patricia Devlin, whose office was near Mass General Hospital. “Please take a seat,” Dr. Devlin said on their first visit. “Make yourselves comfortable.” She read their insurance forms, running her finger down the answers to the questions on the back of the page. She was heavy, jowly, almost regal, wearing a white smock, her hair cut short, tapping her thick finger on the paper as she read. Her chair emitted complaining squeaks when she shifted in it, as if provoked by her restless thoughts. “I’m afraid I can’t take you on,” she said, sighing, removing her glasses, and facing Ray, who smiled back helplessly. “Did you do this deliberately, to make me feel even worse?” Ray said, “The appointment was Shelby’s idea.” Looking hard at Ray, the doctor said, “I thought I’d seen the last of you, and heard the last of your excuses. Maybe it’s unprofessional of me to say this—but it’s outrageous that you should come here out of the blue, after the way you treated me.” She gripped the armrests of her chair as though restraining herself. Sitting this way, her head tilted back, she looked like an emperor. “Now I must ask you to leave.” Shelby was silent in the elevator, because of the other passengers, but in the street she said, “Tell me who she is—and don’t lie to me.” “We were at B.U. together,” he said. “Pre-med.” “You’re stalling,” Shelby said. He was. But he had been thrown by “Dr. Devlin.” Her name had been Patricia Dorian—Armenian, a chemistry major. She’d been beautiful, with a sultry Central Asian cast to her face, full lips, and thick black hair. He’d taken her to a fraternity party, where they’d got drunk, and she’d said, “I feel sick. I have to lie down,” and she’d fallen asleep in his room, in his bed, only to wake in the morning half-naked but fully alert, saying, “Did you touch me? What did you do to me? Tell me!” He’d said, truthfully, that he could not remember, but he was half-naked, too. And that was the beginning of a back-and-forth of recrimination that had ended with Patricia changing her major to psychology, so that she would not have to face Ray in the chem lab again. “I knew her long ago,” Ray said. “Don’t tell me any more,” Shelby said. She turned her gray eyes on him and said, “She looks like you, too.” Shelby became humorless and doubting. She was like a much older woman, cautious in her movements, as though she feared she might trip; quieter and more reflective, almost rueful when Ray passed the bedroom and saw her lying alone—her bedroom. He slept in the spare room now. He wanted to tell her that most people have flawed pasts, have acted selfishly at some point in their lives, and then moved on. New experiences take the place of old ones, new memories, better memories; and all the old selves become interred in a forgetfulness that is itself merciful. This was the process of aging, each new decade burying the previous one; that long-ago self was a stranger. But all that these women had was the past. They dragged him back into it, into their ritual of unfulfillment, with these endless visitations—old women, old loves, old objects of desire with faces like bruised fruit. Instead of saying this to Shelby, he called her father, who did not seem fazed by his story. He hardly reacted, and when Ray pressed him for an opinion the man said, “I can’t help you.” Ray said, “She’s like a stranger.” “That’s my Shelby,” the man said, and hung up. Shelby still worked with him. Her father’s abruptness, his grim amusement, had rattled Ray, and so he said to her, “You are everything to me now. Those women are all gone and forgotten.” This was in the office. There was a knock, the receptionist saying, “We have a new patient.” Ray went cold when he saw her tilted back in the chair, awaiting his examination. She did not even have to say, “Remember me?” He remembered her. He remembered his mistake. She was Sharon, from the cleaning company. He had been surprised, years earlier, that someone so young—no more than eighteen or so—was doing this menial job. Why wasn’t she in school? he’d asked her. “I hate school,” she said. “I want to make some money.” She’d seemed to linger in her work, and one evening when they were alone Ray had pulled her to him while she was mopping, and kissed her, hoping for more. But she’d pushed him away, and wiped her mouth with the back of her hand, and never come back. Shelby had become his hygienist later that year, so she knew nothing of Sharon. And he’d never seen Sharon again, or thought of her—it had been only a foolish, impulsive, hopeful kiss!—until now. She stared at him with implacable eyes; her very lack of expression seemed accusatory. He did not recall her being so plain, so fierce. She had been young, attractive, in a T-shirt and shorts, with a long-handled mop in her hands. Now she lay canted back in the chair, as Shelby hooked on her earpieces and adjusted the protective goggles. Sharon’s mouth was prominent, her cold eyes blurred by the plastic. She seemed weirdly masked, with an upside-down face, from where Ray stood, slightly behind her. Her mouth began to move, the bite of the teeth reversed. “You got yourself a hot assistant now,” Sharon said. “Bet you kiss her, too, when no one’s looking.” “This is my wife,” Ray said. “Now open wide and let me have a look.” “I can’t do this,” Shelby said. She gathered the loops of the suction device and tossed them into the sink. “Shel,” he said. Then, seeing that it was hopeless, that Shelby had closed the door behind her, he attended to Sharon, his fingers in her mouth, gagging her. He wanted to pull out her tongue. When he had finished the cleaning, he said, “You’ve never been here as a patient before. I haven’t seen you in years. You don’t need any serious work. Why did you come?” “Just a spur-of-the-moment thing,” Sharon said. “Hey, you probably think that kissing me and touching me like that was something I’d forget.” He sighed. He was going to shout, but he forced himself to speak calmly. “I’m done. I’ve knocked some barnacles off your teeth. Don’t come back. If you do, I will refuse to see you.” Now the goggles were off and Sharon was upright, blinking like a squirrel. She licked a smear of toothpaste from her lips and said, “I won’t come back. I don’t need to. I’ve done what I had to do.” “What was that?” “Make you remember.” But he had not forgotten—he remembered her as a girl, alone in the corridor by his office, holding the sudden promise of pleasure. The shock to him on her return was that she had aged, that she was rawboned and resentful and no longer attractive. Before going home to Shelby that day, he looked at himself in the bathroom mirror and hated his face. He hated what time had done to it; he hated what time had done to these women. He hated the sight of his hands. He had flirted with and pawed these old women. They all look like you. I sometimes think they are you. Shelby treated him as though he were dangerous. She seemed afraid to be with him, afraid of who might show up unbidden, which hag from the past come to confront Ray, to remind him of what he’d done and who he was, an old beast they all haunted because they could not forgive him. She seemed to regard him as the monster that, in his worst moments, he believed himself to be, the embodiment of everything he’d done. And now, thanks to these offended women, she knew every one of his reckless transgressions. Soon she stopped coming to work, and the two of them lived separately in the house, taking turns in the kitchen, eating their meals apart, more like hostile roommates than like a married couple—a reënactment of his last months with Angie. He called Angie again, but this time there was no answering machine. The number had been disconnected. Then he found out why. A patient said casually, just as he’d finished putting on a crown, “Sorry about Angie.” Misunderstanding, he began to explain, and then realized that the patient was telling him that Angie had died. It had happened two weeks before. He found the details online on the Medford Transcript Web site. Collapsed and died after a short illness. Instead of going home, he drove the seventy-five miles to the cemetery and knelt at her grave. A metal marker with her name, courtesy of the funeral home, had been inserted into the ruglike cover of new sod. He told himself that he was sorrowful, but he did not feel it: he was relieved; he felt lighter; he blamed Angie for the swarm of old lovers. This feeling scared him in the dampness of the cemetery, where he suspected that he was being watched. It was then, looking around, that he saw that Angie was buried next to her mother, a reunion of sorts. He told Shelby that Angie had died. “It’s a turning point!” They could start all over again. “You actually seem glad that Angie’s dead,” Shelby said. “Poor Angie.” After Angie’s death, the visitations ceased. But, demoralized, humiliated, Shelby left him. She did not divorce him at once. She demanded a house, and he provided it. She asked for severance pay from her job, and got it. They spoke through lawyers, until it was final, and he was alone. Ray is not surprised, one night, when he is woken by a clatter, the sound of someone hurrying in darkness. It is a familiar sound. He awaits the visitation, hoping that it will make him less lonely. Perhaps it is Angie who has come to mock him. He wants to beg for her forgiveness. No, it is not Angie’s voice. It is Shelby’s, and it is triumphant. But the body, the hag’s face, is his own. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Embassy of Cambodia	Credit Illustration by Zohar Lazar 0 – 1 Who would expect the Embassy of Cambodia? Nobody. Nobody could have expected it, or be expecting it. It’s a surprise, to us all. The Embassy of Cambodia! Next door to the embassy is a health center. On the other side, a row of private residences, most of them belonging to wealthy Arabs (or so we, the people of Willesden, contend). They have Corinthian pillars on either side of their front doors, and—it’s widely believed—swimming pools out back. The embassy, by contrast, is not very grand. It is only a four- or five-bedroom North London suburban villa, built at some point in the thirties, surrounded by a red brick wall, about eight feet high. And back and forth, cresting this wall horizontally, flies a shuttlecock. They are playing badminton in the Embassy of Cambodia. Pock, smash. Pock, smash. The only real sign that the embassy is an embassy at all is the little brass plaque on the door (which reads, “THE EMBASSY OF CAMBODIA”) and the national flag of Cambodia (we assume that’s what it is—what else could it be?) flying from the red tiled roof. Some say, “Oh, but it has a high wall around it, and this is what signifies that it is not a private residence, like the other houses on the street but, rather, an embassy.” The people who say so are foolish. Many of the private houses have high walls, quite as high as the Embassy of Cambodia’s—but they are not embassies. 0 – 2 On the sixth of August, Fatou walked past the embassy for the first time, on her way to a swimming pool. It is a large pool, although not quite Olympic size. To swim a mile you must complete eighty-two lengths, which, in its very tedium, often feels as much a mental exercise as a physical one. The water is kept unusually warm, to please the majority of people who patronize the health center, the kind who come not so much to swim as to lounge poolside or rest their bodies in the sauna. Fatou has swum here five or six times now, and she is often the youngest person in the pool by several decades. Generally, the clientele are white, or else South Asian or from the Middle East, but now and then Fatou finds herself in the water with fellow-Africans. When she spots these big men, paddling frantically like babies, struggling simply to stay afloat, she prides herself on her own abilities, having taught herself to swim, several years earlier, at the Carib Beach Resort, in Accra. Not in the hotel pool—no employees were allowed in the pool. No, she learned by struggling through the rough gray sea, on the other side of the resort walls. Rising and sinking, rising and sinking, on the dirty foam. No tourist ever stepped onto the beach (it was covered with trash), much less into the cold and treacherous sea. Nor did any of the other chambermaids. Only some reckless teen-age boys, late at night, and Fatou, early in the morning. There is almost no way to compare swimming at Carib Beach and swimming in the health center, warm as it is, tranquil as a bath. And, as Fatou passes the Embassy of Cambodia, on her way to the pool, over the high wall she sees a shuttlecock, passed back and forth between two unseen players. The shuttlecock floats in a wide arc softly rightward, and is smashed back, and this happens again and again, the first player always somehow able to retrieve the smash and transform it, once more, into a gentle, floating arc. High above, the sun tries to force its way through a cloud ceiling, gray and filled with water. Pock, smash. Pock, smash. 0 – 3 When the Embassy of Cambodia first appeared in our midst, a few years ago, some of us said, “Well, if we were poets perhaps we could have written some sort of an ode about this surprising appearance of the embassy.” (For embassies are usually to be found in the center of the city. This was the first one we had seen in the suburbs.) But we are not really a poetic people. We are from Willesden. Our minds tend toward the prosaic. I doubt there is a man or woman among us, for example, who—upon passing the Embassy of Cambodia for the first time—did not immediately think: “genocide.” 0 – 4 Pock, smash. Pock, smash. This summer we watched the Olympics, becoming well attuned to grunting, and to the many other human sounds associated with effort and the triumph of the will. But the players in the garden of the Embassy of Cambodia are silent. (We can’t say for sure that it is a garden—we have a limited view over the wall. It may well be a paved area, reserved for badminton.) The only sign that a game of badminton is under way at all is the motion of the shuttlecock itself, alternately being lobbed and smashed, lobbed and smashed, and always at the hour that Fatou passes on her way to the health center to swim (just after ten in the morning on Mondays). It should be explained that it is Fatou’s employers—and not Fatou—who are the true members of this health club; they have no idea that she uses their guest passes in this way. (Mr. and Mrs. Derawal and their three children—aged seventeen, fifteen, and ten—live on the same street as the embassy, but the road is almost a mile long, with the embassy at one end and the Derawals at the other.) Fatou’s deception is possible only because on Mondays Mr. Derawal drives to Eltham to visit his mini-market there, and Mrs. Derawal works the counter in the family’s second mini-mart, in Kensal Rise. In the slim drawer of a faux-Louis XVI console, in the entrance hall of the Derawals’ primary residence, one can find a stockpile of guest passes. Nobody besides Fatou seems to remember that they are there. Since August 6th (the first occasion on which she noticed the badminton), Fatou has made a point of pausing by the bus stop opposite the embassy for five or ten minutes before she goes in to swim, idle minutes she can hardly afford (Mrs. Derawal returns to the house at lunchtime) and yet seems unable to forgo. Such is the strangely compelling aura of the embassy. Usually, Fatou gains nothing from this waiting and observing, but on a few occasions she has seen people arrive at the embassy and watched as they are buzzed through the gate. Young white people carrying rucksacks. Often they are scruffy, and wearing sandals, despite the cool weather. None of the visitors so far have been visibly Cambodian. These young people are likely looking for visas. They are buzzed in and then pass through the gate, although Fatou would really have to stand on top of the bus stop to get a view of whoever it is that lets them in. What she can say with certainty is that these occasional arrivals have absolutely no effect on the badminton, which continues in its steady pattern, first gentle, then fast, first soft and high, then hard and low. 0 – 5 On the twentieth of August, long after the Olympians had returned to their respective countries, Fatou noticed that a basketball hoop had appeared in the far corner of the garden, its net of synthetic white rope rising high enough to be seen over the wall. But no basketball was ever played—at least not when Fatou was passing. The following week it had been moved closer to Fatou’s side of the wall. (It must be a mobile hoop, on casters.) Fatou waited a week, two weeks, but still no basketball game replaced the badminton, which carried on as before. 0 – 6 When I say that we were surprised by the appearance of the Embassy of Cambodia, I don’t mean to suggest that the embassy is in any way unique in its peculiarity. In fact, this long, wide street is notable for a number of curious buildings, in the context of which the Embassy of Cambodia does not seem especially strange. There is a mansion called GARYLAND, with something else in Arabic engraved below GARYLAND, and both the English and the Arabic text are inlaid in pink-and-green marble pillars that bookend a gigantic fence, far higher than the embassy’s, better suited to a fortress. Dramatic golden gates open automatically to let vehicles in and out. At any one time, GARYLAND has five to seven cars parked in its driveway. There is a house with a huge pink elephant on the doorstep, apparently made of mosaic tiles. There is a Catholic nunnery with a single red Ford Focus parked in front. There is a Sikh institute. There is a faux-Tudor house with a pool that Mickey Rooney rented for a season, while he was performing in the West End fifteen summers ago. That house sits opposite a dingy retirement home, where one sometimes sees distressed souls, barely covered by their dressing gowns, standing on their tiny balconies, staring into the tops of the chestnut trees. So we are hardly strangers to curious buildings, here in Willesden & Brondesbury. And yet still we find the Embassy of Cambodia a little surprising. It is not the right sort of surprise, somehow. 0 – 7 In a discarded Metro found on the floor of the Derawal kitchen, Fatou read with interest a story about a Sudanese “slave” living in a rich man’s house in London. It was not the first time that Fatou had wondered if she herself was a slave, but this story, brief as it was, confirmed in her own mind that she was not. After all, it was her father, and not a kidnapper, who had taken her from Ivory Coast to Ghana, and when they reached Accra they had both found employment in the same hotel. Two years later, when she was eighteen, it was her father again who had organized her difficult passage to Libya and then on to Italy—a not insignificant financial sacrifice on his part. Also, Fatou could read English—and speak a little Italian—and this girl in the paper could not read or speak anything except the language of her tribe. And nobody beat Fatou, although Mrs. Derawal had twice slapped her in the face, and the two older children spoke to her with no respect at all and thanked her for nothing. (Sometimes she heard her name used as a term of abuse between them. “You’re as black as Fatou.” Or “You’re as stupid as Fatou.”) On the other hand, just like the girl in the newspaper, she had not seen her passport with her own eyes since she arrived at the Derawals’, and she had been told from the start that her wages were to be retained by the Derawals to pay for the food and water and heat she would require during her stay, as well as to cover the rent for the room she slept in. In the final analysis, however, Fatou was not confined to the house. She had an Oyster Card, given to her by the Derawals, and was trusted to do the food shopping and other outside tasks for which she was given cash and told to return with change and receipts for everything. If she did not go out in the evenings that was only because she had no money with which to go out, and anyway knew very few people in London. Whereas the girl in the paper was not allowed to leave her employers’ premises, not ever—she was a prisoner. On Sunday mornings, for example, Fatou regularly left the house to meet her church friend Andrew Okonkwo at the 98 bus stop and go with him to worship at the Sacred Heart of Jesus, just off the Kilburn High Road. Afterward Andrew always took her to a Tunisian café, where they had coffee and cake, which Andrew, who worked as a night guard in the City, always paid for. And on Mondays Fatou swam. In very warm water, and thankful for the semi-darkness in which the health club, for some reason, kept its clientele, as if the place were a night club, or a midnight Mass. The darkness helped disguise the fact that her swimming costume was in fact a sturdy black bra and a pair of plain black cotton knickers. No, on balance she did not think she was a slave. 0 – 8 Buy the print » The woman exiting the Embassy of Cambodia did not look especially like a New Person or an Old Person—neither clearly of the city nor of the country—and of course it is a long time since this division meant anything in Cambodia. Nor did these terms mean anything to Fatou, who was curious only to catch her first sighting of a possible Cambodian anywhere near the Embassy of Cambodia. She was particularly interested in the woman’s clothes, which were precise and utilitarian—a gray shirt tucked tightly into a pair of tan slacks, a blue mackintosh, a droopy rain hat—just as if she were a man, or no different from a man. Her straight black hair was cut short. She had in her hands many bags from Sainsbury’s, and this Fatou found a little mysterious: where was she taking all that shopping? It also surprised her that the woman from the Embassy of Cambodia should shop in the same Willesden branch of Sainsbury’s where Fatou shopped for the Derawals. She had an idea that Oriental people had their own, secret establishments. (She believed the Jews did, too.) She both admired and slightly resented this self-reliance, but had no doubt that it was the secret to holding great power, as a people. For example, when the Chinese had come to Fatou’s village to take over the mine, an abiding local mystery had been: what did they eat and where did they eat it? They certainly did not buy food in the market, or from the Lebanese traders along the main road. They made their own arrangements. (Whether back home or here, the key to surviving as a people, in Fatou’s opinion, was to make your own arrangements.) But, looking again at the bags the Cambodian woman carried, Fatou wondered whether they weren’t in fact very old bags—hadn’t their design changed? The more she looked at them the more convinced she became that they contained not food but clothes or something else again, the outline of each bag being a little too rounded and smooth. Maybe she was simply taking out the rubbish. Fatou stood at the bus stop and watched until the Cambodian woman reached the corner, crossed, and turned left toward the high road. Meanwhile, back at the embassy the badminton continued to be played, though with a little more effort now because of a wayward wind. At one point it seemed to Fatou that the next lob would blow southward, sending the shuttlecock over the wall to land lightly in her own hands. Instead the other player, with his vicious reliability (Fatou had long ago decided that both players were men), caught the shuttlecock as it began to drift and sent it back to his opponent—another deathly, downward smash. 0 – 9 No doubt there are those who will be critical of the narrow, essentially local scope of Fatou’s interest in the Cambodian woman from the Embassy of Cambodia, but we, the people of Willesden, have some sympathy with her attitude. The fact is if we followed the history of every little country in this world—in its dramatic as well as its quiet times—we would have no space left in which to live our own lives or to apply ourselves to our necessary tasks, never mind indulge in occasional pleasures, like swimming. Surely there is something to be said for drawing a circle around our attention and remaining within that circle. But how large should this circle be? 0 – 10 It was the Sunday after Fatou saw the Cambodian that she decided to put a version of this question to Andrew, as they sat in the Tunisian café eating two large fingers of dough stuffed with cream and custard and topped with a strip of chocolate icing. Specifically, she began a conversation with Andrew about the Holocaust, as Andrew was the only person she had found in London with whom she could have these deep conversations, partly because he was patient and sympathetic to her, but also because he was an educated person, currently studying for a part-time business degree at the College of North West London. With his student card he had been given free, twenty-four-hour access to the Internet. “But more people died in Rwanda,” Fatou argued. “And nobody speaks about that! Nobody!” “Yes, I think that’s true,” Andrew conceded, and put the first of four sugars in his coffee. “I have to check. But, yes, millions and millions. They hide the true numbers, but you can see them online. There’s always a lot of hiding; it’s the same all over. It’s like this bureaucratic Nigerian government—they are the greatest at numerology, hiding figures, changing them to suit their purposes. I have a name for it: I call it ‘demonology.’ Not ‘numerology’—‘demonology.’ ” “Yes, but what I am saying is like this,” Fatou pressed, wary of the conversation’s drifting back, as it usually did, to the financial corruption of the Nigerian government. “Are we born to suffer? Sometimes I think we were born to suffer more than all the rest.” Andrew pushed his professorial glasses up his nose. “But, Fatou, you’re forgetting the most important thing. Who cried most for Jesus? His mother. Who cries most for you? Your father. It’s very logical, when you break it down. The Jews cry for the Jews. The Russians cry for the Russians. We cry for Africa, because we are Africans, and, even then, I’m sorry, Fatou”—Andrew’s chubby face creased up in a smile—“if Nigeria plays Ivory Coast and we beat you into the ground, I’m laughing, man! I can’t lie. I’m celebrating. Stomp! Stomp!” He did a little dance with his upper body, and Fatou tried, not for the first time, to imagine what he might be like as a husband, but could see only herself as the wife, and Andrew as a teen-age son of hers, bright and helpful, to be sure, but a son all the same—though in reality he was three years older than she. Surely it was wrong to find his baby fat and struggling mustache so off-putting. Here was a good man! She knew that he cared for her, was clean, and had given his life to Christ. Still, some part of her rebelled against him, some unholy part. “Hush your mouth,” she said, trying to sound more playful than disgusted, and was relieved when he stopped jiggling and laid both his hands on the table, his face suddenly quite solemn. “Believe me, that’s a natural law, Fatou, pure and simple. Only God cries for us all, because we are all his children. It’s very, very logical. You just have to think about it for a moment.” Fatou sighed, and spooned some coffee foam into her mouth. “But I still think we have more pain. I’ve seen it myself. Chinese people have never been slaves. They are always protected from the worst.” Andrew took off his glasses and rubbed them on the end of his shirt. Fatou could tell that he was preparing to lay knowledge upon her. “Fatou, think about it for a moment, please: what about Hiroshima?” It was a name Fatou had heard before, but sometimes Andrew’s superior knowledge made her nervous. She would find herself struggling to remember even the things she had believed she already knew. “The big wave . . .” she began, uncertainly—it was the wrong answer. He laughed mightily and shook his head at her. “No, man! Big bomb. Biggest bomb in the world, made by the U.S.A., of course. They killed five million people in one second. Can you imagine that? You think just because your eyes are like this”—he tugged the skin at both temples—“you’re always protected? Think again. This bomb, even if it didn’t blow you up, a week later it melted the skin off your bones.” Fatou realized that she had heard this story before, or some version of it. But she felt the same vague impatience with it as she did with all accounts of suffering in the distant past. For what could be done about the suffering of the past? “O.K.,” she said. “Maybe all people have their hard times, in the past of history, but I still say—” “Here is a counterpoint,” Andrew said, reaching out and gripping her shoulder. “Let me ask you, Fatou, seriously, think about this. I’m sorry to interrupt you, but I have thought a lot about this and I want to pass it on to you, because I know you care about things seriously, not like these people.” He waved a hand at the assortment of cake eaters at other tables. “You’re not like the other girls I know, just thinking about the club and their hair. You’re a person who thinks. I told you before, anything you want to know about, ask me—I’ll look it up, I’ll do the research. I have access. Then I’ll bring it to you.” “You’re a very good friend to me, Andrew, I know that.” “Listen, we are friends to each other. In this world you need friends. But, Fatou, listen to my question. It’s a counterpoint to what you have been saying. Tell me, why would God choose us especially for suffering when we, above all others, praise his name? Africa is the fastest-growing Christian continent! Just think about it for a minute! It doesn’t even make sense!” “But it’s not him,” Fatou said quietly, looking over Andrew’s shoulder at the rain beating on the window. “It’s the Devil.” 0 – 11 Andrew and Fatou sat in the Tunisian coffee shop, waiting for it to stop raining, but it did not stop raining, and at 3 P.M. Fatou said she would just have to get wet. She shared Andrew’s umbrella as far as the Overground, letting him pull her into his clammy, high-smelling body as they walked. At Brondesbury station Andrew had to get the train, and so they said goodbye. Several times he tried to press his umbrella on her, but Fatou knew the walk from Acton Central to Andrew’s bed-sit was long and she refused to let him suffer on her account. “Big woman. Won’t let anybody protect you.” “Rain doesn’t scare me.” Fatou took from her pocket a swimming cap she had found on the floor of the health-club changing room. She wound her plaits into a bun and pulled the cap over her head. “That’s a very original idea,” Andrew said, laughing. “You should market that! Make your first million!” “Peace be with you,” Fatou said, and kissed him chastely on the cheek. Andrew did the same, lingering a little longer with his kiss than was necessary. 0 – 12 By the time Fatou reached the Derawals’, only her hair was dry, but before going to get changed she rushed to the kitchen to take the lamb out of the freezer, though it was pointless—there were not enough hours before dinner—and then upstairs to collect the dirty clothes from the matching wicker baskets in four different bedrooms. There was no one in the master bedroom, or in Faizul’s, or Julie’s. Downstairs a television was blaring. Entering Asma’s room, hearing nothing, assuming it empty, Fatou headed straight for the laundry bin in the corner. As she opened the lid she felt a hand hit her hard on the back; she turned around. There was the youngest, Asma, in front of her, her mouth open like a trout fish. Before Fatou could understand, Asma punched the huge pile of clothes out of her hands. Fatou stooped to retrieve them. While she was kneeling on the floor, another strike came, a kick to her arm. She left the clothes where they were and got up, frightened by her own anger. But when she looked at Asma now she saw the girl gesturing frantically at her own throat, then putting her hands together in prayer, and then back to her throat once more. Her eyes were bulging. She veered suddenly to the right; she threw herself over the back of a chair. When she turned back to Fatou her face was gray and Fatou understood finally and ran to her, grabbed her round her waist, and pulled upward as she had been taught in the hotel. A marble—with an iridescent ribbon of blue at its center, like a wave—flew from the child’s mouth and landed wetly in the carpet’s plush. Asma wept and drew in frantic gulps of air. Fatou gave her a hug, and worried when the clothes would get done. Together they went down to the den, where the rest of the family was watching “Britain’s Got Talent” on a flat-screen TV attached to the wall. Everybody stood at the sight of Asma’s wild weeping. Mr. Derawal paused the Sky box. Fatou explained about the marble. “How many times I tell you not to put things in your mouth?” Mr. Derawal asked, and Mrs. Derawal said something in their language—Fatou heard the name of their God—and pulled Asma onto the sofa and stroked her daughter’s silky black hair. “I couldn’t breathe, man! I couldn’t call nobody,” Asma cried. “I was gonna die!” “What you putting marbles in your mouth for anyway, you idiot,” Faizul said, and un-paused the Sky box. “What kind of chief puts a marble in her mouth? Idiot. Bet you was bricking it.” “Oi, she saved your life,” said Julie, the eldest child, whom Fatou generally liked the least. “Fatou saved your life. That’s deep.” “I woulda just done this,” Faizul said, and performed an especially dramatic Heimlich to his own skinny body. “And if that didn’t work I woulda just start pounding myself karate style, bam bam bam bam bam—” “Faizul!” Mr. Derawal shouted, and then turned stiffly to Fatou, and spoke not to her, exactly, but to a point somewhere between her elbow and the sunburst mirror behind her head. “Thank you, Fatou. It’s lucky you were there.” Fatou nodded and moved to leave, but at the doorway to the den Mrs. Derawal asked her if the lamb had defrosted and Fatou had to confess that she had only just taken it out. Mrs. Derawal said something sharply in her language. Fatou waited for something further, but Mr. Derawal only smiled awkwardly at her, and nodded as a sign that she could go now. Fatou went upstairs to collect the clothes. 0 – 13 “We come to you with unbelievable savings.”Buy the print » “To keep you is no benefit. To destroy you is no loss” was one of the mottoes of the Khmer Rouge. It referred to the New People, those city dwellers who could not be made to give up city life and work on a farm. By returning everybody to the land, the regime hoped to create a society of Old People—that is to say, of agrarian peasants. When a New Person was relocated from the city to the country, it was vital not to show weakness in the fields. Vulnerability was punishable by death. In Willesden, we are almost all New People, though some of us, like Fatou, were, until quite recently, Old People, working the land in our various countries of origin. Of the Old and New People of Willesden I speak; I have been chosen to speak for them, though they did not choose me and must wonder what gives me the right. I could say, “Because I was born at the crossroads of Willesden, Kilburn, and Queen’s Park!” But the reply would be swift and damning: “Oh, don’t be foolish, many people were born right there; it doesn’t mean anything at all. We are not one people and no one can speak for us. It’s all a lot of nonsense. We see you standing on the balcony, overlooking the Embassy of Cambodia, in your dressing gown, staring into the chestnut trees, looking gormless. The real reason you speak in this way is because you can’t think of anything better to do.” 0 – 14 On Monday, Fatou went swimming. She paused to watch the badminton. She thought that the arm that delivered the smashes must make a movement similar to the one she made in the pool, with her clumsy yet effective front crawl. She entered the health center and gave a guest pass to the girl behind the desk. In the dimly lit changing room, she put on her sturdy black underwear. As she swam, she thought of Carib Beach. Her father serving snapper to the guests on the deck, his bow tie always a little askew, the ugly tourists, the whole scene there. Of course, it was not surprising in the least to see old white men from Germany with beautiful local girls on their laps, but she would never forget the two old white women from England—red women, really, thanks to the sun—each of them as big as two women put together, with Kweku and Osai lying by their sides, the boys hooking their scrawny black bird-arms round the women’s massive red shoulders, dancing with them in the hotel “ballroom,” answering to the names Michael and David, and disappearing into the women’s cabins at night. She had known the boys’ real girlfriends; they were chambermaids like Fatou. Sometimes they cleaned the rooms where Kweku and Osai spent the night with the English women. And the girls themselves had “boyfriends” among the guests. It was not a holy place, that hotel. And the pool was shaped like a kidney bean: nobody could really swim in it, or showed any sign of wanting to. Mostly, they stood in it and drank cocktails. Sometimes they even had their burgers delivered to the pool. Fatou hated to watch her father crouching to hand a burger to a man waist high in water. The only good thing that happened in Carib Beach was this: once a month, on a Sunday, the congregation of a local church poured out of a coach at the front gates, lined up fully dressed in the courtyard, and then walked into the pool for a mass baptism. The tourists were never warned, and Fatou never understood why the congregants were allowed to do it. But she loved to watch their white shirts bloat and spread across the surface of the water, and to hear the weeping and singing. At the time—though she was not then a member of that church, or of any church except the one in her heart—she had felt that this baptism was for her, too, and that it kept her safe, and that this was somehow the reason she did not become one of the “girls” at the Carib Beach Resort. For almost two years—between her father’s efforts and the grace of an unseen and unacknowledged God—she did her work, and swam Sunday mornings at the crack of dawn, and got along all right. But the Devil was waiting. She had only a month left in Accra when she entered a bedroom to clean it one morning and heard the door shut softly behind her before she could put a hand to it. He came, this time, in Russian form. Afterward, he cried and begged her not to tell anyone: his wife had gone to see the Cape Coast Castle and they were leaving the following morning. Fatou listened to his blubbering and realized that he thought the hotel would punish him for his action, or that the police would be called. That was when she knew that the Devil was stupid as well as evil. She spat in his face and left. Thinking about the Devil now made her swimming fast and angry, and for a while she easily lapped the young white man in the lane next to hers, the faster lane. 0 – 15 “Don’t give the Devil your anger, it is his food,” Andrew had said to her, when they first met, a year ago. He handed her a leaflet as she sat eating a sandwich on a bench in Kilburn Park. “Don’t make it so easy for him.” Without being invited, he took the seat next to hers and began going through the text of his leaflet. It was printed to look like a newspaper, and he started with the headline: “WHY IS THERE PAIN?” She liked him. They began a theological conversation. It continued in the Tunisian café, and every Sunday for several months. A lot of the things he said she had heard before from other people, and they did not succeed in changing her attitude. In the end, it was one thing that he said to her that really made the difference. It was after she’d told him this story: “One day, at the hotel, I heard a commotion on the beach. It was early morning. I went out and I saw nine children washed up dead on the beach. Ten or eleven years old, boys and girls. They had gone into the water, but they didn’t know how to swim. Some people were crying, maybe two people. Everyone else just shook their heads and carried on walking to where they were going. After a long time, the police came. The bodies were taken away. People said, ‘Well, they are with God now.’ Everybody carried on like before. I went back to work. The next year I arrived in Rome. I saw a boy who was about fifteen years old knocked down on his bike. He was dead. People were screaming and crying in the street. Everybody crying. They were not his family. They were only strangers. The next day, it was in the paper.” And Andrew replied, “A tap runs fast the first time you switch it on.” 0 – 16 Twenty more laps. Fatou tried to think of the last time she had cried. It was in Rome, but it wasn’t for the boy on the bike. She was cleaning toilets in a Catholic girls’ school. She did not know Jesus then, so it made no difference what kind of school it was—she knew only that she was cleaning toilets. At midday, she had a fifteen-minute break. She would go to the little walled garden across the road to smoke a cigarette. One day, she was sitting on a bench near a fountain, and spotted something odd in the bushes. A tin of green paint. A gold spray can. A Statue of Liberty costume. An identity card with the name Rajib Devanga. One shoe. An empty wallet. A plastic tub with a slit cut in the top meant for coins and euro notes—empty. A little stain of what looked like blood on this tub. Until that point, she had been envious of the Bengali boys on Via Nazionale. She felt that she, too, could paint herself green and stand still for an hour. But when she tried to find out more the Bengalis would not talk to her. It was a closed shop, for brown men only. Her place was in the bathroom stalls. She thought those men had it easy. Then she saw that little sad pile of belongings in the bush and cried; for herself or for Rajib, she wasn’t sure. Now she turned onto her back in the water for the final two laps, relaxed her arms, and kicked her feet out like a frog. Water made her think of more water. “When you’re baptized in our church, all sin is wiped, you start again”: Andrew’s promise. She had never told Andrew of the sin precisely, but she knew that he knew she was not a virgin. The day she finally became a Catholic, February 6, 2011, Andrew had taken her, hair still wet, to the Tunisian café and asked her how it felt. She was joyful! She said, “I feel like a new person!” But happiness like that is hard to hold on to. Back at work the next day, picking Julie’s dirty underwear up off the floor inches from the wicker basket, she had to keep reminding herself of her new relationship with Jesus and how it changed everything. Didn’t it change everything? The following Sunday she expressed some of her doubt, cautiously, to Andrew. “But did you think you’d never feel sad again? Never angry or tired or just pissed off—sorry about my language. Come on, Fatou! Wise up, man!” Was it wrong to hope to be happy? 0 – 17 Lost to these watery thoughts, Fatou got home a little later than usual and was through the door only minutes before Mrs. Derawal. “How is Asma?” Fatou asked. She had heard the girl cry out in the night. “My goodness, it was just a little marble,” Mrs. Derawal said, and Fatou realized that it was not in her imagination: since Sunday night, neither of the adult Derawals had been able to look her in the eye. “What a fuss everybody is making. I have a list for you—it’s on the table.” 0 – 18 Fatou watched Andrew pick his way through the tables in the Tunisian café, holding a tray with a pair of mochas on it and some croissants. He hit the elbow of one man with his backside and then trailed the belt of his long, silly leather coat through the lunch of another, apologizing as he went. You could not say that he was an elegant man. But he was generous, he was thoughtful. She stood up to push a teetering croissant back onto its plate. They sat down at the same time, and smiled at each other. “Awhile ago you asked me about Cambodia,” Andrew said. “Well, it’s a very interesting case.” He tapped the frame of his glasses. “If you even wore a pair of these? They would kill you. Glasses meant you thought too much. They had very primitive ideas. They were enemies of logic and progress. They wanted everybody to go back to the country and live like simple people.” “But sometimes it’s true that things are simpler in the country.” “In some ways. I don’t really know. I’ve never lived in the country.” I don’t really know. It was good to hear him say that! It was a good sign. She smiled cheekily at him. “People are less sinful in the country,” she said, but he did not seem to see that she was flirting with him, and embarked on another lecture: “That’s true. But you can’t force people to live in the country. That’s what I call a Big Man Policy. I invented this phrase for my dissertation. We know all about Big Man Policies in Nigeria. They come from the top, and they crush you. There’s always somebody who wants to be the Big Man, and take everything for himself, and tell everybody how to think and what to do. When, actually, it’s he who is weak. But if the Big Men see that you see that they are weak they have no choice but to destroy you. That is the real tragedy.” Fatou sighed. “I never met a man who didn’t want to tell everybody how to think and what to do,” she said. Andrew laughed. “Fatou, you include me? Are you a feminist now, too?” Fatou brought her mug up to her lips and looked penetratingly at Andrew. There were good and bad kinds of weakness in men, and she had come to the conclusion that the key was to know which kind you were dealing with. “Andrew,” she said, putting her hand on his, “would you like to come swimming with me?” 0 – 19 “Another false start for the Western philosophical tradition.”Buy the print » Because Fatou believed that the Derawals’ neighbors had been instructed to spy on her, she would not let Andrew come to the house to pick her up on Monday, instead leaving as she always did, just before ten, carrying misleading Sainsbury’s bags and walking toward the health center. She spotted him from a long way off—the road was so straight and he had arrived early. He stood shivering in the drizzle. She felt sorry, but also a little prideful: it was the prospect of seeing her body that had raised this big man from his bed. Still, it was a sacrifice, she knew, for her friend to come out to meet her on a weekday morning. He worked all night long and kept the daytime for sleeping. She watched him waving at her from their agreed meeting spot, just on the corner, in front of the Embassy of Cambodia. After a while, he stopped waving—because she was still so far away—and then, a little later, he began waving again. She waved back, and when she finally reached him they surprised each other by holding hands. “I’m an excellent badminton player,” Andrew said, as they passed the Embassy of Cambodia. “I would make you weep for mercy! Next time, instead of swimming we should play badminton somewhere.” Next time, we should go to Paris. Next time, we should go to the moon. He was a dreamer. But there are worse things, Fatou thought, than being a dreamer. 0 – 20 “So you’re a guest and this is your guest?” the girl behind the desk asked. “I am a guest and this is another guest,” Fatou replied. “Yeah . . . that’s not really how it works?” “Please,” Fatou said. “We’ve come from a long way.” “I appreciate that,” the girl said. “But I really shouldn’t let you in, to be honest.” “Please,” Fatou said again. She could think of no other argument. The girl took out a pen and made a mark on Fatou’s guest pass. “This one time. Don’t tell no one I did this, please. One time only! I’ll need to cross off two separate visits.” For one time only, then, Andrew and Fatou approached the changing rooms together and parted at the doors that led to the men’s and the women’s. In her changing room, Fatou got ready with lightning speed. Yet somehow he was already there on a lounger when she came out, eyes trained on the women’s changing-room door, waiting for her to emerge. “Man, this is the life!” he said, putting his arms behind his head. “Are you getting in?” Fatou asked, and tried to place her hands, casually, in front of her groin. “Not yet, man, I’m just taking it all in, taking it all in. You go in. I’ll come in a moment.” Fatou climbed down the steps and began to swim. Not elegant, not especially fast, but consistent and determined. Every now and then she would angle her head to try to see if Andrew was still on his chair, smiling to himself. After twenty laps, she swam to where he lay and put her elbows on the tiles. “You’re not coming in? It’s so warm. Like a bath.” “Sure, sure,” he said. “I’ll try it.” As he sat up his stomach folded in on itself, and Fatou wondered whether he had spent all that time on the lounger to avoid her seeing its precise bulk and wobble. He came toward the stairs; Fatou held out a hand to him, but he pushed it away. He made his way down and stood in the shallow end, splashing water over his shoulders like a prince fanning himself, and then crouching down into it. “It is warm! Very nice. This is the life, man! You go, swim—I’ll follow you.” Fatou kicked off, creating so much splash that she heard someone in the adjacent lane complain. At the wall, she turned and looked for Andrew. His method, such as it was, involved dipping deep under the water and hanging there like a hippo, then batting his arms till he crested for air, and then diving down again and hanging. It was a lot of energy to expend on such a short distance, and by the time he reached the wall he was panting like a maniac. His eyes—he had no goggles—were painfully red. “It’s O.K.,” Fatou said, trying to take his hand again. “If you let me, I’ll show you how.” But he shrugged her off, and rubbed at his eyes. “There’s too much bloody chlorine in this pool.” “You want to leave?” Andrew turned back to look at Fatou. His eyes were streaming. He looked, to Fatou, like a little boy trying to disguise the fact he had been crying. But then he held her hand, under the water. “No. I’m just going to take it easy right here.” “O.K.,” Fatou said. “You swim. You’re good. You swim.” “O.K.,” Fatou said, and set off, and found that each lap was more distracted and rhythmless than the last. She was not used to being watched while she swam. Ten laps later, she suddenly stood up halfway down the lane and walked the rest of the distance to the wall. “You want to go in the Jacuzzi?” she asked him, pointing to it. In the hot tub sat a woman dressed in a soaking tracksuit, her head covered with a head scarf. A man next to the woman, perhaps her husband, stared at Fatou and said something to her. He was so hairy he was almost as covered as she was. Together they rose up out of the water and left. He was wearing the tiniest of Speedos, the kind Fatou had feared Andrew might wear, and was grateful he had not. Andrew’s shorts were perfectly nice, knee length, red and solid, and looked good against his skin. “No,” Andrew said. “It’s great just to be here with you, watching the world go by.” 0 – 21 That same evening, Fatou was fired. Not for the guest passes—the Derawals never found out how many miles Fatou had travelled on their membership. In fact, it was hard for Fatou to understand exactly why she was being fired, as Mrs. Derawal herself did not seem able to explain it very precisely. “What you don’t understand is that we have no need for a nanny,” she said, standing in the doorway of Fatou’s room—there was not really enough space in there for two people to stand without one of them being practically on the bed. “The children are grown. We need a housekeeper, one who cleans properly. These days, you care more about the children than the cleaning,” Mrs. Derawal added, though Fatou had never cared for the children, not even slightly. “And that is of no use to us.” Fatou said nothing. She was thinking that she did not have a proper suitcase and would have to take her things from Mrs. Derawal’s house in plastic bags. “And so you will want to find somewhere else to live as soon as possible,” Mrs. Derawal said. “My husband’s cousin is coming to stay in this room on Friday—this Friday.” Fatou thought about that for a moment. Then she said, “Can I please use the phone for one call?” Mrs. Derawal inspected a piece of wood that had flaked from the doorframe. But she nodded. “And I would like to have my passport, please.” “Excuse me?” “My passport, please.” At last Mrs. Derawal looked at Fatou, right into her eyes, but her face was twisted, as if Fatou had just reached over and slapped her. Anyone could see the Devil had climbed inside poor Mrs. Derawal. He was lighting her up with a pure fury. “For goodness’ sake, girl, I don’t have your passport! What would I want with your passport? It’s probably in a drawer in the kitchen somewhere. Is that my job now, too, to look for your things?” Fatou was left alone. She packed her things into the decoy shopping bags she usually took to the swimming pool. While she was doing this, someone pushed her passport under the door. An hour later, she carried her bags downstairs and went directly to the phone in the hall. Faizul walked by and lifted his hand for a high-five. Fatou ignored him and dialled Andrew’s number. From her friend’s voice she knew that she had woken him, but he was not even the slightest bit angry. He listened to all she had to say and seemed to understand, too, without her having to say so, that at this moment she could not speak freely. After she had said her part, he asked a few quick technical questions and then explained clearly and carefully what was to happen. “It will all be O.K. They need cleaners in my offices—I will ask for you. In the meantime, you come here. We’ll sleep in shifts. You can trust me. I respect you, Fatou.” But she did not have her Oyster Card; it was in the kitchen, on the fridge under a magnet of Florida, and she would rather die than go in there. Fine: he could meet her at 6 P.M., at the Brondesbury Overground station. Fatou looked at the grandfather clock in front of her: she had four hours to kill. “Six o’ clock,” she repeated. She put the phone down, took the rest of the guest passes from the drawer of the Louis XVI console, and left the house. “Weighed down a bit today,” the girl at the desk of the health club said, nodding at Fatou’s collection of plastic bags. Fatou held out a guest pass for a stamp and did not smile. “See you next time,” this same girl said, an hour and a half later, as Fatou strode past, still weighed down and still unwilling to be grateful for past favors. Gratitude was just another kind of servitude. Better to make your own arrangements. Walking out into the cold gray, Fatou felt a sense of brightness, of being washed clean, that neither the weather nor her new circumstance could dim. Still, her limbs were weary and her hair was wet; she would probably catch a cold, waiting out here. It was only four-thirty. She put her bags on the pavement and sat down next to them, just by the bus stop opposite the Embassy of Cambodia. Buses came and went, slowing down for her and then jerking forward when they realized that she had no interest in getting up and on. Many of us walked past her that afternoon, or spotted her as we rode the bus, or through the windscreens of our cars, or from our balconies. Naturally, we wondered what this girl was doing, sitting on damp pavement in the middle of the day. We worried for her. We tend to assume the worst, here in Willesden. We watched her watching the shuttlecock. Pock, smash. Pock, smash. As if one player could imagine only a violent conclusion and the other only a hopeful return. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Zusya on the Roof	Credit Illustration by Martin Ansin Heels dug into the tar paper, twenty-three floors above the street, cradling his newborn grandson—how did he wind up here? It was not a simple thing, as his father would say. Simplicity was not his patrimony. To begin specifically: Brodman had been dead for two weeks, but then, sadly, he had come back to this world, where he’d spent fifty years trying to write unnecessary books. There had been complications after surgery for a tumor in his bowel. Hooked to a respirator, bags for every fluid going in or coming out, for fifteen days his body lay on a gurney fighting a medieval war against double pneumonia. For two weeks Brodman hung in the balance, dead and not dead. Like the house in Leviticus, he had been infested with plague: they scraped him clean and took him apart, stone by stone. Either it would work or it wouldn’t. Either the plague would be gone or it had already spread through him. While waiting for the verdict, he dreamed wildly. Such hallucinations! Drugged, his temperature soaring, he dreamed he was the anti-Herzl, lecturing from coast to coast to crowds so huge they watched simulcasts of the simulcasts. The West Bank rabbi issued a fatwa on his head, with a ten-million-dollar bounty funded by a Jewish casino king. Hunted for treason, Brodman was hidden in a safe house somewhere in the heart of Germany. Outside his window, he could see the rolling hills of—Bavaria? Weserbergland? He was spared the details for his own good, in case he should break down and place a phone call to his wife, Mira, or his lawyer, or Rabbi Chanan Ben-Zvi of Gush Etzion. And if he did call the rabbi what would he say? I surrender, come and get me, third dirt road on the left, past the dairy farm where Brunhilde is singing “Edelweiss” at the udders, and don’t forget your assault rifle? Or maybe the rabbi planned to slit Brodman’s throat with a carving knife. From the German safe house, he held counsel with Buber, Rabbi Akiva, and Gershom Scholem, who relaxed on a bearskin rug, scratching behind its ears. He sat with Maimonides in the back of a bulletproof car; there was no end to the talking. He saw Moses Ibn Ezra and heard Salo Baron, to whom he called, waving his arms to disperse the smoke. He couldn’t see him, but knew he was in that swirling nebula, breathing heavily—Salo Wittmayer Baron, who knew twenty languages and had testified at Eichmann’s trial, the first man to receive a chair in Jewish History at a university in the Western world. Salo, what have you brought on us? Enormous things happened to him during those feverish weeks, unspeakable revelations. Unbuttoned from time, transient and transcendental, Brodman saw the true shape of his life, how it had torqued always in the direction of duty. Not only his life but the life of his people—the three thousand years of treacherous remembering, highly regarded suffering, and waiting. On the fifteenth day, his fever broke and he woke up to find himself cured. His body was habitable; he would live a little more. All that remained, according to the passage in Leviticus, was the ritual atonement that called for two birds, one to be sacrificed and the other left to live. One killed, the other dipped in the blood of its kin, shaken seven times around the house, then set free. Such reprieve! He never read the passage without crying. But he shall let go the living bird out of the city into the open fields, and make atonement for the house: and it shall be clean. While he was hallucinating, his only grandchild had arrived into the world. In his weakened state, Brodman half believed that his own mental work had performed the labor. His younger daughter, Ruthie, didn’t like men. When she’d announced that she was pregnant at forty-one, Brodman had accepted it as a miracle of immaculate conception. But the happiness had been short-lived. A few months later, he’d gone in for a routine blood test, which led to a colonoscopy, which led, a month and a half before the child was due, to the discovery of his own gestation. If he believed in such things, he might have taken it for something mystical. Sweating and moaning, in horrific pain from his gut, he had pushed the idea of the child through the tight passage of incredulity and borne him into existence. It had almost killed him. No, it had killed him. He had died for the child, and then, by some miracle, he had been brought back again. For what? They removed the respirator early one morning. The young doctor stood over him, eyes moist from the miracle he’d performed. Brodman inhaled his first breath of real air in two weeks, and it went to his head. Dizzy, he pulled the doctor close, so close that all he could see was his teeth, so white, so blindingly beautiful, and to those teeth, which were the closest thing in the room to God, he whispered, “I wasn’t Zusya.” The doctor didn’t understand. He had to say it again, pushing the words hard out of his mouth. Finally, he was heard. “Of course not,” the doctor said, soothingly, freeing himself from his patient’s weak grip and gently patting the hand speared through with the I.V. tube. “You were Professor Brodman, and you’re still him.” If they hadn’t cut his stomach muscles, he might have laughed. What could such a person know of regret? Probably he didn’t have children yet. By the look of him, not even a wife. Everything was before him. Soon he’d go for his coffee, filled with the promise of the day. And, just that morning, he’d brought a dead man back to life! What could he know of a life misspent? Yes, Brodman had been Brodman and was still Brodman, and yet he had failed to be Brodman, just as Rabbi Zusya had failed to be the man he should have been. He had learned the tale as a boy: How after the rebbe from Hanipol had died he stood awaiting God’s judgment, ashamed that he had not been Moses or Abraham. But when God appeared at last, He asked only, “Why weren’t you Zusya?” The story ended there, but Brodman had dreamed the rest: how God concealed Himself again and Zusya, all alone, whispered, “Because I was a Jew, and there was no room left to be anything else, not even Zusya.” The washed morning light filed through the hospital window, and a pigeon flapped loose from the sill. The glass was frosted to hide the brick wall across the way, and what he could see of the bird was only a changing form moving upward. But he heard the scramble of wings in his thoughts as a kind of punctuation, like a comma striking the white page. It had been years since his mind was so clear or focussed. Death had scoured it of the extraneous. His thoughts were of a different quality now, and bore sharply through. He had the feeling that at last he had got to the bottom of everything. He wanted to tell Mira. But where was Mira? All through the long days of illness she had sat in a chair at his bedside, leaving only for a few hours each night to sleep. In that instant, Brodman understood that his grandson had been born while he was dead. He wanted to know: had they named the boy after him? He’d retired from teaching years ago, and was said to be writing the masterwork that would synthesize a lifetime of scholarship. But no one had seen the pages, and rumors circulated around the department. As far back as he could remember, he had known the answers—his life had floated on a great ocean of understanding, and he’d had only to dip his cup. He had not noticed the slow evaporation of that ocean until it was too late. He had ceased to understand. He had not understood for years. Every day he sat at his desk in the cramped back room of the apartment filled with tribal art that he and Mira had bought cheaply forty years ago on a trip to New Mexico. For years he’d sat, but nothing had come. He’d even thought of writing his memoirs, but got only as far as filling a notebook with the names of people he’d once known. When his old students came by, he sat under the primitive masks and held forth on the predicament of the Jewish historian. The Jews had finished writing history long ago, he said. When the rabbis closed the canon of the Bible, it was because they felt they had more than enough history. Two thousand years ago the door was shut on sacred history, the only kind a Jew had any use for. Then came the zealotry and the messianism, the savagery of the Romans, the river of blood, the fire, the destruction, and, finally, exile. From then on, the Jews decided to live outside history. History was what happened to other people while the Jews were waiting for the Messiah to come. In the meantime, the rabbis busied themselves with Jewish memory only, and for two millennia that memory had sustained an entire people. So who was he—who were any of them—to rock the boat? Buy the print » Having heard it all before, his students came by less and less. Ruthie could bear to stay for only fifteen minutes. His older daughter had long ago been lost to him. Occasionally, she took a break from throwing herself in front of Israeli bulldozers in the West Bank to call home. But if he picked up, instead of Mira, she hung up and went back to the Palestinians. For a moment, he would hear her breathing. “Carol?” But he was answered by the dial tone. What had he ever done to her? He had not been a good father. But had he been so terrible? Absorbed in his academic life, he had left the girls in Mira’s hands. Had there been something beneath that choice? What interest they might have had in him waned. At night, when Mira braided their coppery hair before bed, the delicate lacework of their days had come spooling out, the triumphs and the disappointments. He was neither expected nor wanted during this ritual, so he kept to himself in the back room, converted into a study after Carol was born. But the sense of being shut out, powerless and irrelevant, stoked his fury. Later, he always regretted the things he said. And yet his daughters hadn’t been cowed by him. They had done what they wanted to do. His own children had not suffered under the same filial yoke as he. An only child, Brodman had no more been able to betray his parents than kick them in the face. Their lives had rested on his back like a house of cards. His father had arrived at Ellis Island as a scholar of ancient languages, and come out the other end as a Hebrew teacher. His mother had become a housecleaner for well-to-do Jews in the Bronx. When Brodman was born, she’d stopped working, but in her mind she went on navigating rooms, staircases, corners, and corridors. In his early years, she would get lost traversing those spaces. Can a child understand that his mother is losing herself? Brodman had not understood. After she was taken away, he was alone with his father. With grim piety and meticulousness, his father had schooled him in what was expected. Every day at dawn, Brodman had watched him bind himself for prayer in the cold light from the east. When he left the house for work he remained stooped, like the curve he’d taught Brodman to draw for the Hebrew script. Never had Brodman loved his father more than in those moments, though later he wondered whether what he had taken for love was partly pity, mingled with the desire to protect his father from further pain. After three months, they brought his mother home, and propped her on pillows with a view of the water stain on the ceiling. The pale-blue skin was stretched taut over her ankles and shone. Brodman cooked for her and fed her, and then studied at the table under the flypaper, listening for her dry coughs. When his father came home, he put the food on the table for him. Afterward, he mopped the oilcloth clean and took down the Hebrew books with their crumbling leather spines. His father’s lips moved soundlessly, his broad-nailed finger searching out the passage. Abraham bound Isaac once so that Isaac would go on binding himself forever. Each night before bed, Brodman checked his bindings, the way a man double-checks the doors and windows of his house. When he left the apartment, he locked the door quietly behind him, and on his back he carried his mother, with her blue ankles, and his stooped father, and their parents, too, dead in a trench at the edge of a pine forest. But not his daughters. Had they sensed the price he’d paid, and learned from him after all—he with his old books, stunted by duty? All through their childhood, his father’s sepia face had looked miserably down on them from the living-room wall. But they were going to have none of it. They had turned and walked briskly away in the opposite direction. They’d thought nothing of rejecting what he cherished. They had not revered him. From Carol he had received only disdain, and from Ruthie indifference. He had been enraged at them for it, but at bottom he’d envied how they stood up for themselves. Only when it was too late did he come to understand that they were no happier than he was, and no more free. At nineteen, Carol had been hospitalized. When he went to her, she was strapped to the bed in a straitjacket. He had underestimated her condition, and taken her a book of stories by Agnon. Embarrassed, he left it clumsily on the table. She looked up at the ceiling, as his mother had once looked up. Brodman had not suffered such softness of the brain. The gene for it—if that’s what it was—had passed over him. Or he had hardened his mind against it. His illness was of the flesh, and could be cut away. Now it was in a lab jar somewhere, after his difficult Cesarean, and his grandson was in an incubator, four weeks premature. No, he was not confused, only overwhelmed by the symmetry. Together they convalesced, Brodman on the eleventh floor and his grandson on the sixth. Brodman from death and his grandson from life. Mira hurried between them like a congressional aide. Visitors came and went. For the baby, they brought plush toys and tiny onesies of Egyptian cotton. For Brodman, strained fruit and books that he lacked the concentration to read. At last, on the day the baby was to be released from the hospital, Brodman was well enough to be brought to him. Early in the morning, the Russian nurse came to give him a sponge bath. “Now we wash to meet grandson!” she sang, going about it with a firm hand. Looking down, he discovered that he no longer had a navel. The mark of his birth had been replaced by an ugly red welt, four inches across. What was he to make of this? The Russian rolled him down the corridor in a wheelchair. Through open doors, he saw the bruised shins and clawed feet of the nearly dead poking from the blankets. But when he arrived the room was already filled to capacity with people who had claims on the child—his daughter, her girlfriend, the homosexual who had contributed the sperm, the homosexual’s boyfriend. For more than an hour, Brodman waited his turn. From the wheelchair it was impossible even to catch a glimpse of the baby, who was completely walled in by his progenitors. Furious, Brodman wheeled himself out, rode the elevator in the wrong direction, toured the dialysis center, and followed signs to the meditation courtyard, where he took out his anger on a squat and mossy Buddha. When no one came for him, he decided to go back to pick a fight with his daughter. By the time he returned, the room had emptied out. Mira placed the sleeping baby in his arms, wrapped in white. He held his breath, staring at the whorls of the child’s perfect ear, luminescent, as if painted by Fra Filippo Lippi. Afraid of dropping him, Brodman tried to shift the bundle in his arms, but the baby started and opened his sticky, lashless eyes. Brodman felt something being tugged painfully from his decrepit body. He held the boy against his chest and would not let go. That night he lay in his bed on the eleventh floor, too agitated to sleep. His grandson was at home in his crib now, swaddled in soft things and dreaming under a lightly spinning mobile. Good, sleep, bubbeleh. All is still quiet in your world, nothing is yet upon you. No one wishes to ask your opinion about anything. Not that the child was protected from opinions. They swirled around him. Ruthie had asked Mira to buy him a Moses basket. “What does she want with such a basket?” Brodman said. Realizing that she’d steered wrong, Mira wrestled the basket back into the tissue paper. But he had already sunk in his teeth. “How long must we go on reënacting this little charade?” he asked. “We’re not slaves in Egypt anymore. What’s more, we were never slaves in Egypt.” “You’re being ridiculous,” Mira said, pushing the basket back into the Saks bag and kicking it under her chair. Brodman knew it and didn’t care. He wouldn’t give up. “A Moses basket? Why, Mira? Explain it to me.” No, he couldn’t sleep. Somewhere in the wide world there must be children who were born and raised without precedent—the idea of it sent a shiver of awe down his spine. Who might he have been, had it been given to him to choose? But his chance had passed. He had allowed himself to be crushed by duty. He had failed to fully become himself, had instead given in to ancient pressures. And now he saw how foolish it had all been, what a waste! Burned brilliant by fever, he had understood everything. The arguments of the dead had been laid out for him, the irreducible proofs of those who knew from the other side. He had died and been called back so that he might instruct the child, and set him on a different path. In the morning, Mira arrived with buttered rolls sweating in a Ziploc bag. He ate his breakfast and listened to her stories of the child’s victorious homecoming, of his powerful pissing and great thirst. Brodman, too, was pissing and drinking volumes, and when the doctor came by on his rounds he joked with Mira that her holiday was almost over. Tomorrow or the next day they would be sending Brodman home. Home—Brodman suddenly remembered it. The endless hours in the dark back room, trying to ignite a broken fuse. Day after day, year after year, the blank legal pad had reproached him with its fine lines. All that was finished now. He hadn’t been brought back to life for the sake of absurdity. The ambulance that drove him home did not use its siren. “Daddy doesn’t slay dragons, dear–he represents them.”Buy the print » Too small by half, the child had not been circumcised at eight days. In the hospital, they had fattened him like Hansel, and at home he continued to enlarge himself. Now the news came that the doctor had given the all-clear. The event would be held in Ruthie’s apartment. Bagels and lox would be served. A female mohel who broke with custom to allow for a topical anesthetic had been found in Riverdale. All of this Brodman overheard from the bedroom. When Mira came in to tell him the news, he pretended to be asleep. He was too tired to explain to her the nature of his revelations. The incandescence of his fever had dimmed. The days were clotted with boredom now. Had he not once been a man of action? He had always thought of himself as such, but what proof did he have? The evidence—a meagre output of books, themselves commentaries on commentaries on other books—suggested otherwise. Bolstered by foam pillows, he looked up at the thin patch of sky between buildings. Carol was a person of action. Carol had lost her mind and become a person of action. A person who stood up to tanks and bulldozers, who fought for the things she believed in. But he, her father, had kept his mind, and closed himself up in it as a man closes himself up in a faultless argument. He had shed twenty pounds during his ordeal, and his clothes no longer fit him. Busy with catering and the folding chairs, Mira had failed to think of this until two hours before the bris. Brodman shouted, though it still hurt to shout, and threatened to go in his stained robe. Mira, who for fifty years had met his temper with implacable calm, continued to field phone calls while packing up platters. Then she left the apartment without a word. Brodman heard the door close, and stoked his rage with the thought that she had left without him. He was about to pick up the phone to scream at Ruthie when Mira returned with a maroon silk shirt and brown pants from the upstairs neighbor, whose wife she sometimes had coffee with. Disgusted, Brodman tossed the silk shirt onto the floor and roared. But soon the anger went out of him like the heat in a house with old windows, leaving only helplessness and despair. Twenty minutes later, he was standing downstairs, in ballooning silk sleeves, while the doorman hailed a cab. It was winter now. The taxi made its way through the gray streets of the city where Brodman had lived all his life. Buildings smeared past the fogged window. Mira had nothing to say to him. In the lobby of Ruthie’s place, he stood waiting in borrowed clothes, surrounded by Mira’s plastic bags. She had ridden up in the elevator to get help. Brodman thought of turning to go. He pictured himself making his way home through the chilly streets. Seventeen years ago, after his father died, he had been sideswiped by a debilitating depression. It was a black period, and at the bottom of it he had thought seriously of taking his life. Only after his father was gone did Brodman discover what his powerful presence had obscured. An ambivalence, like a fault line, that now threatened to topple everything that had been built over it. No, more than ambivalence. An objection. Not to his father, whom he had loved. But to what his father had asked of him, just as it had been asked of his father, and his father before that, and back and back through the chain of relentless begetting. No, he was not angry! he bellowed in the therapist’s office. “I simply object to the burden!” “Of what?” she asked, pen poised, waiting to copy it down in his file. After a month, the insomnia and the migraines stopped, and he began slowly to recognize himself again. For months afterward, he was shaken every time he remembered how close he had come to giving up. Inhaling the smell of fresh horseshit in Central Park, seeing the skyscrapers loom up above the tree line, he felt overcome with gratitude. The museums along Fifth Avenue, the yellow taxis in sunlight, music—these things made his knees weak, as if he had just safely crawled back from a ledge. Finding himself in front of Carnegie Hall, or one of the dazzled theatres on Broadway right as the audience spilled out, still abroad in another world, Brodman felt embraced by life. The bitter taste of his objection had passed. But some part of him had gone with it. He had been damaged by the dissent, and could never again be what he had been. It must have been then that it began: the slow drain of understanding that dried up his once fertile mind. In the dingy lobby of his daughter’s building, leaning on his hospital-issued cane, he watched the numbers above the elevator light up in descending order. The doors parted to reveal the smiling face of the sperm donor. “Grandpa!” he called sonorously, and pumped Brodman’s hand before sweeping up the shopping bags. In the close elevator, Brodman began to sweat. He breathed through his mouth so as to avoid inhaling the man’s overripe cologne. The elevator rumbled up through the floors, carrying all the male relatives the poor child had in the world. Brodman winced, trying to shut out an image of the man beside him diddling with himself to fill a paper cup. The apartment was already crowded with people. One of Ruthie’s oldest friends accosted Brodman and kissed him dryly on the cheek. “It’s good to see you home again. You gave everyone a scare,” she said, loudly, as if his illness had also deafened him. Brodman grunted, and made his way to the window. He wrenched it open and inhaled the cold air. But when he turned back to the overfilled apartment he was lightheaded. Across the room, Mira was busy coaxing tea from a large samovar for the mohelet from Riverdale. This woman, with her crocheted kippa the size of a dinner plate, had arrived in a prepaid sedan to remove his grandson’s foreskin as a mark of God’s covenant. To cut away his flesh, so that the child’s soul should not be cut off forever from his people. Brodman felt unsteady on his feet. He pushed his way through the kitchen, past the tubs of cream cheese under plastic wrap, and thumped down the dark corridor with the metal cane. He wanted only to lie down in Ruthie’s bedroom and close his eyes. But when he opened the door he found the bed occupied by a mountain of coats and scarves. Hot tears sprang to his eyes. He felt a howl building in his lungs, the howl of a man who has been shut out by grace. But what he heard instead was a soft gurgle. He spun around and saw the reed basket in the corner, tucked next to a rocking chair. The baby opened his tiny mouth. For a moment it seemed he might cry out, or even speak. But instead he lifted a tiny mottled fist and tried to shove it inside. Brodman moved toward him, filled with feeling. Sensing a change in his world of light and shadow, the baby turned. Wide-eyed, he regarded his grandfather with a questioning look. Down the hall, they were preparing the yoke and the blade. How could he help the boy now? The service door led to the fire stairs. Abandoning the cane, Brodman clutched the bannister and dragged himself up two flights. His stomach muscles ached. Three times he had to put the basket down to catch his breath. At last they reached the top, and Brodman pushed the metal bar of the door that released them to the roof. Birds exploded from the ledge, soaring skyward. Below, the city spread out in all directions. From here it appeared quiet, almost still. To the west, he saw the great barges on the Hudson, the cliffs of faraway New Jersey. Heaving, he set the basket down on the tar paper. The baby squirmed in the cold; his eyes blinked with wonder. Brodman trembled with love for him. His beautiful features were wholly unfamiliar, loyal to no one. A child still without measure, equal only to himself. Perhaps he would turn out not to resemble any of them. They would already have discovered him missing below. Alarms would be ringing, the apartment in chaos. Brodman felt the wind knife through the silk shirt. He had no plan. If he had hoped for some guidance, there was none to be found here. The leaden sky had sealed the heavens up. Stooping with difficulty, he lifted the baby out of the basket. His tiny head flopped back, but Brodman caught it and cradled it tenderly in the crook of his arm. He rocked and swayed gently, just as his father had in the early morning, after he had wrapped the black straps around his arm and head. If he was weeping, he did not know it. He stroked the baby’s soft cheek with his finger. The boy’s gray eyes seemed to look on him with patience. But Brodman could not say what it was that he was meant to tell the child. Restored to life, he could no longer parse the infinite wisdom of the dead. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Mayfly	Credit Illustration by Victo Ngai Driving across the Utah desert on I-70, James hit a butterfly with his car. Then another. Then a shower of them, tapping the windshield like hail, wings trapped in the wipers, orange and black. The noise of them, muted but steady, woke Molly from her trance, and she looked out the windshield, at broken wings and yellow smears. “Oh, God,” she said. “We have to stop.” “We can’t stop.” “We have to,” Molly said. “Look at them.” She was about to cry. He could hear it in her voice. He eased the car onto the shoulder and got out. It was afternoon and hot in the sun. Butterflies were everywhere, big monarchs heading north out of Mexico. It was insect weather, the air alive with fluttering wings, a cloud of color as far as he could see. “Let’s wait,” Molly said. “Maybe they’ll all pass by.” “Maybe,” James said. He didn’t think so. He looked at the tangle of wings and bodies in the grille of the car. Some of them were still moving, or maybe it was just the wind. Butterflies landed on his arm, his face, his hair, creeping him out. But Molly’s eyes were wet. Let her sort it out, he thought. Let Molly figure it out for herself. Tractor-trailer rigs roared by on the freeway, trailing wakes of wind and bugs. The highway was open, empty, each car and truck separated by a minute or two. Between cars, the valley lay huge and silent, surrounded by mountains, gray in the distance. Plants he didn’t know the names of clung to the ground, low and gray and spiky-looking. “Maybe we should just go back,” Molly said. She lit a cigarette. “We can’t go back.” “Well, I mean, we could.” “We’ll never make it all the way home,” James said. “We’ll end up in a motel in Salt Lake City. Look, if we just keep going we’ll get there by dark. It’ll be fine.” “We can’t drive through this.” We could, he thought. I would, probably. A few butterflies more or less on the hood of the car wouldn’t make such a big difference. . . . “I can go slow for a while,” he said. “Maybe we can drive out of it.” “Do we have a choice?” “No. Not really. We can’t stay here.” “Then do what you have to.” She stubbed the cigarette out and tucked the butt carefully into the pack. James got back behind the wheel, feeling the distance between them, the sharp angle. This was, somehow, his fault: bugs pinging off the windshield, even at fifty-five. Molly bundled into herself, knees up, arms wrapped around them, forming an obstinate lump of Molly. She wasn’t being dramatic, or faking anything. She hated this. To be honest, it was part of what he loved about her, just not now. They had got into this and now they had to get out. And he was the one driving, the one to take the blame. They drove out of it in a mile. They had planned this trip in better times. Then Molly had lost her job. It wasn’t all that much of a job, but it was hard for James to imagine her getting another. It felt to him that she had taken this little setback as permission to surrender. Not that she didn’t care—she cared passionately about everything there was to care about. She worried endlessly; she woke at four to jumbled, urgent thoughts and couldn’t get back to sleep. But James didn’t see how someone would hire her, with her smudgy eyes, her so-so record. They got to Sam and Jenny’s place an hour after dark, an hour of trying to follow vague directions, their headlights illuminating tiny pitch-black roads. James wasn’t sure they had it right until they pulled into the driveway and there was Sam’s old Land Cruiser rusting away. He shut the lights off and dense pine-scented dark rushed in all around them. “Hello?” he called. “Hey,” Sam said. He was above them, leaning over the railing of a deck, the coal of a cigar glowing in his hand. He said, “I thought you were coming tomorrow.” “No,” James said. “Today. It was always today.” “Well, hell,” Sam said. “Come on up. You eat yet?” Just at that moment the downstairs flooded with light and the door opened, and Jenny was in the doorway with a baby in her arms. “Come in,” she said. “Jeez, you guys. I should never have trusted Sam. Come on in!” Hugs and kisses, children, beer for James, a natural soda for Molly. She had decided the previous fall that her father was an alcoholic and she was therefore at risk. The baby was Sam, Jr., the girls named Iris and Olive. Iris was the only one not yet in p.j.’s, maybe five or six? James could never tell. Jenny gave them sandwiches, which added another round of confusion, for when Molly said vegan Jenny heard vegetarian and made them cheese-and-avocado sandwiches. Sam yelled commands and suggestions from the porch, and when they were done eating they went to join him, leaving Jenny to put the young ones down. Iris lingered at the edge of the light. “The happy couple,” Sam said. “When’s the blessed event?” “Sent you an invitation,” James said. “September, down in California. Santa Rosa.” “It’s where my mom lives,” Molly said. “She can’t travel.” “Man, I hate California,” Sam said. “Every time I go there, some kind of shit happens. Last time it was a six-hundred-dollar traffic ticket.” “What were you doing?” “Oh,” Sam said. “A few things.” In the light of the kerosene lantern, his face was wider, rounder, his hairline heading north. He looked older, of course. In their mid-thirties, they all looked older except for Molly. All this sobriety and veganism had given her skin a translucent glow, and she kept getting new tattoos. But Sam looked like his father now, tobacco-cured. Sam and James had shared a house in college, and once a month or so Sam’s father would drive up from Denver and take them out for steaks. Always ordered the best wine. Sam’s father had thought the boys should learn Bordeaux from Burgundy, from Mayacamas and Stags’ Leap. He got them tickets to the Rockies’ games, and, a couple of times, the Broncos’. He’d been dead three years now. But that joy, that mastery, seemed to be missing from the current Sam, who looked, in the lamplight, as if something had been taken from him. He said, “I’ve been skiing again this year.” “I thought you gave it up,” James said. “Well, Iris is on the bunny slope now. Her school, they take them all up there in kindergarten, so, you know, father-daughter. It’s a trip. The kids have no center of gravity! They’re just, like, zoom zoom down the bunny slope. How about you? Are you getting out?” “Ah, you know,” James said. “Work and all. A couple of times a year.” “We need to find you a new job,” Sam said. “How many students did you tell me you had?” “A hundred and forty,” James said. “Jesus. I couldn’t do it.” “Well,” James said, “some days are better than others.” “You’re a hundred per cent right,” Molly said. “This job is killing him.” James started to say something, but sipped his beer instead. The two of them had the same knack for finding a sore spot and then poking it. He wanted nothing more than an escape to graduate school, a few years on the Ph.D. gravy train. He had been assured by his former teachers that he would have no problem getting in, getting funding. But someone had to pay the bills. It wasn’t going to be Molly. He thought of his satchel, in the dark of the trunk, resting with a hundred and forty essays about “Hamlet” inside. Sam said, “I know I screwed up, but I thought you were coming tomorrow night. I have to go down to Denver in the morning; I’ve got an appointment I shouldn’t break. Y’all want to drive down to Denver with me? Make a day of it? I was thinking I’d be home for dinner, but if you want to come—” “I don’t think I’m getting back in the car anytime soon,” James said. “I’ve got my windshield time in for the week. You could go down, though,” he said to Molly. “Might be your best chance to see Colette.” “Oh, God,” Molly said. “You said you were going to while we were here.” “Oh, maybe I’ll give her a call.” “You aren’t getting enough clothing. ”Buy the print » James cast a Parachute Adams on the far bank of the creek and remembered fishing with his father on another stretch of the Fraser, all those tiny breakfast trout. Torturing animals for fun, as Molly would say. She was in Denver for the day, a day in which James could make his own choices. At this altitude, almost nine thousand feet, the sun was clear and dangerous. It felt like nothing in the cool of the morning, but it would burn you. He wore a cowboy hat, a long-sleeved Western shirt, a bathing suit, and wader boots over neoprene socks: wet wading. His exposed skin was hot from the sun but freezing where the water silked around his legs. It made him feel alive—that sensation of both things at once. It was almost noon, and the pale morning duns were tapering off into a spinner fall that was impossible to fish. The bugs were too small and dead and lay right on the water. This was when his father would break out the Roll-A-Table and the cooler and set them up with sandwiches and beer and they would decide whether to fish out the slow hours of the afternoon or take a siesta or head back into town for supplies. This last sometimes led into the bar, some friendly Western place with wood floors and a pool table and warm afternoon sunlight slanting in. Orphan, James thought. His father had been dead for two years. His mother had gone a couple of years before that. Usually, James was the one who wanted to fish out the afternoon, especially toward the end. His father had seemed to lose his appetite for everything. A little fishing, a little supper, ten minutes of a movie, and he was done with it. All but the drinking. James hadn’t liked it then, but now he wished that he could have another jukebox afternoon with his father, drinking Budweiser, playing eight ball. When he got back to the house, it was almost one. Maybe he’d go out again later, feel the swirl of water on his legs. The house was even bigger in the hard daylight—a wall of glass two stories high, a walk-in fireplace, log decks and trusses and columns. It was vulgar. But who was he to call anything a name? He lived in a little house he’d bought for nothing, a former college-student rental. Bit by bit he was fixing it up. By the time he was ninety, it would be perfect. Butterflies again, in the mud by the side of the driveway, little blue butterflies by the hundreds. They landed and lit out again, restless. In his hair, on his bare arms. “Three kids is a lot of kids,” Jenny said. “Four is one too many.” The little ones were down for their afternoon naps, and Iris off at preschool. Jenny and James were out on the deck, under a canvas shade that felt like a sail, riffling in the breeze. Out of the sun, it was still cool, climbing toward four o’clock. “You knew that job was dangerous when you took it,” James said. He expected Jenny to laugh, but she didn’t. “He killed somebody,” she said. “Last winter, between Denver and here.” “Jesus. What happened?” “He was driving somebody. A girl. A girl from here. Anyway, he was driving down on a Saturday afternoon and he hit a patch of ice in that truck he used to have. Went into the guardrail pretty hard. I guess she wasn’t wearing her seat belt for some reason.” She shrugged. It occurred to James that they were not going to make it, these two. They were not going to stay married. “Was he drunk?” James asked. “Not quite,” she said. “I’m sorry.” “Oh, don’t worry,” Jenny said. “Nothing’s happened yet. Maybe nothing will. But I just wanted to give you a heads-up.” “How long—” “Always,” Jenny said. “There’s not, like, a starting point. You know.” “And you’ve tried.” Jenny laughed. “We went to see a shrink, together. You know what she told us?” James shook his head. “First thing out of her mouth,” Jenny said. “She tells us that counselling never works. That by the time we’ve got enough of an emergency going it’s too late.” “Nice.” “It’s all uphill from here,” she said. “He doesn’t know, I think. What it’s going to be like. If he knew, he’d do things differently. Maybe that’s wishful thinking.” “You want me to talk to him?” “Please don’t,” Jenny said. “I mean, if he brings it up, fine. You can do whatever makes sense to you. But I just didn’t want this to come as a surprise, you know? It’s always so busy around here.” “The girl,” James said. “The one who died.” “We haven’t talked about her,” Jenny said. James was doing the dishes, listening to Jenny rock the baby to sleep. Still no word from Sam and Molly. They weren’t answering their cell phones. Maybe they were out of range, in the mountains between the house and Denver. Jenny had fed the children early and then she and James ate all the leftover mac-and-cheese, dousing it in a grapefruit-habañero hot sauce. Then James held the sleeping baby while Jenny gave the girls a bath, then the baby woke up and James read “Curious George” to the girls on the sofa. The girls were off to bed and the baby almost asleep and James did the dishes, happy in soapy water and dreaming of a life he’d never lived, this one. This little unreal bubble. Waiting for the man in the yellow hat. And at the edge of this bubble lay the pricks and thorns, his growing sense of panic. Why did it matter so much to him that his friends stay married, that they stay happy? But it did. He wanted everything to stay the same forever. He wanted his parents back. He wanted to think that he and Molly would live happily ever after. And to have sent the two of them off together—Molly and Sam. Idiocy. He plunged his hands into the warm water again, to calm himself, and listened to Jenny softly singing to her baby. A gas fire flickered in the grate. When he was done, he poured a glass of wine for himself and went out to the deck while Jenny put the baby down. At this altitude, in the dry air, the stars shone steady and bright. So many stars! He had forgotten. A small pleasant thought began to take shape inside him. Molly and Sam would not come back. They would run off together, into whatever hazy future they imagined. They were meant for each other, runaway souls. James let himself rest in the thought for a few minutes. When had Molly become a problem? She was funny and beautiful in an unusual way, and she loved to have sex—the one pleasure she had left herself. She was smart, though inarticulate. And she loved him. James tried to find the place where he loved her, too, but all he could come up with was jealousy, and a feeling of ownership. Sam was trying to steal something that belonged to him. This was all he had, and it seemed like not enough. “She sleeps under the bed now,” Jenny said, spilling light onto the deck as she came through the glass doors. The curtains slid shut behind her and it was dark again. “Who does?” “Oh, Iris.” Jenny set her wineglass down, then opened a box under the seat of one of the benches and brought out a lighter, a pack of American Spirits, and an ashtray. She lit one for herself, without offering. “First time she did it, she scared the crap out of me,” Jenny said. “I was on my way to bed, went to kiss her good night and her bed was empty. I couldn’t believe it, turned on all the lights. I guess I started screaming. Of course, I woke everybody up. And there’s this little head—she pops out from under the dust ruffle with this serious look on her face. I don’t know what she was doing.” “I always wondered what that was called.” “What?” “Dust ruffle.” Jenny laughed. “Also known as a bed skirt,” she said. “Anyway, that’s where she sleeps now. She’s got a sleeping bag and a flashlight and a pile of books and a couple of her animals. I think she’s scared, James.” “I’m scared, too. How much room is there under there?” “What are you scared of?” I feel like my life is ending, he thought. My life as I have known it. He said, “Nothing in particular.” Jenny looked at him shrewdly through a film of smoke. Some little fire in her eyes. “Eggs and omelettes,” she said. At midnight, she came out of the house with a bottle of Russian vodka, straight from the freezer. The night was cold by then—James had on his plaid wool overshirt, and Jenny a fleece—but the bottle was colder, a skin of frost on the glass. She poured them each a shot glass full. Jenny said, “They’re his children, too.” “That’s right.” “She thinks it’s a touchscreen.”Buy the print » “He can get up with them.” “Is that how it works?” “No,” she said, and tossed the shot down her throat, gazing up afterward into the night. The stars were putting on a show, the moon etched sharply into the sky. She had a nice, long neck. She swallowed twice, as if she were holding back tears, then filled her glass again. James could touch her if he wanted to. He was almost sure. “Here’s how it works,” she said. “You have your kids and you love them and you take care of them. And what somebody else does or doesn’t do, it doesn’t matter.” “Still,” James said. “It’s not fair.” “Fuck fair,” she said. “O.K.” “No, seriously,” Jenny said, and lit another cigarette. “Fair is like a children’s game—your turn, my turn. It’s like what five-year-olds do, and then it goes away. And then you get married and have kids and it all comes back. I changed the diaper last time. Now it’s your turn to change the diaper. Fuck that.” “What else is there?” “You just go,” she said. “A thousand per cent. You just give yourself up. Bliss.” “It doesn’t sound like bliss.” “Oh, it is. You just abandon yourself. The temple of yourself—you know, that big important thing? You just let it go. Standing there with my hands dirty with baby shit, cleaning the floors, it’s super-simple. I love them. I do what I can to keep them alive and happy. It’s like I’m not even there—there’s no person, no history.” She poured herself another shot of vodka, then one for James. She got up and shut off the porch light and the darkness flooded in around them, the immense breathing darkness of the forest. A fairy tale, James thought. The witch’s house. Jenny lit a cigarette and her face flared in the lighter flame. “He keeps an apartment down in Denver,” she said. “For when he has to work or has a dinner or something. It’s a long drive at night.” At three, James was not asleep. He was lying on his side, looking out the open window, feeling the cold night air, when Jenny came into the room in a long, old-fashioned nightgown and lay down next to him on the bed. “A night like this,” she said. “I know,” James said. “I don’t want to . . . you know,” she said. “No, that’s fine.” For a few minutes they lay side by side on their backs, like a king and a queen on the top of an old tomb. James heard her breathing and wondered what it meant. He felt the length and warmth of her thigh, pressed up against his, through the thin cotton of her nightgown. The warmth of her breath. What did he dare? He felt a desire for her that was strictly sexual, centered exactly in his cock. He willed her to touch it. “This isn’t going to work,” she said, as if she had heard his thought, and she gathered up her nightgown and left. Alone in the dark—just a sliver of dim light at the edge of the door—he heard her moving in the hallway outside, heard a door close, then heard the toilet flush. He heard the light switch being turned off and then her footsteps, and then she was back in the room and she locked the door behind her and said, “Quiet,” and she was naked next to him and they were kissing. The baby went off like a telephone at seven-thirty in the morning and she was already gone, James awake and wondering if he had ever slept and feeling as if he were still in some dream that wouldn’t quit, but then he smelled her sweat and her faint perfume in the pillow and he wondered at himself and at her. Outside the window the sunlight was clear and correct, the lucid light of altitude. Sam’s Land Cruiser was still gone from the gravel in front of the house. Sounds of children and morning leaked up from the floor below: a coffee grinder, a cartoon. James was naked, tangled in bedsheets. The comforter lay in a heap on the floor; a flash of color, peering out from a fold, turned out to be her panties, striped purple and white. Mine, he thought. He tucked the panties into the pocket of a sweatshirt, deep in a dark corner of his suitcase. He thought that he should feel bad about the night before. He expected that he would, sooner or later. But James didn’t feel at all bad. Instead, he felt energized and alive and full of some strange mystery-of-life juice compounded of come and blood and dazzling morning sunlight. He could have preached the Sermon on the Mount if he had to. Leap tall buildings in a single bound. But first, he thought, breakfast. He dressed quickly, brushed his teeth, combed his bed-sprung hair with water until it lay nearly flat on his head. He stood and spied outside the kitchen door: Jenny making a sandwich, zipping it into a plastic bag, which went, in turn, into a purple nylon lunch bag. Apple, juice box. She spotted him and smiled. She was happy to see him. Small miracle. “You’re up early!” she said, and poured him a cup of coffee. “I hope we didn’t wake you.” “No, no,” James said. She leaned close to him, and for a thrilling moment he thought she was going to kiss him. “My cigarettes,” she whispered. “I forgot to put them away last night.” “O.K.,” he said, brightly, loudly. Iris, the schoolgirl, was looking at him curiously. Sam, Jr., sat lordly in his high chair. It was a whole different movie down here in the kitchen, one in which James didn’t really have a part. He looked at Jenny, thought of her panties, deep in his bag. But even sex magic didn’t seem to be working; she bustled, motherly, feeding the baby, wiping the counters. James took his coffee and the sports section of the paper out to the deck. He put her cigarettes and lighter away and stowed the vodka bottle under a bench, out of sight. The cup is already broken, he thought. He wasn’t sure what he meant by this, but the words ran through his head. He sat in the sun, sipping his coffee, enjoying the heaviness of his limbs. The pale morning duns would be on the water, little white mayflies floating with the current, and again he remembered his father. Maybe that was it, James thought: his mother was dead and his father was dead and there was no one to apologize to. The cup is already broken, and no one cares. He was done taking care of Molly. She’d find a way, or she wouldn’t. He was young and his body was a source of pleasure to him, supple and strong. It would carry him to many further adventures. He was imagining what these adventures might be, counting the possibilities, when the rusty white Land Cruiser appeared at the end of the drive. A little thrill of danger. Something would happen next. “What?” Molly said as she got out. Sam slapped him on the back on his way into the kitchen, whistling. James remembered this about him, the way he never seemed to have a hangover, always got up cheerful. It was one of the things that had made him a pain in the ass to live with. “Where were you last night?” James asked. “At Colette’s,” she said, and seemed surprised. “Why?” “I tried and tried to get ahold of you.” “I didn’t have my charger with me,” she said. “I didn’t think I was going to need it. But then your friend got just totally shitfaced and I didn’t want to drive back with him.” She leaned in closer to him, so close that he could smell soap and sweat, and whispered, “He’s really crazy, James.” “Where did Sam stay, then?” “In his car,” she said. “In the driveway. Crazy.” And she was telling the truth. He knew right away. All the lightness and the ease that he had felt dissipated at once, evaporated like dew in the sun, all the adventures, all the different people he would be. And, afterward, only once in a while did he remember, as on the October morning, months later, when he was grading papers at his desk in the bedroom and Molly came to kiss him, fresh out of the shower, wearing nothing but a white cotton tank top and a pair of purple-and-white striped panties. “The weird thing,” she said. “I don’t even remember when I bought these. Do you?” “No idea,” James said. “Oh, well,” she said, and kissed him again, and dressed and got her satchel and went off to the coffee shop to work on her play. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Experience	Credit Photograph by Honjo When my marriage fell apart one summer, I had to get out of the little flat in Kentish Town, where I had been first happy and then sad. I arranged to live for a few months in another woman’s house; she agreed to let me stay there rent-free, because she was going to America and wanted someone to keep an eye on things. I didn’t know Hana very well; she was a friend of a friend. I found her intimidating—she was tall and big-boned and gushing, with a high forehead and a curvaceous strong jaw, a mass of chestnut-colored curls. But I liked the idea of having her three-story red brick London town house all to myself. She was generous when we met to sort out arrangements, telling me to make myself at home, entertain my friends, use her iMac and her Wi-Fi, help myself to anything I needed in the kitchen, and sleep in her bed. (“The bed’s wonderfully comfortable,” she said.) A woman would come in twice a week to clean, and I didn’t have to pay for that, either. We sat at the counter in Hana’s kitchen, drinking coffee and eating baklava from a cardboard box—left over from a dinner party the night before, along with the remains of a salad, wilting in its dressing, glasses with dregs of red wine by the sink, the taint of cigarette smoke. Hana had just showered, and her damp hair was twisted in a clip on top of her head; her heated skin gave off the strong smell of her perfume or her shower gel. A crumb of baklava stuck to her mouth. I guessed that she was in her early forties: the flesh was puffy under her eyes and at the corners of her lips; she might have had work done on her nose. I was twenty-eight, and she made me feel inexperienced, although I had been married for six years. She wore a bright-yellow kimono embroidered with a dragon, and a heavy ivory bangle on her wrist. “I know,” she said guiltily, grimacing and twisting it on her arm when she thought I was staring at it. “I shouldn’t wear it; it’s a sin. But it’s an antique. I tell myself that these elephants would be long dead anyway.” There were no curtains on the windows of that house, not even in the bedrooms. At first, I found this unbearable. I undressed for bed in the bathroom; I got into bed in the dark. But after a while I began to get used to it. This was how Hana lived her life—flamboyantly on display, careless of who might be watching. I didn’t flatter myself that anyone was watching me. Or if they were watching, they thought I was something I was not, so it didn’t matter. They thought I was the owner of that house, with its big, bare rooms and wood floors and rugs and few, distinctive items of furniture: a retro armchair in tubular steel and black leather, a long glass-topped dining table, two antique mirrors framed with gilded cupids bearing rose garlands. I’ve never had that kind of money, or anything like it. I think Hana made her money by dealing in art—there were paintings on all the walls—though some of the phone calls that came for her seemed to be related to the film business. I moved in with the few boxes of things I’d salvaged from my marriage. What I’d really wanted was to walk out of the flat with nothing, shedding it all behind me as cleanly as a skin. The little collection of totems that I took with me everywhere—pebbles from a certain beach, a few framed photographs, my dead mother’s empty perfume bottle—looked like rubbish when I spread them out in Hana’s bedroom, so I hid them away again. I told myself that this house was a good place for me, temporarily: this nowhere where I was nobody. When the woman came in to clean, I went out and walked around on Primrose Hill or went to a museum, if it was raining—it rained a lot that summer. My husband had given me some money in exchange for my share of the things we’d bought together (fridge, television, sofa, bed), and I was trying to make it last as long as possible. Hana had told me to help myself to what was in the freezer, so I ate through the odds and ends of food she had in there, including things I’d never tasted before—veal saltimbocca, shrimp in teriyaki sauce, and jerk chicken. When the money runs out, I thought, I’ll start looking for work. On rainy days, I wandered from room to room in that big house, cocooned by the rushing, persistent sound of the rain sluicing across the slate roof, overflowing in the gutters and downpipes. At midday, the light outside was blue, and the panes in the tall windows seemed liquefied; I switched on all the lamps. I made myself coffee and carried it with me to the window, so that the steam from my mug misted the glass; the television flickered and capered, but I couldn’t distract myself from the rain’s urgency, as if it were something happening. I had thought that I would forget about Hana once she was out of the house, but, moving around inside the shapes of her life, I found myself more powerfully impressed by her than I had been when she was present. The wardrobes full of her clothes stood in for her: velvet trousers and brocade jackets, an evening dress of pleated chiffon with a sequinned bodice—everything padded and sculpted, each outfit a performance in itself. There were attic rooms at the top of the house and one of these was locked. Hana had emptied out drawers and cupboards to make space for me, so I guessed that she had tidied everything personal away into this room. I came across the key accidentally, in a kitchen drawer beside some tea towels. Those attic rooms had the original door fittings and this was a long iron key, like something in a novel or a pantomime. At the time, I hardly registered seeing it. Then it began to weigh on my mind, and one afternoon, when I had nothing better to do, I took it upstairs to try it in the lock. I feel ashamed of this now, needless to say. I think I felt that because I was nobody my slipping inside Hana’s privacy wouldn’t count as a real intrusion. And she’d left the key lying around, hadn’t she? Anyway, I only meant to take a quick look. The room was heaped surprisingly high with stuff, as if she’d been using it for storage for a long time. There were the clothes and shoes and bags filled with accessories and old makeup that I’d expected. There were also paintings—speculations that hadn’t paid off, perhaps?—propped, sometimes two or three deep, against the walls, their faces turned away as if in disgrace. Two new mattresses were still in their polythene. Art objects—ceramics and ethnic souvenirs and bits of sculpted wood—were muddled on the floor with a food processor and china dinner plates, a steam cleaner, and a broken chandelier with tangled crystals. Suitcases were piled on top of hi-fi speakers and an old computer; a black wetsuit was flung dramatically in a corner over surfboards and camping gear. There were boxes filled with DVDs and those big glossy books—biographies and cookbooks—that people give as presents and no one reads. I stepped inside the room. The air was thick with the heat that had collected under the roof and loud with the noise of the rain running down the far side of the sloping ceiling. It was like stepping into a cave. I felt as if I’d found my way into the inner workings of the house, or of Hana. Boxes and plastic bags were crammed with papers: letters and postcards and notebooks, photographs, nothing in any kind of order—yellowing letters stuffed in with recent bank statements. I just poked around at first; I wasn’t really reading anything. There were a lot of business papers, anyway, which didn’t mean much to me, though the sums of money were startling. Even without touching the DVDs I could see that they were porn and the kind of hard-core horror films I couldn’t watch: she had left the art films and rom-coms downstairs for me. I picked up a heart-shaped box covered in padded red satin. Inside, nestled under a wad of black tissue, were scraps of scarlet lace underwear, furry handcuffs, fishnets, and a vibrator, as bald and blatant as a medical appliance: I put the lid back on hastily. But this stuff was ordinary, wasn’t it? Everybody did it. What was the matter with me that I didn’t take it for granted, that my heart beat stickily, as if the little sex kit had somehow made a fool of me? Kneeling on the bare boards, I started reading my way through the contents of a plastic bag. “YOLO.”Buy the print » One of the expensive leather-bound notebooks was a kind of diary. It began and broke off abruptly, without dates. Hana had become involved with a man named Julian. She wrote about him in a big, looping hand that filled up two ruled lines at a time, dotting her “i”s with circles, using a lot of asterisks and private code words and exclamation marks. Everything was “amazing” or “terrible.” “I knew this was going to happen,” she wrote, “from the first moment he walked into the party that night.” Julian told her that he couldn’t get enough of her, that he was desperate for her, that he wanted her all over again as soon as he’d had her. They were at some dinner where they had to pretend not to know each other, ended up having sex in the bathroom. A line of dots, and then more exclamation marks. “He hurts me and frightens me, but it’s the best s*x ever.” Along with the sex, there was some lengthy analysis of Julian’s personality. The two of them were very alike, Hana thought. They “both had this ambition burning them up” and “a lot of imagination”; also they “needed to be free.” But a few pages on she was “starting to see through him”—how moody he was, how he always had to be the center of attention. “Of course it’s terrible about the children,” she wrote. They’d had a blissful weekend away together and swum naked in the sea, f***d in the shower. “Now he’s gone back to S and I feel like shit.” Hana made scenes, crawled to him on her knees, begged him to stay. “J came round at three in the morning and I let him in, couldn’t help myself. Then X and you know what. Crazy with love all over again. He makes me so happy.” These were the last words in the notebook. I’ve never lived, I thought, as I knelt there, reading with my legs cramped underneath me, aware of the rain as if it were drumming on my skin. I’ve never lived: the words ran in my head. Life was garish and ruthless and exaggerated, and I’d never really had it—I was like one of those child brides in history whose marriage was annulled by the Pope because it wasn’t consummated. Of course, mine had been consummated in the ordinary sense. But even when my husband told me that he wanted us to separate, even when he told me that he wasn’t in love with me anymore, and that he’d better keep the flat because I wouldn’t be able to afford the rent by myself, I hadn’t ranted or thrown pans at him. (Hana had thrown a pan full of boiling pasta at Julian once. She’d missed, but the water had splashed his leg and scalded him, and then he’d hit her, and then they’d XXX: “I’m covered in bruises this morning and feel fantastic, though I know it’s crazy.”) My husband was intelligent and read a lot of books about history and politics; he worked as a policy officer for a borough-regeneration strategy. Whenever we quarrelled he didn’t raise his voice but explained why I was wrong, with a fixed, reasonable smile, tapping his foot under the table. We had once enjoyed visiting the Wren churches together, and we’d gone to evening classes to learn Greek, because there was an unspoiled Greek island that we visited whenever we could get away. When he asked me to move out, I didn’t scream that I wouldn’t be able to bear my life without him, because I knew that I probably could bear it. In the months before we separated, I noticed that he kept moving my toiletries off the shelf in the bathroom, onto the windowsill, as if they were already redundant. He and I had too much irony to take our lives as earnestly as Hana took hers. Viewed coldly from outside, how silly Hana’s affair was and how demeaning, with its hysteria and its banal props. But who wanted to view things coldly, from outside? And then one morning, when I was still in my pajamas because I didn’t have anything to get dressed for, the door phone buzzed in the kitchen. I thought it might be a delivery for Hana—she was buying things in California and shipping them home. It was a man’s voice, placatory and peremptory at once. “Hana? It’s Julian. I have to pick up some stuff.” “Hana’s not at home,” I said. He sounded taken aback but not disappointed. “Who are you, then?” “I’m living here.” When I opened the door to Julian, he didn’t look at all as I’d imagined Hana’s lover. He must have been several inches shorter than she was, to begin with: wiry, with a neat pixie face, a high forehead under a receding hairline, and a taut smile. He had a child in tow, a boy of eight or nine, with the same sandy coloring and quizzically interrogating look—only the child seemed puny and lethargic, while Julian exuded a kind of restless satisfaction. He rose and fell while we talked, elastic on the balls of his feet in their youthful trainers. I explained that I was staying in Hana’s house while she was away. Julian said that he was an old friend of Hana’s and needed to pick up some gear he’d left with her, a tent and sleeping bags. “I’m taking the kids camping.” I did remember seeing a tent in the attic, but, of course, I couldn’t tell him that. The key to the attic was at that very moment weighing down my dressing-gown pocket. He asked if he could come in and hunt around for his stuff; I hesitated, then said it was O.K. I hadn’t washed my hair for a week and I hadn’t bothered to put my contacts in; I was wearing my glasses. I was too thin, because I wasn’t eating enough, and my pink dressing gown was years old and gray from washing. I followed Julian around while he rummaged in the cupboard under the stairs, the utility room. The house was hot, because I’d had the central heating on for hours. Fuming to himself, he wondered what Hana had done with his things. He wasn’t very interested in me. The boy traipsed after us, complaining that he was bored. He wanted to watch TV, but Julian said that he watched too much of it and made him unpack some paper and pens from his backpack, then settled him down to draw at the kitchen table. I got the impression that the boy had been to Hana’s house before. Julian was one of those parents whose attention to their children is inventive and forceful, inspiring—but I guessed that it might also be intermittent, abruptly withdrawn at any time, without explanation or with too much explanation. The child wasn’t likable: his white face was theatrically reproachful; he whined and never once smiled or thanked anyone for anything. Julian told me upstairs that the situation at home was tough. He was leaving his wife and moving out. The important thing was to make sure that the kids knew it didn’t affect his love for them. That’s why he was taking them camping. “The weather’s not very good for camping,” I said. He insisted that that was half the fun. When I mentioned the locked attic at the top of the house, he bounded up to rattle the door handle, frustrated that he couldn’t get in. “She didn’t tell you where she keeps the key?” It would have been easy for me to produce it at this point, to explain that I’d noticed it in the tea-towel drawer, but for some reason I liked feeling its weight against my leg, holding something back from him. Finally, he decided to call Hana on her mobile. “She’s still got her old number?” He glanced at the clock to work out the time difference. I imagined Hana dishevelled and stale, roused from her sleep in Los Angeles. “Hello, Hana,” he said. “It’s Julian. Yes, I know what time it is.” Walking away from me, he addressed himself with a fixed, strained smile into the phone. “Don’t even start,” he said in a subdued voice, intimately cruel and not meant for me to hear. “Don’t even get started, Hana. I don’t want to get started on all that all over again. I just want my camping gear.” After further urgent sotto-voce exchanges, he covered the mouthpiece with his hand, gesturing to me. “She says to try in the knife-and-fork drawer.” “You’ve looked there,” I said. “Fuck, Hana. I’m taking my kids on a fucking holiday.” I went again into the kitchen, opening and closing a couple of drawers. “Here it is,” I said then. “Look, I’ve found it.” I went back into the room where he was telephoning, holding out the key on the palm of my hand. Julian didn’t bother to explain to Hana, just cut off the call, snatched the key, and went running upstairs again to the attic, where he quickly found what he was looking for. I heard him humping stuff onto the landing, and the chink of metal tent poles in a bag. The boy was still absorbed in his drawing. When they’d gone, I noticed that he’d left it behind on the table: most of the page was blank, but a procession of tiny people was drawn neatly and precisely along the bottom—men, women, and children, weaving their way among tall clumps of grass and jagged rocks. I thought I’d never see Julian again, but that afternoon he called me on Hana’s landline. “Listen,” he said. “What’s your name? Listen, Laura. I told you I was moving out from home. Well, I need a place to store some boxes and it occurred to me that I could leave them at Hana’s. She’s got that attic for storage, so they won’t be in your way—you won’t even know they’re there. It’s just for the interim, while I find a place.” He said that Hana didn’t mind, but I didn’t really believe he had asked her. “It’ll all be gone, anyway, before she gets back from the States.” “I suppose I don’t see why not,” I said. So he arranged to bring his boxes over around six. Something about his jubilant efficiency made me suspect that he was outmaneuvering his wife, whisking his possessions out from under her nose before she could lay claim to anything. “I’ll see you at six, Laura,” he said. “Trust me, at this point it’s the only way we can boost your numbers on likability.”Buy the print » When I put the phone down, I was frightened and excited, as if I had an assignation with a lover. This was preposterous, of course, and I knew it—I hadn’t even liked the man and wasn’t the least bit attracted to him. Also, he was only coming to drop off some boxes. Yet I hurried upstairs, burdened by the need to get ready for his arrival, as if it were momentous. It was only half past four—I had plenty of time. I washed my hair in the shower, with Hana’s special revitalizing shampoo, then I put on the thick towelling bathrobe that still smelled of her perfume. It was big on me, and I felt as if I were a little girl playing in my mother’s clothes. Putting in my contacts, I studied my reflection, layering on foundation and then eyeshadow, mascara, lipstick; ordinarily, I didn’t bother with any of this. The face that emerged in the mirror was recognizably mine—a wary small oval spoiled by a thin nose—but replete with new knowledge. Then I browsed through the blouses in Hana’s wardrobe, looking for something to wear over my jeans; I chose a gauzy, sultry maroon top splotched with black flowers, cinched at the waist with a belt I’d found discarded in the attic—Middle Eastern, dark-pink embroidery, sewn with dangling silver coins. I wore a necklace of the silver coins, too. I pinned up my hair and sprayed on Hana’s perfume. When I was ready, I poured myself a glass of white wine from a bottle I’d put in the fridge. I had been careful with alcohol while I was living in Hana’s house: I was afraid of getting drunk by myself every night. But this evening the first sips were delicious—a high green note like a bell at the front of my mind. I stood at an upstairs window watching the leaves blowing down from the trees onto the wet black tarmac. After a while, Julian was late, and I’d finished the glass of wine. Just as I’d decided with relief that he wasn’t coming after all, he turned up in a white camper van, parking where there was a space across the road. He rang the bell and I buzzed him in, then went down to the front door, where several boxes were already stacked on the doorstep; Julian was across the road, unpacking more boxes from the van. When he saw me, he shouted to ask whether I had a parking permit he could use. I fetched the visitors’ permits from where Hana had left them. There were a lot more boxes than he had suggested on the phone—and not only boxes but other stuff: bedding and an Anglepoise lamp and a couple of racing bikes. He explained that he was late because things had been more complicated than he’d anticipated. “Where’s that key? I’ll just pop these up in the attic, then I’ll clear out of your way. They’ll honestly only be here for a week or two.” “Are you leaving your wife to be with Hana?” I asked. He barked with disbelieving laughter. “You’re kidding. Who gave you that idea? Don’t tell me she did.” “No one. I just wondered.” “No fear of that,” he said. “Hana’s not really my type.” I gave him the key and waited in the kitchen while he ran up and down the stairs, taking them two at a time, carrying up his stuff; he was muscular, as if he went to the gym or took regular exercise. I could hear that he had to move things around in the attic to get it all inside. By the time he came looking for me to return the key, he was breathing hard, and there were dark patches of sweat on his T-shirt. He picked up the jacket he’d slung over the back of a chair. “Would you like a glass of wine?” I asked, as I had planned. “Better not, I’m driving.” “Cup of tea?” I think he was surprised that I persisted. Noticing something, he took a step toward me, reaching for my necklace of coins and fingering it. “I remember this. Isn’t it Hana’s?” “She gave it to me,” I lied. For the first time then, I saw him take me in: distinctly, as if an image of me flickered across his expression and was swallowed inside. He held on for a moment to the necklace connecting us, then let it drop so that it struck me on the breastbone. I wondered if he recognized the blouse, too. “Well, why not?” he said. “A glass of wine.” We sat at the counter where Hana and I had sat to make arrangements. Julian glowed with the satisfaction of having accomplished his preëmptive strike against his wife. With the boxes stowed, there was time now to focus the strong beam of his attention on me. I felt its heat and knew that he was seeing at last how different I looked. “So, Laura. What are you doing here in Hana-land?” Disguised, I was able to perform a part: I could hear myself sounding carefree and flirtatious. I explained that I hardly knew Hana and was staying in her house because, like him, I was escaping my marriage. He raised his glass. “To marriage, and all those who abandon ship.” “To abandoning ship,” I said. He asked me about my husband, and I exaggerated how dull he was; I made it sound as if I were the one who’d fallen out of love. Julian had a lot of ideas about relationships and their natural sell-by dates (that was his phrase). “If the thing’s dead,” he said, “then the kindest thing to do is walk away from it. You’re only prolonging the agony otherwise.” I thought he might be the sort of man who heard himself expounding his own ideas inside his head even when he was alone—reasonably, persuasively. Meanwhile, I began to feel peculiar as I drank my way through my second glass of wine. I remembered that I hadn’t eaten anything since breakfast; then, when I tried to step down from the high stool at the counter, my foot tangled in the crossbar and I staggered and almost fell. Julian was immediately proficient, practical. Supporting me, he steered me to an armchair. “What’s the matter? Are you going to throw up? What have you taken?” I explained that I hadn’t taken anything. And then I told him the whole story—how I’d run out of money and hadn’t begun looking for a job yet, and how over the weeks I’d eaten everything in Hana’s freezer and now it was empty. “You’re actually fainting from hunger?” “I’m definitely going shopping tomorrow. It was just silly, having that second glass of wine.” Something about my situation touched him and made him laugh—I think he rather liked imagining me as a starving waif. He rummaged through the kitchen cupboards looking for something I could eat, but I’d gone through those cupboards weeks before. Then he stood frowning, as if I were a puzzle, half intriguing and half bothersome. “Well, Laura. It looks as if I might owe you a supper. I suppose you did me a favor. I’ll drive up to the deli. What do you like?” “Oh, anything,” I said, trying to remember the freezer. “Chicken Maryland, chicken Kiev, shrimp in teriyaki sauce . . .” “Not that frozen shit Hana eats. I’m going to cook real food.” I saw that his seduction, if it came, would be like this—not heartfelt and hesitant but brisk and with an element of firm corrective. I was ready to submit to it. He tucked a rug over me before he left, put a glass of water within reach, and tested my forehead competently with his palm. While he was out, the telephone rang and I answered it from the armchair. “So what happened?” Hana said. “Did he find his bloody tent?” “Who? Oh, Julian. Yes, it was in the attic.” “What kind of mood was he in? Did he say anything about me?” “Not really,” I said. “Who is he?” “He’s a bit of a nightmare, actually. He and I had a thing going at some point. Luckily, I bailed out pretty quickly.” “What does he do?” “Oh, some sort of Web design. He talks up the charity work, but it’s mostly corporate.” I told her then that he was cooking me supper. For a bruised, long moment, she was soundless at the other end of the line. “He’s still there? Julian’s there in the house?” “He’s just taken the van up to the deli, to buy what he needs.” “He’s cooking you supper? I thought he came for his tent?” “He came back another time.” I didn’t mention the boxes. “I can’t get my head around this. Do you two know each other?” “It’s just a friendly thing, because I helped him with the key. I was hungry, so he offered to cook.” Hana took this in. “I see,” she said in a voice so remote that it reminded me how far away Los Angeles actually was. “It’s weird, because he used to make such an issue out of being home for mealtimes with his kids.” I didn’t try to explain that he was leaving his wife. “Oh, well,” she said. “Enjoy. I hope he makes you something nice.” Julian brought back muesli and fruit and poppy-seed cake, as well as the ingredients for supper. Cutting a chunk of bread, he told me to eat that to start with, and to drink plenty of water. There was a lot of sizzling and show and split-second timing as he cooked, and even a high leap of naked flame when he burned off the alcohol from his sauce. He complained that it was characteristic for Hana’s kitchen to be full of expensive equipment although she lived on takeaway; he told me that he ate only organic food, that he cycled fifty miles every weekend, and that he’d designed and built himself a loft studio in the house he was leaving, but didn’t begrudge the loss of it, because he was always moving on and looking forward. “At high noon I’m takin’ her to the zoo. How’s one–thirty?”Buy the print » I’d never have picked Julian out as a sensuous type if I hadn’t read Hana’s diary; he seemed too busy and prosaic, without the abstracted dreamy edges I’d always imagined in people who gave themselves over to their erotic lives. And yet, because of the secret things I knew about him, I was fixated on him the whole time I watched him cook, and then afterward, while we sat opposite each other eating at the little table he pulled up to my armchair. I told myself that, if he left without anything happening, then I had lost my chance and I would die. I wasn’t melting or longing for him to touch me or anything like that; the desire wasn’t in my body but wedged in my mind, persistent and burrowing. I didn’t even like Julian much. But liking people and even loving them seemed to me now like ways of keeping yourself safe, and I didn’t want to be safe. I wanted to cross the threshold and be initiated into real life. My innocence was a sign of something maimed or unfinished in me. The food was delicious—couscous with a sauce made from peppers and pine nuts and mushrooms and pancetta. It would be good for me, Julian said, because it wasn’t too rich. He told me to eat slowly, and he finished first, wiping his mouth and sitting back in his chair to observe me. “It’s great to watch someone enjoying their food,” he said. “Better than the chicken Kiev.” “I should say so.” I was uncomfortable under his scrutiny but gave myself up to it, hoping that I wasn’t dropping couscous everywhere. “I can’t quite make you out, Laura,” he said. “I’m curious about you. You were as hostile as a little fox when I came for the tent this morning.” “I’m not really a morning person.” “Yet this evening I got the feeling you wanted me to stay—and not only because you were in need of a square meal.” I bent my hot face over my wineglass. “I’ve been spending a lot of time alone.” “Solitude’s like a drug,” he said. “You use it. You can’t let it use you.” (Really? I heard my husband querying in my mind—contemptuously, witheringly. Is it actually anything like a drug? I don’t think so.) Julian leaned forward and put his hand on my jeans above my knee, spreading his fingers and bearing down with an unambiguous pressure. Then I felt all the bodily part of desire kick into life, all right—the melting and the thrumming and the longing. So this is how it begins, I thought: the passage over into the other place. Very carefully, readying myself, I put my glass down on the table. But just at that moment the phone rang and he pulled his hand away. It was Hana again. “Is Julian still there?” she asked urgently, secretively. “He is,” I said. I took the phone and walked away with my back to him, into the next room. “Well, listen. I’ve been calling around a few friends. You should be careful. Apparently, he’s splitting up with Suzanne. So watch out for him. Julian’s a snake. He’ll take advantage of you because you’re vulnerable. I know he will. I should think he’s sniffing out somewhere to sleep for a few days.” “I’m not vulnerable,” I said. “Don’t worry about me.” She was exasperated by my tone. “I’m pretty miffed, actually, by the idea of him making himself at home in my house while I’m away. You’d understand if you knew the half of what’s gone on.” “I’m sorry. I thought he was a friend of yours. But don’t worry, anyway—we’ve almost finished supper.” “And then he’s going?” I said I could hardly push him out into the street the moment we’d cleared our plates. “I owe him a coffee, at least.” “He doesn’t drink coffee,” she said gloomily. She rang off, and I returned to the kitchen. Julian was standing with his back to the window, hands in his pockets, wearing the jacket he’d taken off to cook. I knew at once that something had changed during my absence. “Was that Hana looking after you?” he said, amused. “I don’t need looking after.” “Couldn’t you cheerfully strangle her sometimes?” “You don’t have to hurry away,” I said. “Won’t you stay for some tea? Is this because Hana called?” Julian was suffused with regret, positively rosy with his own sheer decency in turning me down. “You’re feeling better now, aren’t you?” “Don’t go,” I cried. I seized him by the sleeves of his jacket, so that there could be no mistake about what I was offering; up close, I was submerged in his heat and the dense miasma of his smells, frying and sweat, intoxicating in the madness of the moment. Kindly, patiently, he disengaged himself. “It’s got nothing to do with Hana,” he said. “I have to be somewhere else. Somebody will be wondering where I am. Don’t forget we’re going camping in the morning.” I pressed the front door shut behind him and then, for a long moment, while I rested my fingertips with finality on the cherry-red paint inside, I didn’t know whether I was going to die or not. I waited there, head bowed, for the wave to break over me—this was it, the whole humiliation. I was so exposed that I might as well have been skinned and turned inside out. Then my eyes fastened on two protruding screws, one on each side of the interior of Hana’s letter box: in their functional ugliness they were reassuring. I lifted my head and looked on tiptoe through the security peephole. Julian was gone; shooting the bolt across, I was alone. My thoughts wheeled around and down and then struck bottom: not, to my surprise, on despair but on something else after all—hard, bleak, gray, satisfactory freedom. Letting go of the strain of yearning was a relief, like stretched elastic retracting. When I walked into the kitchen, I saw that Julian had left a fifty-pound note tucked under the pepper pot. Working tenderly and cautiously around my self-esteem, as if it were convalescent, I cleared up—stacked most of the dishes and pans in the machine, rinsed a few delicate things, wiped down the surfaces and the cooker and the table, put the leftover food in the fridge. I thought that I might watch a film—one of the art films that Hana had left downstairs for me. In the bedroom. I changed back into my pajamas and dressing gown, and on impulse hunted out my box of souvenirs—the perfume bottle, a few postcards, the pebbles. I had picked up these pebbles from a favorite beach I visited with my parents when I was a teen-ager: a fierce sea in a rocky cleft at the bottom of a steep descent through gorse bushes. One of them fitted snugly in my hand, and I hung on to it all the way through Pasolini’s “Theorem,” which I had seen before and which meant a lot to me. Washed smooth, the pebble was reddish brown, speckled with blue and cream like a bird’s egg, consoling. Julian must have taken the attic key with him, because the next day I couldn’t find it anywhere. Hana was annoyed when she got back from L.A. and had to get a locksmith in to open the door; she didn’t mention finding Julian’s stuff stowed away in there, so I assumed he’d collected it sometime when I was out—he must have had a front-door key left over from the days of their affair. I had begun to be out most of the time, because the very next day after our supper I started looking for a job—and then I found one, working as a receptionist for a publisher of medical and scientific journals. Eventually, I found a room, too, in a shared house with some old friends. The funny thing was that after my evening with Julian I knew I came across as older and more experienced. People seemed to take me more seriously—as if I’d been initiated into something after all, although nothing had happened. I don’t think Hana ever believed that nothing had happened. She came to see me at my new place one evening, looking striking in a belted mac, with dark-red lipstick and a beret pinned on her hair at a dramatic angle. “I need to know about Julian,” she said. In good faith, I wanted to be guileless, transparent to her. I confessed about his storing the boxes and taking them away again—though I couldn’t bring myself to mention reading her diary. “And that’s all?” I tried to clear my face, but something must have showed there, which she couldn’t penetrate. She kept her eyes on me, and her watchfulness had respect and even fear in it, as if I were the one with secrets. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Women	Credit Photograph by Eve Arnold / Magnum Growing up in the listless nineteen-eighties, Cecilia Normanton knew her father well, her mother not at all. Mr. Normanton was handsome and tall, with steely gray hair brushed carefully every day so that it was as he wished it to be. His shirts and suits gave the impression of being part of him, as his house in Buckingham Street did, and the family business that bore his name. Only Mr. Normanton’s profound melancholy was entirely his own. It was said by people who knew him well that melancholy had not always been his governing possession, that once upon a time he had been carefree and a little wild, that the loss of his wife—not to the cruelty of an early death but to her preference for another man—had left him wounded in a way that was irreparable. Remembered by those who had known it, the marriage was said to have echoed with laughter, there’d been parties and the pleasure of spending money, the Normantons had appeared to delight in one another. Yet less than two years after the marriage began it was over; and in the Buckingham Street house Cecilia heard nothing that was different. “Your mother wasn’t here anymore,” her father said, and Cecilia didn’t know if this was his way of telling her that her mother had died and she didn’t feel she could ask. She lived with the uncertainty, but increasingly believed there had been a death from which her father had never recovered and could not speak of. In a pocket-sized yellow folder at the back of a drawer there were photographs of a smiling girl, petite and beautiful, on a seashore and in a garden, and waving from a train. Cecilia’s father, smiling, too, was sometimes there, and Cecilia imagined their happiness, their escapades, their pleasure in being together. She pitied her father as he was now, his memories darkened by his loss. Dark-haired and tall for her age, her slim legs elegant in schoolgirl black, Cecilia was taken to be older than she was. Eighteen or nineteen was the guess of the youths and men who could not resist a second glance at her prettiness on the street: she was fourteen. She didn’t know why she was looked at on the street, for an awareness of being pretty was not yet part of her. It wasn’t something that was mentioned by her father or by Mr. Grace, the retired schoolmaster whom her father had engaged as her tutor in preference to sending her to one of the nearby schools. It wasn’t mentioned by the Maltraverses, who daily came to the house also, to cook and clean. Among these adult people Cecilia was lonely, and friendless, too, in Buckingham Street. At weekends her father did his best, making an effort to be interesting on their strolls about the deserted City streets—the Strand and Ludgate Hill, Cheapside and Poultry, Threadneedle, Cornhill. He pointed out the Bank of England, the Stock Exchange: he said that London’s City was a village in its way. Sometimes, as a change, he booked two rooms at a small hotel in Suffolk, usually at Hintlesham or Orford. Cecilia enjoyed these weekend excursions, but the weekdays continued to pass slowly, for Mr. Grace came only in the mornings and the Maltraverses were not given to conversation. In the afternoons, when she had completed the work she’d been set, she had the spacious rooms of the house to herself and poked about in drawers, watched television, or opened the yellow folder to look again at the photographs of her mother. When she had money she went out to buy licorice allsorts or Kit-Kat. She was fortunate, she knew. No one was unkind to her, no one was angry. She imagined nothing would change, that Mr. Grace would always come, the Maltraverses always be too busy for conversation, that always there’d be the silent afternoon house, the drawers, and being alone. But her father, sensitive to the pressure of duty where his child was concerned, did not demur when he was advised that the time had come to send her away to boarding school, to be a girl among other girls. “You shall have a flowerbed,” Miss Watson said. Smart as a mannequin, she was delicately attractive in different ways. Her voice was, her slimness, the gentleness in her eyes. A softly woven scarf—a galaxy of reds and rust against the gray of her dress—was loosely draped and almost reached the ground. “We are happy people here,” she assured Cecilia. “You shall be, too.” Amhurst the school was called, and Miss Watson, who was its headmistress, explained how the name had come about, told how the school had been the seat of a landed family, how outbuildings had been transformed into music rooms and laboratories, art rooms and the weaving room, only the classroom blocks being a new addition. She took Cecilia to a small brick-walled garden, which was, and always had been, the headmistress’s. She opened an ornamental iron gate in an archway, then latched it again as if shutting away everything of the school itself. She pointed at a flowerbed with nothing growing in it and said it would be Cecilia’s own, where she could cultivate the flowers she liked best. Old Trigol was the school gardener, she said, a dear person when you got to know him. Cecilia disliked the place intensely, felt lonelier and more on her own than she ever had in Buckingham Street. She wrote to her father, begging him to come and take her away. She was the only new girl that term, and no one bothered with her except a senior girl whom Miss Watson had ordered to. “You pray?” this older girl asked her and suggested that they might pray together. “Every meal’s inedible,” Mr. Normanton read. “A girl was sick after pilchards.” But as time went on Cecilia’s letters became less wretched. She discovered Mozart, Le Douanier Rousseau, and—recommended by the religious girl—St. Teresa of Lisieux. She found “The Moon and Sixpence” and “The Constant Nymph” among the well-used books in the school library. Two girls, Daisy and Amanda, became her friends. The religious girl reported to Miss Watson that settling in had begun. Mr. Normanton came often during that first term. He took Cecilia out on weekend jaunts—lunch at the Castletower Hotel, tea in the tearooms on the river. He met Daisy and Amanda, and before the term ended took them out, too. He was glad he had listened to the advice he’d been given, had realized what he hadn’t on his own: that his child would benefit and be happy as a girl among other girls. Cecilia grew lilies of the valley in her flowerbed, having decided it was her favorite flower. She picked the first bunch on her fifteenth birthday and offered it to Miss Watson. “You are a person we take pride in, Cecilia,” Miss Watson said. The two women who were watching the hockey were on the other touchline, directly opposite where Cecilia, with Daisy and Amanda, was watching it, too, since attendance at home matches was compulsory. Cecilia remembered the women being on the touchline before, because when the hockey ended they’d passed close to where she and Daisy and Amanda were looking for Amanda’s watch, which had slipped from her wrist without her noticing. “Someone’ll stand on it!” Amanda was wailing and the two women had hesitated as if about to look for the watch, too. Daisy found it, undamaged, on the grass, and the women went on. But when they hesitated they’d stared at Cecilia in a way that was quite disconcerting. There was sudden cheering and clapping: Amhurst had scored. St. Hilda’s—in their unbecoming brown jerseys a glum contrast to Amhurst’s jolly red-and-blue—looked defeated already and probably would be, for Amhurst never lost. It would have been Elizabeth Statham who’d scored, Cecilia imagined, and hoped it wasn’t or it would mean a lot of showing off later on. But Amanda said it was. “Bloody Statham,” Daisy muttered. They wanted St. Hilda’s to win. Favoring the other side eased their indignation at having to stand in the cold for an hour and a half on a winter afternoon. They hated watching hockey almost more than anything. “I tried to read ‘Virginibus Puerisque,’ ” Amanda said. “Ghastly.” Daisy agreed, and recommended “Why Didn’t They Ask Evans?” Cecilia wondered who the women were who’d come back again only a few weeks after she’d seen them before. They wouldn’t be Old Girls because Old Girls always hung around Miss Watson or Miss Smith and they weren’t doing that. They wouldn’t be supporters of St. Hilda’s because the visiting team hadn’t been St. Hilda’s the other time. She wondered if for some reason they enjoyed watching hockey matches, the way Colonel Forbes enjoyed watching cricket on Saturday after Saturday, in the summer term. Or like Trigol, who was allowed to take the afternoon off from the garden for Sports Day because he’d once been a high-jump champion, which wasn’t easy to imagine, Trigol being in his seventies now. When the two women stared at Cecilia the smaller one had smiled. Cecilia had smiled back, since it would have been rude not to, but Daisy and Amanda hadn’t seen that any more than they’d seen the staring, and afterward Cecilia hadn’t said anything because it was embarrassing, and silly to go on about. Miss Chalmers blew the final whistle and there were three cheers for St. Hilda’s and then for Amhurst, followed by clapping when the two teams walked off the pitch. The people who’d been watching followed, groups breaking up and new ones forming as they made their way back to the school buildings. The two women became lost in the crowd and Cecilia was aware of feeling relieved. But they were there again, by the cattle grid, where cars were parked on match days. The St. Hilda’s bus was there, too, the driver folding away the newspaper he’d been reading. The two women didn’t get into a car and drive off, as Cecilia thought they would. They stood about as if they had a reason to, and Cecilia avoided looking in their direction. They had taken the path through the trees and, emerging from what had become a small wood, they marvelled at the open land, as that morning they had marvelled at sunshine in February, misty though it was. Nothing as tiresome as rain had spoiled their walk from the railway station or their returning to it now. “If this turns out to be the right form, let me know.”Buy the print » “I would have travelled a million miles for this afternoon,” Miss Keble summed up their outing as they approached the first of the bungalows on the town’s outskirts. Miss Cotell—less given to exaggeration than her friend—said nothing, but in her reticence there was no denial that the afternoon had been a pleasure. How could it not have been, she thought, their presence for the second time unquestioned, and the feeling as well that they had been right to return? How could all that not have been a treat? Miss Keble, sensing these thoughts, kept the subject going, marvelling that so little achieved should seem so much a triumph, yet understanding that it should be. She would not easily forget the faces of the girls, their voices, too, and how politely they stood back, respecting strangers. All of it was impossible to forget. Miss Cotell again was silent but still no less impressed and then, quite suddenly, affected in a different way, an urge to weep restrained. On the homeward train her tears, permitted now, were not of sorrowing or distress but came because her friend understood so much so well, because agreement between them, never faltering, had been today more than it had ever been before. Guessing all this, Miss Keble watched Miss Cotell recovering her composure. For some minutes they both gazed out at the landscape and the image of a prehistoric animal cut into the limestone of a distant hill. “I’m sorry,” Miss Cotell apologized. “Stupid.” “Of course it wasn’t.” Miss Keble went in search of tea, but there wasn’t any to be found. Miss Cotell fell asleep. The two—of an age, at fifty-five—had retired early from a government department. They had met there thirty-odd years ago, and their friendship had flourished on the mores of office life ever since, Miss Keble remaining in Benefits (Family), Miss Cotell making a brief foray into Pensions and then returning to Benefits. They had been together since, as close in retirement as they were before it. The landscape Miss Cotell was unaware of, while she dreamed instantly forgotten dreams, faded into winter dusk. Miss Keble failed to interest herself in a newspaper someone had left behind and instead thought about the house they were returning to, and the rooms in which their two lives had become entangled over the years, for which furniture, piece by piece, had been chosen together, where childhood memories had been exchanged. Miss Keble, as she sometimes did when she was away from the house for longer than usual, saw as if in a vision the reminders it held of foreign places where there’d been holidays: the Costa del Sol; the beach at Rimini; Vernon, where they’d stayed when they visited Monet’s garden; and the unidentified setting where an obliging stranger had operated Miss Cotell’s Kodak, allowing them to pose together. The house, the rooms, these images of themselves in places visited meant everything to Miss Keble, as equally they did to Miss Cotell. The house, in a terrace, was small, without a garden. At the back, the feature of a concrete yard was a row of potted plants arranged against a cream-distempered wall. Curtains of fine net protected the two downstairs front windows from the glances of passing pedestrians; at night, flowery chintz was drawn across; upstairs there were blinds. Everything—and in the yard, too—had been made as Miss Cotell and Miss Keble wanted it, an understanding that became another element in their relationship. Nothing had been undertaken, no changes made, without agreement. This house, in darkness, became theirs again when the train journey ended. It was cold and they switched on electric fires. They discussed what food should be cooked, or not cooked, if tonight they should open a tin of salmon or manage on sandwiches and tea. Both settled for a poached egg on toast. “It was good of you, Keble,” Miss Cotell said when, snug in their heated kitchen, they sat down to eat. “I have to thank you.” Their calling one another by surname only was a habit left behind by office life, for although they did not regret their early retirement office life clung on. They had wondered about other clerkly work, but it wasn’t easy—and in the end impossible—to find anything suitable, especially since they stipulated that they should not be separated. “Both times I wanted to come with you,” Miss Keble said. “And I will again.” Tidily, Miss Cotell drew her knife and fork together on her empty plate. “I wonder, though,” she said, “if I have the heart for going there again.” “Oh, what a thing, Cotell! Of course you have!” “What more can come of it?” And whispering as if she spoke privately, although there was no privacy between them, Miss Cotell softly repeated, “What more?” Miss Keble knew and did not say. Warm and pleasant, the euphoria brought about by the day still possessed her. She wished Miss Cotell no ill will, wished her all the peace in the world, but still could not help welcoming in a way that was natural to her the exhilaration she experienced. She did not press or urge: they were neither of them like that. Resisting the flicker of satisfaction that threatened to disturb her features, she gathered up the cups and saucers. Miss Cotell folded the tablecloth and put away the salt and pepper. “How difficult,” she murmured, “to know what’s right.” “Of course,” Miss Keble said. It wasn’t until the following term that Cecilia again saw the two women. Summer had come, the long, light evenings, the smell of grass just cut, the flowerbeds of Miss Watson’s brick-walled garden bright with crocosmia and sweet pea, with echium and geranium sanguineum. When she was younger, Cecilia had preferred the coziness of winter, but no longer did. She loved the sunshine and its warmth, her too pale skin lightly browned, freckles on her arms. She saw the women when she was returning from taking the afternoon letters to the postbox, a fourth-form duty that routinely came once a fortnight. She had called into Ridley’s when the letters were posted—honeycomb chocolate for Daisy, Mademoiselle’s bonbons. The women were on the path through the trees, coming toward her. They must live near by, Cecilia thought. Probably they went for walks and had found their way to the hockey pitch. But hockey was over now until September. Sunlight came through the trees in shafts, new beech leaves making dappled shadows on the women’s clothes. How drab those clothes were! Cecilia thought. How ugly the taller woman’s features were, the hollow cheeks, her crooked teeth, one with a corner gone. Her friend was dumpy. They had stopped, and Cecilia felt she should also, although she didn’t want to. “What weather at last!” the dumpy woman said. They asked her her name and said that was a lovely name when she told them. Violets were held out to her to smell. They said where they’d picked them. A dell they called the place, near the fingerpost. They could have picked an armful. “We hoped we’d see you,” the taller woman said. “For you, my dear.” Again the violets were held out, this time for Cecilia to take. “We’re not meant to pick the flowers.” Both smiled at once. “You didn’t pick them, you might explain. A gift.” “Look this way, Cecilia,” the dumpy woman begged. She had a camera, but the distant chiming of the afternoon roll-call bell had already begun and Cecilia said she had to go. “Just quickly, dear.” They both spoke at once, saying they mustn’t keep her, and when she hurried away Cecilia heard the voices continuing, a monotone kept low, hardly changing from one voice to the other. She could tell she was being watched, that the women were standing there instead of going on. “Who are they?” Elizabeth Statham was in her games clothes, returning from the run she went on every afternoon. “Friends of yours?” she asked. “I don’t know them at all.” “Funny, they’d take a photograph.” Cecilia didn’t attempt to reply. Frightened of Elizabeth Statham, she was at her worst with her, never knowing what to say. “Funny, they’d want to give you flowers.” Cecilia tried to shrug, but her effort felt clumsy, and Elizabeth Statham sniggered. “Poor relations, are they?” “I don’t know them.” She couldn’t hear the women anymore and imagined they must have gone. She didn’t look back. Elizabeth Statham would go on about it because she had a way of doing that, sitting on your bed after lights-out, pretending to be nice. “Funny, they’d know your name,” she said now, before she continued on her run. “Come now,” Miss Keble said that same evening, when they were home again and it was late. Miss Cotell, not at first responding, said when the pause had become drawn out, “A dullness settles on me when I try to think. ‘I’ll think it through,’ I tell myself, and then I can’t. That dullness comes, as if I’ve summoned it.” “It’s called being in two minds,” Miss Keble said. “I feel I have no mind at all.” “Oh, now!” Miss Keble smiled and firmly shook her head. “How good you are to me, Keble.” Miss Cotell thanked her before she went upstairs. Miss Keble did not deny it. Miss Cotell undressed and for a moment before she reached for her nightdress stood still, her nakedness reflected in a looking glass. How old she seemed, the flesh of her neck all loops and furrows, her arms gone scrawny! The hair that Broughton had called her crowning glory was grayer and thinner than it should be. She blamed herself, but blaming didn’t help. “How could I!” she had protested, laughing almost, when Broughton had asked if she would show herself to him. “Please,” he begged. “Oh, please.” He wouldn’t now. He’d held her to him, the buttons of his jacket cold. Shy as a bird she’d heard him called, but oh, he wasn’t. With her he could not be, he’d said. Slowly Miss Cotell drew on her nightdress, then felt the sheets, the pillow, cold. He’d warmed her, and tonight she had known he would again. The caressing of his murmur did, and his touch was more than she could bear, his hands so soft, as if all his life he had done no physical work. The blue of his eyes was a paler blue than she’d ever seen in eyes before, his hair like down, wheat-colored, lovely. He whispered now as he had then and she did, too, in the dark, since always they wanted that. She dried his tears of shame. She loved his body’s warmth. He’d chosen her. She’d wanted no one else. “Son, if you can’t say something nice, say something clever but devastating.”Buy the print » Miss Keble, who had not experienced this aspect of life, was aware without resentment that she lived at second hand. Her friend had done things: their reminiscences, so often exchanged, allowed no doubt about that. Yet Miss Cotell, while seeming to lead the way, did not. Miss Keble, through listening and knowing what should be done, had years ago taken charge. “How little I would be, alone!” Miss Cotell had a way of saying and Miss Keble loved to hear it. Accepting her lesser role, she knew that it was she, in the end, who ordered their lives and wielded power. She turned the pages of an old book she had never thrown away and knew almost by heart, “Dr Bradley Remembers.” But her thoughts did not connect with the people it again presented to her. What innocence there was in the girl’s eyes! She closed her own and saw the unspoiled features still a child’s, the dark, dark hair, the blue-and-red blazer, the pleated gray skirt. Vividly, recollection refreshed for Miss Keble all that the day had offered, and the joy that should have been her friend’s became her own. Miss Cotell dreamed. When she answered the doorbell Father Humphrey was standing there, his back to her at first. “All done,” he said, his voice stern, his handshake firm. “Thank you,” he said, not opening the envelope she gave him. Because Cecilia was to be Thisbe, Mr. Normanton was given a seat in the front row. His daughter’s ambition, he knew, was one day to be an actress, a secret shared only with him. There had been such intimacies since Cecilia had gone away to Amhurst, as if each separation and each pleasurable reunion had influenced a closeness that had not been evident or felt before. He understood Cecilia’s reluctance to reveal to her friends the presumption of a talent, to keep from them her English teacher’s prediction that she would in time play Ophelia, and one day Lady Macbeth. It delighted Mr. Normanton that all this had come about, that his solitary child had been drawn out in ways he had not been able to find himself, that in spite of his awkwardness as a father she had turned to him with her confidences. Miss Watson took her place beside him, whispering something he couldn’t hear. The houselights dimmed, all chatter ceased. Afterward, Miss Cotell and Miss Keble talked about the evening, tickets for which Miss Keble had discovered could be purchased by the public when the requirements of friends and parents had been satisfied. They’d been at the back and more than a little cramped but hadn’t minded. They had noticed the honoring of Mr. Normanton, placed next to the headmistress, and when someone asked Miss Keble who he was she was able to say he was the father of the girl who had been enthusiastically applauded as Thisbe. It was almost midnight now, and in their bed-and-breakfast lodgings their beds were close enough to allow conversation that would not disturb if their voices were kept low. Tonight had felt like the height of what they could hope for, Miss Cotell reflected, the end at last of what had been a beginning, when, alone, she had visited what Father Humphrey called the priest house on a cold April afternoon a long time ago. “He’ll come to you when he’s ready,” a slatternly woman with a bucket and mop curtly informed her, and didn’t answer when Miss Cotell remarked on the weather. “Well, now?” Father Humphrey greeted her, when he came, a big, tall man who asked her how she had heard of him and she explained that another girl in Pensions had mentioned him. Awake, Miss Keble also was drawn back to the memory of that afternoon, to the slovenly woman, to the priests who’d passed silently through the room where Miss Cotell waited. Both had thought it likely that tonight they would talk again about that time, but found they didn’t. A lorry clattered by on the street outside, somewhere a dog ceased to bark. Miss Cotell and Miss Keble slept then. Period costumes colored their unconscious, and the rhythms of period music were faintly there again; and Mr. Normanton’s dark-blue suit was, his polka-dotted tie, the hat he carried with his coat. “I cannot leave,” Miss Cotell confessed at breakfast. “I cannot without saying how all of it was wonderful. I cannot, Keble.” They bought two gifts, Miss Cotell’s brooch a circle of colored stones set in silvered plate, Miss Keble’s a selection of chocolates she was assured were special. They had become familiar with the bells of the school, the one that ended classes, the lunchtime summons, the roll-call bell at half-past four, the hurry-up one five minutes later. They knew a clearing in the woods and brought the sandwiches they’d made there. They could see the path, but no one appeared on it all day. It had to be said, Miss Keble, impatient, told herself while they waited. It had to be, and Cotell was not the one to say it, for it was not her way. Cotell did not ever press herself, never had, never would. Too easily she went timid. But even so, and more than ever, Miss Keble could see in her friend’s eyes the longing that had so often been there since they’d first begun to come here. She could sense it today, in gestures and intimations, in tears blinked back. At twenty past four they walked to the school. Cecilia caught a single glimpse of the two women and looked away and didn’t look again. Whoever was on afternoon duty would surely ask them what they wanted, why they were here in Founder’s Quad, where visitors never were without a reason. She heard a prefect asking who they were, and someone saying she didn’t know. It was a relief at least that Elizabeth Statham was excused this roll call because every afternoon now she had to train for Sports Day. “We wanted just to say how much we enjoyed last night,” the taller of the women said, and the dumpy one added that wild horses wouldn’t have stopped them from coming back to say it. “These are for you,” the tall one said. They held out packages in different-colored wrapping paper, and Cecilia remembered the flowers they’d pressed on her, which she’d had to throw away. It was Miss Smith on duty, but she appeared to be unconcerned by the women’s presence, even acknowledging it with a hospitable nod in their direction as if she remembered them from last night. They murmured to one another, their voices low when the roll was called and while Miss Smith read out two brief announcements. “Cecilia, if you visited us, you would like our house,” the dumpy woman said then. “We’re not that far away.” She said that the packages, which Cecilia had not accepted, were gifts, that the address of their house was included with them, the phone number, too. No one was near enough to hear, and the curiosity about the two women had dissipated. Already girls were moving away. “They are for you,” the tall woman repeated. Cecilia took the packages, then changed her mind and put them on a nearby bench. “I don’t know you. It’s kind of you to give me presents, but I don’t know why you want to.” “Cecilia,” the dumpy woman said, “you’ll have heard of Father Humphrey?” “I think you’re mistaking me for someone else.” The tall woman shook her head. She had looked startled when the name was mentioned, had held a hand out as if protesting that it shouldn’t be, anxiety in her eyes. “Father Humphrey died,” she nonetheless went on. “Miss Cotell heard. And when she went back to the priest house she asked me to be with her for support. The same cleaning woman was there and I said that any papers left behind might concern Miss Cotell. The woman had her objections, but she let us peruse the papers for five minutes only and, truth to tell, five minutes were enough. Father Humphrey was a man who wrote everything down.” Cecilia wondered if the women were unbalanced, if they had found a way of wandering from a home for the deranged. For a moment she felt sorry for them, but then the smaller one began to talk about their house, about a cat called Raggles, and flowers in pots, and after a hesitation the tall one joined in. They didn’t sound then as Cecilia imagined the mad would sound, and the moment of pity passed. The cat had strayed into their back yard as a kitten. Their house was called Sans Souci. If she came she could spend a night, they said. They spoke as if they were suggesting she should come often and described the bedroom she would have, which they had wallpapered themselves. “How much we’d like it if you came!” Through the anxiety that had not gone away, the tall woman smiled as she spoke, her chipped tooth, crooked and discolored, sticking out more than the others. “My dear, Miss Cotell is your mother,” Miss Keble said. Cecilia went away, leaving the two packages on the bench, but she had gone only a few yards when she heard the women’s voices, raised and angry as she never had heard them before. She looked back once and only for a moment. They were not as she had left them. They confronted one another, trying to keep their voices down but not succeeding. “I gave my sworn word,” the woman who had been called her mother was bitterly exclaiming. The voices clashed in accusation and denial, contempt and scorn; and there was the sobbing then of the woman who felt herself deprived. She had wanted only to be near her child, all she deserved. “No more than that.” Cecilia heard the words choked out. “And in your awful jealousy how well you have destroyed the little I might have had.” Cecilia hurried then. “We cannot come back,” she heard, but only just. “Not once again. Not ever now.” There was a protest furiously snapped out, and nothing after that was comprehensible. Cecilia kept trying again to think of the women as unbalanced, and then she tried not to think of them at all. Afterward she told no one what had been said, not even Daisy and Amanda, who naturally would have been interested. That summer Mr. Normanton took his daughter to the Île de Porquerolles. In previous summers he had taken her to Cap Ferrat, to Venice and Bologna, to Switzerland, making time on each journey for a stay in Paris. It was on these excursions that Cecilia first came to know her father better. More of his life was revealed, more of a past that he’d thought would not interest her. His childhood added a dimension to his lonely father’s role; his young man’s world did, too. Every time Cecilia returned from school to Buckingham Street she was aware that melancholy disturbed him less than it had. On their holidays together it was hardly there at all. “Whoa! Way too much information.”Buy the print » At Porquerolles, while every bay of the island’s coast, every creek, every place to swim was visited, Cecilia felt her company relished; and her father’s quiet presence was a pleasure, which it had not always been. Silences, a straining after words to keep a conversation going, uncertainty and doubt too often once had become the edgy feeling that nothing was quite right. It was hot in August, but a breeze made walking comfortable and they walked a lot. They talked a lot, too, Cecilia especially—about her friends at school, the books she had read during the term that had just ended, the subtle bullying of Elizabeth Statham. She hadn’t meant to say anything about the women who’d been a nuisance and when something slipped out she regretted it at once. “They wanted money?” her father asked, stopping for a moment in their walk along the cliffs to look for a way down to the rocky shore below, and going on when there was none. “No, not at all,” Cecilia said. “They were just peculiar women.” “Sometimes people who approach you like that want money.” He was dressed as he never was in London, casually, without a jacket, in white summer trousers, a colored scarf at his throat which she had given him, his shirt collar open. Cecilia, who particularly noticed clothes, liked all this much better than the formality of his suits. She said so now. The women were not mentioned again. But that evening when his whiskey had been brought to him on the terrace of the hotel he said, “Tell me more about your women.” Cecilia bit into an olive, cross with herself again. He was curious, and of course bewildered, because she’d left out so much—the women being there at the hockey matches and then appearing on the way through the woods, and how she’d thought they might suffer from a mental affliction. Now she described their clothes and the way they had of speaking at the same time, each often saying something different, how they related in detail the features of their house and spoke of their cat. Her father listened, nodding and smiling occasionally. She didn’t tell him everything. Shreds of the day’s warmth were gaudy in the evening sky as the terrace slowly filled and new conversations began. A dog obediently lay down beneath a chair and was no trouble even when the couple with him finished their drinks and went off to the restaurant without him. A Frenchman, relating an experience he had recently had, brought it to an end and was rewarded with quiet laughter. Cecilia, puzzled by jeu blanc, overheard several times, missed the point. “I played a lot of tennis once,” her father remarked when they were being led to their table in the restaurant. “I doubt I ever told you that.” “Were you good?” “No, not at all. But I liked playing tennis. Jeu blanc’s a love game.” On their last morning, walking to the harbor, as every day they had during their stay, Cecilia talked about becoming an actress and heard more than she had before about her father’s work and his office colleagues, about the house in Buckingham Street when first he knew it, about his being married there. Passing the farm that was the beginning of the village, he said, “The marriage fell to pieces. When we tried to put it together again we couldn’t. I let you believe as you did because it was the easier thing and sometimes, even, I pretended to myself that it was true. I was ashamed of being rejected.” Bougainvillea hung over garden walls. Across the street from the crowded fruit stall the café they liked best hadn’t come to life yet, their usual table not taken, as often it was. Their coffee was brought before they ordered it. “I thought that perhaps you guessed,” her father said. “About the marriage.” Old men played dominoes in a corner, the waiters stood about. A woman and a child came hurrying in. The girl who worked the coffee machine pointed at a door. “During all your life as I have known it,” Cecilia’s father said, “you have made up for what went wrong in mine.” On the quays they watched the slow approach of the ferry. There was a stirring in the crowd waiting to embark, luggage gathered up, haversacks swung into place. A ragged line formed when two ticket collectors arrived. The newcomers who came off the ferry trundled their suitcases to where the gray minibus from the hotel was parked. “We should call in at the Tourist Information,” Cecilia’s father said, but when they did they found they didn’t have to because the times of the early-morning boats to the mainland—on one of which they hoped to be tomorrow—were listed in the window. They bought a baguette and thinly sliced ham in the village, and peaches and a newspaper. They had another cup of coffee in the café. “I’m sorry,” her father said. “For hating the truth so much, and for so long.” On the walk back to the hotel Cecilia didn’t say what she might have said, or ask what she might have asked. She didn’t want to know. They rested in the shade, beneath dry dusty trees. People on bicycles cycled by and smiled at them and waved. Faintly in the distance they could hear the rattle of the minibus returning to the harbor. “Shall we go on?” her father suggested, his hands held out to her. She drew the curtains in her room, darkening the lit-up brightness of the afternoon. She thought she might weep when she lay down, and spread a towel over her pillow in case she did. Fragments made a whole: the photographs that were lies, the marriage that fell apart. No child was born, they’d hoped one would be. As best they could they had made up for that, but what had been was over. Suitcases instead were in the hall, coats and dresses trailing from hangers piled together. A taxi drove away. He watched it go, alone but for a child who, by chance belonging nowhere, now belonged to him. Maids came to turn the bed down. Cecilia said to leave it and thanked them for the chocolate they had put out for her on her bedside table. She called out, apologizing when her father knocked softly on the door. She had a headache, she would not come down tonight. He didn’t fuss. He never did. His footsteps went away. The night didn’t hurry when it came. She did not want it to. Tomorrow he would finish what he had begun: she had no thoughts except that now. “I have to tell you this as well,” gently he would say, and ask to be forgiven when he did. She didn’t blame him for what he had withheld. She understood; he had explained. But still he would complete what wasn’t yet complete because he felt he should. They were early at Toulon for their train to Paris and took it in turns to walk about the streets so that their luggage wouldn’t be left unattended. Morosely, Cecilia gazed into the shop windows, hardly seeing their contents. Again the women hovered, as in reality they had. Their voices did, their clothes, the clergyman they talked about, their house, their cat. Her father’s silence would not hold; he did not want it to. He would tell her on the train. Or even now, Cecilia thought when they waited together on the platform. In a strange place, among hurrying people, there’d be a moment that seemed right and he would choose his words. He would say again her presence in his house made up for his unhappiness there, and tell her what she had to know. But when next her father spoke it was to praise the train they were waiting for. “The best trains in the world,” he said. “And we can have a croque for lunch.” They had it standing at the counter of the bar and their talk was about the island and how they would always want to return to the little bays, the clear deep water, their daily explorations, the café they had liked. Cecilia’s panic receded a little and then a little more, her father’s politeness was measured and firm, as if he’d been aware of her brooding and understood it. He drew the conversation out and kept it going. She could read in his face that he had changed his mind. Afterward, in an almost empty carriage, where their seats faced one another, they were on their own, and quiet. Her father read “Bleak House,” a book he liked to go back to, and she didn’t feel neglected by his absorption in it as on other journeys. His occasional smile of pleasure, his delicate fingers turning the pages, his summer clothes uncreased in spite of travel reflected the ease with himself that had been slow in becoming what it was. He had borne his bitterness well. Somewhere, today and every day, the wife he had not ceased to love enjoyed the contentment he had been unable to give her. With cruel fortitude he might have allowed himself to dwell on her life without him, but he preferred an emptiness, and made of it something better than the truth. Cecilia knew it; and emulating his skill in living with distress, abandoned stern reality for what imagination more kindly offered. Might it not be that the women in their lonely lives nurtured a fantasy that dressed things up a bit, befriending girls without a mother in order themselves to be befriended? Had they, together, discovered the excitement of a shadowland and kept it alive in the bluster of daring and pretense? Shakily challenging the apparent, the almost certain, this flimsy exercise in supposition was tenuous and vague. But Cecilia knew it would not go away and reached out for its whisper of consoling doubt. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Lost Order	Credit Illustration by Adam Stennett I was at home, not making spaghetti. I was trying to eat a little less often, it’s true. A yogurt in the morning, a yogurt at lunchtime, ginger candies in between, and a normal dinner. I don’t think of myself as someone with a “weight issue,” but I had somehow put on a number of pounds just four months into my unemployment, and when I realized that this had happened—I never weigh myself; my brother just said to me, on a visit, “I don’t recognize your legs”—I wasn’t happy about it. Although maybe I was happy about it. Because at least I had something that I knew it wouldn’t be a mistake to really dedicate myself to. I could be like those people who by trying to quit smoking or drinking manage to fit an accomplishment, or at least an attempt at an accomplishment, into every day. Just by aiming to not do something. This particular morning, there was no yogurt left for my breakfast. I could go get some? I could treat myself to maple. Although the maple yogurt was always full cream. But maybe full cream was fine, because it was just a tiny— My phone was ringing. The caller I.D. read “Unavailable.” I tend not to answer calls identified as Unavailable. But sometimes Unavailable shows up because someone is calling from, say, the hospital. “One garlic chicken,” a man’s voice is saying. “One side of salad, with the ginger-miso dressing. Also one white rice. White, not brown. This isn’t for pickup,” he says. “It’s for delivery.” He probably has the wrong number, I figure. I mean, of course he has the wrong— “Not the lemon chicken,” he is going on. “I don’t want the lemon. What I want—” “O.K. I knew—” “Last time, you delivered the wrong thing—” “Lemon chicken—” “Garlic chicken—” “O.K.—” “I know you,” he says. “What?” “Don’t just say ‘O.K.’ and then bring me the wrong order. O.K., O.K., O.K. Don’t just say ‘O.K.’ ” He starts dictating his address. I have no pencil in hand. “O.K.,” I say. “I mean: all right.” I’ve lost track of whether it was the lemon chicken or the garlic he wanted. Wanting and not wanting. Which tap is hot and which is cold. I still have trouble with left and right. “How long?” “Thirty minutes?” He hangs up. Ack. Why couldn’t I admit that I wasn’t going to be bringing him any chicken at all? Now I’m wronging a hungry man. One tries not to do too many wrong things in life. But I can’t call him back—he’s Unavailable! Just forget it. Forgetting is work, though. I returned to not making spaghetti, a task to which I had added not setting out to buy yogurt. Then it struck me that getting dressed would be a good idea. It was 10:40 A.M. Early for chicken. Yes, I should and would get dressed. Unfortunately, on the issue of getting dressed I consistently find myself wishing that I were a man. I don’t mean that in an ineluctable gender-disturbance way, it’s not that; it’s that I think I would have an easier time choosing an outfit. Though having a body is problematic no matter what. Even for our dog. One summer, we thought we would do her a favor by shaving her fur, but then afterward she hung her head and was inconsolable. Poor girl. The key is to not have time to think about your body, and dogs—most dogs, anyhow—have a lot of free time. So do I, I guess. Although, I don’t feel like I have a lot of time, I feel constantly pressed for time, even though when I had a job I felt like I had plenty of time. But even then getting dressed was difficult. For a while, it was my conviction that pairing tuxedo-like pants with any of several inexpensive white T-shirts would solve the getting-dressed problem for me for at least a decade, maybe for the rest of my life. I bought the tuxedo-like pants! Two pairs. And some men’s undershirts. But it turned out that I looked even more sloppy than usual. And by sloppy I mostly just mean female, which can be O.K., even great, in many circumstances, sure, but a tidy look for a female body, feminine or not feminine, is elusive and unstable. Dressing as a woman is like working with color instead of with black-and-white. Or like drawing a circle freehand. They say that Giotto got his job painting St. Peter’s based solely on the Pope’s being shown a red circle he’d painted with a single brushstroke. That’s how difficult circles are. In the seven hundred years since Giotto, probably still— I found myself back in the kitchen, still not making spaghetti, and wearing a T-shirt. Not the one I had woken up in, but still a T-shirt that would be best described as pajamas and that I wasn’t feeling too good or masculine or flat-chested in, either. Giotto? It was 11:22 A.M. Making lemon chicken for that man would have been a better way to spend my time, I thought. Or garlic chicken. Whichever. I felt as if there were some important responsibility that I was neglecting so wholly that I couldn’t even admit to myself that it was there. Was I really taking that man’s delivery order so seriously? At least I wasn’t eating. I decided to not surf the Internet. Then to not watch a television show. Hugging my favorite throw pillow, I lay down on the sofa, and thought, Just count backward from one hundred. This is something I do that calms me down. What’s weird is that I don’t recall ever having made it to the number one. Sometimes I fall asleep before I reach one—that’s not so mysterious—but more often I just get lost. I take some sort of turn away from counting, without realizing it, and only then, far away even from whatever the turn was, do I realize I am elsewhere. The throw pillow has matryoshka dolls on it. I started counting down. Ninety-six, ninety-five, ninety-four . . . The phone rings. It’s Unavailable. I hate my phone. I hate all phones. Why should I have to deal with this hungry man’s problems, these problems that stem from a past to which I don’t belong? Not my fucking jurisdiction. Although, admittedly, the fact that our paths are now entangled—that part kind of is my fault. “O.K.?” I say, into the phone. “I think I know where it is,” a familiar male voice says. “It’s not even on its way yet,” I confess. “I’m sorry.” “What’s not on its way? Are you asleep?” I locate the voice more precisely. The voice belongs to my husband. “Sorry, sorry. I’m here now.” “I’m saying I think I know where it is. I think I lost it when I was in the courtyard with Monkey, tossing tennis balls for her.” Our dog’s name is Monkey. One of the reasons I was lonelier than usual was that Monkey was on a kind of dog holiday in the country, with my in-laws. “My hands were really cold. I had bought an icy water bottle.” “O.K.,” I say. “You know how it is, when your hand gets cold; your fingers shrink. So maybe that’s when the ring fell off. I’m almost sure of it. It’s supposed to rain later today and I’m worried the rain will just wash the ring right into a gutter. I’m sorry to put this on you, but would you mind taking a look around for it?” He is talking about: a couple of weeks earlier, I had very briefly gone away, to my uncle’s funeral, and when I returned my husband was no longer wearing his wedding ring. It’s such an unimportant thing that, to be honest, I didn’t even notice he was no longer wearing it. And he hadn’t noticed, either. We’re not symbol people. We didn’t realize that his ring was gone until we were at dinner with a friend visiting from Chicago and she asked to see both of our rings. Then my husband was a little weird about it. I guess he had simultaneously known and not known. Meaning he had known. A part of him had. And had worried enough about it to pretend that it hadn’t happened. Poor guy. “I’m not going to go look for it,” I find myself saying into the phone. It’s not really a decision, it’s more like a discovery. I’m not going to be a woman hopelessly searching for a wedding ring in a public courtyard. Even if the situation does not in fact carry the metaphorical weight it misleadingly seems to carry. Still no. I had recently seen a photograph of Susan Sontag wearing a bear costume but still with a serious expression on her face; you could see that she felt uneasy; even a titan is anxious about images that can mislead. “Just go and even try not looking for it,” my husband says. “Just give the courtyard a little visit. Please.” “There’s no way it’s still—” “You really can’t do this one little thing?” “This is my fault?” “I’m on hour twenty-nine of my shift here.” “I’m not doing nothing,” I say. I find I’ve neither raised nor lowered my voice, though I feel like I have done both. “You think I’m not capable, but that’s not right. You just don’t understand my position. You see me all wrong. It’s not fair, it’s not right—” “I’m so sorry, my love,” he is saying. His voice has hairpin-turned to tender. Which is alarming. “I’m on your side,” he says. “I really do love you so much. You know that, right? You know I love you so much.” We hadn’t always conversed in a way that sounded like advanced E.S.L. students trying to share emotions, but recently that was happening to us; I think we were just trying to keep a steady course through an inevitable and insignificant strait in our relationship. “I’m sorry, Boo,” I say. “I’m the one who should apologize.” I am suddenly missing him very badly, as if I have been woken from one of those dreams where the dead are still with us. Being awake feels awful. I language along, and then at some point in my ramblings he says to me, “I have to go now,” and then he is gone. The daytime hours in this neighborhood belong almost exclusively to deliverymen and nannies. The deliverymen are all men. And the nannies are all women. And the women are all dark-skinned. I had not given much thought to my neighborhood’s socioeconomic or gender clustering before I became a daylight ghost. I mean, sure, I knew about it vaguely, but there it was—under cover of day, one saw, or at least it seemed as if one saw, that decades of feminism and civil-rights advances had never happened. This was appalling. Yet there was not no comfort for me in the idea that men had strong calves, and carried things, and that it was each toddler’s destiny to fall in love with another woman. Was it my fault that these feelings lived inside me? Maybe. I had not always—had not even long—been a daylight ghost, a layabout, a mal pensant, a vacancy, a housewife, a person foiled by the challenge of getting dressed and someone who considered eating less a valid primary goal. I had been a fairly busy environmental lawyer, an accidental expert of sorts in toxic-mold litigation—litigation concerning alleged damage to property and persons by reason of exposure to toxic mold. I handled the first toxic-mold case that came into the firm, so when the second case turned up, shortly thereafter, I was the go-to girl. A Texas jury had made an award of thirty-two million dollars in a case in 2001, and that had set a lot of hearts to dreaming. But the Texas case was really an insurance case, and so not a precedent for toxic-mold cases. Most people don’t understand that. An insurance company had failed to pay promptly for repairs to leaking pipes in a twenty-two-room mansion that subsequently became moldy; all claims relating to personal injuries from toxic mold were dismissed, and an award was made only for property damage, punitive damages, mental anguish, and to cover plaintiff’s legal fees of nearly nine million dollars. But since the case was on the evening news, it was, predictably, radically misrepresented. Hence, toxic-mold-litigation fever. It has been established that mold, like dust, is environmentally pervasive; some of us are allergic to some molds, just as some of us are allergic to dust, though whether any mold can damage our health in a lasting or severe way is unlikely, and certainly not scientifically proven. Also clear is that basic maintenance is an essential duty of a property owner. But beyond that . . . I handled quite a large number of mold cases. I filled out the quiet fields of forms. I dispatched environmental testers. The job was more satisfying than it sounds, I can tell you. To have any variety of expertise, and to deploy it, can feel like a happy dream. “I hear you reach Nirvana faster if you alternate sitting and standing.”Buy the print » But one day I woke up and heard myself saying, I am a fork being used to eat cereal. I am not a spoon. I am a fork. And I can’t help people eat cereal any longer. I judged my sentiment foolish, sure, but it captained me nevertheless. I laid no plan, but that afternoon I found myself saying to the managing partner, “I’m afraid I’ll need to tender my resignation.” I used that word, “tender.” I could have rescinded all those words, of course. But that night, after the tender word, I said to Boo, “I think I’m leaving my job.” He set down his handheld technology. “Don’t worry,” I said. “I’ll find some other work.” “No, it’s really O.K.,” he said. “You don’t have to work at all. If you don’t want to. Or you could work at a bakery. Why not? You’ll figure it out. Under no time pressure, O.K.? I like my work. We can live from that.” My husband is a pretty understanding guy; nevertheless, I found myself thinking of an old Japanese movie where the father gets stomach cancer but the family keep it a secret from him, and are all just very kind to him. “But you might wake up one day and not like your work anymore,” I said. “That’s not going to happen to me,” he said. “I’m just not like that.” Then he added, “I could see you were unhappy. I could see that before you could. Honestly, I feel relieved.” When the phone rings again—Unavailable—I pick it up right away. I had been so childish about not wanting to go look for the ring; I would tell Boo that I would go look for the ring, and then I would do that, I would go and look for it. “Fifty-five minutes,” he says. “I’m so sorry, I—” “You said half an hour. It’s about expectations and promises. You don’t have to make these promises. But you do. You leave people expecting. Which is why you’re not just a loser working a shit job but also a really terrible person, the very worst kind, the kind who needs everyone to think she’s so nice. I never found you attractive. I never trusted you. You say, Yes, this, and I’m Sorry, that, and Oops, Really Sorry, and We Just Want to Do What Makes You Happy, but who falls for that? I don’t fall for it. I’m the one who sees who you really are—” “I think—” “Why do you apologize and giggle all the time? To every guy the same thing. Why do you wear that silver leotard and that ridiculous eyeshadow? Your breasts look uneven in that leotard. You know what you look like? You look like a whore. Not like an escort or a call girl. You look like a ten-dollar blow job. If you think you’re ever going to pass in this city as anything other than just one more whore-cunt—” I hang up the phone. I turn off the phone. I pour myself a glass of water, but first I spill it and then I altogether drop it, and then I clean that up poorly. I don’t even own a silver leotard. Yet I had been called out by a small and omniscient god, I felt. I was going to be punished, and swiftly. I put on my husband’s boots and his raincoat, unintentionally creating a rubbery analogue of the clean and flat-chested look I have been longing for for years. I left the apartment and headed out for the courtyard, a few blocks away; I wasn’t going to come back without that ring. When I get to the courtyard, I see that it is just some smooth concrete and a few picnic tables at the windy base of the tallest building in the neighborhood. Thinking of it as a courtyard—I guess that was a fantasy on which my husband and I had subconsciously colluded. I do see something glinting in the midday sun; it proves to be a silvery gum wrapper. There’s not even a coin on the ground. Bear suit, I’m thinking. It starts to drizzle. And then I remember: doormen are more than just people one feels one has failed to entertain. If I were in a so-called “courtyard,” and found a band of gold that didn’t belong to me— Between me and the doorman, there at his desk, are two women. The women are dark-skinned; they are both wearing brown; they are wearing, I realize on delay, U.P.S. uniforms. One of them is also wearing a fleecy brown vest. “The guy was totally whacked,” the vested one is saying. I feel somewhat bad because I find I am staring at these women’s asses (I think of that word as the most gentle and affectionate of the options) and I feel somewhat good because both of the asses are so attractive, though they are quite different: one is juvenile and undemanding, and the other is unembarrassedly space-occupying and reminiscent somehow of gardening—of bending over and doing things. The pants are tight-fitting. I do know that I—and really everyone—am not supposed to think this way about women, or for that matter about men, because, I guess the argument goes, it reduces people to containers of sexual possibility. But I’m not sure that’s quite what is going on. Maybe I just think these women have solved the getting-dressed problem. “I think that was his friend,” one of them says, “writing down the license-plate number of the truck.” “Was someone bothering you guys?” I find myself interjecting. “This is a weirdly rough neighborhood. Even as it’s kind of a nice neighborhood, it’s also sort of a rough one—” “Every neighborhood is rough today.” “It’s iPhone day—” The U.P.S. women have turned and opened their circle to me. “They’ve ordered two million iPhones—” “Someone in my neighborhood already got stabbed over a delivery.” “I hate phones,” I offer. “I really hate them.” “There’s no Apple in Russia,” the doorman says. “You can sell the phones to a Russian for fourteen hundred dollars. You buy them for six hundred; you sell them for fourteen hundred.” “Delivery must be terrifying,” I say to the women. “You never know what’s up with the person on the other side of the door. It’s like you knock on your own nightmare.” “People love their iPhones,” the vested deliverywoman says. “My daughter says it’s like they would marry their iPhones.” I keep not asking about Boo’s ring. “I’ve never seen a woman working U.P.S. delivery before,” I say. “And now here you are—two of you at once. I feel like I’m seeing a unicorn. Or the Loch Ness monster. Maybe both, I guess.” There’s a bit of a quiet then. “They don’t normally travel in twos,” the doorman says. “It’s only because today is considered dangerous.” “There’s at least a hundred of us,” the unvested woman says, shrugging. “Not too many, but some.” “Good luck,” the doorman is saying. The women are walking away. Now it’s just me and the doorman. I am back in the familiar world again. I feel compelled to hope that he finds me attractive, and I feel angry at him, as if he were responsible for that feeling, and I find myself unzipping my husband’s raincoat and pushing back the hood, like one of those monkeys whose ovulation is not concealed. I’m looking for, I imagine myself saying to this man, a wedding ring. Oh, he says, You’re all looking for rings. There was no ring there. But you saw a unicorn today, I remind myself. That’s something. It’s all about keeping busy. We can just buy another ring. Why didn’t we think of that earlier? His old ring cost, maybe, three hundred dollars. We could buy a new one, nothing wrong with that, no need to think it means something it doesn’t, though it would mean something nice to have it again, I think, as I find an appealing empty table in the back corner of a Peruvian chicken joint, where I order French fries. Some people save their marriages—not that our marriage needs saving, not that it’s in danger, one can’t be seduced by the semantically empty loss of a ring, I remind myself—by having adventures together. We could pull a heist. Me and Boo. Boo and . . . well, we’d have some Bonnie-and-Clyde-type name, just between ourselves. We could heist a U.P.S. truck full of iPhones. On a rural delivery route. The guns wouldn’t need to be real, definitely not. We could then move to another country. An expensive and cold one where no one comes looking and where people leave their doors unlocked because wealth is distributed so equitably. This is not my kind of daydream, I think. This is not my sort of idyll at all. It is someone else’s idyll. I may be happy with that. I was never a Walter Mitty, though I always fell in love with and envied that type. But a Walter Mitty can’t be married to a Walter Mitty. There is a maximum allowance of one Walter Mitty per household, that’s just how it goes. “Why was your phone off? Where were you?” I guess hours have passed. Boo is back home. It is dark out. “I guess I turned off the phone because I got scared,” I say. “I was getting scary phone calls. I’m sorry. I’m really sorry.” There’s opened mail on the table. Boo says, “Look, I know there’s something important that you haven’t told me.” My body seems to switch climates. It must be the unbreathing raincoat. “I know you’re scared,” he is saying. “I know you’re scared of lots of things. I don’t want to catch you out. I’m tired of catching out. I don’t want to be a catcher-outer. I just want to be told. Just tell me the thing that you’ve been hiding from me. This could be a good day for us. You could tell me, and then I will feel like I can begin to trust you more again, because I’ll know you can tell me things even when it is scary and difficult to tell.” I see that, along with the mail, there is a shoebox full of my papers on the table. “I was just out,” I hear myself saying. Is this something to do with the guy calling for delivery? “I was just lonely in the house, and spooked, and so I went out,” I go on. “I had a salad. I guess various things happen in a day. I guess one can always share more. But I can’t think of anything I would call a secret.” There is a long pause now. As if, I’m thinking, I’d made an awkward, outsized observation, like calling him the Loch Ness monster, or a unicorn. He is my unicorn, though. I forgot that I used to say that; that’s how I felt falling in love with him, as if I’d found a creature of myth. He was less practical then, more dreamy. He had an old belt with a little pony on it; the pony was almost always upside down. “Please,” he says. “I’m asking as nicely as I can. Don’t you have something you want to say to me?” “I went out and looked for the ring,” I say. “I wanted to tell you that. I didn’t find the ring. But I did look for it. We could just buy another one.” “A severance check arrived for you,” he says. “Actually, I’ve found three of your severance checks.” “That’s odd,” I am saying. “None of them are cashed, of course.” The unicorn suddenly has a lot to say. Why couldn’t I just tell him that I was fired? he is saying. Or he is saying something like that. I really and truly and genuinely don’t know what he is talking about. I am saying that I said I resigned because I did resign. I really do remember using that word, “tender,” in offering my resignation. And there’s been a lot of misdirected mail lately, I say. Even misdirected calls. I have been meaning to mention that to him. He is saying that lots of people lie, but why do I tell lies that don’t even help me? It’s just fucking weird, he is saying. Also something about the rent, and about health insurance. “And I don’t even really care that much about any of those things,” he says. “I just care that, even when you’re in this room with me, you’re not here. Even when you’re here, you’re gone. You’re just in some la-la. Go back out the door and it’ll be just the same: you’re somewhere else and I’m in this room alone—” I think this goes on for quite a while. Accusations. Analyses. I feel something like a kind of happiness, shy but arrived. A faint fleeting smile, in front of the firing squad. All my vague and shifting self-loathings are streamlining into brightly delineated wrongs. This particular trial—it feels so angular and specific. So lovable. At least lovable by me. Maybe I’m the dreamer in the relationship after all. Maybe I’m the man. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Creatures	Credit Photograph by Jocelyn Lee / Institute / Pace MacGill Gallery “Let’s take a seat, shall we?” Mrs. Willing said, indicating the miniature chairs meant for three-year-olds. She lowered herself gracefully and perched on one haunch with disarming ease. James marvelled at the feat of physics that allowed such a large woman to balance so effortlessly, but a quick glance at his wife reminded him not to entertain thoughts of Mrs. Willing’s size. When Marco had come home from his first day at preschool announcing that his new teacher was fat, James had started up a riff: Fat as a bear? Fat as a whale? Fat as your big fat belly (followed by blowing onto Marco’s delightful stomach)? Melinda had laughed, but then insisted that they have a serious discussion about why we shouldn’t judge people by their looks because what counted was on the inside. James was certain that when Marco grew old enough to realize that this aphoristic world his parents insisted on did not exist he would despise them. James could see that Melinda was on edge. Since they’d moved from the city, she’d put aside her utilitarian skirts and sexless blouses—a professional armor that had girded her for the daily battle at the hospital where she worked—in favor of more friendly and relaxed attire, better suited to a small-town medical practice and to the promise of this new, less stressful life. But for today she’d put on her best dress, a gray silk. A centipede of buttons crept over one shoulder and up the high collar, accentuating the delicacy of her frame, her finely structured face, and her grave expression. He’d fallen in love with her precise edges—her tidy hair, her fingernails filed into perfect almond shapes, the neatness of her pale mouth—and the fact that she took the world so seriously that serious things rarely shocked her the way they might a more frivolous woman. But he could tell, by the way she was rubbing together her forefinger and thumb, that she was uneasy. He’d noticed the habit on their fourth date, when it had been clear that something was romantically afoot between them and he’d decided to tell her about what had happened to him when he was a boy. She had taken the news in silence, nodding almost imperceptibly as if listening to the litany of one of her patients’ symptoms, her mind constructing and dismantling various possibilities as the information accrued, but her fingers had begun to work. “As I mentioned in my e-mail,” Mrs. Willing said, “Marco’s recent behavior has been aggressive.” “Did he hit someone?” Melinda asked. James was taken aback by how easily she accepted Mrs. Willing’s characterization of their son. But, of course, it had been her adaptability to discomfiting information that had allowed the fourth date to become the fifth, and a marriage and a child to follow. Mrs. Willing laughed. “Oh, I wouldn’t have called you in for hitting,” she said lightly. “It’s the gunplay I’m concerned about.” “You have toy guns here?” James said. “Of course not,” Mrs. Willing said. “I’m talking about Marco’s guns.” “We don’t buy toy guns for our son,” Melinda said. She’d been adamant about that. They knew parents who had developed elaborate hierarchies about weaponry. Toy handguns were acceptable but not toy rifles. Or, no toy guns were allowed except water pistols, because those were hardly guns at all. One family disallowed all modern weaponry but had a veritable armory of toy swords and cudgels and crossbows, the justification being, vaguely, history. “If he’s not hitting, what is the problem exactly?” James said to Mrs. Willing, his eyes travelling from her face to her lap, where she gripped a raspberry-colored folder as if it held a rap sheet filled with all of Marco’s preschool infractions. He knew that his tone was brusque, but it was his job to defend his son, even against this pleasant woman who had a master’s degree in child development and twenty years of classroom experience. “He spends a lot of his free play chasing the other children with a stick,” Mrs. Willing said. She paused and lowered her voice. “He calls it his AK-47.” “Marco doesn’t know what that is,” Melinda said. “None of the other children talk about semi-automatic weapons,” Mrs. Willing said. “Only handguns?” James said. Mrs. Willing’s smile wavered between appreciation and censure, political correctness confusing any genuine response she might have. “Some of the other children are frightened of him,” she said. “Of Marco?” The image of his son’s sweet monkey face, his milk-chocolate eyes, his plump cheeks, and his loose spirals of chestnut hair appeared to James. And Marco’s voice! The low gravel of it, as though he’d been born with a two-pack-a-day habit. This, and his inability to pronounce his “r”s, was a combination that James found irresistible. “I willy, willy want it,” James would sometimes whisper throatily into the back of Melinda’s warm neck. “Frightened of Marco?” he repeated. “He told Sam he was going to kill him,” Mrs. Willing said quietly. Melinda let out a sound, and Mrs. Willing put a hand on her arm, a gesture that might have been sympathetic if it weren’t so cannily inclusive, suggesting that Melinda had already made the same leap as Mrs. Willing: from Marco running around with a stick to Marco shooting up a school. “Children say things,” James said. “Nevertheless,” Mrs. Willing said. After the meeting, James dropped Melinda at her office in town. When he returned to the house, he went straight to his workshop, in the converted garage. They had moved here a year earlier, when Melinda was burned out by the steady flow of stab wounds and battered women she treated at the hospital in the city and James was yearning for the simplicity of small-town life. The irony that he had made enough money to allow for this bucolic transition by designing the distinctive chairs and tables used by an urban caffeine empire was not lost on either of them—but it was that ongoing contract that had allowed them to purchase their hundred-year-old house and to buy out the practice of one of the town’s retiring doctors. The coffee-company franchises had proliferated at a nearly cellular rate. James needed to visit the factory that produced the furniture only every two months or so. The rest of the time, he was free to work on refurbishing their home. James had always been good with his hands, even as a boy, when his belief that anything he could imagine he could also make was as strong and urgent in him as all the other unfounded faiths of childhood. He’d grown up in a suburb whose rural qualities had been a result of neglect, not design. His family’s house backed up against a ravine, and he had spent long hours staring out the window, imagining that if he pedalled his bicycle fast enough, and if his bicycle had wings, then he could race himself off one side of the ravine and soar straight across to the other. “That’s a lot of ifs,” his mother said. He can still remember his visceral conviction that she was wrong—that the difference between possibility and impossibility was no greater than the last twist of a wrench that finally loosened a bolt. He pestered her incessantly to study his crudely drawn designs, until, fed up with his unwillingness to recognize that she had three other children under the age of five to care for, she bought him a model airplane. To any other child whose family, on a budget, doled out one birthday gift and one Christmas gift a year, this might have seemed an unexpected boon. But James suffered through the hours in the dank basement that he and his reluctant father, dulled after his day’s work at the Toyota dealership, spent gluing together the minuscule parts of the German Stuka, both knowing, from opposite ends of experience, that a useless miniature could never compensate for a grand vision. On his ninth birthday, James asked to be taken to the St. Vincent de Paul dump. His parents, busy with, as it turned out, the unknitting of their marriage, were happy to have a son whose idea of a birthday gift was a trunk load of junk and a box of nails. They didn’t bother to find out what he was up to until he crash-landed into the ravine and broke his arm in two places. Freddie Connolly was two years younger than James, a boy from the neighborhood whom James’s mother had agreed to watch on Saturdays for the pocket money. Freddie’s mother worked at a hair salon, and his father managed the night shift for the gas-and-electric company and slept during the day. Freddie had a crinkle of red hair and adenoidal breathing, which made him sound as if his nose were a clogged drainpipe. When he was particularly excited, his words came out in a rush of air and spit. James wasn’t happy to be saddled with this unappealing boy, but Freddie sat for hours and listened to James’s schemes, nodding his head fervently as if James were a Bible-thumping minister and Freddie his truest believer. Tape ten flattened cardboard boxes together to make a slide from the second-floor bedroom window right into the twins’ kiddie pool? Hallelujah! Re-create the Wizard of Oz’s balloon with dry-cleaning plastic, a bicycle pump, and a wicker hamper? Amen! James both derided his disciple for his unquestioning faith and was keenly aware that, without Freddie, he would be a boy with a head full of ideas that interested no one. James ran his hand along a piece of birch that was lying on his workbench, studying the knots and whorls embedded in the wood, thinking vaguely of the table that would emerge from it. Memories of Freddie came to him at odd times—when Marco had a cold and his voice was thick with mucus, or when another child’s freckles brought to mind Freddie’s discolorations, which were laid on so thickly it was as if a painter had shaken out a brush on his ruddy cheeks. All boys play with guns, James thought suddenly, the defensive rage he’d felt that morning at the preschool resurging. Though he himself had never craved that sort of toy. His mother had remarked on that when the police came to the house. She’d said she always thought it was funny that he’d never asked for a gun for Christmas, as if this were his larger crime. That night, at the dinner table, Melinda gave James a meaningful look. “Marco,” James began. “We have to talk about something.” “Something important, honey,” Melinda added. Marco speared a tube of pasta with his fork, then shook it so that the food danced and bits of red sauce flew onto his placemat. “Mrs. Willing said that maybe you are too rough at school,” James said. Marco chewed, working his jaws with the tremendous effort of an ant laboring to move a pebble. “Do you know what Daddy’s talking about?” Melinda said. “Unh-unh,” Marco said, shaking his head. “It’s about pretending to shoot people with a stick,” James said. “Some kids don’t like that.” “No kids like that,” Melinda said. “When you point your stick at kids and pretend it’s a gun, it frightens them.” “It is a gun,” Marco said. “No, it’s not, sweetie,” Melinda said. “It’s just a stick.” “It’s a gun,” Marco repeated. “It’s a stick that you are pretending is a gun,” James said. “It shoots bullets,” Marco said. “Pretend bullets,” Melinda said. “O.K.,” James said, unwilling to fall further into this rhetorical quagmire. “The point is: Sam was scared of the way you were playing.” Marco put down his fork and looked at James as if to explain more clearly. “I’m the policeman and Sam is the wobber. He stoled. He’s the bad guy.” “In the game he’s the bad guy, but not in real life. In real life, Sam is your friend,” Melinda said. “And we don’t tell our friends we want to ki— to hurt them. We don’t want to hurt anybody.” Marco poked at his plate with his finger. “He’s the bad guy and I’m the policeman.” “In the game,” Melinda said. “This is ridiculous,” James mumbled. “Look, Marco. Here’s the deal. Don’t tell kids you’re going to kill them. Even if you’re playing bad guys and good guys. Even if you’re playing war, for fuck’s sake—” “James!” Melinda said. “Even if you’re playing war where the idea is to kill the other guy, because that’s the whole point of war. Just don’t do it. No killing. Not ever. O.K.? Those are Mrs. Willing’s rules, whether you like them or not.” “And our rules,” Melinda added. “Yes. And our rules, too. No killing Mommy and Daddy. O.K., Marco?” “O.K., Daddy.” Later, after they had put Marco to sleep, Melinda said what deserved to be said. He listened and apologized and agreed that children were confused by sarcasm and that it was peevish of him to try to turn his three-year-old son against his well-meaning teacher. “But she is overreacting,” he said. “You have to admit that.” “Sam was scared.” “Sam should grow a pair.” Finally, Melinda laughed. How he loved to make her laugh! Her careful exterior shattered into a peal of coquettish giggles. She was not an easy mark, and his ability to get a rise out of her made him feel capable beyond measure. It was the true cement of their intimacy. “Still,” she said, calming down, “Mrs. Willing has to protect all the children.” “Marco didn’t intend to scare Sam,” James said, quietly. “I know that,” she said. It was always a question of intention. “What are your intentions, sir?” Melinda had said playfully, when James reached underneath her shirt for the first time. The truth was that he had no idea why, at that particular moment, his hands had moved where they did. It wasn’t as if he’d said to himself, “Now I’m going to feel her up,” but, suddenly, there were his fingers, playing across the lace of her bra, and then there was his palm pressing against her hardening nipple. There had been no motive, only a kind of thoughtless lurch toward the next thing. Which is what his life had been ever since he was nine years old. The first few years after the accident (his mother’s term for it—spoken insistently to the 911 operator—had stuck) had not been difficult; in fact, he’d sometimes had the sense that teachers and even other parents were too easy on him, excusing a bad grade or a poorly pitched ball, as if they felt sorry for him. High school was different, though. Teen-agers were alternately curious and cruel, and he spent the four years skulking through hallways, head bent, shoulders hunched, a baseball cap pulled low. Girls were out of the question. That would have involved a kind of intimate scrutiny he could not even imagine. After he graduated, he spent a year smoking pot and reading in the basement of his mother’s house, with no plan other than to do more of the same, until she told him he had to pay rent or move out. He was not especially driven to work construction, but he had amassed a nearly professional collection of tools, and he was willing to be paid under the table. He was relieved to find that the other men on the crew didn’t know his history and didn’t care to, that they didn’t, in fact, want to talk to him at all, except to occasionally complain about how slow he was cutting rebar. It was only after he’d asked the foreman for some of the remaindered wood and crafted a single chair and a table small enough for a person not to feel lonely when sitting alone, and only after a guy who was starting a chain of coffee shops happened to drive by as the newly stained chair and table were drying outside the dismal first-floor efficiency apartment he had rented, that the narrow aperture of his life opened up. He woke, certain that Freddie had been in his dream, although he could not fetch up a narrative and was left only with the exhausted sense of having not completed a necessary task. Melinda was sleeping on her back, as she always did, the even rise and fall of her chest untroubled. He stared at her profile, the line of her nose, the pinprick pores of her skin. She trusted him not to hurt her. She’d said that when they’d agreed to marry. They had been in another bed then, the ring box lying between them like an open jaw. He knew that she was talking about fidelity—her father had cheated on her mother—but he wondered if she’d meant other kinds of injury as well. Freddie’s family had moved out of the neighborhood a few years after the accident. James had watched from his bedroom window as the moving van pulled away from the curb. He was too ashamed to join the other neighbors who had wandered out of their homes to say goodbye, because he had never done what he’d meant to do, which was to speak to Mrs. Connolly. At the funeral, when he and his mother had stopped to offer their condolences, Mrs. Connolly had reached out her gloved hand and touched James’s face. The feel of the cold leather on his cheek had frightened him. He saw, through her honeycombed veil, that her eyes were darting back and forth with indecision, as if she were unsure whether to comfort him or slap him. During the service, his mother cried. He did not cry, although he had the feeling that people were watching to see if he would. The idea of going to talk to Mrs. Connolly occurred to him afterward. He thought that if she could finally make up her mind about him, then he would understand how to live the rest of his life. But time passed, and what might once have been a natural thing to do became awkward. And there was the levelling effect of the semantics that everyone had somehow agreed upon, in an effort to preëmpt the possibility of a deeper undoing. It was an “accident” to spill a glass of milk or fall off your skateboard and twist your ankle. You didn’t cross over three front lawns to apologize for that. Freddie had pointed out the tracks first. He knew they were deer markings because his father had taught him a few things in preparation for the day when he would finally take Freddie hunting. The boys followed the markings through the trees to the edge of the ravine. They slid down the embankment on their bottoms, then picked their way across the stream on a path of loose stones, slipping here and there so that their canvas sneakers filled with icy water. Using rocks and exposed roots as handholds, they pulled themselves up onto flat land, but there the trail disappeared. They spent the next few Saturdays outside, fashioning bows and arrows out of branches and calling each other by invented Indian tracker names. Freddie must have mentioned their games to his father, because, before the season was over, Mr. Connolly invited James to join them for Freddie’s inaugural hunt. “I’m not sure how your father would feel about that,” his mother said dubiously, when he asked for permission. “What’s he got to do with it?” James said. By this time his father had married a woman named Joyce, and they had a new baby. “He’s still your father,” she said vaguely. She had taken a part-time job as a secretary at a real-estate office, where she had real responsibilities, as she reminded her children when their demands became overwhelming and she needed to go to her room and lie down. Still, James would often catch her glancing at the telephone as if she were waiting for his father to call and tell her that he would be late and that they should just “go ahead,” the way he used to do, as if she were unable to inhabit her future without his approval. Finally, after much cajoling, she agreed, and James, carrying a worn sleeping bag and a mess kit cobbled together from his sister’s plastic kitchen set, joined Mr. Connolly and Freddie beside the Ram Charger parked in Freddie’s driveway. “It’s wet, but it’s a dry wet.”Buy the print » Red of hair and face like his son, Mr. Connolly was talkative on the drive, telling the story of how he’d once tracked a deer for seven hours before bagging it. “Buck just folded up its legs and went down graceful. It was a beautiful sight to behold,” he said, narrowing his eyes as if he could see the scene on the road ahead. He advised the boys that they needed to think like an animal in order to know what it would do next. “We’re all wild creatures, aren’t we?” Mr. Connolly said. “It’s just that our whole instinct business has gone to pot. Now all anybody wants is a nice comfortable chair and a TV. You got a comfortable chair and ‘Wheel of Fortune’ and you think you’ve got it made. Right, Freddie?” Freddie, sitting between his father and James, did not answer. Mr. Connolly put a thick hand on his son’s narrow thigh. “Well, Freddie likes his TV, that’s for sure,” he said. “What do you think, Jimmy?” “I guess,” James said, not entirely sure what the question was. “My mom watches that show sometimes.” “Well, there’s no TV where we’re heading. No TV at all.” Once they arrived at the campground, James and Freddie helped Mr. Connolly set up the tent, then collected kindling for the fire. Mr. Connolly was very impressed when James invented a contraption, using a rain slicker and ropes, that could haul more wood out of the forest than either boy could manage on his own. “Your pal’s a thinker, Freddie,” he said, tapping his son’s forehead with his finger. James felt proud, but also concerned that Mr. Connolly was suggesting that such a smart boy as James might not want a friend who watched television, a friend like his son. The confusion made James nervous around the man, and that night he worked hard to tend the fire and scour the pots they’d used to cook the baked beans. After dinner, the boys watched Mr. Connolly clean his hunting rifle. He showed them how to load it and let each boy have a try before he returned the torpedo-shaped shells to their box. They slept in the tent, Mr. Connolly lying between the two boys. James was careful to face away so that there would be no possibility of his rolling into the man, or, worse, curling up to him as he had with his father on the occasions when he’d had a bad dream and had been allowed into his parents’ bed. The next day, Mr. Connolly woke them early and gave them each a water canteen, a chocolate bar, and an orange vest to hang over their jackets. He warned them not to speak and to follow him in single file at all times. “You never want to walk in front of a man with a loaded gun,” he said. “Simple logic, right, Jimmy?” Freddie followed his father, and James fell in behind. It was still cold, and, while Freddie had been outfitted with what looked to be a new wool hunting jacket, James had only a sweatshirt under his windbreaker. His face and the tips of his fingers began to sting. Every so often, Mr. Connolly would point at scat on the ground or at a cluster of leaves that James thought must be a sign of recent animal activity. Or he might simply stop, cock his head, and listen to something. James tried to distinguish animal noises from those of the birds and the sound of the breeze in the trees, but he guessed he was like the people Mr. Connolly complained about, the ones who had lost their instinct. They had not eaten breakfast and James began to feel the kind of nausea he associated with being starving in math class with two periods left before lunch. He put his hand on the chocolate bar in his pocket, but realized that it would be impossible to open the wrapper without making noise. He felt a blister start up on his heel and, remembering Mr. Connolly’s story, he worried that they would have to walk for seven hours or more. Mr. Connolly stopped suddenly, then quickly fell into a crouch and lifted the rifle. When the boys followed suit, he put out a warning hand to stop their movement. James did not know whether to sink the rest of the way to the ground or stand back up, so he remained in a half-squat. He tried to see in front of Freddie and Mr. Connolly to whatever the man was aiming at, but his legs were shaking from his awkward stance and he thought if he moved he might fall over. In the silence, he became aware of Freddie’s breathing. Air moving through the obstacle course of Freddie’s throat and nose created an undertone that, as James concentrated on it, became as relentless and as deafening as the buzz of a broken fluorescent light. He tapped Freddie on the shoulder. Freddie turned, opening his mouth to speak, but what came out was an exhale of mucus that seemed more pronounced for having been suppressed for so long, and at the same time the gun fired, the crack and shock sending James sprawling. He heard the swoop of birds’ wings as they cleared the trees, and Mr. Connolly roaring “God damn it!,” as he bounded ahead, his rifle pushing aside branches, which then smacked Freddie and James in the face as they ran to keep up. By the time Mr. Connolly stopped, Freddie was crying. Mr. Connolly looked at his son for a moment, but his gaze seemed unfocussed, as if he were seeing not Freddie’s distress but the whole series of mistakes that had led to this moment, in which his only son was sobbing in the woods, snot running thickly from his nose. When they returned to the camp, Mr. Connolly instructed the boys to take down the tent. The sun fell early, and most of the drive home was illuminated only by the truck’s headlights bouncing off the thick fog. “Are we there yet?” Freddie asked, when they had been driving for nearly three hours without speaking. Mr. Connolly pulled over to the side of the road and stopped. “Yes. We’re here. Get out.” He waited with the engine running while the dumbfounded boys struggled into their jackets and hats, but Mr. Connolly laid a hand on James’s arm. “Not you,” he said. “It’s O.K.,” James said, seeing the look of alarm on Freddie’s face. “I’ll go, too.” “I didn’t tell you to get out,” Mr. Connolly said. “I told Freddie to get out.” Without a word, Freddie stepped out of the truck. The door was barely shut when Mr. Connolly pulled back onto the road. It took no more than ten minutes for Mr. Connolly and James to arrive back on their street, but James waited on his front porch for a full hour before he saw Freddie’s small, dark figure coming down the sidewalk. James met him and they walked together to the Connolly front door. They parted without saying goodbye. Marco was expelled from school. “Suspended,” Melinda corrected, when James phoned her office. It was ten in the morning. The school secretary had called and said that Marco needed to be picked up immediately. “That makes it better?” he said. “What kind of a preschool kicks children out?” When he arrived at the school, Marco was in the hallway, sitting quietly on a bench beside the classroom assistant, Angela. He looked like a person waiting at a Greyhound station. After James had hugged him and reassured him that everything was O.K., he told him to wait for a few more minutes. He opened the classroom door. Mrs. Willing sat on the floor, reading a book to a gathering of children who lay against her side and across her lap and lolled on pillows strewn around her as if they were enjoying a Roman bath. She did not stop reading when she noticed James, so he walked closer and hovered over the group like an impatient diner waiting for a table to open up. Eventually, Mrs. Willing closed her book and instructed the children to begin a different activity. “I’m sure you can see that it is disruptive when a parent walks in without an appointment,” she said, as she led James into the kitchenette attached to the classroom. Two trays lined with Dixie cups sat on the counter. She began to fill the cups with Goldfish crackers from a giant jar. “Being called to come and pick up my kid at ten in the morning without any explanation is disruptive,” James said. “Marco bit Sam,” Mrs. Willing said. “You kick a kid out of nursery school because he got into a little fight?” “There was no fight. The boys weren’t even playing together. Marco walked up to Sam and bit him.” James was momentarily speechless. “What is it between Marco and that kid?” he said, his voice faltering. “Sam is a very peaceful boy,” she said. “And Marco is what?” “I can give you the name of a doctor some parents have consulted.” “A psychiatrist? You think Marco needs a shrink?” “I think we need to discuss, at another time, how best to handle the situation. For now, I’d appreciate it if you’d take him home. Marco understands that this is an appropriate consequence of his action.” James wanted to grip Mrs. Willing by her doughy shoulders and shake her. She lifted up the full tray. “And I need Angela to help me with snack time.” “Leave some for the kids,” James said. That day, James was scheduled to make the two-hour drive to the factory. Rather than cancel, he decided to take Marco with him. It was clear that the boy was confused to be out of school when he should have been singing “The Wheels on the Bus” and fitting together cardboard puzzle pieces. James wondered how Mrs. Willing had acted in the moment. Had she said, in sweetly non-threatening tones, “I’m going to say it’s not O.K. to bite Sam”? Or had she simply yelled at Marco? He was upset to think that Marco might have suffered shame or embarrassment in front of his friends. James’s distress turned to anger, and he pulled over at a gas station, ostensibly to fill up, but while he was out of the car he called Melinda. “That woman is a first-class bitch,” he said, when she came to the phone. “Can Marco hear you?” “No, Marco can’t hear me. What do you think I am?” “I think you’re angry.” “Aren’t you?” “Yes, of course I’m angry. I’m upset.” “You don’t sound like it. You don’t sound like anything.” “What’s that supposed to mean?” But he didn’t know what he meant, only that it felt good to lash out, to accuse her of something, of anything, even if it meant that he would have to apologize later. Neither he nor Melinda said anything for a long time, and he listened to the strange vacuum of sound that the cell phone delivered when no one was speaking, a technological absence that felt annihilating. “Are you there?” he said, finally. “How is he?” she said. James bent down and peered at Marco through the car window. “Quiet. Weirdly quiet.” “We’ll get past this,” she said. “And then it will be just something that happened.” “Do you believe that?” “Of course I do,” she said. “Nobody died.” At the factory, the secretary made a fuss over Marco. She gave him a butterscotch candy from the bowl on her desk and insisted on taking him on a tour of the factory. She and James led Marco from the loading dock, where the teak boards were piled high, past the loud machinery where the wood was cut and shaped, all the way through to the station where the finished pieces were checked for faults. Marco was mesmerized by everything, but he was most entranced by the leftover scraps of raw wood that lay scattered on the ground. “Would you like some to take home?” the secretary asked. Marco’s face lit up for the first time that day. “Can I make something in your workshop?” he asked James, as the secretary went off in search of a bag. “What will you make?” “A spaceship.” “Absolutely,” James said. “Dad,” Marco said, his sandpaper voice low and serious. “My spaceship can fly to Jupiter.” “I know it can,” he said. The town where James had grown up was only half an hour away, and, on a whim, James drove there. He wanted to show Marco the place where he had imagined flying bicycles and other impossibilities. What was once a suburb of modest aluminum-sided homes was now part of an indeterminate sprawl, studded with warehouses and small industries that had taken advantage of the low rents. James drove down his old street and parked in front of his childhood home, which had been sold years ago, when his mother died. Nothing substantial had been done to alter the façade, but somehow the place looked unfamiliar. “This is where I lived when I was your age, buddy,” he said, glancing into the rearview mirror, but Marco had fallen asleep in his car seat, his head tilted to the side, his bag of woodchips clutched in his hand. The Saturday after the hunting weekend, Freddie had showed up at the house as usual. “Are you making something?” Freddie asked, when James’s mother called him down from his bedroom to greet the boy. James shook his head. His father had come to take him and his siblings out for pizza earlier that week and had brought gifts, something he’d been doing since the new baby was born. He said that the gifts were from little June, and James was angry that he had to accept the preposterous suggestion that a baby could go out and buy toys. June had “given” James a set of Lego, but James didn’t see the point of following a series of steps that someone else had already decided upon so that he could end up with a firehouse that looked exactly like the one in the picture on the box. “What do you want to do?” Freddie asked. James put on his jacket and the boys went outside. They threw acorns at the side of the house for a while, then knocked down spiderwebs. When they grew tired of this, they crossed through the trees to the ravine. They sat on leaves that were still damp from the previous night’s rain, and tossed clods of dirt into the stream below. James saw it first: a shadow among the trees across the water. When he looked more carefully, he could see nothing but leaves and branches, and yet he knew that something was different from what it had been just moments before. He was conscious of his breath moving in and out of his body, of the heaviness of his tongue in his mouth, of the coldness of his eyeballs in their sockets. And then one, two, three deer stepped out from behind the leaves. Their hides were the color of toast, their muzzles dappled with white. One of them was smaller than the others, its legs spindly and knobbed at the joints. The animals grazed, moving slowly here and there, poking their noses into bits of earth and brush. Suddenly Freddie stood up. James put a finger to his lips to quiet him, but the boy was already running back through the trees toward his house. It occurred to James that maybe Freddie was afraid of the wild animals and that this was why he had cried on the day of the hunt, but thoughts of his friend disappeared when one of the animals looked directly at him and seemed to observe him for a while. James was amazed and then proud that the deer was not spooked by his presence, that it did not perceive him as an enemy. And he was not an enemy; he resolved right then that he would never go hunting again. He was a creature, just like Mr. Connolly had said. He was a creature, alone with other creatures. He turned at the sound of footsteps behind him, holding out his hand to stop whoever it was from coming closer and scaring off the deer, but Freddie kept walking, and James realized that he was carrying Mr. Connolly’s hunting rifle. “What are you doing?” James whispered, when Freddie was by his side. The boy kneeled down and positioned the rifle against his shoulder. The heavy butt wavered as he tried to steady it. He cocked the gun. James yelled and waved his arms wildly in order to warn the deer, but they did not move. He grabbed the rifle, but Freddie held onto it with a strength that James had not expected and the two boys began to wrestle with the gun between them, pushing and pulling at each other. “Who’s there?” It was a man’s voice. “Freddie, is that you?” Mr. Connolly ran through the trees, his big body thrashing against the low branches. He was barefoot and dressed in pajamas. “Son!” he yelled. “Put down the gun! Do not move!” James used the opportunity of Freddie’s surprise to yank the rifle away from him just as it fired. The shot deafened him, and he heard nothing as Mr. Connolly fell to the ground. After they had put Marco to bed, Melinda and James sat together at the kitchen table, a bottle of wine open between them. Melinda was crying softly. Right before they had turned off Marco’s light, he’d asked if he was going to go to school the following day. They’d had to tell him no. “I hate that school,” Melinda said. “I hate that Mrs. Wilson. Willing.” She covered her face, embarrassed by the disorganization of her feelings. “We’re pulling him out of there,” James said, pouring more wine into their glasses. “We’ll find another school, where kids can hit and bite and draw blood,” he said. “We’ll find a school with a pro-war curriculum.” “The only other preschool here is called Happy Valley,” she said. Neither of them laughed at the absurdity. “You don’t think anything is wrong with him, do you?” she said. He looked at her for a moment, trying to fathom her meaning. “You know there’s nothing wrong with him,” he said quietly. Later, after she had gone to bed, he went to his workshop. He wasn’t sure why he was there, knew only that he would not be able to sleep. He wanted the morning to come so that the day’s events would become part of the past, wanted tomorrow and the day after that to provide a platform from which he could watch what had happened recede and lose its shape, becoming something named and manageable. He turned on the light above his worktable. He had not yet cut into the birch. Maybe it wouldn’t be their new dining-room table. He wondered if he could make it into a go-kart or a sled, if there was something he could fashion that would make his son remember this time differently. A lot of ifs. He snapped off the light. He was too tired and too drunk to work, and, anyway, the sound of machinery might wake up Marco, who deserved some peaceful sleep before confronting another day of adults spouting platitudes and avoiding the truth. The truth was this: there had been a moment in the woods, after he’d wrenched the gun from Freddie’s grasp, when James had felt his finger slide into the smooth, ear-like curve of the trigger, when he’d felt the snug rightness of his body in the world, the way he had when he’d pedalled his winged bike toward the edge of the ravine, going faster and faster until what was impossible had become possible and there was no more reason to think or doubt. And then there had been the split second when his instinct had kicked in, but it was too late. He stood at the open doorway of his workshop, facing the house. The light in his and Melinda’s bedroom was off. She would be asleep now, lying on her back, her arms resting by her sides. The gun had fired. Or he had fired the gun. Which was it? This was the question he’d seen in Mrs. Connolly’s eyes through the scrim of her funeral veil. Soon he would slip into bed and watch the certainty of his wife’s sleep and wonder again if he knew the answer. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Shirley Temple Three	Credit Illustration by Scott Musgrove Mawmaw’s throwing the party, and her own son is three hours late. Already he’s missed his cousin’s goshdern ceremony and the grape-juice toasts and the cake-cutting, and now he’s about to miss the couple’s mad dash to the car, too. All the tables are decorated with white flowers in beakers, since the groom is a chemist for a textile company, and in the foyer she’s put out enlarged photos from when the bride and groom were babies and total strangers to each other, and over all Mawmaw would give her reception an A-plus if not for this business with Tommy. Tommy is driving in from Atlanta, where he works as the host of a popular show called “Back from Extinction.” On each episode they actually bring back long-dead, forgotten creatures—sabre-toothed tigers, dodo birds, and all the rest. The show is a little controversial, but people seem to enjoy it. Tommy always looks so handsome in his khaki safari vest. The happy couple is about to depart when the phone rings. One of the uncles holds it out the door saying it’s you-know-who on the line. Mawmaw swats it away, because she doesn’t want to hear it. Not a word of it. Tommy is always full of excuses. She gives all the guests baggies of rice, and they go out front and shower the bride and groom as they dive into the back of a Plymouth decorated with shaving cream and condoms, and then they’re gone and the party is over, and Tommy has missed the entire thing. What’s crystal clear is that he doesn’t give two hoots about anyone but himself. House empty again, Mawmaw steps onto the back porch to smoke a menthol and feel the cool night air on her freckled skin. The night air is a natural force, and natural forces help you remember how small you are, and when you remember how small you are in the Big Picture you see how silly it is to be upset at almost anything. It’s a technique she picked up from a woman on television, and even though the woman was talking specifically about money trouble, Mawmaw finds it works in most situations. The technique helps you to remember that you have to surrender control to the universe. She can feel the breeze tickle her skin. She can recognize the breeze as a natural force much larger than her little old arthritic self. And she understands that one day—who knows, maybe even tonight in her sleep—she will die and enter God’s eternal golden Kingdom and feel His Love, and when that happens all her frustrations and concerns will be like dewdrops on the windshield of a fast-moving car, the glass streaked clean and clear of all blurriness. That thought is a true comfort to her, and she’s close to letting go of her anger, but then she allows herself to picture Tommy with that boyish look on his face, the one he puts on when he pretends to have absolutely no idea why anyone could possibly be mad at him. Mawmaw stubs her menthol out on the steps and goes inside to stack the dirty dishes and glasses. The real clean can wait for the morning. Upstairs, she changes into her nightgown and takes her pill. She is on the edge of sleep when she hears the truck in the driveway. The porch lights hum with a new electricity. If the moon could radiate more light, it would. Tommy is home. She wants to sing. She wishes the party weren’t over so everyone could see her son. When she greets him out front, he pulls her into a deep hug. “You look thin,” she says. “How about some coconut shrimp or wedding cake?” His eyes are bloodshot, his brown hair ruffled. He’s wearing suit pants and a white undershirt. She hasn’t seen him in eight months and six days. She’s already forgiven him, already forgotten how mad she was an hour ago. “I’ve got a good reason for being late,” he says and pats the truck, which has a “Back from Extinction” magnetic decal on its door. “Something I need to show you. Pour us both a drink and meet me around back.” She pours him some grapefruit juice in a tall Daffy Duck glass. Tommy comes into the house through the back door and flips on the floodlights for the yard. She hands him the glass and he takes a swig, looks at her confused. He pulls a flask out of his pocket and tips it into Daffy Duck. In the yard he’s got something hidden under a quilt. It’s moving. “What I’m about to show you,” he says, “you can’t tell a soul about it. If you did, it would be major trouble. Trouble with a capital ‘T.’ ” He sips his drink and tugs the quilt away. Mawmaw takes a step back. She’s looking at some kind of elephant. With hair. “Don’t worry. She’s not dangerous,” Tommy says. “Bread Island Dwarf Mammoth. The last wild one lived about ten thousand years ago. They’re the smallest mammoths that ever existed. Cute, isn’t she?” The mammoth is waist high, with a pelt of dirty-blond fur that hangs in tangled draggles to the dirt. Its tusks, white and pristine, curve out and up. The forehead is high and knobby and covered in a darker fur. The trunk probes the ground for God-knows-what and then curls back into itself like a jelly roll. “What’s a goshdern Bread Island Dwarf Whatever doing in my yard?” Mawmaw asks. “Listen,” Tommy says. “This is very special. Other than the folks at work, you’re the first modern human to ever lay eyes on such a creature. Her episode hasn’t even aired yet. Go on, you can touch it. She’s friendly. Practically tame. Her name’s Shirley Temple.” “Shirley Temple?” Mawmaw asks. “You can’t name it that. Shirley Temple was Shirley Temple.” She points to the dog pen, under which Shirley Temple the Great Dane is buried. The dog had tumors that couldn’t be removed. The vet wanted to put her to sleep, but Mawmaw couldn’t bear it. One night she left the pen open by mistake, and three days later she found the dog curled and cold under the porch. “All right,” Tommy says. “I meant it to be honorific. Call this one Shirley Temple Two, if you’d like.” He puts his hand on the mammoth’s tusk. “Or maybe we should call it Shirley Temple the Third? Since, you know, technically, the first one was the ‘Good Ship Lollipop’ Shirley Temple. This one’s about as dangerous as the little girl.” He runs his hand along Shirley Temple Three’s back. The mammoth looks up at him with dark, mysterious eyes. It doesn’t seem to know what to do in this new setting. “Is it full grown?” “That’s what they tell me. Isn’t it amazing?” Mawmaw nods because the mammoth really is a scientific miracle, a true marvel, but, then again, it’s getting late. She’s been awake since 4 A.M., working on final preparations for the reception, and she’s already taken her pill. The moonlight shines down on the three of them. They decide to keep Shirley Temple Three in the dog pen for the night. Not all of Mawmaw’s friends like her son’s show—especially her friends at God’s Sacred Light. When the show first débuted, she had not yet retired as the church’s financial administrator, and Pastor Frank pulled her into his small, warm office and asked if she was concerned about her son. She hadn’t been until that moment. Pastor Frank knows everything there is to know about Mawmaw and Tommy. They joined the church two months after she gave birth. She wasn’t married, because Tommy’s father was already married to someone else. Kyle Seevers was a C.P.A. in another town and had given a talk in Mawmaw’s night class. Kyle couldn’t leave his wife, but he was a real gentleman about all of it and mailed regular checks until the day he died of a heart attack. Mawmaw thought it best not to attend the funeral. Tommy knows the name Kyle Seevers. Mawmaw doesn’t like secrets. Her son comes into the kitchen the morning after the reception and asks if he can have scrambled eggs and grits. She can’t refuse him. His hair sticks up in the back. He’s forty-two but could be twelve. Up on her toes, Mawmaw reaches for a pan on a high hook, then down low for a whisk in a bottom drawer. She’s feeling more energetic than she has in months. Her knees are hardly bothering her at all. Tommy sips his black coffee and reads the newspaper. The eggs crackle in the bacon grease. “And how’s Shirley this morning?” Tommy asks. All morning she hasn’t let herself look out the window above the sink. “Don’t see nothing out there,” Mawmaw says. “Don’t see it?” Tommy is up in a flash and out the back door. She watches him scurry across the grass in his boxers. He goes inside the pen. The mammoth emerges from behind the oak tree in the far right corner. From a distance it’s almost doglike. But that long probing trunk. Those tusks! Tommy squats in front of the mammoth and runs his fingers through the dirty-blond coat. “Wash your hands,” Mawmaw says once he’s back inside. “Could have diseases.” “Maw, it doesn’t have any diseases,” he says. Yet she can’t help but notice how thoroughly he scrubs his hands in the sink. She puts his breakfast plate on the table and sits down to watch him eat. “How come they let you take this elephant?” she asks. “Isn’t that against the rules?” “It’s not an elephant. Listen, Maw, I’m going to let you in on a dirty little secret. You know about the Back from Extinction Zoo, right?” “It’s where that cute little zookeeper takes all the animals to live at the end of every show.” “That’s right. Her name is Samantha. Only, she doesn’t take every animal to the zoo. We never say this on the air, but sometimes we clone twins by mistake, and that, legally speaking, is a bureaucratic nightmare. There are so many fucking laws that we—” “No ‘F,’ please.” “The corporation was very lonely, because people thought it was different from them.”Buy the print » “Sorry, but it’s true. You’d think we were trying to make nuclear weapons. We’re allowed to keep both twins alive until we’ve filmed the episode, so we can use each one on camera. But then we have to get rid of one. Samantha is the person who has to euthanize them. It’s awful.” Tommy scrapes the grits into a small pile and takes another bite. “Why are you telling me this?” Mawmaw asks. “Because,” Tommy says. “We had two dwarf mammoths. Only, this time Samantha couldn’t bring herself to do it. She took Shirley home instead. Not the smartest move, but it’s not like she could just set a mammoth loose in the woods, you know? Anyway, the show suspected something was up. She needed it out of her house for a few days in case they came snooping around, and I told her I would help.” Mawmaw goes to the window. Shirley Temple Three is using her tusks to root up the dirt. She wonders what it eats. If it would eat eggs. Shirley Temple the dog used to eat eggs. Tommy plans to be in town for less than a week, but his friends want to see him. One night his high-school buddy Mitch Mitchells comes over to take him out like old times. Mitch is recently divorced, and Tommy says he thinks he’s lonely, which is enough to make Mawmaw laugh. What does Mitch Mitchells know about loneliness? But, standing in the foyer, Mitch gives Mawmaw a long, sad hug. She hasn’t seen him in probably a decade. Unlike her son, he hasn’t aged well. He has an extra chin, thinner hair. He’s clearly in awe of Tommy, a real celebrity, and is full of questions. Has Tommy met many movie stars? Is he dating anybody special? Have any of the animals bitten him or stung him or stabbed him or done him any sort of bodily harm as yet unimaginable? And how do the scientists bring back all those animals, anyway? First of all, Tommy says, he hasn’t met many movie stars, since he lives in Atlanta, not Hollywood. And he’s not dating anyone special, certainly not anyone famous, and thus far, knock on fossil, he hasn’t suffered even a single scratch from the animals, and, as for the science, well, to be perfectly honest, he doesn’t have a clue how they do it. He’s just the talent. He reads the cue cards. He doesn’t have to handle any pipettes, let’s put it that way. Mitch Mitchells thinks that’s just hysterical. “You’ll feed the dog?” Tommy asks on his way out, and Mawmaw nods. On the computer it said prehistoric mammoths ate grasses, fruits, twigs, berries, and nuts. In the pantry Mawmaw has a tub of mixed nuts. She pours some cashews and almonds and pecans into a metal bowl and takes it outside, to where the mammoth has stuck its trunk through one of the squares of the metal gate. The trunk recoils when she places the bowl in front of it. It doesn’t seem very interested in the nuts. “Take it or leave it,” Mawmaw says and goes back in to slip into her faded red nightgown and swallow one of her pills. She sleeps hard until midnight, when a car in the driveway wakes her up. She’s not in bed but at her desk, half her toenails painted dark red, the computer printing a ninety-page document about the dangers of lead-based paint. Her pills can have that effect sometimes. They turn her into a zombie. She goes to the window, but it’s not Mitch’s Bronco outside in the driveway. It’s a taxicab. Tommy shoves a wad of cash through the driver’s window and stumbles toward the house. Mawmaw creeps back into her room and shuts her door. She considers taking another pill, but turns on the television instead. An hour later, her son’s show comes on. It’s a rerun about the Glyptodon, a prehistoric armadillo thing with a spiky tail shaped like a mace. The Glyptodon is the size of a small car. They name him Glypto-Donny. Tommy narrates Donny’s reëntry into the wild. The camera follows him across a small creek and into a prairie with yellow waving grass. He doesn’t do much except eat the grass. Tommy enters the scene and walks right up to the beast. Her son looks so small in comparison. He knocks on its hard shell. Donny doesn’t seem to notice. The show ends with the Glyptodon in the back of a truck headed for the zoo. Samantha, a sturdy, petite woman with curly blond hair, gives Tommy a thumbs-up, and then there’s the quick stream of credits. No light outside yet, but she goes downstairs to put on the coffee and check on Shirley. All the mixed nuts are gone from the bowl. The mammoth makes a squeaking sound in the back of its throat. They’re eating dinner when Tommy’s phone vibrates. “Not at the table,” she says. “Please.” But Tommy takes the call. He goes into the living room. She can hear that he’s upset. “O.K.,” he says. “What is it you’re proposing we do, exactly?” He paces. “Love has nothing to do with this. I think you just need to calm down and order a pizza and—” Mawmaw goes out back for a menthol. She smokes two a day—one after breakfast, one after dinner. A self-imposed rule. It’s been this way ever since she was a teen-ager. No one called her Mawmaw back then. She was Louise Baker, the dark-haired beauty who scooped ice cream at the drugstore after school. A crow lands on the top rail of the dog pen, and then flies away. The little mammoth hardly moves. It’s almost like a mannequin. Why isn’t it moving? It moves. Mawmaw realizes she’s been holding her breath. The mammoth shuffles to the back of the pen, on the other side of which is a stretch of woods. Sometimes the deer emerge from those woods to eat the small green apples when they fall. Shirley Temple Three might like to see that, she thinks, and then takes a final drag of her menthol. Tommy says that the mammoth is from the late Pleistocene. It’s been yanked out of its own time and lives outside God’s natural laws. God created the world in seven days, but those days weren’t necessarily twenty-four-hour days. Each one of His days might have been a million years long. Human time means nothing in the realm of Heaven, where the clocks probably don’t have hands but golden arms, and the arms belong to God. On which day did the mammoth get created? It wasn’t on the seventh day, since that was the day of rest. Quite possibly it came into the world on the morning of the fifth and went back out again that same afternoon. Thinking of creations come and gone in such a short amount of time makes Mawmaw sad. When she goes inside, the plates are still on the table. She finds Tommy upstairs, packing his bag. She asks if everything is O.K., and he says of course it is, then adds, “But I have to leave a little earlier than expected.” “Was it Samantha on the phone?” she asks. He gives her a curious look, then continues collecting clothes off the armchair and floor. “Are you dating the zookeeper from your show?” she asks. “I don’t know,” he says. “Maybe. I don’t know. Listen, Maw, I’m sorry, but I need to get back to Atlanta for a few days. I’ll come back once things get sorted out.” “What about—” She motions out the window to the other house guest. “Don’t hate me, Maw. Please don’t hate me, but Shirley has to stay here for a while. Not for too long, I promise. It’s just that, well, if you want to know the truth, people are asking questions. Samantha’s in some hot water. They want proof of death. Someone at the zoo must have made a call. I’ve got to help her sort it out. She might have broken a few laws.” She doesn’t ask him how many laws are currently being broken in her own back yard. “Whatever you do,” he says, zipping up his roller suitcase, “don’t tell anyone about the mammoth. Once this business with Samantha settles down, we’ll figure out what to do next. I promise.” She’s been babysitting the mammoth for not quite a month when it starts losing hair. Mawmaw sits in front of the pen on a kitchen stool. The days are getting warmer, and she doesn’t know what to do. Clumps of the mammoth’s blond tangles are spread across the ground, and its exposed skin is red and irritated. It rattles the gate with its curvy tusks. “I’m not going to lie to you. I’m worried,” she says. “Tommy’s not returning my phone calls. Don’t look at me like that. I know exactly what you’re thinking. Tommy’s not calling? What a surprise, right? You got fleas, is that it? Or are you molting? Is this normal? You’re probably not used to this weather, are you? Eighty-eight degrees today, and it’s only going to get hotter. What happens then?” Mawmaw wonders if the mammoth might be scratching itself raw along the fence, but over the next week, looking out the back window, she never catches it in the act. Mostly it just stands there in the heat, breathing heavy. But the hair continues to fall out. One patch of skin looks so rough that Mawmaw takes out her lotion and rubs some on the spot with her index finger. “Just so you know, this is expensive lotion. I have to order it special. I use it on my face—otherwise I get dry between my eyes. Does that feel better?” She calls Tommy and gets his voice mail. When the temperature hits ninety, she brings Shirley inside the house to cool off for a little while. Guiding the animal down the hallway is a challenge. The mammoth comes up only to her waist, but it is a hefty creature, much too heavy to lift or shove. Mawmaw steers it toward the laundry room, where the dryer is tumbling a load. She moves some cleaning supplies and boxes onto the shelves along the back wall, clearing a space. She spreads a plastic tarp across the floor and cranks up the air-conditioning. She fills the mammoth’s bowl with beans and orange peels and mixed nuts—always nuts—and a little hay that she picked up at the garden-supply store. With some old bath towels she creates a nest beside the washing machine. She tells Shirley good night and closes the door. “I am not having this conversation again.”Buy the print » By the time she climbs into bed that night, the house is nearly an Arctic tundra, and she needs four blankets to keep warm. In the morning she puts on a sweatshirt and a jacket. The laundry room smells like the circus. She shovels the dung into buckets and dumps the buckets in the woods behind her house. She burns citrus candles to mask the scent. Tommy still hasn’t returned her phone calls by the time Shirley has her big television début on “Back from Extinction.” It’s been on the calendar for weeks, and Mawmaw lets the mammoth come into the living room as a special treat. She offers Shirley a small bowl of milk and sinks into the couch just as the episode begins. Mawmaw knows the theme song by heart, the horns and jungle drums that float above a highly scientific electronic beat. Tommy narrates a few basic facts about woolly mammoths. How they haven’t walked the earth for thousands of years, how in some cases they were overhunted by early man. The show is very protective of the technology that gestates the mammoth, and so it skips ahead to post-birth with a montage of Shirley’s first year, as her legs and trunk elongate, as her coat thickens, as her tusks sprout outward. Then Tommy enters the action. He asks one of the scientists what mammoths used to eat, and the scientist, a limp smile on his face, informs Tommy that frozen mammoths have been discovered with bellies full of leaves and grasses. They also like fried eggs and grapefruit rinds, Mawmaw adds, not to mention M&M’s. “Look at you, Shirl. You see yourself? Pretty impressive.” In the next scene, Shirley is loaded into a truck and dropped off in the middle of the Canadian Arctic, in an area that approximates conditions on the Bread Islands thousands of years ago. In the back of the truck, with a fur-lined hood pulled tight around his pinkish face, Tommy explains that Shirley has been wired with cameras and a tracking device and that now, for the first time in thousands of years, we’re going to get a glimpse of a mammoth in the wild. Mawmaw knows that Shirley will survive, but still she grips her armrest. The mammoth loses interest and wanders into the kitchen. “You’re missing it,” Mawmaw calls. She can hear its tusks knocking against the walls as it migrates to the back of the house. Shirley stops losing hair. Gray scabs form a light crust over the bald patches, which break apart under a wet washcloth. But Mawmaw is still concerned about her patient. Shirley isn’t drinking enough water. She seems lethargic. She comes down with diarrhea. Mawmaw discovers it, the dark-green puddles across the tarp. She leads Shirley back to the dog pen so that she can clean up the mess. She tosses the whole sheet of plastic in the trash and lays out a new one. “What can I do for you?” Mawmaw asks, leading Shirley back inside. “Would Pepto help? More sunlight?” The next morning Mawmaw wakes up to find even more diarrhea. The mammoth is trying to hide behind the washing machine, her tusks tapping the metal side. Mawmaw gets on the computer and searches for “elephant + flu,” but the sites aren’t especially helpful. She dips her fingers in the water bowl and presses them to the mammoth’s wrinkled gray lips beneath the trunk. “Come on. You can do this. Just a little. You need this.” She dips her fingers again and this time the mouth opens a little to receive them, but when the water drops pass Shirley’s lips she shuts her mouth tight again, as if the liquid were toxic. Mawmaw strokes her tusks and knobby forehead, brushing loose strands away from her dark eyes. She calls Tommy’s cell, but gets his voice mail again. “Tommy. Shirley Temple is dying. I just thought you should know. I’m doing the best I can, but I don’t think it’s going to be enough. Maybe Samantha should have put her down like they asked her to. Maybe something really is wrong with her. I don’t know why you brought this goshdern thing to my house.” Mawmaw imagines finding the mammoth dead, its blond hair stiff with dried excrement, its eyes white and milky. She won’t be able to lift it. She’ll have to carve the mammoth into chunks to get it outside again. She imagines the jagged saw blades, the mess. This is all Tommy’s fault. What kind of a fool son did she raise up? This mammoth doesn’t belong here, or anywhere. “Back from Extinction” is a cruel television program. The cruellest. Shirley is a clone, and that means ten thousand years ago her exact copy walked the earth. The original Shirley had parents, and maybe even children. The original Shirley probably died in some kind of ice pond or avalanche or tar pit. What if ten thousand years from now scientists made a Mawmaw clone? What would the world be like then? Then a terrible thought: What if today is still God’s seventh day and He still hasn’t woken up yet from His rest? That would explain why He’s been so quiet lately. What if, when He wakes up on the eighth morning, He decides He doesn’t like what we’ve been up to down here? Maybe He’ll be grumpy with us and stamp out all the lights again, return the world to darkness. In ten thousand years, the earth could be cold and barren, an endless frozen wasteland more suitable for mammoths than for humans. If they—whoever they are—do grow a new Mawmaw out of a petri dish, she can only hope that someone will set her up in a nice warm room. And if that Mawmaw gets sick she can only hope that they’ll do what’s right and call a doctor. She finds one in the yellow pages. His name is Dr. Mark Sing. She promises to double his fee for a house call, and he comes over that evening. His hair is dark and shiny. He has a leather bag that she hopes is full of instruments and medicines. He takes off his tan blazer, then puts it on again. The house is still cold. Mawmaw’s electricity bills have been astronomical. “You have to swear to me that you won’t tell a soul what you see here,” she says, and he shrugs like he’s heard this all before. “I’m serious,” she says and across a blank sheet of paper writes, “I won’t tell a soul.” “Sign this. I want to have it in writing.” The man looks tired. He removes his glasses and rubs his left eye with the palm of his hand, the gold watch on his wrist tight. He signs the paper, and she leads him down the hall and opens the door. The mammoth is nested in the bath towels. Mawmaw has done her best to clean the room. Vanilla candles burn on the washer. The plastic tarp crinkles under their feet. Dr. Sing opens his mouth but doesn’t say a word. He kneels down by the mammoth, runs his hand through the hair, caresses its knobby forehead. Shirley doesn’t seem to mind, and Mawmaw considers this a good sign. “Can I ask you where it came from?” he says. “How long you’ve had it?” “I’m sorry, but no. She going to be all right?” He opens his bag and removes an electronic thermometer. He taps it a few times against his palm, as if uncertain whether he should proceed. Finally he lifts the mammoth’s small hairy tail and inserts it quickly. Shirley’s head jerks around and the tusk collides with the doctor’s left shoulder, almost knocking him over. The thermometer beeps. He looks at the reading. Mawmaw asks if it’s high, and he says he’s not sure exactly, because he doesn’t know what’s normal. He says what he really needs is a blood sample, to run some tests, but Mawmaw can’t permit that. He gets up off the floor and goes into the hall. On the wall he sees a framed picture of Tommy in his khaki duds. “He’s the one from that show.” Mawmaw doesn’t answer. “Could be a mammoth flu, for all I know,” he says. “She definitely seems dehydrated. I suppose I could give her fluids intravenously.” Mawmaw agrees that he should, and that’s the plan. Fortunately, Shirley doesn’t protest when he inserts the needle. Mawmaw pays Dr. Sing triple his usual fee and shows him the piece of paper again. “Who would believe me anyway?” he says and takes the check. The next morning the mammoth has its appetite back. Mawmaw cooks it rice and yogurt. She lets it out into the yard and runs a stiff wire brush through its matted blond coat. The mammoth seems to like being brushed. Then it wanders to the edge of the property to root around. Mawmaw pulls the excess hair out of the brush, stretching and curling the strands between her fingers. “I could make a Shirley sweater. I bet it’d be warm.” Mawmaw is in her bed when she hears the first wail. She’s taken a pill, but she’s wide awake now. Maybe the fever and the dehydration were only early symptoms of some deeper crisis. The mammoth lets out a long guttural cry that almost shakes the house. Mawmaw waits for another, but it doesn’t come. She might have dreamed it. She’s on the verge of sleep when it erupts again, that slow mournful bellow. Pulling the top blanket over her shoulders, she sticks her veiny feet into her Goofy slippers and flips on every light switch on her way downstairs. In the laundry room, Shirley is staring at the floral-print wallpaper, as close to the wall as her tusks will allow. “What’s going on in here?” The mammoth doesn’t move. “You need to drink more water. That’s all it is. You’ve got some kind of flu. You need sleep.” Mawmaw has an extra pill in her pocket. She takes it into the kitchen and coats it in a gob of peanut butter. The peanut butter sticks to the food bucket. The mammoth’s trunk grabs the gob and tucks it into its gray mouth. “Whatever’s bothering you, we can talk about it in the morning.” She gets back in bed and nestles under the weight of the blankets. A few minutes later, the mammoth repeats the sound, but this time, instead of trailing off into nothingness, it ends with several shrill, trumpetlike staccato bursts. Mawmaw considers turning on her television but doesn’t. She’s worried. Maybe it’s mating season. If so, how tragic. Shirley is separated from her closest mate by ten thousand years. Then comes another wail. The mammoth lets up only at the first hint of sunlight. Buy the print » The mammoth’s night terrors have been happening for a week when Tommy finally calls. She can hear street noise behind him. He says he’s so sorry she’s had to deal with Shirley these past few months, but if the mammoth dies of its sickness, maybe it’s for the best. For everyone. He says the network still hasn’t figured out that Samantha took the mammoth, but they’ve been keeping an eye on her. That’s why he hasn’t been able to bring Shirley back to Atlanta. “I was actually beginning to worry I might have to come down there and euthanize her myself,” he says. “And how would you do that?” “God, I don’t know. A shovel, I guess. Or maybe I could poison it. Thankfully, I don’t think it’s going to come to that. Right?” Mawmaw doesn’t mention Dr. Sing. She doesn’t mention the wailing. She doesn’t tell him that Shirley’s problem might not be physical but spiritual. She lets him think she wants it dead, too. Calling Pastor Frank is a risk, but Mawmaw is desperate. Three years ago Pastor Frank prayed over the body of a young girl with brain cancer, and despite the doctors’ dire prognosis the girl survived for another two years. He arrives five minutes early and, without being asked, removes his large black sneakers at the door. He pulls her into a deep hug and pats her back. In the living room, she offers him coffee. “No, thank you,” he says. “I get jumpy.” He’s examining the room: the oil portrait of baby Tommy on the wall, the antique tea cart with the porcelain teacups, her mother’s old electric organ with the thin black pump pedals. Possibly he’s wondering how Mawmaw could afford such a nice living room with what had been a modest church salary. “My son bought me this house after I retired,” she says. “A total surprise, believe me. I didn’t ask for it.” “It’s lovely,” he says. “You look exhausted. Everything O.K.?” “My dog is dying. I haven’t been sleeping well.” “I’m sorry to hear that. Never easy. I still get teary-eyed thinking about our Pomeranian that died two years ago. Copperhead bit him.” “Did you pray for him?” “For the dog? Well, it happened so fast. He was dead within hours. Do you have any tea? Noncaffeinated?” “Of course,” she says, and goes into the kitchen. As the water heats, and then as the tea bag steeps in the Mickey Mouse mug, she imagines what happens next, the moment of first contact. She tries to picture Pastor Frank, the tarp crinkling under his knees as he places his warm hands over Shirley’s tangled hair. She imagines his words as a light, almost liquid, that forms an amberlike shell around the mammoth’s body. She takes the tea into the living room. Pastor Frank is leaning over the electric organ, tapping the keys. He hasn’t turned it on, so it produces no sound. She offers him the tea. “You know, my wife and I don’t have cable,” he continues, “but we’ve been hearing an awful lot about your son’s show recently. Is it true they brought a Neanderthal back from the dead? Two ways of thinking about these things.” The pastor’s thin brown hair is brushed back with pomade. He has one finger on a low B-flat and another on a high one. “Two scenarios. In scenario one, God killed off the Neanderthals because He wanted it that way and therefore we’re going against His will by bringing one back. In scenario two, there never was such a creature as a Neanderthal, and the so-called fossils were put there by the Devil himself. The second scenario is frightening, of course, because that would mean we’re breathing life into the Devil’s creations.” Mawmaw can feel the pulse in her temple. “They never brought back any caveman,” she tells him. “Only animals.” “Still,” he says, as if that settles it. They sit down in the wingback chairs, facing each other. Mawmaw isn’t sure whether or not to proceed with her plan. After a long silence, he asks her if she’d like to pray for her son. Pastor Frank reaches out for her hands. How many times over the past thirty years has she put her hands in his and said the words? How many times has he shined the light into the shadows of her heart? He knows all there is to know: about every sordid encounter she ever had with Tommy’s father; about her visit to the clinic and what she almost did there, the blue gown and paper-thin slippers, so thin they barely existed at all; about every dark dream, every dark thought; her doubts about God, about Hell, about what happens next. Pastor Frank is praying for her son. He’s asking God to bring Tommy home again, to protect him from evil forces at work in the world, to reveal to Tommy the path back to God. His words hover in the space above her head, a wispy cloud in a night sky, breaking and re-forming in the high atmospheric breeze. From below, her feet planted firmly on the ground, Mawmaw could reach out for those clouds if she wanted, poke her fingers through them, but she doesn’t. She recycles Pastor Frank’s words, borrows their power. She recites a silent prayer of her own, this one focussed on the creature in the next room, their two prayers, she hopes, working in tandem. “Can you add my dog?” she interrupts. “Of course,” he says. “Do you want to bring her out?” “She’s at the vet.” Pastor Frank smiles and gives her hands another squeeze. He speaks softly, almost in a whisper. He asks God to keep watch over sweet little—what’s the dog’s name?—to watch over sweet little Shirley Temple. “Lord,” he says, “we praise all the beauty in your creation, the fish and the birds and the turtles and the squirrels and the cats and the dogs and even the possums.” The wailing does not stop. A neighbor calls to complain about the noise, and Mawmaw blames the television, her bad hearing. She tries a night-light in the laundry room. She tries stuffing towels under all the doors to muffle the sound. She prints out pictures of the tundra and other mammoths and tapes them to the walls. Some nights, half asleep, Mawmaw worries that the noise is emanating from within the catacombs of her own body. Opening her mouth she half expects the cries to amplify. She is able to sleep only in spurts. She dreams that Shirley is her guide through a world of snow and ice and unidentifiable landscapes. Every direction looks the same, but Shirley knows the way. Where they are going is important, but in the morning Mawmaw can no longer remember why. One night, she gives the mammoth three pills. The next night, four. But, no matter the dosage, they don’t seem to have any effect. “What is it?” she asks, downstairs again, desperate, the lights flipped on. “What do you need from me? Is this mating season? I’m sorry to tell you this, but you got no one to mate with. You’re on your own. You got to hush up. I’ve tried everything I know to try. I’m going out of my mind.” She steps backward into the hall, the door to Shirley’s room still open. “Is this what you want? You want out? Here.” She opens the door to the back yard. “Do whatever you need to do.” Bands of gold and yellow sunlight move slowly across the floor at her feet. She’s quite certain no morning has ever gleamed in this particular way. She feels like she’s been asleep for a thousand years. Mawmaw slides into her bathrobe and slippers. Only once she’s on the stairs does she remember leaving all the doors open for Shirley. The mammoth isn’t in the laundry room—or anywhere else in the house. “Come on out, wherever you are. Don’t play tricks on me.” She steps outside into the sunlight and peeks under the edge of the porch, just in case. The far corner is where the dog went to be alone in the end. But the mammoth is not there. Nor is it anywhere in the yard or the dog pen. Shirley has escaped. Of course, there’s no one to call for help but Tommy. His voice mail picks up after a few rings. “Call me back,” she says. “It’s about Shirley.” As soon as she hangs up, she regrets the message. What would she even tell him? That she lost the mammoth? That it’s quite possibly wandering the neighborhood? She climbs into her car and drives up and down the block, too afraid to actually yell out Shirley’s name. On Payton Street she spots a hulking shape beside a brick house, but when she gets closer the shape is only some yellow pampas grass. Two streets later, a white-haired man in a blue tracksuit is walking his Jack Russell terrier. The sight of the man with his dog, the parallel rhythm of their strides, almost brings a tear to Mawmaw’s eye. She drives home again and flips on the television in her bedroom. She waits for Shirley to show up on the local morning news, then the afternoon news, then the evening news. She goes outside to smoke a menthol, but can’t remember which end is which. The ash flakes on the brick at her feet. She pictures Shirley in the oncoming beams of interstate traffic. She pictures her in a hunter’s crosshairs, then her head stuffed and mounted. She is on her fourth menthol when she hears a car in the driveway. A few minutes later, Tommy comes around the corner of the house, his face gaunt under the porch light. He looks out to the dog pen and seems relieved not to see a mammoth there. If Shirley knows what’s good for her, Mawmaw thinks, she won’t come anywhere near the house tonight, not with Tommy here. “I was knocking out front,” he says, his hand up to shield his eyes from the light. “Guess I should have called first.” Mawmaw takes another drag of her menthol. “What’s the matter?” he says. “It’s me.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Voice in the Night	Credit Photograph by Eric Ogden The boy Samuel wakes in the dark. Something’s not right. Most commentators agree that the incident takes place inside the temple, rather than in a tent outside the temple doors, under the stars. Less certain is whether Samuel’s bed is in the sanctuary itself, where the Ark of the Covenant stands before a seven-branched oil lamp that is kept burning through the night, or in an adjoining chamber. Let’s say that he is lying in an inner chamber, close to the sanctuary, perhaps adjacent to it. A curtained doorway leads to the chamber of Eli, the high priest of the temple of Shiloh. We like such details, but they do not matter. What matters is that Samuel wakes suddenly in the night. He is twelve years old, according to Flavius Josephus, or he may be a year or two younger. Something has startled him awake. He hears it again, clearly this time: “Samuel!” Eli is calling his name. What’s wrong? Eli never calls his name in the middle of the night. Did Samuel forget to close the temple doors at sunset, did he allow one of the seven flames of the lamp to go out? But he remembers it well: pushing shut the heavy doors of cedar, visiting the sanctuary and replenishing the seven gold branches with consecrated olive oil so that the flames will burn brightly all night long. “Samuel!” He flings aside his goat’s-hair blanket and hurries, almost runs, through the dark. He pushes through the curtain and enters Eli’s chamber. The old man is lying on his back. Because he is the high priest of the temple of Shiloh, his mattress on the wooden platform is stuffed with wool, not straw. Eli’s head rests on a pillow of goat’s hair and his long-fingered hands lie crossed on his chest, beneath his white beard. His eyes are closed. “You called me,” Samuel says, or perhaps his words are “Here am I; for thou calledst me.” Eli opens his eyes. He seems a little confused, like a man roused from sleep. “I didn’t call you,” he answers. Or perhaps, with a touch of gruffness, since he doesn’t like being awakened in the night: “I called not; lie down again.” Samuel turns obediently away. He walks back to his chamber, where he lies down but doesn’t close his eyes. In his years of attending Eli he’s come to understand a great deal about the temple and its rules, and he tries to understand this night as well. Is it possible that Eli called his name without knowing it? The priest is old, sometimes he makes noises with his lips in his sleep, or mutters strange words. But never once has he called Samuel in the night. Has Samuel had a dream, in which a voice called out his name? Only recently he dreamed that he was walking alone through the parted waters of the Red Sea. Shimmering cliffs of water towered up on both sides, and as the watery walls began to plunge down on him he woke with a cry. From outside the walls of the temple he hears the high-pitched wail of a young sheep. Slowly Samuel closes his eyes. II It’s a summer night in Stratford, Connecticut, 1950. The boy, seven years old, lies awake in his bed on the second floor, under the two screened windows that look down on his back yard. Through the windows he can hear the sound of summer: the chk chk chk of crickets from the vacant lot on the other side of the back-yard hedge. For donkeys it’s hee-haw, for roosters it’s cock-a-doodle-doo, but for crickets you have to make up your own sound. Sometimes a car passes on the street alongside the yard, throwing two rectangles of light across the dark ceiling. The boy thinks the rectangles are the shapes of the open windows under the partially raised blinds, but he isn’t sure. He’s listening: hard. That afternoon in his Sunday-school class at the Jewish Community Center, Mrs. Kraus read the story of the boy Samuel. In the middle of the night a voice called out his name: “Samuel! Samuel!” He was an attendant of the high priest and lived in the temple of Shiloh, without his parents. When he heard his name, Samuel thought the high priest was calling him. Three times in the night he heard his name, three times he went to the bedside of Eli. But it was the voice of the Lord calling him. The boy in Stratford is listening for his name in the night. The story of Samuel has made him nervous, tense as a cat. The slightest sound stiffens his whole body. He never thinks about the old man with a beard on the front of his “Child’s Illustrated Old Testament,” but now he’s wondering. What would his voice be like? His father says God is a story that people made up to explain things they don’t understand. When his father speaks about God to company at dinner, his eyes grow angry and gleeful behind his glasses. But the voice in the night is scary as witches. The voice in the night knows you’re there, even though you’re hidden in the dark. If the voice calls your name, you have to answer. The boy imagines the voice calling his name. It comes from the ceiling, it comes from the walls. It’s like a terrible touch, all over his body. He doesn’t want to hear the voice, but if he hears it he’ll have to answer. You can’t get out of it. He pulls the covers up to his chin and thinks of the walls of water crashing down on the Egyptians, on their chariots and horses. Through the window screens the crickets seem to be growing louder. III The Author is sixty-eight years old, in good health, most of his teeth, half his hair, not dead yet, though lately he hasn’t been sleeping well. He’s always been a light sleeper, the slightest sound jostles him awake, but this is different: he falls asleep with a book on his chest, then wakes up for no damn reason and strains his neck to look at the green glow of his digital clock, where it’s always some soul-crushing time like 2:16 or 3:04 in the miserable morning. Hell time, abyss time, the hour of no return. He wonders whether he should turn on his bedside lamp, try to read a little, relax, but he knows the act of switching on the light will wake him up even more, and besides, there’s the problem of what to read when you wake up at two or three in the godforsaken morning. If he reads something that interests him he’ll excite his mind and ruin his chance for sleep, but if he reads something that bores him he’ll become impatient, restless, and incapable of sleep. Better to lie there and curse his fate, like a man with a broken leg lying in a ditch. He listens to the sounds of the dark: hsssh of a passing car, mmmm of a neighbor’s air-conditioner, skriiik of a floorboard in the attic—a resident ghost. Things drift through your mind at doom-time in the morning, and as he listens he thinks of the boy in the house in Stratford, the bed by the two windows, the voice in the night. He thinks of the boy a lot these days, sometimes with irritation, sometimes with a fierce love that feels like sorrow. The boy tense, whipped up, listening for a voice in the night. He feels like shouting at the boy, driving some sense into that head of his. Oil your baseball glove! Jump on your bike! Do chin-ups on the swing set! Make yourself strong! But why yell at the boy? What’d he ever do to you? Better to imagine the voice calling right here, right now: Hello, old atheist, have I got news for you. Sorry, pal. Don’t waste your time. You should’ve made your pitch when I was seven. Had the boy really expected to hear his name in the night? So long ago: Bobby Benson and the B-Bar-B Riders on the radio, his father at dinner attacking McCarthy. War in Korea, the push to Pusan. Those old stories got to you: Joseph in the pit, the parting of the Red Sea, David soothing the soul of Saul with his harp. In Catholic working-class Stratford, he was the only boy who didn’t make the sign of the cross when they passed Holy Name Church on the way to school. Girls with smudges of ash on their foreheads. His God-scorning father driving him to Sunday school but taking him home when the others went to Hebrew class. No bar mitzvah for him. His father mocking his own rabbi for making boys jabber words they didn’t understand. “Pure gibberish.” A new word: gibberish. He liked it: gibberish. Still: Sunday school, “Rock of Ages,” the story of Samuel, why is this night different from all other nights. The boy lying there listening, wanting his name to be called. Had he wanted his name to be called? Through the window the Author hears the sound of a distant car, the cry of the crickets. Sixty years later, upstate New York, and still the cry of the crickets in the summer in Stratford. Time to sleep, old man. I Samuel wakes again. This time he’s sure: Eli has called his name. The voice stands out sharply, like a name written on a wall. “Samuel!” He throws off the goat’s-hair blanket and steps onto the straw mat on the floor by his bed. He has lived with Eli in the temple of Shiloh for as long as he can remember. Once a year his mother and father visit him, when they come up from Ramah to offer the annual sacrifice. When he was born, his mother gave him to the Lord. She had asked the Lord for a son, and that’s why his name is Asked-of-the-Lord. That’s why he wears a linen ephod, that’s why his hair flows down below his shoulders: no razor shall ever come upon his head. Samuel: Asked of the Lord. He enters Eli’s chamber, where he expects to find Eli sitting up in bed, waiting impatiently for him. Instead, Eli is lying on his back with his eyes closed, like a man asleep. Should he wake Eli? Did Eli call Samuel’s name and then fall back to sleep? Samuel hesitates to wake a man who’s old and filled with worries. Though Eli is the high priest of the temple, his sons are wicked. They are priests who do not obey. When flesh is offered for sacrifice, they take the best part for themselves. They practice iniquities with women who come to the doors of the temple. “Here am I!” Samuel says, in a voice a little louder than he intended. Eli stirs and opens his eyes. “For thou didst call me,” Samuel says, more softly. The old priest raises his head with difficulty. “I called not, my son; lie down again.” Samuel doesn’t protest, but lowers his eyes and turns away with the uneasy sense of having disturbed an old man’s sleep. As he enters his own chamber, he tries to understand. Why has Eli called his name twice in the night? He called out in a loud, clear voice, a voice that could not be mistaken for some other sound. But Eli, who speaks only truth, has denied it. Samuel lies down on his bed and pulls the blanket up to his shoulders. Eli is very old. Does he call out Samuel’s name and then, when Samuel appears beside him, forget that he has called? Old men are forgetful. The other day, when Eli spoke to Samuel of his own childhood, he could not remember a name he was searching for and grew troubled. Samuel has seen an old man at the temple whose body trembles like well water in a goatskin bucket. His eyes are unlit lamps. Eli is old, his eyesight is growing dim, but his body doesn’t tremble and his voice is still strong. On the shoulders of his purple-and-scarlet ephod are two onyx stones, each engraved with the names of six tribes of Israel. When he stands in sunlight, the stones shine like fire. Slowly Samuel drifts into sleep. II “Emily is very attractive, but Katy has more long–term earning potential.”Buy the print » It’s the next night, and the boy in Stratford again lies awake, listening. He doesn’t really believe he’ll hear his name, but he wants to be awake in case it happens. He doesn’t like to miss things. If he knows something important is coming, like a trip to the merry-go-round and the Whip at Pleasure Beach, he’ll wait for it minute by minute, day after day, as if by taking his attention away from it for even a second he might cause it not to happen. But this is different. He doesn’t know it’s going to happen. It probably won’t happen, how could it happen, but there’s a chance, who knows. What he really needs to figure out is how to answer, if his name is called. In the story, Samuel was told to answer “Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth.” He tries to imagine it: “Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth.” It sounds like a boy in a play. Better to say “Yes?,” which is what he’d say if his father called his name. But the Lord is not his father. The Lord is more powerful than his powerful father. He’s more like the policeman in front of the school on Barnum Avenue, with his dangerous stick hanging from his belt. Better to say “Yes, sir,” as he’d say if the policeman called his name. If he hears his name, that’s what he’ll say: “Yes, sir.” Don’t shout it: say it. Yes, sir. A voice in the dark, calling his name. The thought stirs him up again. He’s too old to be scared of the dark, but the fear still comes on him sometimes. He likes to play a scare-game with his sister, the way they did when he was four and she was two. She lies in her dark room pretending to be asleep and he whispers, “Booooo haunt moan. Booooo haunt moan.” Then they both burst into wild, scared laughter. But a voice in the night is not funny. He’s through with witches, ghosts, monsters, isn’t he, they’re not real, so why is he scaring himself with the story of Samuel? It’s only a story. His father has explained it to him: the Bible is stories. Like “Tootle” or “The Story of Dr. Dolittle.” Trains don’t leave the tracks to chase butterflies, the pushmi-pullyu with a head at each end isn’t an animal you’ll ever find in the zoo, and the Lord doesn’t call your name in the night. Stories are about things that don’t happen. They could happen, but they don’t. But they could. What if his name was called? He would want to be there. He’d want to know what comes next. What did the Lord say to Samuel? He can’t remember. The most important part, and he can’t remember. That’s one thing about him: he can’t remember the important things. He can remember the prince climbing the hair to the top of the tower but he can’t remember the capital of Connecticut. Is it Bridgeport? The library in Bridgeport has long stone steps and high pillars. It’s what he first thought of when he heard that Samuel was serving the Lord in the temple of Shiloh. A temple is different from a church. Jews go to temple and Christians go to church. But Catholics go to Catholic church. And everybody goes to the library. He’s getting tired. At the backyard hedge, Billy turned to him and said, “Do you believe in Jesus?” His eyes were hard. There’re two answers to that question. One is “No.” The other’s what his father said to him: “Jesus was a great teacher.” But he was a coward and looked down. A door opens and he hears footsteps in the hall. Do his parents know he’s lying awake, listening for his name? He hears the door to the bathroom open and close. Sometimes his father is up in the night. If he opens his door and waits for his father? Tell me about Samuel. Tell me. Tell me about the voice in the night. If you heard that voice, nothing would ever be the same. He pushes the thought away. Tomorrow they’re going to drive out past the Sikorsky plant to Short Beach, where he can wade out to the sandbar. III One-fifty-four in the morning. The gods are out to get him. Sleep for an hour, wake for no reason, stare like a madman, waiting for sleep. Dragging himself through the day like a stepped-on snail. Won’t take a pill, they leave him groggy. Sloggy and boggy. That all you’ve got? Draggy and saggy. Baggy and shaggy. Like a hag, haggy. Now he’s alert, full of useless energy. In the old days he’d recite fistfuls of sonnets. My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun. Three things there be that prosper up apace. Now all he can do is lie there thinking about things, far-off things, high school, grade school, the boy in the room in Stratford, listening for the voice in the night. Did it really happen that way, or is he embellishing? Habit of the trade. But no, he lay there waiting for his name. The two windows, the two bookcases his father had made from orange crates, the bed against the other wall for his sister to sleep in when one of the grandmothers came to stay. One grandma from West 110th Street, one from Washington Heights. Father’s mother, mother’s mother, first one, then the other, never together. Waiting for the train at the Bridgeport station, with long dark benches and the row of hand-cranked picture machines. The something-scopes. Turning the handles, making the pictures move. The grandmother with crooked fingers who brought packs of playing cards and dyed her hair orange and wore lots of rattly bracelets, the grandmother with the accent who made cold red soup with sour cream. Mutoscopes. Two women born in the nineteenth century, who can grasp it, one in New York, one in Minsk, before skyscrapers, before horseless carriages, before the extinction of the dinosaurs. His own mother growing up with Russian Jewish parents on the Lower East Side. Her father escaping the tsar, embracing America, naming his first son Abraham, middle name Lincoln. Moving them to a new apartment every few months, skipping out on the rent. She said he sat reading Dostoyevsky in Russian while his sons waited on customers in the store. The Stratford boy’s own early childhood in Brooklyn, all there in the photo albums: pretty mother with flower in her hair on a bench in Prospect Park, pretty mother in wide-brimmed hat standing with little son in sailor suit on the Coney Island boardwalk. The two of them riding the trolley. Trolley tracks in the street, wires in the sky, the grooved wheel at the top of the trolley pole: a forgotten world. His invisible father holding up the light meter, adjusting the f-number, staring down into the ground-glass screen of the twin-lens reflex. Then Stratford, working-class neighborhood, where else can a professor afford to live. Milk delivered in glass bottles to the back porch each morning. Italians and Eastern Europeans, Zielski and Stoccatore and Saksa and Mancini. Riccio’s drugstore. Ciccarelli’s lot. Ralph Politano. Tommy Pavluvcik. Mario Recupido. What is a Jew? A Jew is someone who doesn’t cross himself in front of Holy Name Church. A Jew is someone who stays indoors practicing the piano on bright summer mornings while everyone else is outside playing baseball. His mother playing Chopin nocturnes and waltzes, DEE dah-dah-dah, DEE dah-dah-dah, teaching him scales, reading on the couch with her legs tucked under her. The mahogany bookcase by the staircase, the wall bookcase by the fireplace. His father driving them home one night: “Did you see that? Not a book in the house!” What is a Jew? A Jew is someone who has books in the house. His father demolishing an argument for the existence of God, his lips twisted in scorn. Jewish Community Center but no bar mitzvah. A tree every Christmas, a menorah once or twice. No baby Jesuses, no Marys or mangers. A package of matzo once a year: like big saltines. The strange word: unleavened. Dyeing Easter eggs, walking under the roof of cornstalks and branches at Sukkoth, biting into hollow crumbly chocolate bunnies, lighting the yahrzeit candle for the grandmother from Minsk. What is a Jew? A Jew is someone who thinks of Easter as a holiday celebrating rabbits. His mother a first-grade teacher, his father a teacher at the university. The grandmother with crooked fingers, once a piano teacher. The whole family teaching up a storm. A tutor who tooted the flute. Tried to tutor two tooters to toot. What is a Jew? A Jew is someone who comes from people who teach. Erleen, from the project in Bridgeport, watching gently over him each day when he came home from school. The rhyme in the street: Eenie meenie miney mo, catch a nigger by the toe. His father serious, quiet-voiced, his mouth tight: “People use that word, but not in this house. It is disgusting.” Negro: a word of respect. Respect people. His all-Jewish Cub Scout troop. “You don’t look for trouble,” the Scoutmaster said. “But you don’t let anyone call you a kike.” Not in this house. A new word: kike. He tried to imagine it: kike. Hey, kike! Hit him, kill him. Did he really lie awake night after night, listening for his name? The child Samuel. All about obedience. Saul’s flaw: disobedience. Samuel thrusting his sword into the belly of the King of the Amalekites. That’s what happens when your name is called in the night. The righteous life, the life of moral ferocity. His father and Samuel, two of a kind. Samuel: “Thou art wicked.” His father: “You are ignorant.” A special sect: the Jewish atheist. The thirteenth tribe. And you? Who are you? I am the one whose name was not called in the night. I The voice calls again. This time Samuel doesn’t hesitate. He swings his legs out of bed and rushes through the dark to Eli’s side. “Here am I,” he cries, impatient now, “for thou didst call me.” Eli is lying on his back, his eyes closed, his hands crossed on his chest. All at once he’s leaning up on an elbow, searching Samuel’s face. Samuel feels aggrieved, anxious, expectant. What is happening? Something is happening. He doesn’t know what. The long hand of the priest rests on Samuel’s arm. Samuel suddenly understands two things: Eli did not call his name, and Eli knows who did. Does Samuel know? He almost knows. He knows and doesn’t dare to know. But Eli is speaking, Eli is telling him who it is that has called his name. It is the Lord. “Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth.” The searching look, the hand on his arm: Samuel understands that he must ask no more questions. He returns to his bed and lies down on his back with his eyes open. He wants to hear with both ears. One hand is pressed against his chest. His heart is like a fist beating against the inside of the bone. What if his name isn’t called again? Eli said, “If he call thee.” Three times, and he failed to answer. Should he have known? He knew, he almost knew, he was about to know. Now he knows. What he doesn’t know is whether he will hear the voice again. If his name is not called, he will never forgive himself. And if his name is called? Then what? What should he say? Oh, don’t you remember? Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. He remembers the first time he saw Eli, the high priest of the temple. A powerful man, with shining gems on the shoulders of his ephod. His legs were like tall columns of stone. His hands the size of oil jars. Now Eli’s beard is white, he mutters in his sleep. Difficult sons, wicked sons he cannot restrain. Calm yourself. Stop trembling. Listen. II The third night, and the boy in his bed in Stratford still hasn’t heard his name. He’s not really listening, is he? He thought he heard it once, a distant call, fooling him for a second, that cat cry or whatever it was. He no longer expects to hear anything, so why’s he still waiting? By now there’s a spirit of stubbornness in it: he’s waited this long, might as well wait some more. But that isn’t it. What’s it is, he doesn’t believe the voice in the night will come, but his unbelief upsets him as much as belief would, if he believed. If the voice doesn’t come, it means he hasn’t been chosen. He likes being chosen. He was chosen to represent his class in the school spelling bee. It’s easy to spell, he doesn’t know how to spell words wrong, but it still feels good to be chosen. He’s not so good on the playground, can’t kick the ball as hard as most of them, lucky if he gets to first. He wants the voice to call him in the night, even though it won’t happen. He doesn’t believe those old stories, doesn’t believe the prince climbing the hair or the thorns growing up and covering the castle, so why should he believe the story of the voice in the night? His father doesn’t believe those stories. His father doesn’t believe in God. But when the boy asked, his father didn’t get the angry look, he got the serious quiet look. He said you have to think about it yourself and make up your mind when you’re older. The boy wonders how old is older. When is when? If he hears the voice now, he’ll know. But he already knows. He knows he won’t hear the voice. Why should he be chosen? He’s no Samuel. He’s a good speller. He plays the piano with two hands, he can write a poem about George Washington and draw a picture of a kingfisher or a red-winged blackbird. But Samuel opens the doors to the temple when the sun comes up, Samuel fills the lamp with oil so that it burns all night. Down below he hears a car going by. It’s passing his yard and the vacant lot, the two bars of light sliding across the ceiling, now it’s passing the bakery down by the stream, he loves the bakery, smell of hot rye, the gingerbread men and the muffins with raisins, now it’s climbing the hill, sound of tires like the waterfall in the park earlier this summer, over the hill toward Bridgeport. He feels old, very old, older than Eli, he wishes he were young again, a child. He wishes he’d never heard that stupid story. Sh-h-h. Sleep now. III “I , can I borrow one of your pistols?”Buy the print » Another night, another waking. Not a good sign. Death by insomnia at sixty-eight. All Samuel’s fault, keeping everybody up when they ought to be snoring away. The boy in Stratford battling it out at the age of seven. By high school, no tolerance for the once-a-week churchgoers. Priest or atheist: choose one. The move to Fairfield, the beach, Protestant churches galore. Presbyterian, First Congregational, Episcopalian. Roper. Warren. Kane. No Jews allowed in the beach club. Who’d want to join a beach club? Reading the five arguments for the existence of God and their rebuttals. The ontological argument. The teleological argument. Walking along the beach at night, the deserted lifeguard stands, the lights of Long Island. Challenge to a friend: Why do you go to church? Why only on Sunday? He knew what he knew: always or never. If the voice calls your name, your other life is over. No going back. Short of that, sorry, please pass the ketchup. By the age of fifteen, done with religion, like the baseball books of his childhood. No regrets. Girls in tight skirts reaching up into lockers, girls in tight blouses hugging books to their chests as they hip-swing down the halls. Let me touch! Let me see! The house for sale on his friend’s street out near the junior high. “They’ll never sell to Jews.” “Why not?” “You know how those people are.” “How are they?” “They take over the neighborhood.” “You’re talking to one.” “Oh, you’re not that kind of Jew.” At age eleven, the talk with his father: “We don’t do anything in Sunday school. Just play games and fool around. I don’t want to go anymore.” His father taking his pipe out of his mouth, looking at him gravely: “You don’t have to go.” He’d expected resistance, a look of reproach. Might as well blame it all on Jehovah. Could have called his name in the night. The boy in Stratford, listening. Something extreme in his temperament, even then. Shy and extreme. Stubborn. You don’t call my name, I won’t call yours. Even Steven. Dr. Dolittle and Pecos Bill instead of Samuel and King Saul. Don’t have to go. The neighborhood goes to church, the family stays home and reads. In high school, asking his father whether he liked teaching. His father’s pause, his grave look, his utter attention: “If I were a millionaire, I would pay for the privilege of teaching.” The son knows he’s heard something important. He is moved, he is proud of his father, he’s envious. He thinks, I want to say that someday. They call it a calling. Samuel’s call in the night. His father’s calling. Lying awake remembering these things. Walking in his bathing suit, towel around his neck, to the beach in Fairfield with his parents’ friends from the city. Janey with her long black hair and tight white one-piece, waving her arm at the street of ranch houses: “Suburbia.” Her voice mocking, disdainful. New York judging Connecticut. Jews moving out of New York: abandoning the tribe. Always the connection to the city. The four years in Brooklyn, corner of Clinton and Joralemon, the grandmother on West 110th Street and the grandmother in Washington Heights, mother growing up on the Lower East Side, father on the Upper West Side. Childhood trips to the city, the stone bridges of the Merritt Parkway. The Museum of Natural History with dinosaur skeletons like gigantic fishbones, lunch at the Automat: the sandwiches behind the little glass windows. Horn & Hardart. Early admission to Oberlin, but he chooses Columbia. Walking along the eighth floor of John Jay Hall, the thrilling sound of violins and cellos behind closed doors: the good Jewish boys practicing their instruments. Weinstein, or was it Marinoff: “What kind of Jew are you?” A Jew from suburbia. A nothing Jew, a secular Jew, an unjewish Jew. A Jew without a bar mitzvah, a Jew without a bump in his nose. Later he develops the idea of the Negative Jew. A Negative Jew is a Jew about whom another Jew says, “You don’t look Jewish.” A Negative Jew is a Jew who says to another Jew, “Judaism is a superstition that I reject,” and to an anti-Semite, “I have Jewish blood.” A Negative Jew is a Jew who says, “I don’t believe in Judaism,” while being herded into a cattle car. Hitler, the great clarifier. His father’s German Jewish colleague, Dr. What’s-Her-Name, one of the first women admitted to a German university, her passion for Kant, for all things German. Stayed put till 1939. Blamed it all on the Polish Jews. “They gave us a bad name.” The boy in Stratford, lying awake at night. Hard to remember how it was. A game, was it? Scare yourself with witches, scare yourself with Jehovah. A shudder of delight. All those old stories, wonderful and terrible: the voice in the night, the parting of the Red Sea, Hansel in the cage, the children following the piper into the mountain. “Hamlet” and “Oedipus Rex” as pale reflections of the nightmare tales of childhood. Everything connected: David playing the harp for Saul, the boy in Stratford practicing the piano, the cellos and violins behind the closed doors. The boy listening for his name, the man waiting for the rush of inspiration. Where do you get your ideas? A voice in the night. When did you decide to become a writer? Three thousand years ago, in the temple of Shiloh. I And the Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Commentators disagree about the meaning of the word “stood.” Some say that the Lord assumes a bodily presence before Samuel. Others argue that the Lord never takes on a bodily form and that therefore the voice has drawn closer to Samuel, so that the effect is of a person drawing closer in the dark. In one version of this argument, the boy hears the voice and imagines a form standing beside him. All this, the Author thinks, can be left to the interpreters. What matters to us is that the voice of the Lord calls Samuel’s name. After all, Eli had said, “If he call thee.” For it was not inevitable that the voice, which had called three times and not received an answer, would call again. Now the boy Samuel has heard the voice a fourth time and knows who is calling him. He doesn’t yet know why the Lord is calling him, but he knows how to answer, for Eli has told him exactly what to say: “Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth.” Samuel resists, the words refuse to come, then he says it aloud: “Speak; for thy servant heareth.” He hears his words clearly in the dark: “Speak; for thy servant heareth.” There is no doubt: he has said “Speak” and not “Speak, Lord,” as he was instructed to do. Was he so frightened of uttering the sacred name? He feels a rush of self-reproach, before commanding himself to be still and listen. He lies motionless, alert all over his body, fiercely calm. He has served in the temple of Shiloh ever since early childhood, but nothing has prepared him for this moment. He does not try to imagine what the Lord will tell him, but he readies himself to remember every word, in the order of speaking. Eli is awake, waiting in the next chamber. Eli will ask him what the Lord has said. Though the voice of the Lord is strong, Samuel knows it cannot be heard by Eli, and not because Eli is too far away to hear. The voice is for him alone. He knows this without arrogance. And he will remember. He has a good memory, he’s proud of his memory, though he watches over his pride so that it doesn’t become vanity. Words read to him or heard by him remain unchanged inside him. It has always been that way. Now the Lord speaks, and Samuel listens. There is nothing in the world but these words. The words are harsh. The house of Eli will be judged for its iniquity. The sons of Eli are wicked and Eli has not restrained them. Therefore the Lord will perform against Eli all things which he has spoken concerning his house. The sons of Eli will die on the same day. The House of Eli will come to an end. When the Lord departs, it is like the silence after thunder. Samuel lies awake in the dark. It seems to him that the dark has become darker, a dark so dark that it is like the darkness upon the face of the deep, before the Lord moved upon the face of the waters. The words have shaken him like a wind. He can feel Eli lying awake in his chamber, waiting for Samuel to tell him what the Lord has said. But Samuel cannot bring himself to leave his bed and go to Eli’s chamber. If Eli asks him, and Eli will certainly ask him, he will speak the truth, but he does not want to speak the truth unbidden. Samuel lies in the dark a long time, listening for the Lord, listening for Eli, but all is silent. Has the darkness become less dark? Can darkness be less dark and still be dark? The darkness is growing lighter. Soon it will be time to open the temple doors. Eli will ask what the Lord has said, and Samuel will repeat the terrible words. Samuel understands that nothing will ever be the same. But now, as the darkness is fading, without yet losing its quality of darkness, he wants to lie in his bed as if he could be a child forever, he wants to lie there as if his name had not been called in the night. II It’s the fourth night, and by now the boy in Stratford knows he’ll never hear his name. Still, he’s awake, and in case he’s wrong he’s still listening, no harm in that, though at the same time he makes fun of himself for lying there, waiting, and for what? His name? It’s only a story in a book. You might as well lie awake waiting for a genie to rise up out of a lamp. And even if it isn’t only a story, why would the Lord call his name? Samuel was an attendant of the high priest of the temple, Samuel was already favored by the Lord. The boy in Stratford goes to the Jewish Community Center on Sunday for two hours and skips Hebrew lessons. He doesn’t make the sign of the cross in front of Holy Name Church, but he looks forward to Christmas as if it’s the greatest day of winter. No crosses or angels on his tree, no lit-up statues of Mary blinking on the front lawn, but still, stockings, colored tree-lights, glittery tinsel, presents piled high. Christmas: a holiday celebrating the end of the year. Rosh Hashanah: a holiday he can’t pronounce, celebrating something he can’t remember. The Lord, if he’s even up there, shouldn’t call his name. And that’s fine with him. He doesn’t want his name to be called. If your name is called, everything changes. It would be like going to Sunday school all week long. He likes the way things are: catching fly balls and grounders in the back yard, walking in the hot sand at Short Beach, firecrackers on the Fourth of July, sitting in front of the fireplace in winter reading a book while his father grades papers at one end of the couch and his mother reads at the other end, birthday parties, reading “The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins” to his sister, playing double solitaire with Grandma Lena, watching the black-and-white pictures rise into the white paper in the developing tray in his father’s darkroom, riding slowly in the boat through the Old Mill at Pleasure Beach. He doesn’t want to leave his family, doesn’t want to leave his room with the two windows looking down at the back yard, the big record-player in the living room, where he and his sister listen to “Peter and the Wolf.” His mother looking at him one day, touching him, her eyes shining: “Oh, my firstborn.” His father answering all his questions with that serious look, as if nothing is more important than those questions. What happens when you die? What is God? What is the most important thing in the world? He doesn’t want to leave it all for the temple of Shiloh. School starts in a few weeks, he’s still got lots of summer left, picnics by the river, drives into Bridgeport, the smell of hot roasted nuts in Morrow’s Nut House, the elevator operators in their maroon jackets and white gloves in Read’s department store, the wooden ships with rigging in the window of Blinn’s. He’s done with Samuel, done with the voice in the night, but now, as he feels sleep coming on, he gives a final listen, just in case, straining his ears, holding his breath, listening for the voice that came to Samuel in that old story that’s only a story but one he knows he’ll never forget, no matter how hard he tries. III Again. Enough already. But hey, look on the bright side: four in the morning, three hours of sleep instead of one. The long walk after dinner, more than an hour, hoping to outwit insomnia. Walk for one hour, wake up at four. Walk for two hours, wake up at five. Walk for three hours, wake up at six. Walk for four hours, drop dead of a heart attack. His flab-armed father’s muscular calves. Walked all over Manhattan in his City College days, late nineteen-twenties, Harlem to the Battery. A safe city. The boy in Stratford walking up Canaan Road to the White Walk Market, walking to school along Franklin Avenue and Collins Street and the street that led past Holy Name. Calves skinny as forearms. His father walking a mile to the bus stop each morning to catch the bus to Bridgeport, no car till the boy is in second grade: city people don’t drive. No television till fifth grade: TV is for people who don’t read. Last in the neighborhood. Back from Manhattan with a ten-inch box, an Air King, set up on a table next to the piano. The feverish pleasure of black-and-white cartoons. Czerny exercises and Farmer Al Falfa. Mozart and Mighty Mouse. His mother playing Schumann and laughing with him at “The Merry Mailman.” His grave father bent over the Scrooge McDuck comic, praising the diving board in the money bin. Reading “Tootle” to him, telling him how good the first sentence is. “Far, far to the west of everywhere is the village of Lower Trainswitch.” Far, far to the west of everywhere. His father said, “There are three great opening sentences in all of literature. The first is ‘In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.’ The second is ‘Call me Ishmael.’ The third is ‘Far, far to the west of everywhere is the village of Lower Trainswitch.’ ” A father who’s serious and funny: you have to watch his face carefully. The book about the whale: he knows where it is on the shelf, he’s held it in his hands, thinking, When I’m older. The whale, God: when he’s older. Books, always books. Ten years old: his father lashing out at Eisenhower. “He doesn’t open a book!” The trip to Spain after Columbia, one-way ticket, two pieces of luggage: one for clothes, one for books. The boy in Stratford lying awake at night because of a story in a book. What’s a story? A demon in the night. He wants to protect the boy, warn him before it’s too late. Don’t listen to stories! They’ll keep you awake at night, suck out your blood, leave teeth marks in your skin. Let him sleep! Let him live! His New York Jew parents in working-class Stratford, with their books and their piano. The professor who doesn’t do work with his hands. Joey’s father a machinist at the helicopter plant, Mike’s father a carpenter who builds his own house in the vacant lot on the other side of the hedge. Joey turning to him with a fighting look: “Can your father make a wheel?” The old sun-browned Italian men working in their gardens. The grapevines growing all over Jimmy Stoccatore’s high fence, the bunches of purple grapes, heavy in the hand. Old man Ciccarelli chasing kids out of his lot. Eenie meenie miney mo, catch a tiger by the toe. Not in this house. The Jewish Boy Scout troop, where he learned to tie a sheepshank but never could identify poison sumac. His refusal to be Jesus in the Sunday-school play. Mrs. Kraus’s shocked surprise. “But why?” “Because Jesus betrayed the Jews.” Her confusion, fear. “I never taught you that!” His father: “Jesus was a great teacher.” Sixty years later, awake at night, at the mercy of memory. Rapunzel! Rapunzel! Let down your hair! And the Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. The boy in Stratford, listening. Thank you, Old Man of the Sky, for not calling his name. Better for all concerned. He can’t really have believed it, can he? Working himself up into a temporary blaze of half-belief, a possibility: a ghost in the dark. Better for him to stay out of the temple of Shiloh, better to go play in the green back yards of Stratford, grow up in a world of family excursions and shelves of books until the writing fever seized him and claimed him for life. A calling. Not Samuel’s call but another. Not that way but this way. Samuel ministering unto the Lord, his teacher-father ministering unto the generations. And the son? What about him? Far, far to the west of everywhere, ministering unto the Muse. Thanks, Old Sea-Parter, for leaving me be. Tired now. Soon we’ll all sleep. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Literally	Credit Illustration by Jeanne Detallante “She’s always late!” the sixteen-year-old sobbed. She’d set up the ironing board and its accessories like a shrine to housewifery. Heat shimmered in the air, had already slightly compromised the plastic of the spray bottle. Only Bonita could master the pleats of Suzanne’s ghastly uniform skirt. Other girls did not care. Still others had punctual housekeepers. Or parents who ironed. “Suse is so anal,” her brother, Danny, noted from the table, where he and his father were studying their computer screens over breakfast, sharing news items and a bowl of pineapple. “She takes three showers a day, which is more than some people take in a year. In the future, that will be illegal. Seriously, I skip showers so that our carbon footprint won’t be so terrible.” “Do you know there’s a second part to that expression? The ‘retentive’ part?” his father asked. “It’s amazing how comfortable people are tossing that around—‘anal retentive.’ People are very casual with the psychology. So blasé about the butt.” “God damn it!” the girl cried. “Please please please!” “Also,” Danny said, “she exaggerates. Constantly.” “Literally,” his father said. Richard liked to make his son smile by using his favorite word incorrectly. Suzanne had done everything she could: curled her hair, made up her face, donned her shirt and shorts and shoes and socks, packed her backpack, checked her assignments, opened the back door, cleared a path to the ironing board. She had spread the khaki skirt on the narrow end, where it sagged practically to the floor. Others at her school—the school she’d begged to attend, and which she worked at Dairy Queen to help pay for, a private élite place run by nuns, where boys were not allowed—had altered their uniforms, raising the skirt’s hemline far above the knee. Still others arrived at the gate wearing sweatpants or jeans, and then pulled on the required garment like a burlap bag, something they’d kick to the floorboards of their cars minutes after the last bell rang. “Lo siento!” Richard heard, along with the clatter of Bonita’s heels. “Lo siento, Susana, mija!” And the hiss of steam as the iron met the cloth, and further Spanish as Bonita apologized and soothed, his daughter’s name a shushing on her lips, Soos, Soos, Soos. He finally let out his breath. “Thank God,” he murmured. “Amen,” Danny said. “I have choir and then work,” Suzanne called to her father as she rushed out the back door. These days, she spent more time apart from her family than with them. That would be the story from now on, Richard thought, the incremental move away. Bonita had brought her son, Isaac, with her, as she always did, but she let Richard know that the boy wouldn’t be going to school today, because he was suffering a bout of what she had only ever been able to describe as “nervioso,” rubbing her stomach to illustrate her son’s mysterious and chronic affliction. His mother pronounced his name “Ee-sock,” although the boy preferred “I-zack.” Unlike his mother, he spoke fluent English. He and Danny were the same age—eleven. Bonita used the family’s street address as her own so that Isaac could attend the nearby public school. Most days, the boys would walk the three blocks together, the very fair Danny alongside the fairly dark Isaac. When they were younger, they’d held hands. For the past three years, since Richard’s wife had died, the boys had been permitted to be in the same class, even though they distracted each other, communicating almost telepathically. No one challenged them when they requested a joint trip to the nurse’s office; no one admonished them when they were absent on the same day. There seemed to be an endless bounty of understanding at that modest brick school, situated at the heart of a neighborhood populated by university professors and medical personnel, with equitable two-income, two-car, two-children homes, staffed by nannies and gardeners and housekeepers, an insulated hub of bleeding-heart liberalism. Still, no matter how well-meaning a school it was, no matter how conscientious about maintaining Spanish signage and notifications, Bonita was intimidated by its administration. Before, it had been Richard’s wife who played intermediary; now it was Richard who phoned in the excuses for the boys; Richard who attended the parent-teacher conferences, too, Bonita sitting beside him nodding, listening but only half-understanding what was being carefully noted about her son. She had five other children, older than Isaac, a few on their own already, all of them independent enough. Where Isaac’s siblings had gone to school, in Gulfton, there had been no counselling services or narrative reports. There had been grades and failures, expulsions and swats. Isaac’s brothers and sisters had put Bonita through many trials—arrests, pregnancies, car accidents—but Isaac’s trouble, its invisibility, was new to her. He was tentative, alert to any little sound or look of disapproval; if you moved too quickly, he flinched, as delicate and lithe as a water bug. He often cried; his stomach seized whenever he was confronted with something he was afraid of, and he was afraid of many things—loud noises and crowds and dogs and busy streets and elevators and balconies and the dark and his nightmares and chaos in general and change of even the smallest sort and, most of all, his father, who, during his rare appearances at home, was a drunken and brutal man. Bonita’s other children had been toughened by their bad dad and their rough neighborhood and their over-all hard luck, rendered sturdy by duress, but Isaac had been made too tender. “You want to play hooky with Isaac?” Richard asked Danny. Isaac smiled shyly from the doorway, his silver front tooth catching the light. Whenever Richard spotted that tooth, he had the same thought: if his wife had still been alive when the tooth was knocked out, she’d have seen to an ivory replacement. “This morning, but not this afternoon,” Danny said. “Can you go this afternoon?” he asked Isaac. “It’s pizza-party day, remember?” Isaac’s panic often eased after a few hours of an ongoing game the boys called “town,” on the living-room rug. Isaac loved Danny. Next year would be the heartbreaking, stomach-aching change from the sanctuary of elementary school to the hormone hell that was middle school; Richard hated to think of it. He suspected that Isaac would eventually recognize himself as homosexual, that others might know it sooner than he, that Bonita’s challenges as mother to this boy would become only more overwhelming. Richard had an urge to play hooky himself—to seize Suzanne away from the nuns, then bar the doors and hunker down. “Be good, boys,” he said to them as he reluctantly put together his backpack and travel mug. Only now did he notice that Bonita was wearing a pair of jeans that his wife had given her long ago, hand-me-downs. Every year, a plastic bag of last year’s clothing had made its way to Bonita; when his wife died, Bonita had shaken her head at the offer of the entire closetful, turned her face as if to keep from witnessing further shameful behavior from her employer. “No,” Richard had agreed, swiftly closing the door on the dresses and shoes. Also: his children sometimes visited those dresses, which still smelled, they said, like their mother. The trio before Richard made a pretty picture, the two smiling boys and the kind, hardworking woman. “Adios,” he told her. “Hasta luego.” “Bomb threat?” Richard joked when he arrived at the Chronicle to find a group of co-workers milling and muttering outside. But, in fact, that was why everyone had been evacuated. “Credible,” they kept repeating. An official bomb squad was rumored to be on the way. When rain began falling, Richard and his advertising staff headed across the street to the breakfast place they liked. There had been layoffs in editorial the previous Friday; it was logical, wasn’t it, that this would follow? A betting pool was started, various malcontents cited. Richard put three bucks on Lawrence Lattimer. “Lawrence?” his co-workers cried. “It’s always the mild-mannered ones,” Richard said. “Always the last guy you’d ever guess.” By noon, the building had been declared safe, the threat empty. Then it wasn’t Lawrence Lattimer, Richard decided, trudging up the stairs to his department. Lawrence would have followed through, blown an emphatic hole in the place that had betrayed him. No, an empty threat would come from someone like Jill King, the flighty intern who had flirted outrageously and then claimed sexual harassment. Her gestures were inflammatory yet random. She’d probably phoned in the threat and then gone online to stalk a former boyfriend. Later, she’d hit the mall and successfully shoplift a complete outfit, feeling it was owed to her. Or something like that. She wasn’t serious enough to stick to her word. He was on his office line explaining Isaac and Danny’s absence from morning classes when his cell went off, the special home ringtone that he never ignored. “Hang on a sec,” he said to the school secretary. “They go out!” Bonita said without preamble. “No here!” “Are the boys at school?” he asked the secretary. “No, sir.” An hour, Bonita guessed, when he asked how long they’d been gone. As was always the case when he and Bonita spoke to each other—neither remotely fluent in the other’s language—the information exchange was crude yet functional. It was she who’d phoned him to report his wife’s car crash, she who’d fielded the notification from the highway patrol. She who’d had only to say “La señora” and then wail to let him know. What Richard understood today was that the boys were on a collecting mission, in search of some necessary prop for the narrative developing on the living-room rug. There were cars, stores, blocks; they made a town and filled it with houses and businesses, tracks and roads and paths. On occasion, they left their indoor game to fetch a pile of twigs or sand or stones. Once, they found a turtle and built an elaborate habitat for it in their little city. Somewhere beyond the back door there must have been a critical piece, a shared imperative driving the boys out together. He wasn’t going to get any work done today, after all, Richard thought, clattering down the stairs. He and Bonita divided the neighborhood in half and began walking. It reminded him of searching for the family dog, an irritating terrier that would never stay penned. Except that he wasn’t calling or whistling, just speed-walking with the familiar hopelessness of dread, the urge and need to do something. He was trying to think like Danny and Isaac. Would they have walked to the comic shop? It was a couple of miles away, but it was the only place that Richard could imagine them going on foot—and their bikes were still in the garage. Same with their skateboards and scooters and trikes, two of each of the wheeled toys they’d mastered together. Richard had already envisioned teaching them to drive, taking them to the parking lots and cemeteries where he’d taken Suzanne when she was learning, last year. Bonita did not drive; she was, after nearly three decades in Houston, still afraid to navigate its streets and highways. She and Isaac rode the bus; it took them an hour each way to Richard’s home. “His place,” Richard said aloud and abruptly turned around, convinced suddenly that the boys had gone to Isaac’s. Just the week before, Danny had said, out of the blue, “It’s weird I’ve never seen inside their apartment.” Plenty of times he’d come along when Richard dropped off or picked up Bonita and Isaac. But the pair were always waiting in the murky ground-floor vestibule or rushing through it, on their way to their two-bedroom unit on the third floor, which was far too small for their large family. One of Isaac’s chief complaints was that he never knew who would be asleep beside him when he woke up in the morning: brother, sister, nephew, niece. “Jessss,” Bonita agreed, nodding thoughtfully, drawing out the word, when Richard found her and asked if it was possible that the boys had wanted something of Isaac’s to complete their game. As usual, Bonita failed to buckle her seat belt when they got in the car, and Richard didn’t correct her. The pinging alarm would soon silence itself. This vehicle was a replacement for the one that had been totalled three years earlier; his wife had not been buckled in, either. “Lo siento,” Bonita said for the hundredth time, shaking her head in self-chastisement. “It’s not your fault,” Richard assured her. “They know better. Está bien.” Sitting beside each other in the car made them both nervous, Richard supposed; they hadn’t ridden together minus the children before. Her distinct smell, the fact of her vanities—the orange-tinted streaks in her hair, the powdery makeup, the bra strap cutting into her shoulder, her impractical high-heeled shoes—strikingly present. Female and male, close to the same age, arranged together in their traditional spots. Other drivers on the freeway could have plausibly assumed that Richard and his passenger were a couple. When Richard exited toward Bonita’s neighborhood, the observations of others became less benign. These were people on foot, lounging on porches, leaning against poles, gathering at curbs, and then sauntering slowly into the street, forcing cars to give way, throwing Richard direct and challenging glares. It felt a bit like crossing the border, the convenience stores and groceries and taco trucks all offering their wares in Spanish, the smell in the air of Mexican food, a wariness in both the visitor and the visited. Bonita had come to Texas long ago; Richard had no idea whether her status was legal, knew only that her children had all been born here. At her building, she was out of the car before he’d turned off the engine, running awkwardly, her purse forgotten on the seat. Anyone watching might reasonably have guessed that Richard had done something terrible to her, that she was fleeing. His habit in the past had been to wait until the light came on in her apartment upstairs, until Bonita showed herself on the balcony and waved to him. How foolish he felt now, following her, carrying her large pink leopard-spotted bag. On the walkway was a trail of trash—a diaper, a Frenchy’s bag, a smear of food that someone had walked through. The pack of dogs that usually lay panting in the vacant lot next door were howling in the distance. “Kids burn things–if you don’t like it, don’t go out.”Buy the print » The building’s door was open, for which Richard was grateful—the men and the dogs outside made him uneasy. Up the stained stairs he climbed to the third floor. Like much of Houston, this habitat had had its brief heyday, maybe fifty years before; it had been a fashionable singles complex, built well enough to survive only its first set of tenants intact. Now it was a shoddy ruin, a place with broken balcony railings and pocked with a hundred ugly satellite dishes, a dry swimming pool filled with forsaken furniture and fenced off with concertina wire. Bonita’s apartment was both too high for the rickety balcony to seem safe and too low to keep out a persistent climber. A breeding ground of anxiety and temptation. A silver-haired man in coveralls stood on a step stool in the hall, repairing or disabling the sprinkler head on the ceiling. “Excuse me,” Richard said to him, “do you know which is Gutierrez?” “Como?” the man asked, stepping down with difficulty, in his hand a tool that Richard thought belonged in the garden or perhaps the kitchen, a small rakelike thing. Eye to eye, he realized that the guy was close to his own age, that his white hair was premature, and that the man was as confused by what Richard held as Richard was by the little rake. “Bonita,” Richard explained, gesturing at the purse. “Isaac and Bonita y mi hermano—no, mi hijo—aquí?” He indicated a door that might match the balcony he knew was hers. The man was frowning at Bonita’s belongings. “Soy Richard,” Richard added lamely. “Trabajo?” he said, hoping the word would inspire some kind of sensible cognition. Richard’s wife had spoken Spanish, so she had done all the talking. She and Bonita had often had lengthy conversations that left Richard with only the scantest broad understanding, through the few words he recognized, all subtleties lost. Had he pointed this out, his wife would have told him that it was a fair representation of men’s general understanding of the world: they grasped its fundamentals but not its minutiae. “Gross motor skills,” she would have said. “As opposed to fine.” The man in the coveralls put himself between Richard and the door to Apartment 3-C, rapping briskly on it, the clawed tool in his other hand. Richard was glad that the building had a handyman who wished to protect its tenants; Bonita and Isaac occasionally spent nights alone here, when the older brothers weren’t around. From Richard’s wife, Bonita had learned how to have the locks changed so that her husband could not legally reënter the place. Richard’s wife had also helped Bonita get divorced, and then had insisted on restraining orders when neither a locked door nor a legal document convinced the ex-husband that he wasn’t wanted. “And sometimes,” Richard’s wife had been forced to concede, “Bonita actually does want him.” That was the tricky part the law couldn’t touch. “Gracias,” Richard said to the man in coveralls, who nodded, still skeptical of the hapless Anglo with the woman’s handbag. “Isaac?” Richard called out. “Bonita? Danny? Open up, guys.” When Isaac finally cracked the door, the handyman stepped inside. Just before the door closed in Richard’s face, he saw the raw panic in Isaac’s eyes and understood that this character in the hall was Bonita’s ex-husband. “Fuck!” Richard banged on the door now himself. “I’m calling the police,” he threatened. A door down the hall opened and a head leaned out, then popped back in like a turtle’s. “I’m calling right now unless you open this fucking door! Danny!” he yelled. “Danny! Bonita! Open the door!” He was ransacking Bonita’s purse in search of her phone, tissues and candy and a tiny Bible spilling onto the floor. Just as he found it, the door flew open. “Dad,” Danny said, pressing into his father’s ribcage. “I’m sorry.” “It’s O.K. Where’s Isaac?” “He locked himself in his room.” “You go get in there with him, O.K.?” From the kitchen came an animated exchange of Spanish. Not angry, Richard thought, but opinionated, people in passionate relation to each other, Bonita’s voice the more strident, the ex-husband’s explanatory, if not apologetic, pleading. Richard listened for some sign that he should intervene, follow through on the threat of phoning the authorities. He stepped around a plastic-covered dining table to wait outside the kitchen doorway. The buffet against the wall was stacked with canned goods, which reminded him of Bonita’s first day working for his family, a decade or so ago. She had retrieved from their trash the unopened but expired boxes and cans of food that his wife had thrown away in preparation for a housekeeper. An embarrassing moment, not unlike this one, in which Richard had not known how to properly explain why Bonita shouldn’t consume the outdated food, or shouldn’t accede to her criminal ex-husband’s wishes. Above the buffet hung pictures of Isaac’s siblings and nieces and nephews and sisters- and brothers-in-law, each and every one a school or studio portrait, groups in matched attire grinning at the photographer. A few included the father, who, on occasion, had made his way into the annual photo, as he had made his way into his ex-wife’s home and maybe sometimes into her bed. Perhaps that would be today’s story, Bonita being a naturally forgiving woman, weak in the face of some lingering, nostalgic habit of love. Love for the man in coveralls, that figure who came to Isaac in nightmares and made him scream, who might or might not have been responsible for knocking out Isaac’s front tooth—a story that Richard’s wife would have got to the bottom of. Richard left his listening post and joined the boys in Isaac’s room. It was protected by a deadbolt. This despite the fact that the door itself would have easily shattered or splintered at the mildest use of force. The room, like the rest of the apartment, was very tidy and held a few familiar touches: a castoff desk and chair from Richard’s home, gifts the two boys had got in common: a lighted globe, a poster of SpongeBob. “We just needed this guy,” Danny was explaining, in his palm a drunk-looking Duplo clown, while Isaac sat trembling on the bed with his hands over his ears. “We were making an amusement park in the town, and this is literally the only guy who fits in the cannon. Nobody else has the right feet.” Richard sat beside Isaac and gently took the boy’s hands into his own, explaining the problem with what the boys had done, the worry they’d caused, riding the buses alone, the risk of accident and mishap, the menace of malign strangers, adding that he and Bonita weren’t angry so much as scared. Isaac burst into tears, and Danny just looked perplexed. “If it’s so dangerous, how come we let Bonita and Isaac do it?” he asked. “They do it every day, twice. And also, I think, statistically, buses crash a lot less often than cars.” Danny would be a lawyer, Richard thought, not for the first time. He was logical, and passionate about fairness, fearless in an interesting way. Right after Danny had spoken, however, he seemed to realize precisely what he’d said, and then he, too, was sniffling, burrowing into Richard from the other side. A time would come, Richard thought, when he and his children wouldn’t think of that terrible car crash and death every day, when they would no longer be ambushed by missing her. Through the thin walls, they could hear the voices carrying on in the kitchen, his and hers, cajoling, laughing, then the embarrassing noise of nothing. Intimacy. And then the sound of his being sent away, a quiet, reluctant goodbye. “Is O.K.,” Bonita eventually called at the locked door. “Is O.K., se fue. Isaac?” Simultaneously, the boys pulled away from Richard, wiped their eyes, put on their game faces. Richard unlocked the door. “Is O.K. now,” Bonita told him, her eyes also tearful. “He go.” It was hard to say who initiated their embrace, only the second in their long association. It seemed a mutual impulse, sadness, need—the same feelings they’d shared at the funeral, three years ago. Bonita’s shoulders heaved. Tears: they did not require translation. How convenient it would be, Richard thought, Bonita’s wiry hair against his neck, her face on his shoulder, how terribly useful if they could simply wed, he minus a wife, she with her problematic ex-husband, and regroup together like a sitcom family in the fortified comfort of Richard’s house across town, an arrangement that would be possible if they could just ignore that troubling enigma of love. “Oh, no,” she cried, smiling when they separated, wiping at the mascara on his shirt. “How you say?” she said to the boys, wiggling her fingers. “Spiders,” they replied together. “Dad?” Danny said from the back seat. Richard checked the rearview; his son’s tone was hesitant. “Dad, inside your head, do you hear conversations?” “Like memories? Like of disagreements?” “No, like . . .” He tipped his chin to look upward. “Like instructions,” he finally settled on. Richard considered this. “Not exactly,” he said. “I mean, I think in words, and the words are about making decisions, sometimes, although also sometimes I just—” “No, not like that,” his son interrupted. “Like some other voice, not your own.” “Sure. I hear people I know, or knew, when they said impor—” “No, no, no. Nobody you know, not you or a friend or a relative.” “What are you talking about?” “Isaac said not to tell anyone this.” “But you’re worried.” “Don’t tell Bonita.” Richard checked his blind spot and merged onto the 59. Rush hour was just about to kick in; the exchange from downtown was already filling, an army of headlights in the oncoming dusk. “Whatever you tell me, son, nobody will ever know I got it from you. O.K.?” “O.K. So Isaac says that inside his head people are talking.” “He hears voices?” “I guess so.” “And what do they say?” “How would I know?” Fair enough, Richard thought. Was eleven the right age for schizophrenia to set in? His wife, master of all matters psychological, could have confirmed this. And more immediately relevant: was eleven the right age to scare his son with the idea of his best friend being schizophrenic? The problem with telling somebody something was that he wouldn’t later be able to unhear it. “Bonita and I will take Isaac to the doctor,” Richard promised. His wife had done this in the past. When the mysterious nervous stomach had first flared up, she had insisted to Bonita that the condition was serious. In Isaac, she had, perhaps, seen some of her own anxiousness, an insidious presence that Bonita did not recognize. “We should have never left the house,” Danny said, shaking his head. “If I had a nickel for every day I thought that,” Richard agreed. Suzanne was home when they arrived, filling the house with the sweet chemical smell of soft-serve. She often brought home “mistakes,” confections lacking the trademark swirl, or misunderstood orders, edible but wrong. Danny especially appreciated the Peanut Buster Parfait mistakes, his favorite. But Suzanne wasn’t due back until midnight tonight; Richard sighed, assuming she’d been fired. This day—would it never stop sending up trouble? But, no, she hadn’t been fired. She was tearing up the house in search of her cell phone. “The last time I know I saw it was like two in the morning last night!” she shrieked from her bedroom. She’d thought it was in her backpack, she reported. Then she’d figured it had fallen out in the car. After an anxious hour at the Dairy Queen counter, she hadn’t been able to stand it any longer. “And it’s nowhere!” she wailed. Like Isaac, Suzanne panicked at problems that others might approach more casually. She had always been high-strung, particular about details, a self-critical perfectionist like her mother, unconvinced of her beauty, easily flustered. On her forehead a crease from premature concern, a skeptical tuck of her lip when she deflected a compliment. “She ruined our town,” Danny complained. “She kicked everything over.” “Have you called it?” Richard asked Suzanne, and received only a withering glance. The three of them spent the next half hour ransacking the place, reminding one another to try to think like Bonita, who might have found the phone earlier in the day and put it somewhere she thought logical. Long ago, Richard’s wife’s missing diaphragm had finally been located in a basket of bath toys; the parts of the food processor tucked away in the tools drawer. She was sometimes too thorough, Bonita; once, she had rearranged all the books in the house, after dusting the shelves, restoring them not in alphabetical order but by color and size: short red books together, tall yellow ones side by side. Richard’s wife had pulled him into the study just to marvel—at the sight, and at the labor it would take to undo. So Danny checked the bowl of remote controls on the coffee table and Richard crawled around the kitchen floor reaching under the counters and between the appliances. Suzanne kept up a continuous chant of “God damn it”s. “We’ll get you another,” Richard called out to her. “Really, sweetheart, it’s probably time for an upgrade, anyway.” “Mom’s messages are on it,” Danny said quietly, when they met up outside Suzanne’s bedroom door to watch her heave her mattress and its bedding to the floor. “Oh, shit,” Richard said. Just the week before, he’d opened a cookbook and found not only his wife’s handwritten notes in the recipe but a few of her fingernails between the pages. She had been a lifelong biter. In a flash, he’d seen her leaning over the book, chin in palm, pinkie between her teeth, humming while waiting for something to boil or reduce on the stovetop. “We can get them back,” Richard said, of the messages. “Probably,” he added, because he wasn’t positive. “This has been a terrible day,” Danny said. “Even though nothing exactly bad happened.” “Agreed,” Richard said. Naturally, they were now both thinking about the worst day, the one on which Danny and Suzanne’s mother had been killed after driving into the path of an eighteen-wheeler. For an instant, a wave of rage filled Richard, a plosive pure fury at his wife for not being here where she was needed. On days like these, terrible but not exactly bad, he could entertain the dismal possibility that her accident hadn’t been an accident. “Before you ask me,” Eve had said when Richard began to propose marriage, twenty-five years ago, “I have to tell you a secret.” “I’m listening.” He’d smiled indulgently. “No, seriously. It’s bad. As a teen-ager, I used to play this dangerous game when I was driving. Closing my eyes. Turning off the lights. Speeding. It was pretty out of control. I was that unhappy. I really didn’t care if I lived or died.” She’d closed her eyes to recall it there at the restaurant, their table abruptly an island in a sea of meaningless chatter. Red splotches appeared on her cheeks, beads of sweat on her upper lip. That worried crease on her brow, which she would share with her future daughter, and her young voice, forever thereafter in Richard’s head. “Just so you know,” she’d told him. “You can change your mind about me. Just forget marrying me and move on.” But that had turned out not to be true. He couldn’t. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Bull	Credit Photograph by Tim Klein / Gallery Stock It was Lao Lan who invented the scientific method of forcing pressurized water into the pulmonary arteries of slaughtered animals. With this method, you could empty a bucketful of water into a two-hundred-jin pig, while with the old method you could barely empty half a bucket of water into the carcass of a dead cow. The amount of money that the clever townspeople have spent on water from our village when they thought they were paying for meat in the years since will never be known, but I’m sure it would be a shockingly high figure. Lao Lan had a substantial potbelly and rosy cheeks; his voice rang out like a pealing bell. In a word, he was born to be a rich official. After rising to the position of village head, he selflessly taught his fellow-villagers the water-injection method and served as the leader of a local riches-through-ruse movement. Some villagers spoke out angrily and some attacked him on wall posters, calling him a member of the retaliatory landlord class, which was intent on overthrowing the rule of the village proletariat. But talk like that was out of fashion. Over the village P.A. system, Lao Lan announced, “Dragons beget dragons, phoenixes beget phoenixes, and a mouse is born only to dig holes.” Sometime later, we came to realize that he was like a kung-fu master who will never pass on all his skills to his apprentices—who holds back enough for a safety net. Lao Lan’s meat was water-injected, like everyone else’s, but his looked fresher and smelled sweeter. You could leave it out in the sun for two days and it wouldn’t spoil, while others’ would be maggot-infested if it didn’t sell the first day. So Lao Lan never had to worry about cutting prices if his supply did not sell right away; meat that looked as good as his was never in danger of going unsold. My father, Luo Tong, told me it wasn’t water that Lao Lan injected into his meat but formaldehyde. My father was much smarter than Lao Lan. He’d never studied physics, but he knew all about positive and negative electricity; he’d never studied biology, but he was an expert on sperm and eggs; and he’d never studied chemistry, but he was well aware that formaldehyde can kill bacteria, keep meat from spoiling, and stabilize proteins, which is how he guessed that Lao Lan had injected formaldehyde into his meat. If getting rich had been on my father’s agenda, he’d have had no trouble becoming the wealthiest man in the village, of that I’m sure. But he was a dragon among men, and dragons have no interest in accumulating property. You’ve seen critters like squirrels and rats dig holes to store food, but who’s ever seen a tiger, the king of the animals, do something like that? Tigers spend most of their time sleeping in their lairs, coming out only when hunger sends them hunting for prey. Similarly, my father spent most of his time holed up, eating, drinking, and having a good time, coming out only when hunger pangs sent him looking for income. Never for a moment did he resemble Lao Lan and people of that ilk, who accumulated blood money, putting a knife in white and taking it out red. Nor was he interested in going down to the train station to earn a porter’s wages by the sweat of his brow, like some of the coarser village men. Father made his living by his wits. In ancient times, there was a famous chef named Pao Ding, who was an expert at carving up cows. In modern times, there was a man who was an expert at sizing them up—my father. In Pao Ding’s eyes, cows were nothing but bones and edible flesh. That’s what they were in my father’s eyes, too. Pao Ding’s vision was as sharp as a knife; my father’s was as sharp as a knife and as accurate as a scale. What I mean to say is: if you were to lead a live cow up to my father, he’d take two turns around it, three at most, occasionally sticking his hand up under the animal’s foreleg—just for show—and confidently report its gross weight and the quantity of meat on its bones, always to within a kilo of what might register on the digital scale used in England’s largest cattle slaughterhouse. At first, people thought my father was just a windbag, but after testing him several times they were believers. His presence took blind luck out of the equation in dealings between cattlemen and butchers, and established a basis of fairness. Once his authority was in place, both the cattlemen and the butchers courted his favor, hoping to gain an edge. But, as a man of vision, he would never jeopardize his reputation for petty profits, since by doing so he’d smash his rice bowl. If a cattleman came to our house with a gift of wine and cigarettes, my father tossed them into the street, then climbed our garden wall and cursed loudly. If a butcher came with a gift of a pig’s head, my father flung it into the street, then climbed our garden wall and cursed loudly. Both the cattlemen and the butchers said that Luo Tong was an idiot, but the fairest man they knew. People trusted him implicitly. If a transaction reached a stalemate, the parties would look at him to acknowledge that they wanted things settled. “Let’s quit arguing and hear what Luo Tong has to say!” “All right, let’s do that. Luo Tong, you be the judge!” With a cocky air, my father would walk around the animal twice, looking at neither the buyer nor the seller, then glance up into the sky and announce the gross weight and the amount of meat on the bone, followed by a price. He’d then wander off to smoke a cigarette. Buyer and seller would reach out and smack hands. “Good! It’s a deal!” Once the transaction was completed, buyer and seller would come up to my father and each would hand him a ten-yuan note and thank him for his labors. What must be made clear is that, before my father showed up at the cattle auctions, the deals had been negotiated by old-style brokers, dark, gaunt, wretched old men, some with queues hanging down their backs, who were proficient in the art of haggling by finger signs hidden in wide, overlapping sleeves, thus lending the profession an air of mystery. My father effectively drove the shifty-eyed brokers off the stage of history. This remarkable advance in the buying and selling of cattle on the hoof could, with only a bit of exaggeration, be called revolutionary. My father’s keen eye was not limited to cattle but worked on pigs and sheep as well. Like a master carpenter who can build a table but can also build a chair and, if he’s especially talented, a coffin, my father had no trouble sizing up even camels. Early one summer day, Father carried me on his shoulders over to the threshing floor. We were still living in the three-room shack we’d inherited from my grandfather. Our shack looked particularly shabby and awful now that it was tucked in among a bunch of newly built houses with red tiled roofs, like a beggar kneeling in front of a clutch of landlords and rich merchants in silks and satins, asking for a handout. The wall around our yard came barely up to an adult’s waist and was topped by weeds. Thanks to my lazy, gluttonous father, we lived a life of extremes, with potfuls of meat on the stove during good times and empty pots during the bad. Whenever he was the target of Mother’s frantic curses, he’d say, “Any day now, very soon, the second land-reform campaign will begin, and you’ll thank me when it does. Don’t for a minute envy Lao Lan, since he’ll wind up like that landlord father of his, dragged off to the bridgehead by a mob of poor peasants to be shot.” He’d aim an imaginary rifle at Mother’s head and fire off a round: bang! She’d grab her head with both hands and go pale with fright. But the second land-reform campaign didn’t come and didn’t come, and poor Mother was forced to bring home rotten sweet potatoes that people had thrown away so she could feed the pigs. Our two little pigs never got enough to eat and they squealed hungrily most of the time. It was annoying. That morning, Father had railed angrily, “What the hell are you squealing about? Keep it up and I’ll toss you two little bastards in a pot and have you for dinner!’ Cleaver in hand, Mother glared at him. “Don’t even think about it,” she said. “Those are my pigs. I raised them, and nobody will harm a hair on them. Either the fish dies or the net breaks.” “Take it easy,” Father said, with a gleeful laugh. “I wouldn’t touch those skin-and-bones animals for anything.” I took a long look at the pigs—it was true that there wasn’t much meat on either of them, but those four fleshy ears would have made for good snacking. To me, the ears were the best part of a pig’s head—no fat, not much grease, and tiny little bones with a nice crunch. They were best with cucumbers—the thorny ones with flowers—and some mashed garlic and sesame oil. “We can eat their ears!” I said. “I’ll cut off your ears and eat them first, you little bastard!” Mother said. She grabbed hold of my ear and jerked it hard, while Father tried to pull me free—by the neck—and I screamed for all I was worth, afraid my ear would be ripped off. My screams sounded like the squeals of pigs being slaughtered in the village. In the end, Father, with his superior strength, managed to yank me free. Rage turned Mother’s face waxen and her lips purple; she stood at the stove shaking from head to toe. Emboldened by my father’s protection, I cursed, spitting out her full name: “Yang Yuzhen, you stinking old lady, you’re making my life a living hell!” Stunned by my outburst, she just stared at me, while Father chuckled, picked me up, and took off running. We were already out in the yard by the time we heard Mother’s shrill wail. “I could die, I’m so mad, you little bastard. . . .” Father rapped me on the head and said softly, “You little imp, how did you know your mother’s name?” I looked up into his swarthy, sombre face. “I heard you say it!” “When did I ever tell you her name was Yang Yuzhen?” “You told it to Auntie Wild Mule. You said, ‘Yang Yuzhen, that stinking old lady, is making my life a living hell!’ ” Father clamped his hand over my mouth and said under his breath, “Shut up, damn you. I’ve been a pretty good father so far. Don’t you go and ruin things for me now.” Mother came out of the house, cleaver in hand. “Luo Tong,” she shouted, “Luo Xiaotong, you two sons of bitches, you scruffy bastards, I wouldn’t care if I died today if I could take the two of you with me. Today will see the end of this family!” The terrible look on her face announced to me that this was no joke. My father may have led a dissipated life, but he was no fool. The smart man avoids danger. He swept me up, tucked me under his arm, turned, and ran toward the wall and all but somersaulted over it, putting my enraged mother and a whole lot of trouble behind us. I harbored no doubts about her ability to scamper over the wall, as we’d done, but she chose not to. Once she’d driven us out of the yard, she stopped chasing us. She jumped about for a while at the foot of the wall, then went back inside to finish chopping the rotting sweet potatoes and fill the air with loud curses. It was a brilliant way to let off steam: no blood and no mess, no falling afoul of the law, yet I knew that those rotten potatoes were surrogates for the heads of her bitter enemies. Now, as I think back, I realize that the true bitter enemy in her mind was neither Father nor me—it was Wild Mule, who ran a wine shop in the village. My mother was convinced that the slut had seduced my father, and I simply cannot say if that was or was not a fair assessment of the situation. Where Father and Wild Mule’s relationship was concerned, the only people who knew who’d seduced whom, who’d cast the first flirtatious glance, were the two of them. Seven or eight cattle merchants were sitting on their haunches at the edge of the threshing floor when we got there, smoking cigarettes as they waited for the butchers to show up. (Once our village had been turned into a huge slaughterhouse, the fields, for all intents and purposes, were left fallow, and the threshing floor had become the place where cattle were bought and sold.) The cattle stood off to the side, absent-mindedly chewing their cud, oblivious of their impending doom. The merchants, most from the western counties, spoke with funny accents, like radio-play actors. They showed up every ten days or so, each bringing along two head of cattle, maybe three. For the most part, they came on a slow, mixed freight-and-passenger train, men and beasts in one car, arriving at the station nearest our village at around sunset. They didn’t reach our village till after midnight, even though the station was no more than ten li away. A stroll that should have taken an hour or two took these merchants and their cattle a good eight. Why did they prefer to reach our village in the middle of the night? That was their secret. When I was young, I asked my parents and some of the village graybeards that very question. But they just gave me stony looks, as if I’d asked them the meaning of life or a question whose answer everyone knew. The cattle’s arrival was a signal for the village dogs to set up a chorus of barks, which woke up everyone—man, woman, young, and old—and informed us that the cattle merchants were here. In my youthful memories, they were a mysterious lot, and this sense of mystery was surely tied to their late-night entry into the village. On some moonlit nights, when the silence was broken by the chorus of dogs barking, Mother would sit up, wrapped in a comforter, stick her face close to the window, and gaze at the scene outside. This was before Father skipped out on us with Wild Mule, but there were already nights when he didn’t come home. Noiselessly, I’d sit up, too, and look past Mother, out the window, at the cattle merchants driving the animals silently past our house, the freshly bathed cattle glinting in the moonlight like giant pieces of glazed pottery. If it hadn’t been for the seething current of barks, I’d have thought I was observing a beautiful dreamscape; even with the dogs, as I think back now, it seemed like one. Our village boasted several inns, but the merchants never bedded down in them; instead, they led their cattle straight to the threshing floor and waited there till dawn, even if the wind was howling or it was pouring rain, if the air was bitter cold or steamy hot. There were stormy nights when innkeepers went out to drum up business, but the merchants and their cattle remained in the inhospitable elements like statues, unmoved, no matter how flowery the invitation. Was it because they didn’t want to part with that little bit of money? No. People said that after they sold their cattle they went into town to get drunk and whore around on a spending spree that stopped only when they had just enough to buy a ticket for the slow train home. Their life style could not have been more different from that of the peasants. Their thinking, too. As a child, on more than one occasion I heard some of our more eminent villagers comment, with a sigh, “Hai, what kind of people are they? What in the world is going on inside those heads of theirs?” When they came to market, they brought brown cows and black ones, males and females, fully grown cows and immature ones, and once they even brought a nursing heifer whose teats looked like water jugs, and my father had trouble estimating a price for her, since he didn’t know if the udder was edible or not. The cattle merchants would stand when they saw my father. They wore mirrored sunglasses early in the morning, which was a spooky sight, though they smiled as a show of respect. My father would lift me off his shoulders, squat down on his haunches ten feet or so from the merchants, pull out a crumpled pack of cigarettes, and remove a crooked, damp cigarette. The cattle merchants would take out their packs, and ten or more cigarettes would land on the ground by Father’s feet. He’d gather them up and lay them back down neatly. “Lao Luo, you old fuckhead,” one of the merchants would say. “Smoke ’em. You don’t think we’re trying to buy your favors with a few paltry cigarettes, do you?” Father would just smile and light his cheap smoke. The village butchers would start showing up then, in twos and threes, all looking as if they were fresh from a bath, though I could smell the scent of blood on their bodies, which goes to show that blood—whether from cows or pigs—doesn’t wash off. The cattle, smelling the blood on the butchers, would huddle together, fear flashing in their eyes. Excrement would spurt from the bungholes of the young cows; the older ones looked composed, but I knew that was for show, since I could see their tails draw up under their rumps to keep them from emptying their bowels. Their legs trembled, like the ripples on a pond in a passing breeze. Negotiations began as soon as the butchers arrived. As they circled the animals, a casual observer might think they were having trouble deciding which ones to buy. But, if one of them reached out and grabbed a halter, within three seconds the others would do the same, and, lightning quick, all the cows would have buyers. No one could recall ever seeing two butchers fight over the same animal, but if something like that had happened the dispute would have been quickly resolved. In most occupations, competitors are rivals, but the butchers in our village were united in friendship, prepared to confront any and all opponents as a brotherhood. When each of them had a halter in hand, the cattle merchants approached languidly and the bargaining began. Now that my father had cemented his authority, these negotiations took on little importance, became pro forma, a mere custom, for it was left to him—he had the last word. The men would jockey back and forth for a while, then walk up to my father, cow in tow, like applicants for a marriage license at the town hall. “I’m lookin’ for a couple of fast guns who ain’t afraid to lay down their life. There’s no pay, but it’ll be a great way to get your name out there.”Buy the print » But something special occurred on this particular day: instead of heading straight for the cows, the butchers chose instead to pace back and forth at the edge of the square, their meaningful smiles making anyone who saw them uncomfortable. And, when they passed in front of my father, something was hidden in those smiles that hinted at unpleasantness, as if a conspiracy were afoot, one that could erupt at any moment. I cast a timid glance at Father, who sat there woodenly smoking one of his cheap cigarettes, just as he did every day. The better cigarettes tossed his way by the merchants lay on the ground untouched. Once the deals were struck, the butchers would come over, gather up the cigarettes, and smoke them. And, as they smoked, they would praise my father for his incorruptibility. “Lao Luo,” one would say, half in jest, “if all Chinese were like you, Communism would have been realized decades ago.” He’d smile but say nothing. And this was the moment when my heart would swell with pride and I’d vow that this was how I would do things, that he was the kind of man I wanted to be. It was obvious to the merchants as well that something was in the air that day, and they turned to look at my father, except for a few who coolly observed the butchers as they paced. A tacit agreement had been reached: everyone was waiting to see what would happen, like an audience patiently waiting for the play to begin. A bright-red sun rose above the fields in the east, like a blacksmith’s ruddy face, and the leading actor in the drama finally appeared at the threshing floor: Lao Lan, a tall, husky man with well-developed muscles. He had a bushy brown beard, the same color as his eyes, which made you wonder if he was of pure Han stock. The minute he strode into the square, everyone’s eyes were on him. With the sun shining down, his face glowed. He walked up to my father, but his gaze was fixed on the fields beyond the squat earthen wall, where rays of morning sun dazzled the eye. The crops were jade green; the flowers were in bloom, releasing their perfume into the air; the skylarks sang in the rosy-red sky. My father, who seemed to be nothing in the eyes of Lao Lan, might as well not have been sitting by the wall at all. And, naturally, if my father meant nothing to him, I meant even less. Maybe he was blinded by the sun—that was the first thought that entered my juvenile mind—but I quickly understood that Lao Lan was trying to provoke my father. As he cocked his head to speak to the butchers and the merchants, he unzipped his pants, took out his dark tool, and let loose a stream of burned-yellow piss right in front of my father and me. A heated stench assailed my nostrils. It was a mighty stream; he’d probably been saving it up all night, without relieving himself, so that he could humiliate my father. The cigarettes on the ground tumbled and rolled in the man’s urine, swelling up until they lost their shape. A strange laugh had arisen from the clusters of butchers and merchants when Lao Lan took out his tool, but they broke that off so abruptly it was as if a gigantic hand had reached out and grabbed them by the throat. They stared at us, slack-jawed and tongue-tied, looks of surprise frozen on their faces. Not even the butchers, who had known that Lao Lan wanted to pick a fight with my father, had imagined that he’d do something like this. His piss landed on our feet and on our legs, some even spraying into our faces and our mouths. I jumped up, enraged, but Father didn’t move a muscle. He sat there like a stone. “Fuck your old lady, Lao Lan!” I cursed. My father didn’t make a sound. Lao Lan wore a superior smile. My father’s eyes were hooded, like those of a farmer taking pleasure in the sight of water dripping from the eaves. When Lao Lan finished pissing, he zipped up his pants and walked over to where the cattle were standing. I heard long sighs from the butchers and merchants, but couldn’t tell if they were sorry that nothing had happened or happy that it hadn’t. With that, the butchers walked in among the cattle and in no time made their selections. Then the merchants walked up and the bargaining commenced. But I could tell that their hearts weren’t in it, that something other than making deals was on their minds. Though they weren’t looking at my father, I was sure they were thinking about him. And what was he doing? He’d brought his knees up and was hiding his face behind them, like a hawk sleeping in the crotch of a tree. Since I couldn’t see his face, I had no way of knowing what he looked like at that moment. But I was unhappy with what I saw as weakness. I may have been only a boy, but I knew how badly Lao Lan had humiliated my father, and I also knew that any man worth his salt would not take that without a fight; I’d proved that by my curses. But my father remained silent, as if he were dead. That day’s negotiations were brought to a close without his intervention. But, when they were over, all the parties walked up as usual and tossed some notes at his feet. First to do this was none other than Lao Lan. That mongrel bastard, apparently not content to piss in my father’s face, took out two brand-new ten-yuan notes and snapped them between his fingers to get my father’s attention. It didn’t work, for he kept his face hidden behind his knees, which seemed to disappoint Lao Lan. He took a quick glance all around, then flung the two notes down at my father’s feet, one of them landing in a still steaming puddle of his piss, where it nestled up against the soggy, disintegrating cigarettes. At that moment, my father might as well have been dead. He’d lost face for himself and his ancestors. He was less than a man, reduced to the level of the bloated cigarettes swimming in his adversary’s piss. After Lao Lan had tossed down his money, the merchants and butchers followed his lead, sympathetic looks on their faces, as if we were a father-and-son team of beggars who deserved their pity. They tossed down double the amount they usually gave my father, either as a reward for not resisting or in an attempt to copy Lao Lan’s generosity. As I stared at all those notes which had fallen at our feet like so many dead leaves, I began to cry, and at long last Father looked up. There was no sign of anger on his face, or of sadness. It had all the lustre of a dried-out piece of wood. He gazed at me coldly, a look of perplexity in his eyes, as if he had no idea why I was crying. I reached out and clawed at his neck. “Dieh,” I said, “you’re no longer my father. I’ll call Lao Lan Dieh before I ever call you Dieh again!” Momentarily stunned by my shouts, the men around us quickly burst out laughing. Lao Lan gave me a thumbs-up. “Xiaotong,” he said, “you’re really something, just what I need, a son. From now on, you’re welcome at my house anytime. If it’s pork you want, that’s what you’ll get, and if it’s beef you’ll have that, too. And if you bring your mama along I’ll welcome you both with open arms.” That was too great an insult to ignore, so I rushed him angrily. He easily sidestepped my charge, and I wound up face down on the ground with a cut and bleeding lip. With a loud guffaw, he said, “You little prick, attacking me after calling me Dieh! Who in his right mind would want a son like you?” Since no one offered to help me up, I had to get to my feet on my own. I walked over to my father and kicked him in the leg to vent my disappointment. Not only did that not make him angry; he wasn’t even aware of it. He just rubbed his face with his large, soft hands. Then he stretched his arms and yawned like a lazy tomcat, looked down at the ground, and, slowly, conscientiously, carefully, gathered the notes that were steeping in Lao Lan’s piss, holding each one up to the light, as if to make sure it wasn’t counterfeit. Finally, he picked up the new note from Lao Lan that had become dirty in the urine and dried it on his pants. Now that all the money was stacked neatly on his knees, he held it with the middle two fingers of his left hand, spat on the thumb and forefinger of his right hand, and counted it. I ran over to grab it out of his hand, intending to tear it up and fling it into Lao Lan’s face, to avenge the humiliation that had settled on us both, father and son. But he was too fast for me; he jumped up and held his left hand high in the air, muttering, “You foolish boy, what do you think you’re doing? Money’s money. It’s not to blame; people are. Don’t take your anger out on money.” Grabbing his elbow with my left hand, I tried to claw my way up his body to rip that shameful money out of his hand. I didn’t stand a chance, not with a full-grown man. I was so mad I rammed my head into his hip over and over, but he just patted me on the head and said genially, “That’s enough now, son, don’t get carried away. Look over there at Lao Lan’s bull—see, it’s getting angry.” It was a big, fat Luxi bull with straight horns and a satiny hide over rippling muscles, the kind I saw later on athletes on TV. It was a golden yellow, all but its face, which, surprisingly, was white. I’d never seen a white-faced bull before. It was castrated, and the way it looked at you out of the corner of one of its eyes was enough to make your hair stand on end. Now that I think back, that was probably the look people describe when they talk about eunuchs. Castration changes a man’s nature; it does the same with bulls. By pointing out the bull to me, Father made me forget about the money, at least for the moment. I turned just in time to see Lao Lan swagger out of the square, leading his bull. Why not swagger, after the way he’d humiliated my unresisting father? His prestige in the village and among the cattle merchants had risen dramatically. He’d gone up against the only person who dismissed him as irrelevant, and won; no one in the village would ever defy him again. That only makes what happened next so startling that I’m not sure I believe it even now, years later. That Luxi bull of his stopped in its tracks. Lao Lan tugged on the halter to get it moving again. It didn’t respond. Without even trying, the bull made a mockery of Lao Lan’s show of strength. A cattle butcher by trade, he had an odor that could normally make a timid calf shake like a leaf and cause even the most stubborn animal to meekly await its death when he stood in front of it, knife in hand. Unable to get the bull moving again by tugging on its halter, he went around and smacked it on the rump with an ear-piercing yell. Now, most animals would have lost control of their bowels in the wake of that smack and yell, but this Luxi bull didn’t so much as piddle. Still enjoying the glow of victory over my father, and acting like a cocky soldier, Lao Lan kicked the animal in its underbelly, giving no thought to the nature of a bull. Well, the animal shifted its rump, let out a loud roar, lowered its head, and flung Lao Lan into the air with its horns, as if he weighed no more than a straw mat. The cattle merchants and butchers were shocked by what had just happened, shocked and speechless, and none of them went to Lao Lan’s aid. The bull lowered its head again and charged. Now, Lao Lan was no ordinary man, and when he saw those horns coming at him he rolled out of the way. Eyes blazing with anger, the bull turned to charge again, and Lao Lan saved his skin by rolling out of the way a second time and a third. When he was finally able to scramble to his feet, we saw that he was injured, if only slightly. He stood there facing down the bull, hips shifted to one side, not taking his eyes off the animal for a second. The bull lowered its head, slobber gathering at the corners of its mouth, and snorted loudly, as it prepared for the next charge. Lao Lan raised his hand to distract the bull, but he was clearly only putting on a front to appear brave. He looked like a terrified bullfighter who would do anything to save face. He took a cautious step forward; the bull didn’t move. Rather, it dropped its head even lower, a sign that the next charge was imminent. In the end, Lao Lan abandoned his macho posturing, gave one final, blustery shout, turned, and ran madly. The bull took off after him, its tail sticking out stiff and straight, like an iron rod. Hooves kicked mud in all directions, like a spray of machine-gun fire; meanwhile, Lao Lan, hellbent on escaping, headed instinctively toward the onlookers, hoping to find salvation in the crowd. But rescuing him was the last thing on their minds. With shrieks all around, they, too, ran for their lives, cursing their parents for not giving them more than two legs. Luckily, the bull had enough intelligence to single out Lao Lan and not vent its anger on anyone else. The merchants and butchers sent sand flying as they scrambled over walls and up trees. Lao Lan, stupefied by his predicament, ran straight toward Father and me. With a sense of desperation, Father grabbed me by the neck with one hand and the seat of my pants with the other, and flung me up onto the wall only seconds before that damned Lao Lan took refuge behind him, grabbing his clothes so that he couldn’t break free, and would screen him from the charging bull. My father retreated; so, of course, did Lao Lan, until they were both backed up against the wall. Father waved the money in his hand in front of the bull and muttered, “Bull, ah, bull, there’s no bad blood between you and me, not now, not ever, so let’s work this out . . .” It all happened faster than words can describe: Father threw the money at the bull’s face and leaped onto its back before the animal knew what was happening. Then he stuck his fingers in the bull’s nose, grabbed its nose ring, and jerked its head up high. The cows the merchants brought from the western counties were farm animals, so they all had nose rings. Now, the nose is a bull’s weak spot, and no one, not the best farmer alive, knew more about bulls than my father did, though he himself wasn’t much of a farmer. Tears sprang to my eyes as I sat on top of the wall. I’m so proud of you, Father, I thought, of the way you washed away the humiliation and reclaimed our lost face with your wise and courageous action. The butchers and merchants helped him get the white-faced yellow bull down on the ground; in order to keep it from getting up again and hurting anyone, one of the butchers ran home, rabbit-fast, to fetch a knife, which he offered to the now pale-faced Lao Lan, but Lao Lan took a step backward and waved the man off, turning the task over to someone else. The butcher looked from side to side, knife in hand: “Who’ll do it? Nobody? Well, then, I guess it’s up to me.” He rolled up his sleeves, wiped the blade against the sole of his shoe, then hunkered down and closed one eye, like a carpenter with a plumb line. Taking aim at the slight indentation in the bull’s chest, he plunged the knife in, and, when he pulled it out, blood spurted, and painted my father red. Now that the bull was dead, everyone climbed down; blackish-red blood continued to flow from the wound, bubbling like water from a fountain and releasing a heated odor into the crisp morning air. The men stood around like deflated balloons, shrivelled and diminished somehow. There was so much they wanted to say, but no one said a word. Except my father, who tucked his head down low between his shoulders, opened his mouth to reveal a set of strong but yellow teeth, and said, “Old man in the sky, I was so scared!” At that, everyone turned to look at Lao Lan, who clearly wished he could crawl into a hole. He tried to cover his embarrassment by looking down at the bull, whose legs were stretched out straight, the meaty parts of its thighs still twitching. One of its blue eyes remained open, as if to release the hatred inside. “Damn you!” Lao Lan said as he kicked the dead animal. “You spend your whole life hunting wild geese, only to nearly have your eye pecked out by a gosling.” He looked up at my father. “I owe you one, Luo Tong, but you and I aren’t finished.” “Finished with what?” my father asked. “There’s nothing between you and me.” “Don’t you touch her!” Lao Lan hissed. “I never wanted to touch her—she wanted me to,” my father said, with a proud little laugh. “She called you a dog, and she’ll never let you touch her again.” At the time, I had no idea what this was all about, though later, of course, I figured out that they were talking about Wild Mule. But when I asked, “Dieh, what are you talking about?,” he said, “Nothing a child needs to know.” “Son,” Lao Lan said, “didn’t you say you wanted to be a member of the Lan family? Then why did you call him Dieh just now?” “You’re nothing but a pile of stinky dog shit!” I said. “Son,” he said, “you go home and tell your mother that your father found his way into Wild Mule’s cave and can’t get out.” That made my father as angry as the bull had been; he lowered his head and charged at Lao Lan. They weren’t at each other’s throats for more than a moment before others rushed over to pull them apart. But, in that brief moment, Lao Lan had managed to break my father’s little finger and my father had bitten off half of Lao Lan’s ear. Spitting it out angrily, he said, “How dare you say things like that in front of my son, you dog bastard!” ♦ (Translated, from the Chinese, by Howard Goldblatt.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Demeter	Credit Illustration by Silja Götz When they divided up the year, Demeter chose, for her own, the months when the days start getting longer. It was easier that way. It meant that she delivered her daughter to her ex-husband in the late, bright Montana summer and she could handle it then, most of the time, with a little pharmaceutical help. She couldn’t handle giving her up in the dead of winter. Hank could have fought for sole custody, since Demeter had a reputation for erratic behavior. But granting her half the year had been a gesture on his part: generosity as a sign of power. He would not have it said that he took a child from her mother. He was always more subtle than that. Perry, their daughter, had been unexpected, the pregnancy a buoyant gift at a time when Demeter and Hank were like drowning people, tugging each other under. But the moment Demeter saw the pink thing in the nurse’s arms, the tiny creature that had turned her inside out, she knew the baby wasn’t going to save her marriage. It was only going to break her heart. They hadn’t named her Persephone; that would have been unfair. They had named her Elizabeth, after Hank’s mother, but Hank started calling her Perry Mason early on, for her steady infant gaze that would break down any witness, and it stuck. At thirteen, Perry had the pert features and turned-up nose of a figure skater, although she wasn’t one. She hadn’t yet found the thing she might be very good at. Hank hoped it would be science: he wanted his daughter to be straightforward and rational. Demeter hoped it would be music: she wanted Perry to be darker and more complicated. At the dinner table, when they were still living in one house, Perry had looked from one to the other of them as if they came from the moon. Her strange parents. Only she was of the earth. Hank had bought her an oversized pink nylon duffelbag, and Perry carried it back and forth between the two houses. He’d made more money after the divorce than he ever had before, with new income from oil leases, and he owned a big house on a hill now, with a new red truck outside. Demeter parked, and Perry leaned over in the passenger seat and kissed her quickly on the cheek, eager to avoid any drama. “Bye, Mom,” she said. “Love you.” Then she lugged the duffel toward the house, her bare legs in blue shorts taking her blithely away. It wasn’t natural to give up your child every year. It wasn’t right. Demeter knew that Hank could say the same thing, but she had no interest in being fair to Hank, and she had carried that child inside her body. She had fed her with her own blood, and then from heavy, unfamiliar breasts. She had held Perry when she was sick and vomiting, her hair damp with fever. She watched her daughter twist her shoulders to get the wide bag through the front door, without a look back. The dark interior of the house engulfed her. The screen door slammed shut. Demeter sat alone in the car. The tears shouldn’t have surprised her, but they did. They came hot and choking. Her jaw shook. Her nose ran. She knew she should leave, and not embarrass Perry or give Hank anything to comment on, but she couldn’t see to drive. Finally Perry came back outside and leaned in through the car’s open window. “Mom,” she said. Demeter fumbled for a tissue. “I’m sorry.” Perry got into the car and sat looking at her hands, with their chewed cuticles. “You chose this,” she said. Demeter wanted to say that she would have died if she had stayed with Hank, but she tried to be discreet in front of their daughter. “I know.” “And you picked the dates.” “I did. I’m all right, sweetie.” “You’re not.” “No, really I am.” She blew her nose decisively. “You can go inside.” Trouble clouded Perry’s pretty face. “Mom.” Demeter didn’t want to be doing this, to be taking this perfect child and putting the pain in. “I’m O.K. I just needed a minute. Don’t watch too much TV, all right?” “I won’t.” “And no jet skis.” “He doesn’t have a jet ski.” “No jet skis!” Demeter said. “They’re death machines.” “All right.” “O.K.” “O.K.,” Perry said. “Bye.” She got out and waved. Those long legs carried her back into Hank’s world, where she would do Hankish things. Water ski, even if there were no jet skis. Eat red meat every night, and too much sugar. She belonged to her father now. As Demeter drove down the hill, away from Hank’s house, she felt as if there were a cord attached to her viscera that was stretching, pulling. When she was young, she had liked to say that she would never have regrets. Her life was her life, her choices her choices, and she would stand by it all. But she did have a regret now. She wished she had never had a child. She pulled the car over to the curb, startled by the thought. It was true. She couldn’t wish her daughter away now, but if she had a time machine she would go back and erase the conception. Then there wouldn’t be this agony, there wouldn’t be the black times. She would have found other sources of love, and she wouldn’t have this gnawing emptiness. One tiny erasure and everything would be different. Catastrophe avoided. She pressed her hands against her sternum to stop the ache. She had always known that Perry was mostly Hank’s. That cross-examining stare came straight from him. She had his logical mind and his quiet stubbornness. But that didn’t make it less painful to give her up. Finally she got herself home, parked beneath the big maple tree, and went inside her little house. It was dark and empty. The refrigerator hummed. She had no television—a fact that was eternally embarrassing to Perry—so she switched on the radio, to have some companionable sound. “StarDate” was on. Hank had told her long ago that she had a voice for radio, but she had never pursued it. What she had was a campfire voice, mellow and clear at low volume. She had met Hank at a bonfire, where he played songs in her range on his guitar so they could harmonize. She was impossibly young then, with wheat-colored hair. She’d sat cross-legged on the cold ground and watched the embers burn, but she knew he was watching her, listening through the other voices for hers. When the fire died down, he’d wrapped his coat around her shoulders and she was his. She opened the refrigerator. There was some leftover tabouli. A tub of yogurt. The non-homogenized milk that came in glass bottles from the dairy, with a thick band of cream to scoop off the top. Frozen pesto in the freezer. “I’m so tired of this food!” Perry had shouted at her once. “It’s not real food! I will not eat millet!” Demeter closed the refrigerator to make the voice go away. Hank would be grilling steaks tonight. Married, they had tempered each other, made compromises in the way they lived their lives. Apart, they had gone to opposite extremes. Perry said that joint custody with them was like jumping back and forth between a hot tub and a snowbank. “Which is which?” Demeter had asked. “You know what I mean,” Perry had said. “You’re just different.” But Hank would be the hot tub, of course. Which left Demeter the snowbank. “Tonight the Perseid shower will be approaching its peak,” the radio voice said, confiding and urbane. “You might see shooting stars coming from the direction of the constellation Perseus. This constellation was named for the Greek hero, and is located near the constellations of his wife, Andromeda, and her mother, Cassiop—” Demeter switched the radio off. She would go for a swim. Clear her head. She stuffed her suit and cap and goggles into a canvas bag and left the front door unlocked. She locked it when Perry was home, mostly because of Perry’s displeasure when she didn’t, but there was no point now. It was a safe enough town. She walked toward the city pool, past the café that had bought flower arrangements from her garden after the divorce, when she hadn’t known how she was going to make money. She walked past a pawnshop where she’d taken jewelry, and the coffee shop that had to be a front for something, because it couldn’t possibly have paid the rent with coffee all these years. “Trust me, Stan. I’ve got your back.”Buy the print » A woman with a little boy sat on a low planter. The boy might have been three, in a red-and-blue striped T-shirt. They had a worn air about them, and Demeter guessed that they were staying at the homeless shelter on the next block. The sight of them together, inseparable, the mother with her skinny arms around the child, squeezed Demeter’s heart, and she wanted to tell the woman never to let him go. Instead, she looked down at the sidewalk until she was past. Interesting clouds were forming over the mountains when she arrived at the pool. Some kind of weather coming. But she should still have time to swim. There were the bike racks. Inside the brick building, the chlorine smell. All the years of swimming lessons overlapped the present moment in her mind—Perry as a baby, a chubby toddler, a string bean of a nine-year-old on a pink bike. Four-o’clock lap swim cost a dollar. When Demeter looked up from fumbling in her bag, she realized that she knew the dark-haired girl at the cash register. The girl was smiling, waiting for Demeter to notice. She wore a red lifeguard shirt and looked just like her father, who’d died when she was four. She had his gray eyes. “Oh, my God, Annie,” Demeter said. “You’re so beautiful.” Annie blushed, pink coming to her cheeks. “Thanks.” “How’s your mom?” “She’s great,” Annie said. She put the dollar in the till. “You know her, she’s indestructible.” Demeter nodded, staring at the girl, doing clumsy math. She must be eighteen. Demeter felt like she was a hundred. She felt Paleozoic. “There might be lightning coming,” Annie said. “I’d get your swim in quick.” “Right,” Demeter said. She went into the damp concrete locker room, feeling disoriented. Annie’s father, Duncan, had been Hank’s business partner. He’d been cheerful and competent, always ready to fix an engine or stop a fight: to make things right. Annie’s mother, Kay, was slight and strong, like a pioneer woman, tempered steel where Demeter had often felt herself to be decadent and soft. Duncan and Kay had been the best friends of her early marriage, and Demeter had loved them both in a way that felt sustaining, like sunshine. But those were the bad old days, and so she had slept with Duncan, as a matter of course. It was just an extension of her ordinary love. He had run his fingers through her hair, lifted her light body to his hips. When she’d started to get confused about it, the confusion was easier if she was stoned. That was the bad old days, summed up. It could be a kind of haiku: I slept with my friend. Then I got high. Spring of ’76. Then, that June, Duncan and Hank had gone down with scuba gear to look for earthquake damage on a dam, and Duncan hadn’t come up. At first, Demeter thought Hank had killed him. What had been a dalliance, a distracting sexual guilt, had become a cataclysmic horror. Hank knew, and had taken revenge. The world was dark and vicious. But she soon realized that wasn’t true. Hank knew nothing. When he’d pulled his wetsuit back on and found Duncan on the bottom of the lake, he was bewildered, grief-stricken, distraught. Then she thought that Duncan might have killed himself, torn between two women. But she could picture him laughing at the idea, his handsome head thrown back, his gray eyes crinkled with laughter. Kill himself? Sleeping with her had been a happy thing. He had loved it. And he had loved his wife and their four-year-old daughter. Demeter’s therapist, Martine, said it was healthy to imagine that laughter, because only a true narcissist would believe she had such power, to drive someone to suicide. Martine had said it slowly, looking over her round tortoiseshell glasses with meaning, which made Demeter wince. So the drowning had been an accident. Every investigation and inquiry said it was. Duncan’s big heart had just stopped. Next Demeter had blamed Hank for leaving Duncan to die alone, but not as much as he blamed himself. He paced and obsessed and rethought, and Demeter watched him. They were moving around the death like two satellites in separate orbits when they collided in the bedroom and Perry was conceived. As soon as she knew she was pregnant, Demeter had stopped smoking pot. She started meeting the black-coated Hutterites in their truck to buy chickens and eggs. She bought vegetables at the farmers’ market from the Hmong refugees, who coaxed green shoots from the ground so much earlier in the year than anyone else. She ordered milk from the dairy and made baked eggs and cream with Hmong chives. She didn’t worry about getting fat—she was supposed to get fat. When Perry arrived, Hank was enraptured, and Demeter realized how much he must have wanted a child before. He had never pushed her, in her stoned and childfree days, but he had craved fatherhood. She just hadn’t seen it. She pulled her swimsuit on in the dank locker room, lost in time. The purple Lycra was a little stretched out and ratty, and she was glad Perry wasn’t here to raise her eyebrows at it, to say, “Mom, you could’ve shaved your legs, at least.” She pushed her streaky blond hair under a silicone cap and went outside. The dark sky loomed closer, the color of a black plum, but people were still swimming. She recognized the slow, steady stroke of Ned Keller, who had to be in his nineties now. She hopped into the shallow end and pulled her goggles down over her eyes. Annie was in the lifeguard chair in a red tank suit, swinging a whistle on a lanyard. Demeter ducked beneath the water and pushed off. It was her favorite moment of swimming, the passage from dry to wet, her skin shedding tiny bubbles of air as she kicked. It felt as if the world were washing off her. She was starting over, newborn. She had swum in high school in Texas and was proud of her stroke. It had always been balanced and consistent, even when she was not. She breathed on the left, took three strokes, breathed on the right. At the deep end of the pool, she flip-turned and pushed off, still with some of the tingly feeling. She passed Ned Keller, his ancient arms pulling stubbornly along. He had swum in a triathlon with his son and grandson: the son biked and the grandson ran. Demeter wondered if Perry would have a daughter someday, and if they could do that. She turned again, big air bubbles streaming over her face, and imagined what would happen if she breathed in. Had there been a moment when Duncan’s lungs filled with water, when he still knew what was happening? Had he watched himself cross out of the habitable world? She took half an experimental breath and stood up coughing, choking, her bare feet finding the concrete bottom of the pool, the desire to live too strong. A whistle pierced the air. She pulled off her goggles, breaking the suction, and saw Annie climbing down from the lifeguard chair. Demeter had been too obvious in her flirtation with drowning. She needed to tell Annie she was fine, but she had to get a good breath first. “Everyone out of the water!” Annie called. “Everyone out!” She was looking up at the sky, not at Demeter. The clouds were black and roiling, spilling over themselves, low and heavy. How had the storm come in so fast? A lightning bolt cracked through the bruised darkness. “Now!” Annie called. Demeter kicked to the edge. Ned Keller was climbing out, too, and she resisted the urge to offer him a hand. She wouldn’t want people condescending to her when she was ninety. He swam every day. He could get himself out of the pool. The lifeguards were pushing a long blanket roller on wheels out from the wall. The blankets were heavy blue insulated plastic, to keep the heat in the water at night. Rain began to splatter, and the girl pulling the first blanket ducked her pigtailed head. She wore a dry T-shirt and shorts. “I’m already wet,” Demeter said. “I’ll take it.” She tugged the corner of the blanket, dragging it along the shallow end as Annie and a tall boy pulled slack off the roller. The pigtailed girl ran inside the office and came out in a raincoat. The tall boy shouted instructions: now they had to slide the blanket down the pool so the next one could be pulled across. Demeter understood, and tugged her end toward deeper water, clinging to the reinforced hem. The blanket wanted to sink as it moved forward, scooping up water in the middle and creating a heavy puddle. She and the boy strained to keep it at the surface. There was another crack of white light, and then the boom of thunder. The rain came down diagonally in the gusting wind, like someone throwing buckets. But for someone in a swimsuit and cap it hardly mattered. They got the blanket into position and ran back for another. “Thanks for helping!” Annie shouted over the wind and rain. Demeter nodded. Her towel was lumped on the pool deck, sopping wet. The rain seemed to be getting colder. She pulled the next blanket along the gutter. “I cased the joint, and it turns out they’ll just you money if you work thirty–five hours a week as a teller.”Buy the print » There was another flash of lightning, and Annie looked up at the sky with an impatient, Duncan-like expression: Why are the gods foiling my plans? What is this perverse unhelpfulness? That was her father, through and through. The last blanket was on and the rain was still coming. Demeter followed Annie into the lifeguard office, peeling the cap off her wet hair. The lap swimmers were gone. The lifeguards, two boys and two girls, towelled their heads and exclaimed about the storm. “We have a coffeepot for hot chocolate,” Annie said. “Somewhere.” “I’m all right,” Demeter said, although she was shivering, covered in goose bumps. “You’re freezing,” Annie said, pulling a dry towel off a shelf. It was thick orange terry cloth with red suns, and Demeter wrapped it around her shoulders. She had held this girl on her hip at Duncan’s funeral, out in an ancient cemetery, really just a field. They had played a tape of Annie talking to her father, the recorded voice tiny in the mountain air. Kay had explained that her daddy was going to help make the flowers grow, but what did a four-year-old understand? Annie must barely remember him now. “Are you O.K.?” Annie asked. “Your lips are blue. You seem a little hypothermic.” “Oh, sweetheart, your dad,” Demeter burst out, before she knew what she was saying. “We loved him so much.” Annie looked as if she’d been slapped. Not hurt, just startled. She glanced at the other guards, who were busy drying off. No one was listening. But it was clear that Annie would have been embarrassed if they had. It had been a day for embarrassing teen-agers. “I’m sorry,” Demeter said. “You’re right, I got too cold. I’ll go dry off.” In the empty locker room, she sat on one of the wooden benches along the wall and made herself breathe. Duncan’s yellow dog, Blue, had circled the pine coffin in the back of the truck, whining. He couldn’t find a place to lie down. She remembered thinking that she was like the dog. She would never find happiness or rest again. But that hadn’t been true. People were more resilient than they thought. The locker room smelled of disinfectant and wet socks. By these scarred benches, a tiny, trusting Perry had raised her arms so Demeter could pull a shirt off over her head. There was a low steel sink that sprayed a half circle of arcing warm water, and Perry and the other little girls had loved to sit in it until a lifeguard came in to chase them out. Demeter always let them climb back in again. She had never liked rules. Maybe that was part of the problem. Maybe if she hadn’t chafed against every restriction, for so many years, she wouldn’t have had to let her daughter go. But that was wishing to be someone else. The rain rattled down on the skylights. Demeter would have kept Perry all the time if she could have wrested custody from Hank. She would have guarded her from his world of violent movies and roaring engines. But then Perry wouldn’t have her father. She would be like Annie, bereft of half her inheritance. And she would resent Demeter for doing it, of course. So they were stuck with this harrowing division of the year. Demeter changed into her dry clothes, wrapped the orange towel around her hair, and went back into the office. She was warmer now, although the air was growing colder. Annie introduced her to the others as “Mrs. Hayes.” “Please, no, that’s my mother,” she said. “Call me Demeter.” “Like the harvest goddess!” the taller boy said, showing off. He had a cockscomb of thick brown hair. “Exactly,” she said. The shorter boy was ridiculously good-looking: blond, with cornflower-blue eyes. She wondered if they could tell that she’d been crying, with her red nose and swollen eyes, and guessed that she just looked like someone’s mother, with goggle rings denting her face. “Look!” the pigtailed girl said. “It’s snowing!” And it was. They all moved to the door. Thick white flakes fell from the sky. “It’s thundersnow!” the tall boy said. “You’re frickin’ kidding me!” the other boy said. “It’s August!” The sky was lighter than it had been when it was raining, and they all stood and watched the world outside turn white. The snow fell surprisingly fast. It had snowed like this in July once, before Annie was born, when Demeter and Hank were hiking in Yellowstone with Duncan and Kay, the white drifts melting around the smoking sulfur pots. “It’s good we got the blankets on,” Annie said. “It’s so weird!” the blond boy said. Silence fell, the snow muffling all sound. They watched, transfixed. And finally the snow stopped, and the evening sun burned through the clouds. The white mantle on the blankets glowed. The tall boy who knew his mythology and his meteorology went outside and made a snowball. He lofted it experimentally into the air, and it landed in the middle of the covered pool and stayed there, white on white. “Race you across the blankets!” the blond boy shouted. He ran out onto the deck and then kept running across the blanket on the shallow end, legs pumping, until he was sucked down, halfway across the pool. “Halfway!” he cried, grinning. “Beat that!” He rolled toward the side, out of the sinkhole he’d made. The little pigtailed girl ran out onto the next blanket, snow flying beneath her feet, until she was sucked down, too. “Not even close!” the blond boy said. “Sorry,” Annie said, looking at Demeter with Duncan’s amused gray eyes. “They’re kind of immature.” “You try it, Mrs. Hayes!” the tall boy said. “Goddesses walk on water, right?” “Real ones do,” Demeter said. “It’s actually kind of fun,” Annie said. “It helps if you keep your knees up high.” “And it helps if you’re sixteen,” Demeter said. But she knew she could do it. She could feel the way you needed to high-step across. “Just try it!” the pigtailed girl said, hauling herself out of the pool. Demeter looked at their sweet faces, shining from the effort and the rain, and she unwrapped the heavy orange towel from her hair. They cheered. “Do I get a handicap for being ancient?” she asked. “You’re not that old,” the pigtailed girl said, shaking the water off in a little dance. “You should see my mom—she couldn’t do it in a million years.” “Would Kay do it?” Demeter asked Annie. Annie rolled her eyes. “No. Too sensible.” Demeter’s next thought, which she didn’t need to say out loud, was that Duncan would have done it in an instant. “This is crazy,” she said. But it wasn’t really crazy—that was the important thing. It wasn’t like wishing you’d never had your own child. The first blanket had floated up and straightened itself out. Demeter backed up to get a running start across the pool deck, then ran, knees high, out onto the blue expanse. For a few steps she was magically on the surface. She was sixteen and unfettered, untouched by grief. Nothing had consequence. Then the insulated plastic sucked at her heels. She took two more fighting steps as she sank into the warm water. She was laughing, tangled up and struggling to the side. There must be a stern warning printed on the blankets about not doing exactly this. The kids were shouting and clapping. “That was amazing!” the pigtailed girl said. Demeter looked. She’d got halfway across. It was amazing. She climbed out of the pool in her dripping clothes and wished Perry were here, to have seen that. But Perry would be mortified at the sight of her mother making a fool of herself, running and laughing with these kids. Not being a mom. So she was glad, again, that Perry wasn’t here—and she wasn’t glad. Six months to go, the long darkening fall. And already the sun was lower in the sky. Something between a laugh and a sob caught her by surprise, behind her rib cage, and she stifled it by crying, “Annie’s turn!” Annie backed up through the open office door to get a better running start, with Duncan’s fierce, competitive look on her face. The light through the sodden air was molten gold. The kids were giddy with anticipation, with incipience. If only it were possible to freeze this moment, this perfect light, and stay here, and not tumble forward. But already the moment was gone. Annie began to run. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Member / Guest	Credit Photograph by Karine Laval, “Poolscape #90” (2011) / Bonni Benrubi Gallery He was always perched in the same spot, on the terrace, in one of those Adirondack chairs that overlooked the steps and the crowd of shoes kicked off for the sand. Down on the beach, blue canvas chairs and umbrellas defended their small claims of oceanfront, where mothers pretended to read and not gossip about gossip—local gossip, celebrity gossip—and fathers checked watches and humored their gossipy wives until it was time for tennis or golf. The adults who were not yet mothers or fathers lounged about like minor gods, plucking tans from the sky, their secondhand freedom lustily inhaled by young and old alike. Dead ahead played the world’s widest Cinemascope: the sea. The last few days the waves had been too rough for children but perfect for middle-aged men, who bodysurfed with abandon, their flabby technique mocked by a few boys on the shore who leaned against boogie boards and bitched about the shallow break. They stood near the lifeguard stand, which was front and center, like the gnomon of a sundial. Back on the terrace, the man in the Adirondack chair presided over this scene, his eyes remaining within the ropes that boxed in this orbit of sand and stretched a hundred yards into the ocean, toward white barrels that marked the civilized limit, the parameters of the all-seeing club, beyond which, it was silently agreed, the world became unruly. I hate this stupid place, Beckett thought. She turned back toward her three friends, best summer friends whom this summer she found annoying. They were like a favorite TV show that had gone all ridiculous, yet you stayed tuned, hoping that the silly plots would get better. But, no, these three were still talking about Brad Sawyer and Justin Miller and how they wondered if what was in their shorts was as smooth, as tan and muscular as their torsos, currently posed toward the sea. “Picture Barbie-doll skin,” said Natalie, at fourteen no longer Nat. “That big?” asked Josephine—thanks to Nat, no longer Josie. “Picture the leg.” “That skinny?” “Roughly, I think, when erect.” Natalie was the sexual oracle for this group, since she had older twin brothers and an older older sister, plus she had a year of boarding school under her belt and God knows what happened there. Just last week, Natalie had convened the girls in her family’s cabana and dug from her beach bag a condom—a Trojan, Beckett noticed, which brought to mind a horse loaded with nineteen-year-old boys. The girls oohed and giggled, unsure of what might come next amid the bathing suits dried stiff on pegs and the twins’ surfboards abandoned for summer jobs in Nantucket, the Long Island version of the South Pacific. The girls were silent as Natalie scooped sand from a bright-red bucket—an artifact from another era—and carefully filled the latex. Slowly, a creature emerged. They regarded this animal like biologists with no field experience, only a wobbly theory of existence. Each girl took a turn holding the concept between her legs, where it swung like an hourglass near bursting, until Beckett turned the thing into a bludgeon and slapped Josephine on the thigh. Clio, who was still Clio, laughed at the word “erect.” “That’s toxic,” she said. Everything that summer was toxic. “Maybe I should find my old Barbies and practice,” Josephine joked. “Yeah,” Clio said, “we can rediscover our youth. All our moms will be so happy, seeing their girls playing with Barbies again.” Clio clapped her hands, her nail polish noticeably chipped, as if applied last week for a game of dress-up. “They’d never suspect.” “Suspect what?” Beckett asked, finally sick of the conversation. “You know.” “You’re right, I know, but I want to hear you say it.” “I don’t need to say it.” “Because you don’t know.” “Um, like a dodo,” Clio half whispered. “That’s an extinct bird,” Beckett shot back. “Dido?” Beckett sassed her head. “Yes, Aeneas, my love.” The other girls laughed, pushing their fingers and toes unconsciously into the sand, into the cool layer underneath, where they had once spent hours creating intricate tunnel systems, arms stretching for the tickle of a breakthrough. Clio, poor thing, lived in Westchester and had none of the native New York City smarts the rest of the girls claimed by way of Zip Code. She probably didn’t even get the reference. Beckett turned toward Natalie, upping the stakes. “O.K., smarty, who’s Aeneas?” “It’s dildo,” Natalie told Clio, almost sweetly. “But who’s Aeneas?” Beckett persisted. Natalie, the prettiest of the group, the girl who, unlike the three other girls, had those cool older siblings, Natalie, who had a super-rich financier father and a writer stepmother, a funky mother and a stepfather involved in the arts, Natalie, with her angular face and gazelle legs and size-B boobs that shot perky parallel lines into the sunglasses of men and women who muttered, “Here comes trouble,” in differing tones, Natalie—there must be a Natalie in every group, Beckett figured, even ugly girls must have their Natalie, a Natalie upon whom you wish a little hardship and maybe, on sleepless nights, a full-blown tragedy, a Natalie who elicits the worst in you and confirms your own petty sense of self, that goddam bitch—levelled her privet-green gaze on Beckett and said, “Arma virumque cano—shall I translate?” Beckett shook her head. Natalie decided that she wanted a Shirley Temple, and the others agreed, of course, enjoying, as they did, the trip to the bar, where adults were most adult and bartenders stood in formal uniform. Every frothy whim could be signed away on a chit, and grenadine was as good as hard booze compared with last season’s pink lemonade. So up the steps they trotted. As usual, Beckett lagged behind, often breaking away and leaving her departure a mystery, a sort of preëmptive ditch. The man on the terrace paid them no heed. He just sat in his chair, dressed in khaki shorts and a white polo shirt, reading, as always, a hardcover with the dust jacket removed. Beckett thought he was nice-looking: thick brown hair, dark eyes, a trim but not muscular physique. It seemed the elements, in particular the wind, had done some work on his skin. No doubt his hands were calloused from some physical ability beyond the sporty swing of a stick. And, while Beckett wished he’d shoot them the once-over, she was glad he had no eyes for Natalie and her bikini bounding up the steps as if red carpet, rather than brick, were spread before her feet. But why would he care? The girls were members, and his game was non-members, those people who wandered along the beach and thought this place was a public kiosk, a bathroom stop, an old-money establishment they could crash despite the commandment hammered into the sand: “Members Only.” If they disregarded this warning and tiptoed up the steps, he would descend from his crow’s nest and walk over to the offending crew and tell them, Beckett guessed, Sorry, guys, this is a private club. She’d seen this performance maybe a dozen times. He was never snooty or aloof; he understood full bladders and parched lips, the curious and the bold. Any embarrassment was dissolved by a shrug or a smirk toward the exclusive world behind him, his mink-brown eyes suggesting the potential for a future revolution. Beckett didn’t know his name. But he looked like a Tom. Halfway to the bar and in the middle of the main terrace, Beckett heard her name and turned and saw Mom, waving wildly, as if she were a person in the studio audience, Beckett the panning camera. “Beckett, hon!” Her mother’s voice was devoid of volume control, her laugh a lighthouse proudly proclaiming its rocky reach. She was sitting with Beckett’s father and the Lyntons, the four of them tucked around cheeseburgers and Cobb salads and gray-green, mint-filled drinks known for their lethal quality. Lunch was the only reason Dad ever came here, especially on weekends, when lunch seemed so freakishly up in the air. “What should we do for lunch?” was a question he started asking right after breakfast. Beckett was glad for an excuse to escape the girls. “Hey, toots,” Dad said. Mom tilted her head like a dog with an uncanny sense for hearing foolish things. “Toots,” she said. “Who are you—Frank Sinatra?” “What’s so bad about toots?” “Since when have you called her, called anybody, toots?” “I don’t know,” he said. “It just came out.” “Toots?” “Yeah.” “I didn’t realize we were suddenly at the Copa.” “O.K., drop it.” “What’s next, a fedora, a rendition of ‘My Way’?” “Oh, fuck off.” “Don’t you mean ‘fuck off, toots’?” Beckett stood there, her arms shackled around her waist, like a picture of Houdini before he was dumped into cold deep water. Her parents often had this kind of exchange in public. It was a trick of their marriage that baffled Beckett. Day after day, they sawed each other in half, yet they always managed to emerge whole at the end of the evening, nineteen years of semi-miraculous ta-dah. What was the illusion, Beckett wondered, the love or the hate? “Sit down,” Mom said. “Join us.” “Have you eaten?” Dad asked. “Yes.” Beckett grabbed one of his fries. “You jerk,” he teased. “I’ll tell you how I got here–hours and hours of hard visualization.”Buy the print » The Lyntons, from San Francisco, smiled. They always rented the same small cottage for a week in August, though Mrs. Lynton was constantly bringing up the huge beachfront house she’d lived in growing up here, a house long ago sold but never forgotten, like the potato fields that were now sprouting mansions, fields where her father had shot geese, if you could imagine—which everybody could, because everybody had been weekending here forever. Oh, but the traffic now. The tacky crowds. And, by the way, this club was a hurricane away from being washed into the sea. It seemed that Mrs. Lynton returned year after year to bemoan change and reconfirm ruin. Alas, good riddance. She asked Beckett if she was having a nice summer. “I suppose,” Beckett said. “Beckett’s bored,” Mom told the table. “I’m not that bored.” “Yes, you are. You’re bored. She’s bored.” “Summer’s too long in a place like this,” Mrs. Lynton decreed. “Next year she’ll do a trip somewhere, maybe Europe.” “Live with a family in France—it’s the best thing that you can do for your French.” “Beckett’s more of a Latin scholar,” Mom said. Mr. Lynton looked up from his burger. “Amo, amas, amat,” he recited with schoolboy pride. “How do you say, ‘Wipe your chin’?” Mrs. Lynton scolded. “It’s a terribly juicy cheeseburger.” Mrs. Lynton passed him a napkin. She was one of the many wives who treated their husbands like sons, and whose husbands, in return, treated them like mothers. “Do you know where you should go?” she said, turning away from her sloppy dependent and giving Beckett the full privilege of her feminine attention. “Cambodia. In five years, Cambodia will be totally spoiled. It almost already is. Go to Cambodia and Vietnam before they’re wrecked.” “Cambodia sounds cool,” Beckett said. “Or India. Yes, India. Oh, Goa.” “She’s fourteen,” Dad reminded everyone. “How about tennis camp or that place in Maine, you know, for girls?” “That’s so your era,” Mom said. “My era?” “Cambodia is amazing,” Mr. Lynton said. Mrs. Lynton rolled her eyes. “Please, you hated Cambodia.” “Only while I was there. The second I was on the plane coming home I loved it.” Beckett ate the last of her father’s fries, almost to protect him against his poor diet. In general, she enjoyed being with her parents, who, unlike other parents, treated their children as co-conspirators. “World’s too screwed up for travel,” Dad said, tossing his napkin into the fray of empty plates. This was the first of many unspoken indications that he was ready to go home, please, like now. “Oh, Jesus, is that Peggy Lord?” Mrs. Lynton asked. “Yes, if you can believe it,” Mom said. “She looks awful.” “She is awful.” “What did she do to herself?” “A major overhaul.” “She used to be so pretty.” “She was never that pretty.” Beckett glanced over at Mrs. Lord, mother of Pam and Jake, part of the boarding-school crew, who never danced at the dances, and who, it was rumored, smoked a lot of pot in their pool house. Beckett thought Mrs. Lord was attractive for her age, and stylish, too. She had semi-famous friends. “Just look at her,” Beckett’s mother said as Mrs. Lord searched the tables for her lunch date, who must’ve been even later than the infamously late Mrs. Lord. Mom went on about the high heels at the beach, the desperate social climbing, those sunglasses like she was the Jackie O of Toledo—she was on a roll—and that slutty daughter of hers, that drug-addict son, that husband who humps anything that moves. They all laughed because she was funny, Beckett’s mom, and smart, and years ago had been almost beautiful, but Beckett silently begged Mrs. Lord to escape. Run away, run away. The girls were gone. They weren’t at the bar, or on the beach, or in the pool, or by the cabanas. Beckett checked the club’s entrance, but their bikes were still chained side by side, their mechanical relationship intact. Maybe they were lighting small fires in the dunes—pyromania the recent rage—or perhaps were wandering down toward the public beach in the hope of spying Europeans in Speedos. Beckett could look for them only for so long. Any more effort and she would feel ridiculous. On the terrace the sight of all the shoes lined up on the steps depressed her, ever since her school trip to the Holocaust museum in Washington and that room filled with shoes, thousands and thousands of them piled high. Discarded shoes suddenly seemed the saddest thing in the world, even flip-flops and loafers, even her own scrawled-upon tennis sneakers. They were like archeological amputations, grubby evidence of deeper loss. Beckett stood there, pleased with her depressing thought, sure that nobody else had seen those shoes as anything more than a popular day at the beach. Then she felt silly. None of those feet knew such tragedy. Not on that scale. Not yet, at least. Someday they would, they all would—her father said it would be bigger and more awful than 9/11, which in retrospect would seem like just a few black spots on the lungs of Manhattan. “Wait,” Beckett had once asked Dad after his latest doomsday prophecy. “If you think New York is so hopeless, why are we staying here? We could move to New Zealand. I hear New Zealand’s really cool. I’d be up for it. I’d do it in a heartbeat.” Dad slumped in his chair. “Because this is home,” he told her. “That’s a lame answer.” “You’re probably right, but that’s the answer.” “So we just stay and get slaughtered?” “That’s what we do,” he said. Beckett scanned the beach for the three girls she no longer cared about. She wondered if they were watching her, laughing at her from some hiding place. Because just look at her, flat as a board, shortish, a bit chubby, not nearly as smart as she thinks she is, that jerk Beckett, lurking in her one-piece, too scared to live in a bikini world, and you know next summer she’ll be covered with zits, and, my God, that mother of hers, with that laugh, toxic on toxic. You could almost feel sorry for a girl like Beckett if she weren’t such a miserable bitch. How about some ice cream? Beckett asked herself. At least it was something to do. She pictured herself with a cone in hand, ice cream dripping down her fat fingers. A teen-age girl eating ice cream all alone, what a pitiful sight. She would have to mock her own shadow. So just go home and read “Middlemarch.” September promised a summer-reading test. But Dorothea Brooke never had to contemplate suicide bombers or rogue nukes or, for that matter, thongs or Brazilians on recently earned hair. Nowhere in “Middlemarch” was there a chapter on blow jobs, which, in this living Long Island novel, was the giddy subject of many a clueless conversation. “Middlemarch” was a breeze compared with the whys of what boys want in their sweaty little man dreams. Beckett spotted her younger brother, Harry, sprinting up from the beach. His enthusiasm towed along four other boys, who would have followed his lead anywhere. She wanted to hate her brother, but she couldn’t. Harry was undeniably fun and uncomplicated without being uninteresting. In fact, Beckett kind of loved him. Of course he’d got the tan gene and the straight-hair gene and the lean gene, genes that were long dormant in their parents, though pictures proved that they had once been quite the pair. Beckett had inherited their middle-aged DNA: Dad’s slouch, Mom’s frizz, their shared weight problem. “Hey,” Harry said. “Hey.” And that was the extent of the exchange. Harry hurried along for an appointment with the diving board and the cannonballs that would invariably get him and his toadies tossed from the pool. The boy was an eleven-year-old adventurist, his knees, his elbows, his chin and forehead a series of scars, his left front tooth chipped, his arm already broken twice. He’ll probably die in an accident, Beckett thought, in college, a stupid stunt gone wrong—watch this—and Mom and Dad will be devastated, a great big veil settling over all our lives, draping the incompatible space between the past and the future. It was almost beautiful in a way, because Beckett honestly believed that death was like poetry and life was like prose. But while she wanted, more than anything, a reason for her rotten feelings she didn’t want Harry sacrificed for it. Two young women approached the club from the beach. No way were they members; they were too exotic, too pleased with their sexy selves, a sort of Penthouse teacher’s pet. They probably talked about “the Hamptons,” whereas Beckett and everybody else around here called it “the country.” Beckett guessed they were model types who never modelled, part of that mysterious New York corps who jumped velvet ropes for a living. They had no need for “Middlemarch.” They had blow jobs down cold. Up the steps they came, as if this were one more party that eagerly awaited their arrival. The bikinis alone should have triggered a club-wide alarm—my God, not even a wrap or a sarong, just some string holding up a satiny V for vagina. Beckett waited for the man to get up from his chair. In silent support, she crossed her arms. Go back to your share house, she muttered to herself. The unknown women gained the top step and stopped, almost posing, not five feet from Beckett, who was now hugging her overmatched chest. The man remained in his seat. Beckett tried to nudge his attention—Hello, hello—with her chin. The women went over to the foot shower and rinsed their feet. There was, well, not a hush among the nearby members but a visual aside as all eyes landed on these women, pupils humming. But no voices were raised, no human chains formed. The women continued on their way toward the snack bar, unimpeded, where they were embraced by disgusting Chad Lowry, who snuggled an arm around each waist, a malformed glob of egg salad transformed into a tasty sandwich. “They’re guests,” Beckett heard over her shoulder. She turned and saw the man in the Adirondack chair. He was squinting at her, the lines around his eyes vaguely nautical, like complicated knots. “What’s that?” she said, feigning indifference. “I saw you sizing them up.” “Me? Like I care.” “Can you recommend any wines for the middle class?”Buy the print » He nodded his head as if he heard a song in the distance, a song Beckett was too young to recognize. “O.K.,” he said, returning to his book. “You just sit here all day?” Beckett asked, instantly regretting her conversational tact. Really, she was trying to be friendly. “Not all day,” he said. “Just during peak hours.” “How can you tell who’s a member and who’s not a member?” “I get to know the faces,” he said. “But I mean, like, with guests.” “It’s not that hard,” he said. “You ever make a mistake?” “Sometimes people pretend to be guests, and that can be awkward.” “Jesus, how desperate.” The man tilted his head. Beckett feared she had said a snobby thing and tried to redeem herself by saying, “Like, I know this girl whose parents are trying so hard to be members here and it’s, like, just so sad because they’ll do anything, like their life will be ruined if they don’t get into this stupid club, and I’m, like, who cares. But they’re awful, the parents. My friend, she’s nice, but no way is her family getting in, at least that’s what my mother says, and she thinks my friend’s just being nice to me because I’m, like, a member and maybe that will help or something, which is so sad because what can I possibly do to help her parents.” Beckett hoped this would prove her low opinion of the club, but all she could hear were all those irritating “likes” that dropped into her speech without her control. The man remained silent, once again nodding at whatever song he heard. She asked, “You ever stop a member by mistake?” “Never.” “We’re just that easy to spot.” “Most of you, yeah.” He was unlike the other people who worked at the club—the local high-school girls who manned the snack bar, or the locker boys who handed out towels, or the Irish ladies who worked in the cafeteria, where shirt and shoes were required, or the bartenders who were costumed like lieutenants in some alcohol troop. Beckett assumed that these people could barely restrain their embarrassment as they slung trays or stabbed umbrellas into the sand or valet-parked cars, their eyes measuring hatred, their smiles sharpened, summer after summer, on the awful people they served. Yet still they served—served and served and served, knowing that in these parts that word had no meaning unless it was attached to a tennis racquet. But this man, the man on the terrace, he could’ve been a member himself. And for the longest time Beckett had assumed that he was a member, a lonely, heartbroken member who liked to read by the ocean, who sat in the same spot day after day and mourned some secret loss. “Who is that guy?” Beckett had asked her mother earlier in the summer. Her fantasies of a Long Island Heathcliff were dashed when her mother answered, “He’s our homeland security.” “You looking for your friends?” the man asked. “No. Have you seen them?” “No.” Beckett leaned against the terrace’s brick balustrade. This summer she had her best tan ever, and she fiddled with her rope bracelet hoping that the pale skin underneath would confirm this to anyone who noticed. Her parents were still here, her father forced into another drink, which would insure an afternoon nap and destroy any chance of their continuing their summer-long Saturday croquet death match. “So you just sit here and wait for people to try to sneak in?” she asked. “That’s pretty much the job description.” “Kind of boring.” “You’re too young to know what boring is.” Beckett took offense. “I’m not that young.” “True.” “But I am bored,” she said, “so fucking bored,” trying on the word for effect, the effect nil. “Anyway, next summer I won’t be here, that’s for sure. I’m thinking of going to Cambodia.” “Cambodia?” “Yeah, before it gets ruined.” The lunch hour was now in full swing, more and more people crowding around the terrace. Beckett recognized them all: the children, the parents, the grandparents. It was the riddle of the Sphinx that nobody needed to answer. The kingdom was theirs. Beckett asked the man, “If you could go anywhere in the world, where would it be?” “Probably twenty yards down the beach.” “No.” “Yeah.” “Really?” “Uh-huh.” “If that were my dream I’d kill myself.” The man laughed, an awkward laugh despite his easy smile, as if a part of his throat were broken. “Wait thirty years,” he said. “How old are you?” she asked. “Forty-two,” he said. “So you think I’m, like, twelve. Because I’m not. I’m fourteen.” “I was rounding down,” he said. “I might as well be twelve,” Beckett said. “What?” “Nothing. So are you, like, married?” “O.K.” He sat up to take the questions full on. “Was.” “Do you have kids?” He paused. “No,” he said, and Beckett was baffled that somebody who had been married and was forty-two would have no children, but she dropped the subject, the man, his nodding head, reminding her of those polar bears in the Central Park Zoo, the way they paced the square footage of their lives, figuring the distance in defeated affirmation. “So you’ve been doing this forever, right, sitting here and busting people trying to sneak in—that’s what my mother said.” “It’s been a while.” “So you’ve seen me since I was a little kid.” “Yep.” “Because I didn’t notice you until this summer. All of a sudden, I’m, like, who’s the guy always sitting here, like always sitting here, kind of creepy, I thought, until I found out it was your job.” “You’re not meant to notice me,” the man said. “Should I even be talking to you?” “I just meant I’m supposed to blend in.” “Like a spy?” Beckett said. “Not really.” “Because sometimes I feel like a spy, like a double agent, and one day I’m going to give up the goods on all these people here.” “Then I’d have to kill you,” the man said. Beckett froze. “It’s a joke,” he said, “and not a terribly good one.” “Oh.” Silence settled between them, and Beckett wondered if she should be talking to him, if it was weird, if people were looking at her and thinking, Why is Beckett Parsons talking to the man who stops people from sneaking into the club? and she decided she should leave, say goodbye, nice talking to you, but instead she said, “You wanna hear something in Latin that I think is beautiful?” “Latin? Why not.” “It’s from this unknown poet named Tibullus. O.K.” Beckett looked up as if the words were trailing one of those single-engine planes that dragged advertisements up and down the beach, like tractors plowing the sky. “ ‘Te spectum, suprema mihi cum venerit hora, Et teneam moriens deficiente manu.’ It means, ‘May I gaze upon you when my last hour has come, and, dying, may I hold you with my weakening hand.’ ” “That’s lovely,” the man said. “It’s not my translation. I would’ve said, ‘May I be gazing.’ ” “So you know Latin?” the man asked. “Yeah.” “That’s great.” “It’s really good for your S.A.T.s, you know, the verbal.” “I don’t know any Latin.” “Nobody does,” Beckett said. “It’s a supremely stupid thing to be good at. It’s not even a real language anymore. It’s like being fluent in Braille, that’s what my mom says. And I’m not even that great at it. I just have a good memory, and I like puzzles. But the words themselves, you know, the Latin itself, it’s really . . .” She searched for the right word. “Really lovely to look at,” she said, “and lovely to read aloud, and then you get to the meaning, what’s underneath those words, and it’s even lovelier, because you’ve made it your own, if that makes sense. It’s like you’re reading what the gods wrote, and it’s survived all these thousands of years, only in fragments. I really want to go to Rome. But it’s not like I could describe the ocean right now using Latin, or the clouds, or like how I feel, or whatever. I know French, too.” “I’m impressed,” the man said. “When I was your age I wasn’t thinking about Latin.” “Not like I think about Latin all the time.” “No, it’s cool,” the man said. Beckett shrugged. “You know, my hair used to be really blond, not so long ago, like almost white, like it would get green from chlorine, that white. Now look at it. It’s almost brown, like I left all that blond hair out in the rain and it rusted or something.” The man nodded as if he understood, and Beckett was glad. “Anyway,” she said. The man pointed toward the beach. “Your friends,” he said. Beckett turned and saw Natalie and the Glowerers, Josephine and Clio, her lip-synching backup singers. “We’re going in the ocean,” Natalie shouted as if she couldn’t care less but Beckett had better come. “If they want us to take these storms seriously, they have to start giving them scarier names.”Buy the print » The ocean was rough, a red-flag day, and Beckett was no fan of swimming in wild water. A pool, sure. She could spend hours in the pool, crossing her legs, holding her feet, releasing the air from her lungs so she slowly sank to the bottom like an aquatic yogi, Om in bubble form. But the ocean was different. The ocean was always too cold and sometimes dirty with foam or seaweed and seemed on the verge of ecological disaster. And the waves scared her—she would never admit it, but they did, the way they could suck you in and tumble you around and shock you breathless. And, of course, the sharks, a ludicrous fear, yet a fear nonetheless. But here were her friends, and she sort of missed them, and they were asking for her company, and that was nice. Beckett turned toward the man. “I gotta go,” she said. “Nice chatting,” he said. “Yeah.” Beckett had started down the steps when the man said, “Hey,” and she turned around and he stared at her as if he had something to say, his eyes at full sail, but all his mouth could manage was “Never mind,” and Beckett gave him a shrug and leaped onto the beach, a childhood ritual she couldn’t quite give up, that enthusiastic if sloppy grand jeté onto warm sand. “We’re swimming to the barrels,” Natalie informed her, all business. “The barrels?” “Yeah.” “O.K.” At least a couple of times a summer, they tested themselves with a swim to the barrels. If Beckett lived the rest of her life without seeing those barrels up close, well, she would die happy, but when would she say no—when could she say no? She still spied women in their fifties and sixties going into the surf and making their yearly trek to that rope-defined edge, beyond which there was no saving. “It’s a little rough, isn’t it?” Beckett said. “Are you coming or not?” Josephine asked, her posture practically spitting. “Yeah, I’ll come.” The girls headed down toward those men-scattering waves. “Where have you been?” Beckett asked the threesome innocently. “You ditched us first,” Clio said. “Around,” Natalie answered. “Yeah,” Josephine added. They paused at the water’s edge. Without a word, they braced themselves for entry: without a word but with a series of deep breaths and hand-flinging claps they prepared themselves, waiting for the first among them to sprint forward, into this endless movie screen, the first brave girl, who was always Natalie, running and screaming through foot-, now knee-, now hip-high surf, arms held aloft for the perfect dive that sliced into the base of a breaking wave. Josephine and Clio quickly followed, neither as graceful, more like yapping beagles that trailed the lead horse over the fence to the pasture on the other side. Beckett, she was still on the beach. The water would be freezing. And what about the currents? Was there a riptide, an undertow? And look at those waves sweeping across the shore like an angry arm clearing the table with a single drunken stroke. The other girls were getting far ahead, and Beckett was tempted to slink away and go back to the terrace, but she had already lost her friends once today and if she lost them again she feared they would give up on her altogether, not that she cared, but, still, who wants that, especially in early August. Just run straight in, she told herself, but instead she marched forward like a reluctant soldier, like one of those Colonial troops who were doomed to be hit by a musket ball, in this case a volley of waves that broke against her legs and stomach, the white-foamed surf hitting her hard until she lost her balance and fell down and was swooped back by the surge, a goose-pimpled corpse. Now that she was dead, she could swim. The first ten yards were simply survival. Beckett pushed through the swells, going low, going high, battling the waves until she was past the breaking point, where the water became calmer yet murky, instantly swarming with imaginary sharks. That was the real challenge of swimming to the barrels: the knowledge, or lack of knowledge, of what might be gliding beneath your feet. The key was constant movement, to keep those arms and legs in a frenzied graceless paddle before imagination took over. God knows how deep the water was now. Sunken ships, their masts, could’ve been a mere inch from her big toe. Already Natalie had reached the barrels, with Clio and Josephine close behind. They clung to the ropes and smiled as Beckett struggled forward, probably smiling at slowpoke me, she guessed. Maybe it was something about her improvised breaststroke, the lack of breast in that stroke, the lack of stroke on that breast, whatever, but now they were laughing and whispering, and Beckett was certain they were hatching some plan against her, some secret attack, and she thought she knew what they were thinking—that once back on the beach they should rush her and give her an onion ring, which would involve tackling her and then rolling her in the sand, grinding it into her scalp, into the depths of her bathing suit, leaving her a gritty, deep-fried mess. Ha-ha-ha. Yeah, Beckett knew what they were up to. Theirs was a conspiracy of empty smiles. So turn around. But she was nearly there, and it was a victory of sorts, swimming to the barrels, even if the future would prove it Pyrrhic. “Finally,” Clio said as Beckett grabbed for the rope. The barrels were anchored to the bottom, but sometimes Beckett imagined them as giant bobbers, with fishing lines that drifted down below, bloody pieces of meat on their hooks. She used to fish with her father; they’d catch snapper blues at the inlet. Keep an eye on the bobber, he’d tell her, and at the slightest tug strike. Beckett treaded water, helplessly afloat, and studied the barrels for some sign of play. The occasional upwelling of warm water hit her like hot breath. “Did someone just pee?” Beckett tried to joke. “Disgusting,” Natalie said. At one time, not long ago, they would have found this funny. A plane flew overhead, dragging a banner for Grey Goose vodka. From this vantage, the club was like a Mediterranean dream, the stucco walls, the red tiled roof an exotic mirage from the Roaring Twenties, when this spit of Long Island was refashioned into the South of France. The crowd on the terrace, on the beach, merged into a distinct mass of indistinct people. Between thumb and index finger, it seemed a two-inch existence. Beckett held tightly to the rope. “So it looks like you made a new friend,” Natalie said. “He’s nice,” Beckett said. She expected this line of questioning. “I hear he’s, like, retarded,” Josephine said. “That’s, like, ridiculous.” “You going to blow-job him?” Clio asked. Beckett gave Clio a deadly stare, her eyes like quotes around “You fucking idiot.” “A nice big blow job,” Clio continued. “Clio, you probably think a blow job involves balloons,” Beckett said. “No, I don’t.” “Whatever.” “Bitch,” Clio muttered. Enough was enough. “Has cunt not made its way out to Westchester County? Because I’d rather be a bitch in the city than a clueless cunt in the suburbs.” Beckett was always surprised by how good she was at this, at finding the right words, her voice remaining calm, as if she had rehearsed. “Pound Ridge is not the suburbs,” Clio said. Natalie laughed. Beckett took advantage of this opening. “Can you imagine living in a town called Pound Ridge? Hi, I’m from Pound Ridge.” “It’s not the suburbs, you guys. It’s more like the country.” “It’s the suburbs, honey,” Natalie said. Josephine now laughed. “Suburbs are like for, like, middle-class people,” Clio stated. The barrels all but disappeared, and Beckett struck. “Oh, my God, what a snob.” “I mean . . .” Natalie shook her head. “Talk about bourgeois.” “Oh, now you’re just confusing the poor girl,” Beckett said. Clio let go of the rope and did a backpedal drift. “Screw you guys,” she said, stunned, then she turned and started to swim back to the shore. That’s when Beckett suggested a game of horny shark. Natalie and Josephine instantly agreed. For years the horny shark had roamed these waters, its victim suddenly surrounded by a school of pre-adolescent girls in a feeding frenzy, dozens of fingers biting down until the bikini top was torn free. But this was before bikinis held anything of note. It had been agreed a few summers earlier that horny shark should be retired. Since then, this great white predator had existed only as a funny memory and a vague mythic threat. But now blood was in the water. Josephine started to hum the theme from “Jaws.” Natalie called out to Clio, “Sharky shark, horny shark.” Clio turned around. “Yeah, right, guys.” “You better swim faster, Clio.” “Swim, Clio, swim,” Beckett screamed with appropriate melodrama. “Don’t look back, just swim.” “We agreed, you guys,” Clio shouted. Natalie, Josephine, and Beckett let go of the ropes and began their slow, sharky pursuit. “I’m so horny,” Beckett said. “So, so horny,” Josephine agreed. “It’s titty-biting time,” Natalie said. Beckett laughed—she had forgotten how funny Natalie could be—laughed like a loon, laughed too hard, maybe, as if insanity lay ahead. The joke wasn’t that funny, certainly not deserving of this crazed imbecilic laughter, but there Beckett was, swimming and laughing and almost drowning. The club regained its size. Up ahead, the waves swept forward. Clio kicked hard for the shore but she was getting tired. At some point, Beckett would dive under and torpedo her legs, opening her eyes and accepting the saltwater sting for the certainty of assault. But not yet. Not until she spotted the man on the terrace, sitting in his chair, reading his book. What was he reading, anyway? She tried to hold him in her sight for a moment, as if he might keep her foreboding steady. Did he see her? Did he even care? Absens haeres non erit. Slowly the girls gained on Clio. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Ox Mountain Death Song	Credit Illustration by Jashar Awan He had been planting babies all over the Ox Mountains since he was seventeen years old. Well, he had the hair for it, and the ferret grin, and there was hardly a female specimen along that part of the Sligo-Mayo border that hadn’t taken the scan of his hazel glance, or hadn’t had the hard word laid on, in the dark corners of bars, or in the hormone maelstrom of the country discos, or in untaxed cars, down back roads, under the silly, silly moonlight. He had soft girlish eyelashes and pig-ignorant shoulders—sex on a stick, was his own opinion, and too many of the foolish girls, the foolish women, shared it. He kept several on the string at any given time but as soon as they got weight on them he left them. Now there are those who in a lifetime cannot leave a woman—who cannot gather the strength or get past the sentiment—but Canavan left them every day. The first time Sergeant Brown came across this latest Canavan—he was from a family a long while notorious—was in the station house, when the boy was fourteen and had totalled a stolen Celica on the Ballymote Road, and the first thing the Sergeant did was hit him the slap of a phone book across the back of the head. “That’ll take the fucken ferret out of you,” he said, though of course it did not, and Canavan just smirked, sexily. The witch hazel of the eyes and the sulfur of the smirk—these betrayed to the Sergeant that young Canavan would at some future point kill. He hit him another slap of the phone book. “Lose the fucken face!” he cried. “You’re nothin’ only a fucken knacker off the Ox!” If the regal youth felt pain it did not show. He merely flicked his blond fringe, spat a tooth, and spoke in a voice already deep-down and mannish. “And you’re nothin’ only a fucken swing-key,” he said. Come up to a humid Sunday of late June— The day had the ominous feeling of such gray dense Sundays—it was sour with foreboding—as the vapors of paranoia floated in from Killala Bay and the ridgeback line of the Ox Mountains lay prone, like a crouched beast, its tone dark bluish in the haze, sombre, and watchful like a beast. The detective, Sergeant Brown—Sergeant Tom Brown, plainly—drove an unmarked Primera along the sea road in his flop sweat and rancor. “Bastard,” he said. He was trying to keep a fix on the Canavan’s movements but it was to no avail—the fucker was like water through your hands. And what troubled the Sergeant above all was the fact of the fungating mass. This Canavan was not long for the world or its women. He might do anything now. Sergeant Brown was from a line of guards. His father had been the sergeant at Aughris before he drank himself into the clay of the place. His father’s father had, at the time it was still Royal Irish Constabulary, been the sergeant at Ballinacarrow before he drank himself into the clay of the place. His father’s father’s father had been the sergeant at Easkey when they were still jawing grass at the side of the road and spitting the green juice, and he, too, had drank himself into the clay of the place. Sergeant Tom Brown did not drink. He suffered instead the terrible want of a sweet tooth. Sugar ran him. He sat in a humid murk, himself vaporous, gently steaming, in the Primera, outside the Emo station, on the N59, beneath the hateful shadow of the Ox, and he ate a Swiss Roll. He looked at himself in the mirror—the big sticky face on it like a child’s. “Here’s another day I get fucken fatter,” he said. He wheezed terribly now climbing a stair. He wheezed as hard again coming down. He hadn’t enjoyed a mirror since the late eighties. He was sixty-five now and just three weeks from his retirement—his determination was to have Canavan looked after before it. The consultant oncologist at the Regional Hospital went back so far with the Sergeant that they had done the long jump together. He was not only his oldest but among his most useful confidants. Canavan’s tumor, he explained, was feeding on his very youth and vitality. “An auld fella might slow it,” he said. “A young fella won’t.” It was pacing hard. It was spreading all over. It had gone into the lymph. Canavan, in his manly noon, at twenty-nine years of age, had refused the treatment, having been told it would likely make him impotent and the hair fall out. “He won’t see Christmas lights, Tom,” the oncologist said. And they both knew what that meant. Canavan could do anything now. He was about the Ox country yet. This much the Sergeant knew for sure. And about the Ox his powers were affiliated with the supernatural—you could corner him to a patch of ground the width of a postage stamp but even so he would wriggle free, and have time enough to look back over the shoulder, lock a glance, and smolder. He knew the bog roads, the copses, the cypress arbors. He knew the recesses of the hills and the turlough hides. He knew the crannies of the coast. He knew the new-build estates and the spread and bungalow drift of the ever-changing villages, and the backways of townlands, and the gardens of priests, and the old walled demesnes, just as he knew the lairs of ripe widows, and the dampish, seablown, lavatorial odor of beachside apartments, and knew the tin-roofed sheds, the outbuildings, the caves. He knew Zion Hill and the Union Wood. He knew the ruts and tunnels of the country, the country of the Ox, a post-glaciated terrain, and knew where mountains had moved, the cracks and openings that were made—he knew the country of the Ox, and the infinite thousands of its hiding places. A Canavan knew also the greatest of the male consolations—that a girl could be made to laugh, a girl with an apple-cheeked arse. The pale-green days of these Atlantic reaches could be enlivened only by fucking and fighting—moments of violent glow—and the Canavan magic was to make sparks from little. Each in the stepped line of the generations was a taunt to the next: a taunt to exceed, go further. Everything was passed down, the gestures even. The curl of lip and set of shoulders, and the weird skills, too, as in the way a Canavan could by wary nature catch on the air the tang of policeman—to a Canavan, it had an aniseed note. The years gave in, the years gave out, and only the trousers changed—breeches of sackcloth gave way to rain-soaked gabardine, gave way to tobacco-scented twill, and on to the denim variations (boot cut; straight leg; at glamorous times, beflared), and then to the nylon track pant, and then to cotton sweats. The signal gesture of a Canavan in all this time did not change: it was a jerk of thumb to the waistband to hoick up the pants. The Canavans—they had for decades and centuries brought to the Ox elements that were by turn complicated and simple: occult nous and racy semen. As Canavan went about the country he was readied—in precisely the way that meat is readied when salted—by the saline taste of blood on his lips. “Believe me, your problems are minor compared to A–Rod’s.”Buy the print » Sergeant Tom Brown steered the Primera in accordance with the stirrings of his chubby hands—call it feel, or divination. The almost half century of his service had earned him an intuitive reading of an offender’s rhythms. He recognized the moment when a long hiatus in activity might break with quick flurries, the way a run of successes might stiffen the blood and embolden, the way the odds that were chanced could suddenly steepen, and most of all he knew the feeling of an imminent violence: it caused a clamminess to his skin and upset in his tummy. The feeling was on him now as he drove the sea road on this Sunday of mist and fear. His hatred of a Canavan—of this particular and of the type—permeated his senses. Everything was off—his vision so blurred the road signs were a squiggled Arabic; his hearing out of whack as though shot by thunderclaps—and everything would remain off until the bastard was caught and done for. “He’s not far,” he said, and as he rode sucked honey from a squeezable tub. A pensioner in an old farmhouse on the Mayo side of the mountain—picture it forlorn—had on the Thursday previous heard a midnight rustling: she lit the yard lamp to find the Canavan with a slash hook raised and a finger to his matinée lips. He took four hundred euros and a phone charger and for badness’ sake hit her a dig in the kidneys. He had to be laid up someplace close. The worry for Sergeant Brown was that Canavan could lay up now the way a ferret will lay up in the burrow with the rabbit it has killed, the forked spit of its tongue lapping at neck blood, the pointed teeth taking tendon and bone apart, the claws carefully tearing back the skin—so tender the care, almost loving—to reveal the feast of vitals within, a feed that might last for days, and there is no way of getting the ferret out again short of extendable poles or dynamite. But it was merely patience that was required—a Canavan could not keep its snout down forever. It had to show itself always. The handsome dying face would seek again the light. Would take to dance floor or to barstool. Would search out the windows left open against the humid spell or try the handles of the parked cars at the golf club. All a Sergeant Brown—the particular, the type—had to do was be patient and wait and gauge closely the stirrings in his hands. From a barman in Enniscrone he took first word of the widow—her new-build dormer, outside Easkey village, was the latest known Canavan hide. When the Sergeant got there, at teatime on the Sunday, she was alone and already bruised. There were raspberry-colored thumb marks on her neck and shoulders. Under a sundress too young for her, the flesh had a high, mottled note, and she had the dead-eyed aura of drugs about her, and giddy, mobile tits. “Ah, stupid,” she said. “Stupid!” She wasn’t long over the top of fifty and as he sat opposite her and peered closer he saw that the mouth, too, was lately busted. The bottom lip was bee-stung yet with a rude sexual swell. Tan makeup did not quite hide a bruising to the cheekbone. “Ah, I’d it coming to me,” she said. Fucken eejit woman, the Sergeant thought. “How long were you knocking around with him, Sheila?” She slithered on the leather couch, working the sundress higher on the underside of the thigh, as the sea rasped outside, and she rolled her eyes to show the whites. “Awhile,” she said proudly, and there was the smell of whiskey off her, too, a bottle of High Commissioner nearing its last on the coffee table. Blended Scotch filth, the Sergeant thought. “Where’s it he is now, Sheila?” “I don’t fucken know, do I?” “I’d say different, Sheila.” “Can say what you fucken like.” “Has he left anything here?” She acknowledged that he had and it was in a bedroom thick with an unmentionable musk that the Sergeant went through Canavan’s holdall—a Reebok with a busted zipper. It contained a phone charger, a pack of Nurofen painkillers, a change of sweatpants, and some briefs. The holdall was heartbreaking and the sadness it caused set the Sergeant to his course. He went back to her, as she poured the bottle’s last, and he eyed her carefully, and he was stirred for her and for the dying man both—their glow-of-life. “Where’s he?” “I said I don’t know.” The Sergeant moved in beside her on the couch then, and slipped an arm around her shoulder, and clasped her tightly to him, and whispered why it was best that she tell. “The treatment could help him yet, Sheila,” he said. She looked at him as a serpent might. “Could be it’s Keash Hill,” she said. “The caves up there.” Breathing fatly, Tom Brown rose and made to leave the bright, impersonal dormer—its walls as thin as eggshells—where the widow had been fucked and beaten, and he knew, inarguably now, that within the shadow of the Ox a killing was imminent, and would occur before the country turned from dark into daylight again. He considered the purplish thrill of her busted lip. “That’d want a stitch,” he said. She threw hate at him as he left. “Fuck off,” she said. The caves at Keash Hill were no more than a fifty-minute haul from the Ox Mountains and there lay the remnants of elk, wolves, bear. It was a place haunted by desperate mammals since the hills and mountains had cracked and opened—as the province of Connaught formed—a place with a diabolic feeling sometimes along its shale and bracken stretches; a darkness that seeped not from above but from beneath. Sergeant Brown parked on a side road and walked the ledged ascent—he held a palm to his heart for fear that it might at any moment give. The higher he climbed the more treacherous the ledges and just barely was the track a fat man’s width. His small feet were nervous in tan brogues and swam greasily in their socks. The last of the long Sunday shed light for a half-darkness; the sky had deepened in the haze; the corduroy lines of its vapor trails wavered on the fade. The half-night was shadowland. A killing will name its time and it had named it for now. He found the Canavan sitting outside the last and highest of the caves, sucking on a cigarette, blithely, with his legs hooked up beneath him, and aware fully that the killing time had been named, and that this time he could not wriggle free. “Get up,” the Sergeant said. The handsome eyes burned into the Sergeant as he rose and Tom Brown wanted to belt him and he wanted to kiss him. For the Sergeant there was no decision to be made. Take one of them and spare one of us—an act votive to his trade. As he marched his captive down the ledges it took just the palm of a hand to the small of the back—a jolt and sudden force, and the Canavan was over the ledge, and falling, and the rocks below made quick silent work of the hazel eyes, the languor, the cancer. There was no victory in it. Sergeant Brown knew as he drove the sea road home that each tiny light that burned on the Ox might burn to light a Canavan child, and it would be no time at all until he was in long pants, and no time at all until he was driving, and the Sergeant would by then be cold and sober in the clay of Sligo, or at best in the coronary-care unit, and all that would be left to him would be the fear, which persists. He feared now the summer night for its sly and sweetfound darkness, and he imagined on the night breeze a sardonic note, as though the Ox were taunting. These mountains, their insistences: those who would run would run and those who must follow must follow, and waiting—oh, wasn’t there always—some heated foolish girl. Listen— The tinkled chime of her laugh against the mountain black as she feigns outrage at a dropped hand, and now—listen—the tiniest brushing of the air as her eyelashes close and bring down the darkness: the falling-in-love-all-over-again. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Breatharians	Credit Illustration by Victo Ngai There were cats in the barn. Litters begetting litters begetting litters—some thin or misshapen with the afflictions of blood too many times remixed. “Get rid of the damn things,” August’s father said. “The haymow smells like piss. Take a tire iron or a shovel or whatever tool suits you. You’ve been after me for school money? I’ll give you a dollar a tail. You have your jackknife sharp? You take their tails and pound them to a board, and then after a few days we’ll have a settling up. Small tails worth as much as large tails, it’s all the same.” The cats—calicos, tabbies, dirty white, gray, jet black, and tawny—sat among the hay bales scratching and yawning like indolent apes inhabiting the remains of a ruined temple. August had never actually killed a cat before, but, like most farm boys, he had engaged in plenty of casual acts of torture. Cats, as a species, retained a feral edge, and as a result were not subject to the rules of husbandry that governed man’s relation with horses or cows or dogs. August figured that somewhere along the line cats had struck a bargain—they knew they could expect to feel a man’s boot if they came too close; in return, they kept their freedom and nothing much was expected of them. A dollar a tail. August thought of the severed appendages, pressed and dried, stacking up like currency in the teller drawer of some strange Martian bank. He could earn fifty dollars at least, maybe seventy-five, possibly even a hundred if he was able to track down the newborn litters. He went to the equipment shed to look for weapons. It was a massive structure, large enough to fit a full-sized diesel combine, made of metal posts skinned with corrugated sheet metal. August often went there when it rained. He thought it was like being a small creature trapped inside a percussion instrument. The fat drops of rain would hit the thin metal skin in an infinite drumroll, punctuated by the clash of lightning cymbals and the hollow booming of space. In the shed there was a long, low workbench covered in the tangled intestine of machinery: the looping coils of compressor hoses, hydraulic arms leaking viscous fluid, batteries squat and heavy, baling twine like ligaments stitching the whole crazy mess together, tongue-and-ball trailer knobs, Mason jars of rusting bolts and nuts and screws, a medieval-looking welder’s mask, and, interspersed among the other wreckage like crumpled birds, soiled leather gloves in varying stages of decomposition. August picked up a short length of rusted, heavy-linked logging chain and swung it a few times experimentally before discarding it. He put on a pair of too-large gloves and hefted a mower blade the size of a broadsword, slicing slow patterns in the air, before discarding it, too. Then he uncovered a three-foot-long torque wrench with a slim stainless-steel handle that swelled at the end into a glistening and deadly crescent head. He brought the head down into his glove several times to hear the satisfying whack. He practiced a few horrendous death-dealing swing techniques—the sidearm golf follow-through, the overhead back-crushing axe chop, the short, quick, line-drive baseball checked swing—the wrench head making ragged divots in the hard-packed dirt floor. He worked up a light sweat and then shouldered his weapon, put the gloves in his back pocket, and went to see his mother. The old house was set back against a low, rock-plated hill. A year-round spring wept from the face of the rock, and the dampness of it filled the house with the smell of wet leaves and impending rain. The house was a single-level ranch, low-slung, like a dog crouching to avoid a kick. August’s mother’s parents had built the house with their own hands and lived in it until they died. The old house looked up at the new house, the one August’s father had finished the year August turned one. The new house was tall, with a sharp-peaked roof. It had white shutters, a full wraparound porch. August’s grandparents had both died shortly before he was born, and the first thing his father had done when the farm became his was sell fifty acres of fallow pasture and build the new house. “He feels like it’s his own,” August’s mother had said to him once, while smoking at the dining-room table of the new house. “His people didn’t have much. Everything we got came from my side, you know. He would never admit it in a hundred years, but it bothers him.” She coughed. “It’s too big. That was my complaint from the get-go. It’s hard to heat, too, exposed up on the hill like this; the wind gets in everywhere. My father would never have done it like that. He built the best possible house for himself and my mother. That’s the type of man he was.” August tapped on the front door a few times with the wrench, then went inside. The old house had been built by folks interested in efficiency, not landscape, and its windows were few and small. The kitchen was dimly lit by a single shaft of light that came through the window above the sink. The room smelled like frying bacon, and the radio was on. Paul Harvey was extolling the virtues of a Firmness Control Sleep System. At my age there are few things I appreciate more than a night of restful sleep. Get this mattress. It was dreamed up by a team of scientists. It’s infinitely adjustable. Your dreams will thank you. “Augie, my fair son, how does the day find you?” His mother was at the kitchen table playing solitaire. A pan of sliced potatoes fried with pieces of bacon and onion sat next to her ashtray. She smoked Swisher Sweet cigarillos, and a thin layer of smoke undulated above her head like a flying carpet waiting for a charge to transport. “I made lunch, and it smelled so good while it was cooking, but then I found myself suddenly not hungry. I don’t know, I may have finally broken through.” August pulled out a chair and sat across from his mother at the small table. “Broken through to what?” he said. “Oh, I didn’t tell you? I’ve been devoting myself to a new teaching.” She stubbed out the cigarillo and shook another from the pack sitting on the table, a fine network of lines appearing around her mouth as she pursed her lips to light it. Her nails were long and gray, her fingertips jaundiced with tobacco stain. “Yeah,” she continued, “I’ve become an inediate.” “A what?” “An inediate—you know, a breatharian?” “I don’t know what that is.” “Air eaters? Sky swallowers? Ether ingesters?” “Nope.” “You can attune your mind and your body, Augie. Perfectly attune them by healthy living and meditation, so that you completely lose the food requirement. I mean, it’s not just that you’re not hungry. That’s not too hard. I’m talking about getting to the point where all you have to do is breathe the air and you’re satisfied. You get full and you never have to eat. And you can survive that way, happy as a clam.” She took a sip of coffee, smoke dribbling from her nose after she swallowed. “That’s what I’ve been working on.” She pushed the pan of potatoes and bacon toward him, and August ate some even though Lisa had told him she would make him a sandwich when she got up from the barn. The potatoes were greasy and good, the bacon little pieces of semi-charred saltiness, the onions soft, translucent, and sweet. August ate, then wiped his hands on his jeans and put his wrench on the table for his mother to see. “Dad gave me a job,” he said. “For money.” “Oh, well, I’m proud to hear it. Did you negotiate a contract? Set a salary-review option pending exemplary performance?” “No, I’m just killing the cats in the barn.” “I see. And this is your Excalibur?” She tinked the chrome-handled wrench with her fingernail. “Yeah. It’s a torque wrench.” She made a low whistle and coughed softly into the back of her hand. “It’s a big job, Augie. Is he paying you upon completion or piecemeal?” “I’m taking the tails. We’re going to settle up at the end of the week.” “Grisly work, son. That’s the kind of work you stand a chance of bringing home with you, if you know what I mean.” “The haymow smells like piss. It’s getting real bad.” “This is gruesome, even for your father. Jesus.” She looked down blankly at the cards in front of her. “I keep forgetting where I’m at with this.” She gathered up her game, her nails scrabbling to pick the cards up off the Formica. “I can go only so far with solitaire before I get stumped. You ever win?” “I never play.” “I suppose it’s a game for old women.” “You’re not old.” “If I’m not, then I don’t want to feel what old is like.” “Are you ever going to come back to the new house?” “You can tell him no, if you want. About the cats—you don’t have to do it.” “She’s been staying over.” “I found all Grandma’s old quilts. They were in a trunk in the back closet. Beautiful things. She made them all; some of them took her months. All of them hand-stitched. I never had the patience. She used to make me sit there with her for hours, learning the stitches. I’ll show them to you if you want.” “Sure. I should get to work now, though.” “Next time, then.” August ate a few more potatoes and stood up. “I wish you Godspeed,” his mother said, coaxing another cigarillo from the pack with her lips. “May your arrows fly true.” “I don’t have any arrows.” “I know. It’s just an old Indian saying.” She blew smoke at him. “I don’t care about the cats,” she said, smiling in such a way that her mouth didn’t move and it was all in her eyes. “I look at you and it’s clear as day to me that he hasn’t won.” “Kazakov is employing the rare ‘Mr.Castle and Horsey go on an adventure’ defense.”Buy the print » The barn was empty. His dad and Lisa were out rounding up the cows for milking. August put on his gloves and wedged the wrench down under his belt and climbed the wooden ladder up to the haymow. Half-blind in the murk, wrinkling his nose at the burning ammonia stench of cat piss, he crushed the skull of the first pale form that came sidling up to him. He got two more in quick succession, and then there was nothing but hissing from the rafters, green-gold eyes glowing and shifting among the hulking stacks of baled hay. August tried to give chase. He clambered over the bales, scratching his bare arms and filling his eyes and ears and nose with the dusty chaff of old hay. But the cats were always out of reach, darting and leaping from one stack to the next, climbing the joists to the rafters, where they faded into the gloom. August imagined them up there, a seething furry mass, a foul clan of fanged wingless bats clinging to a cave roof. This was going to be harder than he had thought. August inspected his kills. A full-sized calico and two grays, thin and in bad shape, patches of bare skin showing through their matted fur. He pitched them down the hay chute and climbed after them. On ground level, he took a deep breath of the comparatively sweet manure-scented air and fished his knife from his pocket. He picked up the first cat by the tail and severed it at the base, dropping the carcass on the cement with a wet thud. He dealt similarly with the other two cats, pitched them all in the conveyor trough, and went looking for a hammer. By the time he returned to the barn, his father and Lisa had the cows driven in and stanchioned in their stalls. The radio was on, loud enough that Paul Harvey’s disembodied voice could be heard above the muttering of the cows and the drone of the compressor. I don’t know about you-all, but I have never seen a monument erected to a pessimist. August nailed his three tails on a long pine board and propped it up in the corner of the barn, where it wouldn’t get knocked over by cows milling in and out. He could hear his father doing something in the milk room. He passed Lisa on his way out of the barn. She was leaning on a shovel and spitting sunflower seeds into the dirt. She had on blue overalls and muck boots, and her frizzy blond hair was tamed into a ponytail that burst through the hole in the rear of her seed co-op cap. “Hi, August,” she said, scooping seeds out of her lower lip and thwacking them into the dirt at her feet. “You didn’t come up to the house for lunch.” “Yeah. I ate at the old house with my mom.” “Oh, O.K. I’m going to stick around tonight. I think I’ll make some tacos for you guys for dinner. Sound good?” August looked at her face, her round, constantly red cheeks. She called it rosacea, a skin condition. It made her seem to exist in a state of perpetual embarrassment. He wondered if she’d been teased about it at school. She was only seven years older than he was and had graduated from the high school last year. August’s father had hired her in her senior year to help him with the milking. She’d worked before school and after school and on weekends. August’s father had said that she worked harder than any hired man he’d ever had. Now that she was done with school, she put in full days. She could drive a tractor with a harrow, she could muck out the barn, she could give antibiotic shots to the cows, and when the calving season came she could plunge her hands in up to her wrists to help a difficult calf come bawling into the world. “Crunchy shells or soft shells?” August said, knocking at the toes of his boots with the wrench. “Soft?” “I like crunchy.” “Well, I’ll see what you guys have in the cupboards, but I bought some soft ones already.” “Flour or corn?” “Flour, I think.” “I like corn.” August spat at his feet, but his mouth was dry, so the spit trailed out on his chin and he wiped at it with the back of his sleeve. “I asked your dad what kind he wanted and he said it didn’t matter.” “He likes the crunchy shells, too. Trust me. Do you make them with beans or without?” Lisa hesitated for a moment and tugged at the brim of her cap. “Which do you prefer?” she said. “Well, that depends.” “I bought some black beans. I usually put some of those in. But I don’t have to.” “I like beans. But I don’t eat black beans. I think they look like rabbit turds. My dad thinks that, too.” “O.K., I’ll leave those out, then. Sound good?” The red on Lisa’s cheeks had spread. A crimson blush was leaching down her neck all the way to the collar of her barn overalls. “All right, August, see you at dinner. Your dad’s probably wondering where I got off to. We have to get these cows taken care of.” Lisa headed into the barn, and August wandered out to the back pasture, swinging his wrench at stalks of burdock and thistle, stepping around the thick plots of fresh manure. He climbed the low hill before the tree line on the property’s boundary and sat next to the pile of rocks that marked Skyler’s grave. There was a slightly bent sassafras stick, with the bark whittled off, jutting up from the rocks. It was all that was left of a cross August had fashioned from two such sticks lashed together with a piece of old shoelace. This was a gesture August had seen performed in all the old Westerns he watched with his father. Whenever a gunslinger went down, his buddies erected a cross just like that. During the course of the past year, the sun had rotted August’s old shoelace so that the crosspiece had fallen off, leaving just the vertical stick pointing up at the sky like a crooked, accusatory finger. Skyler had been his birth dog. His father had brought the tiny six-week-old pup home when August had been out of the hospital less than a week. It was something that August’s father said his own father had done for him. He thought that it was good for a boy to have a dog to grow up with. And, against August’s mother’s objections, he’d put the soft, pug-faced shepherd mix in the crib with August—“to get acquainted,” he said. “A boy with a dog is healthier, more active.” And it seemed true. August had been a particularly sturdy baby, a bright, energetic boy who grew up with a shaggy, tongue-lolling, good-natured four-legged shadow. At twelve, Skyler had been in remarkably good shape, a little stiff in the mornings but by noon harassing the barn cats like a dog half his age. But then, one day after school, August didn’t see him anywhere in the barn or the yard. He went to the equipment shed and found him stretched out on his side with a greenish-blue froth discoloring his grayed muzzle. He’d chewed through a gallon jug of antifreeze that August’s father kept under the workbench. August and his father had carted the body up to the hill and taken turns with the pickaxe and shovel. When they’d finished they stood and regarded the cairn of rocks they’d stacked over the raw earth to keep the skunks out. “I guess twelve is as good an age as any,” his father had said. At the time, August thought he was talking about the dog. Later, he thought maybe his father had meant that twelve was as good an age as any for a boy to lose a thing he loved for the first time. August watched the sky in the west become washed in dusky, pink-tinged clouds. Unbidden came the thought of Lisa, the crimson in her cheeks that spread like a hot infection down her neck and shoulders and back and arms, all the way to her legs. That this was the case wasn’t mere supposition. He’d seen it. It had been an early-dismissal day the previous fall. August, off the bus and out of his school clothes, eating a piece of cake from the new house, wandered down to the barn, the air sharp with the acrid tang of the oak leaves his father had been burning in the front yard. The pile smoldered; there was no one around. Skyler slept in the shade of a stock tank. The cows were yoked up in their stanchions. The whole barn was full of the low rumble of suction, the automatic milkers chugging away. And then, through the open doorway of the grain room, there was his father, thrusting behind Lisa, who was bent over a hay bale, her cheek and forearms pressed down into the cut ends of the hay. Their overalls were around their legs like shed exoskeletons, as if they were insects emerging, their conjoined bodies larval, soft and mottled. August saw the flush of Lisa then, the creeping red that extended all the way down her back to her thick thighs and her spread calves. She had her underwear pulled down around her knees, and its brilliant lacy pinkness was a glaring insult to the honest, flyspecked gray and manure-brown of the barn. On his way out, August turned the barn radio up as loud as it would go. Golf, Paul Harvey was saying, is a game in which you yell “Fore,” shoot six, and write down five. At the dinner table, Lisa and August’s father each had a beer. Lisa cut a lime wedge and jammed it down the neck of her bottle, and August’s father said, what the hell, he might try it like that, too. They smiled at each other and clinked their bottles together and drank, and August watched the lime wedges bobbing in the bottles like floats in a level held on a surface that was out of true. When they’d finished eating, August’s father leaned back in his chair and belched mightily, his rough, calloused fingers shredding the paper napkin as he wiped taco juice from his hands. “Best meal I’ve had in a while. Thanks, Lisa.” Lisa smiled and said, “You’re welcome, Darwin. I’m glad you liked it.” “Would you care for some fresh–ground pepper and/or a clarinet solo?”Buy the print » “I got three cats today,” August said to break up their stupid smiling competition. “I did it with a wrench. Right in the head. They never knew what happened.” Out of the corner of his eye he could see Lisa wrinkle her nose slightly. His father finished his beer and piled his fork and knife and napkin on his plate. He was a large man; all his joints seemed too big—hard, knobby wrists and knuckles, his hands darkened from the sun up to the point where his shirt cuffs lay. He was forty-five years old and still had a full head of hair, dark brown, just starting to gray at the temples. In the cold months, he liked to wear a bright silk cowboy scarf knotted around his neck. He smiled at women often, and, August noticed, women often smiled back. His mother used to say that for a guy with manure on his boots he could be fairly charming. “Come on, now, Augie. I gave you a job and I appreciate you getting right down to it. But there’s barn talk and there’s house talk. I’m sure Lisa wouldn’t mind a little house talk now. How about you clear the table and clean up the dishes. And why don’t you thank Lisa for making that delicious meal? She worked all day and then came up to do that for us.” “Thanks,” August said, and scooted his chair back loudly. He stacked the dishes into a precarious pile and carried them off to the kitchen. He ran the water until steam rose and squirted in soap until the bubbles grew in great tumorous mounds, and then he did the dishes. Clanking plate against plate, banging pot against pot, running the water unnecessarily, making as much noise as possible to cover the low murmur of Lisa and his father talking in the next room. Through the kitchen window he could see the murky green cast of the yard light, the hulking form of the barn, and, farther out, the long, low shape of the old house, completely dark. When his father came in to get two more beers, August didn’t turn around to look at him. He stood next to August at the sink and took the tops off the bottles. He nudged August with an elbow, and August scrubbed at a pan, ignoring him. “How’s your mother?” August shrugged. “I’m not going to run her down, Augie, but she’s not a woman that will ever give you her true mind. You know what I mean?” August shrugged. “She’s been disappointed her whole life, probably came out of the womb that way. You don’t disappoint her, I know that, but everything else does—me included, always have, always will. She never learned to hold herself accountable. That’s the way her parents allowed her to grow up. She’s very smart and she thinks she sees things I don’t see, but she’s wrong, I’ll tell you that. I see plenty. You hear me?” August swirled a cup in the dishwater and didn’t say anything. His father slapped him on the back of the head. “I said, you hear me?” “Yeah. I hear you.” August looked straight ahead out the window. “O.K., then.” He reached into the dishwater, came up with a handful of suds, and smeared them on August’s cheek. “You’re all right,” he said. “When you think it’s time, you let me know and we’ll go find you a pup.” In the morning, the smells of toast and coffee and bacon pulled August from his bed before the sun had even hit the east-facing window. He clumped down the stairs into the kitchen and sat at the table rubbing his eyes. Lisa stood at the stove making eggs. Her feet were bare and she had on the gray long underwear she wore under her barn overalls. They were made for men and were tight around her hips, and when she bent over to get the butter out of the refrigerator August could see the faint lines of her panties curving across her full rear. “Would you like coffee, August?” August nodded, and she put a steaming mug in front of him. “I figure you like it black, like your dad does?” “Sure,” he said, taking a sip, trying not to grimace. “Black and strong.” His mother mixed his coffee with hot whole milk, dumping in heaping spoonfuls of sugar. She told him that was how she’d learned to make coffee when she lived in New Orleans, in another lifetime, before she married his father. August knew that Lisa would never go to New Orleans in a million lifetimes. His father came from the bedroom. He had a dab of shaving foam under one earlobe. He put his hand on Lisa’s waist as he got a coffee mug from the cupboard, and she turned and wiped off the shaving foam with her sleeve. “How long before the eggs are done?” August asked, tapping his fingers on the tabletop. “A few minutes. The bacon is almost ready.” August sighed, downed his coffee, and took a piece of toast from the plate on the counter. “Well,” he said, “some of us can’t sit around. I have to get to work.” He got his wrench from the mudroom and slid on his boots, leaving them unlaced, and walked across the lawn with his boot tongues flapping like dogs breathing in the heat. The cows were milling in the pasture, gathered up close to the gate. They rolled their dumb baleful eyes at him and lowed, their udders straining and heavy with milk. “Shut up, you idiots,” August said. He picked a small handful of pebbles and continued to walk, pelting any cow within reach. The trees that lined the back pasture were old oaks and maples and a few massive beech trees, the ground around them covered with the scattered, spiny shells of their nuts. There was a barbed-wire fence strung across the trees. It was rusted and had been mended many times, so old that it had become embedded in the trunks. August walked down the line and ran his fingers over the rough oaks and maples and the gray crêpe of the beeches, with their bark that looked like smooth, hairless hide stretched over muscle. He let his fingers linger on the places where the wire cut into the trunks, and then he knelt and sighted all the way down the fence, squinting into the strengthening light, and imagined that he was looking at a row of gnarled old people, the soft skin of their necks garrotted by barbed wire, the twisted branches like arms raised, fingers splayed, trembling and clutching for air. Until last year, August had assisted with the milking every morning before school and every evening after school, and then his mother forbade it. “Do you like helping your father with the milking?” she asked one evening as they cleaned up the dinner dishes. His father was on the porch listening to a baseball game, and the sound of the play-by-play came through the screen door, garbled and frantic. The announcer spat hoarsely, A hard line drive—he’s going, he’s going, he’s going. “I don’t mind it too much,” August said, wiping a plate dry. “Most of the time I like it.” “Huh, well, that’s a problem,” his mother said. She had a cigarette tucked into the corner of her mouth and ash drifted into the dishwater as she spoke. “You’ll be in high school soon, you know. And then there’ll be girls. They’re going to find you so handsome. And then there’ll be college, and then there’ll be any life you want after that. This is just a small piece, Augie, and if you hate it you should know that soon you’ll be making your own way.” “But I said I don’t hate it, Mom.” “Jesus. I really hope you don’t mean that. Getting up early, the shitty cows, the dullness?” “What about it?” “My God, Augie, look at me and tell me you don’t hate it.” She turned to him and held his chin with her soapy hand and her cigarette trembled, and August tried but couldn’t tell if she was serious and about to cry or joking and about to laugh. “I don’t hate anything. It’s fine. I like everything fine.” “You’re serious?” “Yes.” “Then I’m disappointed in you,” she said, turning back to the dishes. “But I suppose it’s my fault, for letting it go on. I’m going to talk to your father. Your barn days are coming to an end. I’ll finish up here. Go and listen to the game with your dad.” On the porch, his father was in the rocker, his legs stretched out long in front of him. He nodded at August as he sat on the step. We’re going into extra innings. Hang on as we pause for station identification. You’re not going to want to miss this. The radio crackled and an ad for a used-car lot came on. Bats flew from the eaves, and August threw pebbles to make them dive, and then the game came back on and Cecil Fielder won it all for the Tigers on a long sacrifice fly to center field. August looked at his father. He was slumped in the chair with his eyes closed and his hands clasped together over his chest. “Night,” August said, getting up to go inside. His father yawned and stretched. “Night,” he said. Later, his parents’ arguing had kept him awake, and the next morning his father didn’t roust him for the day’s milking, and soon after that Lisa was always around, and not long after that his mother started spending time at the old house. At first, just a few nights a week, and then one morning she didn’t come back to make breakfast, and his father burned the toast and slammed the door on his way to the barn. August tied his boots. He climbed up to the haymow and surprised two cats that had been intently pawing at a dead sparrow on the hay-littered floor. He broke one’s back with a quick chop of the wrench and stunned the other with a jab to the head. The cats were indistinct as they writhed, blurred in the gloom. August silenced their yowling with two more sharp blows from the wrench, and then gave chase to a few more slinking forms that eluded him by leaping to join their wailing, spitting clan in the rafters. “We’ve found by applying just the tiniest bit of an electric shock, test scores have soared.”Buy the print » August didn’t curse much. His father always said that no one took a man who cursed too much seriously and it was better to be the type of man who, when he did curse, made everyone else sit up and take notice. Now, however, in the dark barn with the hay dander swirling around his face and the cats twitching and bristling out of reach above him, he cursed. “Motherfucker,” he said. “Motherfucking, cocksucking, shitfaced, goddam, fucking cats.” It was the most curse words he’d ever strung together, and he hoped the cats were sitting up to take notice, trembling in fear at the rain of fire that was about to be visited upon their mangy heads. At the old house, his mother had the blinds drawn. She had cut a ragged hole in a quilt, pulled it over her head, and belted it around her waist, poncho style. Her arms stuck out, bare, and the quilt ends trailed across the floor when she got up to let him in. With the shades drawn it was dark, and she had lit an old kerosene lamp. The flame guttered, sending up tendrils of black smoke. She had been playing solitaire. There was a fried pork chop steaming in a pan on the table. “You want some lunch?” she said, after she had settled in her chair, smoothing the quilt down under her and over her bare legs. “I’m finished. You can have the rest.” She slid the pork chop over to August. It hadn’t been touched. He took a bite. It was seared crispy on the outside and juicy and tender on the inside, quick-fried in butter and finished in the oven. That was how she always made pork chops. Lisa wouldn’t know how to do this, he thought. Perhaps his father would get so fed up with Lisa’s tough, dried-out pork chops that he would send her away and his mother would come back to the new house and he’d start helping his dad with the barn chores again. “Are you still not eating?” He picked up the pork chop to gnaw at the bone, where the best-tasting meat was. “Augie, that’s a common misconception about us breatharians. I eat. Good Lord, I eat all the time. Here, actually, let me have one more bite of that.” She leaned over and wafted her hand around his pork chop, bringing the smell toward her, and then took a quick hiccupping breath and smiled and leaned back in her seat. “Meat from an animal you know always has the best flavor,” she said, lighting one of her little cigars. “That’s something city people probably don’t understand. You remember taking kitchen scraps out to that hog every night after dinner? You fed that animal, and now it feeds you. That lends a certain something to the savor—I’m sure there’s a word for it in another language.” She pulled the quilt tighter around her shoulders. “Did you know that, Augie? That there are all sorts of words for things in other languages that we don’t have in English? It’s like your soul is tongue-tied when that happens, when you have a feeling or experience that you can’t explain, because there isn’t a specific word for it. If you knew all the languages in the world, you could express yourself perfectly, and all experiences would be understandable to you because you would have a word, a perfect word, to attach to any possible occasion. See what I mean?” August was fairly certain that his mother was naked under her quilt. He wondered if there was a word for that in another language. A word to classify the feeling you get sitting across from your mother, eating a pork chop, with your mother naked under a quilt. “I don’t know,” he said. “Just because you have a word to put on something doesn’t mean you understand it any better. Does it?” “Oh, I think so. Definitely. I don’t think things really exist until we can name them. Without names, the world is just populated by spooks and monsters.” “Giving something a name doesn’t change what it is. It’s still the same thing.” “You couldn’t be more wrong, Augie dear. How about death?” “What about it?” “What if instead of death everyone called it being born and looked forward to it as the great reward at the end of seventy or so years of slow rot on earth?” “That doesn’t make any sense. Why would anyone look forward to death?” “Maybe you’re too young for this conversation,” she said, coughing into the back of her hand. “That’s an interesting thought. I bet in some language there is a word for the state you exist in now—the state of being incapable of formulating a concept of, or discussing abstractly, death in all its various forms, owing to a lack of experience. You need to have someone you love die, and then you get it. All the understanding of the world comes rushing in on you like a vacuum seal was broken somewhere. I’m not saying you’ll ever understand why the world works the way it does, but you’ll surely come to the conclusion that it does work, and that, as a result, it will someday come to a grinding halt, because nothing can work forever. See what I mean?” “No.” “Huh. Well, in time you will. I’m sure.” She picked up her solitaire game and shuffled the cards, splitting the deck, riffling the ends together with a brisk splat and then condensing the deck back together by making the cards bow and bridge and shush into one. August sat listening, enjoying the sound of the cards and thinking, knowing that she was wrong. He had loved someone who had died. “How’s the job coming?” “Not great.” “Motivational issues?” “No. They’re just fast. I’ve been thinking about a change of tactics.” “Oh, yeah?” “I don’t know if it will work. Can I borrow some bowls?” Lisa stayed for dinner again. August sensed that his life was now split into two distinct pieces. There was the part where Skyler was alive, where his father and mother and he had all lived in the new house, and now there was this new part, where things were foggy and indistinct. August twirled Lisa’s spaghetti around on his fork and realized, for the very first time, that all of his life up to this very point existed only in the past, which meant that it didn’t exist at all, not really. It might as well have been buried right there in the pasture, next to Skyler. It was dark and cool in the barn, and August switched on the radio for company. He hadn’t been able to sleep, so he’d risen early, before Lisa, even, and he hadn’t had breakfast and his stomach rumbled as he climbed the wooden ladder up to the haymow. He could see the faint pinpricks of stars through the knotholes and chinks of the barn planks, and then his groping fingers found the pull chain and the haymow was flooded with fluorescent light. The floor was carpeted with twisted feline forms—tabbies, calicos, some night-black, some pure white, intermingled and lumpy and irrevocably dead. They lay like pieces of dirty laundry where they’d fallen from their perches after the tainted milk had taken its hold on their guts. August coughed and spat, slightly awed, thinking about the night before and the way the antifreeze had turned the bluish-white milk a sickly rotten green. He nudged a few of the still forms with his boot and looked toward the rafters, where there was a calico, its dead claws stuck in the joist, so that it dangled there like a shabby, moth-eaten piñata. He pulled his shirt cuffs into his gloves against the fleas jumping everywhere and began pitching the cats down the hay chute. As he worked, the voice of Paul Harvey found its way up from the radio on the ground floor. Just think about it. All things considered, is there any time in history in which you’d rather live than now? I’ll leave you with that thought. I’m Paul Harvey, and now you know the rest of the story. August climbed down the ladder and stepped shin deep into a pile of cats. He got out his jackknife and stropped it a few times against the side of his boot and set to work separating the cats from their tails. As he worked he pushed the cats into the conveyor trough, and when he was done he flipped the wall switch to set the belt moving. August watched the cats ride the conveyor until all of them went out of sight under the back wall of the barn. Outside, they were falling from the track to the cart on the back of the manure spreader. He didn’t go out to look, but he imagined them piling up, covering the dirty straw and cow slop, a stack of forms as lifeless and soft as old fruit, furred with mold. Tomorrow, or the next day, his father would hook the cart up to the tractor and drive it to the back pasture to spread its strange load across the cow-pocked grass. It took him a long time to nail the tails to the board and, as he pounded, the last one was already stiffening. Dawn struck as August carried the board up to the new house. In the mudroom, he stopped and listened. There was no sound coming from the kitchen, but he knew that his father and Lisa would be up soon. He leaned the board against the coatrack, directly over his father’s barn boots, and regarded his work as it was, totem and trophy, altogether alien against a backdrop of lilac-patterned wallpaper. August tried to whistle as he walked across the lawn and down the hill to the old house. He’d never got the hang of whistling. The best he could muster was a spit-laced warble. On the porch, he wiped his lips with the back of his sleeve and looked in the window. His mother was at the kitchen table. She held a card in her hand, raised, as if she were deciding her next move, but August could see that the cards in front of her were scattered across the table in disarray, a jumbled mess, as if they’d been thrown there. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Semplica-Girl Diaries	Credit Illustration by Martin Ansin SEPTEMBER 3RD Having just turned forty, have resolved to embark on grand project of writing every day in this new black book just got at OfficeMax. Exciting to think how in one year, at rate of one page/day, will have written three hundred and sixty-five pages, and what a picture of life and times then available for kids & grandkids, even greatgrandkids, whoever, all are welcome (!) to see how life really was/is now. Because what do we know of other times really? How clothes smelled and carriages sounded? Will future people know, for example, about sound of airplanes going over at night, since airplanes by that time passé? Will future people know sometimes cats fought in night? Because by that time some chemical invented to make cats not fight? Last night dreamed of two demons having sex and found it was only two cats fighting outside window. Will future people be aware of concept of “demons”? Will they find our belief in “demons” quaint? Will “windows” even exist? Interesting to future generations that even sophisticated college grad like me sometimes woke in cold sweat, thinking of demons, believing one possibly under bed? Anyway, what the heck, am not planning on writing encyclopedia, if any future person is reading this, if you want to know what a “demon” was, go look it up, in something called an encyclopedia, if you even still have those! Am getting off track, due to tired, due to those fighting cats. Hereby resolve to write in this book at least twenty minutes a night, no matter how tired. (If discouraged, just think how much will have been recorded for posterity after one mere year!) SEPTEMBER 5TH Oops. Missed a day. Things hectic. Will summarize yesterday. Yesterday a bit rough. While picking kids up at school, bumper fell off Park Avenue. Note to future generations: Park Avenue = type of car. Ours not new. Ours oldish. Bit rusty. Kids got in, Eva (middle child) asked what was meaning of “junkorama.” At that moment, bumper fell off. Mr. Renn, history teacher, quite helpful, retrieved bumper (note: write letter of commendation to principal), saying he too once had car whose bumper fell off, when poor, in college. Eva assured me it was all right bumper had fallen off. I replied of course it was all right, why wouldn’t it be all right, it was just something that had happened, I certainly hadn’t caused. Image that stays in mind is of three sweet kids in back seat, chastened expressions on little faces, timidly holding bumper across laps. One end of bumper had to hang out Eva’s window and today she has sniffles, plus small cut on hand from place where bumper was sharp. Lilly (oldest, nearly thirteen!), as always, put all in perspective, by saying, Who cares about stupid bumper, we’re going to get a new car soon anyway, when rich, right? Upon arriving home, put bumper in garage. In garage, found dead large mouse or small squirrel crawling with maggots. Used shovel to transfer majority of squirrel/mouse to Hefty bag. Smudge of squirrel/mouse still on garage floor, like oil stain w/ embedded fur tufts. Stood looking up at house, sad. Thought: Why sad? Don’t be sad. If sad, will make everyone sad. Went in happy, not mentioning bumper, squirrel/mouse smudge, maggots, then gave Eva extra ice cream, due to I had spoken harshly to her. Have to do better! Be kinder. Start now. Soon they will be grown and how sad, if only memory of you is testy, stressed guy in bad car. When will I have sufficient leisure/wealth to sit on hay bale watching moon rise, while in luxurious mansion family sleeps? At that time, will have chance to reflect deeply on meaning of life, etc., etc. Have a feeling and have always had a feeling that this and other good things will happen for us! SEPTEMBER 6TH Very depressing birthday party today at home of Lilly’s friend Leslie Torrini. House is mansion where Lafayette once stayed. Torrinis showed us Lafayette’s room: now their “Fun Den.” Plasma TV, pinball game, foot massager. Thirty acres, six garages (they call them “outbuildings”): one for Ferraris (three), one for Porsches (two, plus one he is rebuilding), one for historical merry-go-round they are restoring as family (!). Across trout-stocked stream, red Oriental bridge flown in from China. Showed us hoofmark from some dynasty. In front room, near Steinway, plaster cast of hoofmark from even earlier dynasty, in wood of different bridge. Picasso autograph, Disney autograph, dress Greta Garbo once wore, all displayed in massive mahogany cabinet. Vegetable garden tended by guy named Karl. Lilly: Wow, this garden is like ten times bigger than our whole yard. Flower garden tended by separate guy, weirdly also named Karl. Lilly: Wouldn’t you love to live here? Me: Lilly, ha-ha, don’t ah . . . Pam (my wife, very sweet, love of life!): What, what is she saying wrong? Wouldn’t you? Wouldn’t you love to live here? I know I would. In front of house, on sweeping lawn, largest SG arrangement ever seen, all in white, white smocks blowing in breeze, and Lilly says, Can we go closer? Leslie Torrini: We can but we don’t, usually. Leslie’s mother, dressed in Indonesian sarong: We don’t, as we already have, many times, dear, but you perhaps would like to? Perhaps this is all very new and exciting to you? Lilly, shyly: It is, yes. Leslie’s mom: Please, go, enjoy. Lilly races away. Leslie’s mom, to Eva: And you, dear? Eva stands timidly against my leg, shakes head no. Just then father (Emmett) appears, says time for dinner, hopes we like sailfish flown in fresh from Guatemala, prepared with a rare spice found only in one tiny region of Burma, which had to be bribed out. The kids can eat later, in the tree house, Leslie’s mom says. She indicates the tree house, which is painted Victorian and has a gabled roof and a telescope sticking out and what looks like a small solar panel. Thomas: Wow, that tree house is like twice the size of our actual house. (Thomas, as usual, exaggerating: tree house is more like one-third size of our house. Still, yes: big tree house.) Our gift not the very worst. Although possibly the least expensive—someone brought a mini DVD-player; someone brought a lock of hair from an actual mummy (!)—it was, in my opinion, the most heartfelt. Because Leslie (who appeared disappointed by the lock of mummy hair, and said so, because she already had one (!)) was, it seemed to me, touched by the simplicity of our paper-doll set. And although we did not view it as kitsch at the time we bought it, when Leslie’s mom said, Les, check it out, kitsch or what, don’t you love it?, I thought, Yes, well, maybe it is kitsch, maybe we did intend. In any event, this eased the blow when the next gift was a ticket to the Preakness (!), as Leslie has recently become interested in horses, and has begun getting up early to feed their nine horses, whereas previously she had categorically refused to feed the six llamas. Leslie’s mom: So guess who ended up feeding the llamas? Leslie, sharply: Mom, don’t you remember back then I always had yoga? Leslie’s mom: Although actually, honestly? It was a blessing, a chance for me to rediscover what terrific animals they are, after school, on days on which Les had yoga. Leslie: Like every day, yoga? Leslie’s mom: I guess you just have to trust your kids, trust that their innate interest in life will win out in the end, don’t you think? Which is what is happening now, with Les and horses. God, she loves them. Pam: Our kids, we can’t even get them to pick up what Ferber does in the front yard. Leslie’s mom: And Ferber is? Me: Dog. Leslie’s mom: Ha-ha, yes, well, everything poops, isn’t that just it? After dinner, strolled grounds with Emmett, who is surgeon, does something two days a week with brain inserts, small electronic devices? Or possibly biotronic? They are very small. Hundreds can fit on head of pin? Or dime? Did not totally follow. He asked about my work, I told. He said, Well, huh, amazing the strange, arcane things our culture requires some of us to do, degrading things, things that offer no tangible benefit to anyone, how do they expect people to continue to even hold their heads up? Could not think of response. Note to self: Think of response, send on card, thus striking up friendship with Emmett? Returned to Torrinis’ house, sat on special star-watching platform as stars came out. Our kids sat watching stars, fascinated. What, I said, no stars in our neighborhood? No response. From anyone. Actually, stars there did seem brighter. On star platform, had too much to drink, and suddenly everything I thought of seemed stupid. So just went quiet, like in stupor. Pam drove home. I sat sullen and drunk in passenger seat of Park Avenue. Kids babbling about what a great party it was, Lilly especially. Thomas spouting all these boring llama facts, per Emmett. Lilly: I can’t wait till my party. My party is in two weeks, right? Pam: What do you want to do for your party, sweetie? Long silence in car. Lilly, finally, sadly: Oh, I don’t know. Nothing, I guess. Pulled up to house. Another silence as we regarded blank, empty yard. That is, mostly crabgrass and no red Oriental bridge w/ ancient hoofprints and no outbuildings and not a single SG, but only Ferber, who we’d kind of forgotten about, and who, as usual, had circled round and round the tree until nearly strangling to death on his gradually shortening leash and was looking up at us with begging eyes in which desperation was combined with a sort of low-boiling anger. Let him off leash, he shot me hostile look, took dump extremely close to porch. Watched to see if kids would take initiative and pick up. But no. Kids only slumped past and stood exhausted by front door. Knew I should take initiative and pick up. But was tired and had to come in and write in this stupid book. Do not really like rich people, as they make us poor people feel dopey and inadequate. Not that we are poor. I would say we are middle. We are very, very lucky. I know that. But still, it is not right that rich people make us middle people feel dopey and inadequate. Am writing this still drunk and it is getting late and tomorrow is Monday, which means work. Work, work, work. Stupid work. Am so tired of work. Good night. SEPTEMBER 7TH Just reread that last entry and should clarify. Am not tired of work. It is a privilege to work. I do not hate the rich. I aspire to be rich myself. And when we finally do get our own bridge, trout, tree house, SGs, etc., at least will know we really earned them, unlike, say, the Torrinis, who, I feel, must have family money. Last night, after party, found Eva sad in her room. Asked why. She said no reason. But in sketch pad: crayon pic of row of sad SGs. Could tell were meant to be sad, due to frowns went down off faces like Fu Manchus and tears were dropping in arcs, flowers springing up where tears hit ground. Note to self: Talk to her, explain that it does not hurt, they are not sad but actually happy, given what their prior conditions were like: they chose, are glad, etc. Very moving piece on NPR re Bangladeshi SG sending money home: hence her parents able to build small shack. (Note to self: Find online, download, play for Eva. First fix computer. Computer super slow. Possibly delete “CircusLoser”? Acrobats run all jerky, due to low memory + elephants do not hop = no fun.) SEPTEMBER 12TH Nine days to Lilly’s b-day. Kind of dread this. Too much pressure. Do not want to have bad party. Had asked Lilly for list of b-day gift ideas. Today came home to envelope labelled “POSSIBLE GIFT LIST.” Inside, clippings from some catalogue: “Resting Fierceness.” A pair of fierce porcelain jungle cats are tamed (at least for now!) on highly detailed ornamental pillows, but their wildness is not to be underestimated. Left-facing cheetah: $350. Right-facing tiger: $325. Then, on Post-it: “DAD, SECOND CHOICE.” “Girl Reading to Little Sister” figurine: This childhood study by Nevada artist Dani will recall in porcelain the joys of “story time” and the tender moments shared by all. Girl and little girl reading on polished rock: $280. Discouraging, I felt. Because (1) why does young girl of thirteen want such old-lady gift, and (2) where does girl of thirteen get idea that $300 = appropriate amount for b-day gift? When I was kid, it was one shirt, one shirt I didn’t want, usually homemade. However, do not want to break Lilly’s heart or harshly remind her of our limitations. God knows, she is already reminded often enough. For “My Yard” project at school, Leslie Torrini brought in pics of Oriental bridge, plus background info on SGs (age, place of origin, etc.), as did “every other kid in class,” whereas Lilly brought in nineteen-forties condom box found last year during aborted attempt to start vegetable garden. Perhaps was bad call re letting her bring condom box? Thought, being historical, it would be good, plus perhaps kids would not notice it was condom box. But teacher noticed, pointed out, kids had big hoot, teacher used opportunity to discuss safe sex, which was good for class but maybe not so good for Lilly. As for party, Lilly said she would rather not have one. I asked, Why not, sweetie? She said, Oh, no reason. I said, Is it because of our yard, our house? Is it because you are afraid that, given our small house and bare yard, party might be boring or embarrassing? At which she burst into tears and said, Oh, Daddy. Actually, one figurine might not be excessive. Or, rather, might be excess worth indulging in, due to sad look on her face when she came in on “My Yard” day and dropped condom box on table with sigh. Maybe “Girl Reading to Little Sister,” as that is cheapest? Although maybe giving cheapest sends bad signal? Signals frugality even in midst of attempt to be generous? Maybe best to go big? Go for “Resting Fierceness”? Put cheetah on Visa, hope she is happily surprised? SEPTEMBER 14TH Observed Mel Redden at work today. He did fine. I did fine. He committed minor errors, I caught them all. He made one Recycling Error: threw Tab can in wrong bucket. When throwing Tab in wrong bucket, made Ergonomic Error, by throwing from far away, missing, having to get up and rethrow. Then made second Ergonomic Error: did not squat when picking up Tab to rethrow, but bent at waist, thereby increasing risk of back injury. Mel signed off on my Observations, then asked me to re-Observe. Very smart. During re-Observation, Mel made no errors. Threw no cans in bucket, just sat very still at desk. So was able to append that to his Record. Parted friends, etc., etc. One week until L’s birthday. Note to self: Order cheetah. However, not that simple. Some recent problems with Visa. Full. Past full. Found out at YourItalianKitchen, when Visa declined. Left Pam and kids there, walked rapidly out with big fake smile, drove to ATM. Then scary moment as ATM card also declined. Nearby wino said ATM was broken, directed me to different ATM. Thanked wino with friendly wave as I drove past. Wino gave me finger. Second ATM, thank God, not broken, did not decline. Arrived, winded, back at YourItalianKitchen to find Pam on third cup of coffee and kids falling off chairs and tapping aquarium with dimes, wait staff looking peeved. Paid cash, w/ big apologetic tip. Considered collecting dimes from kids (!). Still, over all nice night. Really fun. Kids showed good manners, until aquarium bit. But problem remains: Visa full. Also AmEx full and Discover nearly full. Called Discover: $200 avail. If we transfer $200 from checking (once paycheck comes in), would then have $400 avail. on Discover, could get cheetah. Although timing problematic. Currently, checking at zero. Paycheck must come, must put paycheck in checking pronto, hope paycheck clears quickly. And then, when doing bills, pick bills totalling $200 to not pay. To defer paying. Stretched a bit thin these days. Note to future generations: In our time are such things as credit cards. Company loans money, you pay back at high interest rate. Is nice for when you do not actually have money to do thing you want to do (for example, buy extravagant cheetah). You may say, safe in your future time, Wouldn’t it be better to simply not do thing you can’t afford to do? Easy for you to say! You are not here, in our world, with kids, kids you love, while other people are doing good things for their kids, such as a Heritage Journey to Nice, if you are the Mancinis, or three weeks wreck-diving off the Bahamas, if you are Gary Gold and his tan, sleek son, Byron. “Try and tell me what’s bothering you–use your S.A.T. words.”Buy the print » There is so much I want to do and experience and give to kids. Time going by so quickly, kids growing up so fast. If not now, when? When will we give them largesse and sense of generosity? Have never been to Hawaii or parasailed or eaten lunch at café by ocean, wearing floppy straw hats just purchased on whim. So I worry: Growing up in paucity, won’t they become too cautious? Not that they are growing up in paucity. Still, there are things we want but cannot have. If kids raised too cautious, due to paucity, will not world chew them up and spit out? Still, must fight good fight! Think of Dad. When Mom left Dad, Dad kept going to job. When laid off from job, got paper route. When laid off from paper route, got lesser paper route. In time, got better route back. By time Dad died, had job almost as good as original job. And had paid off most debt incurred after demotion to lesser route. Note to self: Visit Dad’s grave. Bring flowers. Have talk with Dad re certain things said by me at time of paper routes, due to, could not afford rental tux for prom but had to wear Dad’s old tux, which did not fit. Still, no need to be rude. Was not Dad’s fault he was good foot taller than me and therefore pant legs dragged, hiding Dad’s borrowed shoes, which pinched, because Dad, though tall, had tiny feet. SEPTEMBER 15TH Damn it. Plan will not work. Cannot get check to Discover in time. Needs time to clear. So no cheetah. Must think of something else to give to Lilly at small family-only party in kitchen. Or may have to do what Mom sometimes did, which was, when thing not available, wrap picture of thing with note promising thing. However, note to self: Do not do other thing Mom did, which was, when child tries to redeem, roll eyes, act exasperated, ask if child thinks money grows on trees. Note to self: Find ad with pic of cheetah, for I.O.U. coupon. Was on desk but not anymore. Possibly used to record phone message on? Possibly used to pick up little thing cat threw up? Poor Lilly. Her sweet hopeful face when toddler, wearing Burger King crown, and now this? She did not know she was destined to be not princess but poor girl. Poorish girl. Girl not-the-richest. No party, no present. Possibly no pic of cheetah in I.O.U. Could draw cheetah but Lilly might then think she was getting camel. Or not getting camel, rather. Am not best drawer. Ha-ha! Must keep spirits up. Laughter best medicine, etc., etc. Someday, I’m sure, dreams will come true. But when? Why not now? Why not? SEPTEMBER 20TH Sorry for silence but wow! Was too happy/busy to write! Friday most incredible day ever! Do not need to even write down, as will never forget this awesome day! But will record for future generations. Nice for them to know that good luck and happiness real and possible! In America of my time, want them to know, anything possible! Wow wow wow is all I can say! Remember how I always buy lunchtime Scratch-Off ticket? Have I said? Maybe did not say? Well, every Friday, to reward self for good week, I stop at store near home, treat self to Butterfinger, plus Scratch-Off ticket. Sometimes, if hard week, two Butterfingers. Sometimes, if very hard week, three Butterfingers. But, if three Butterfingers, no Scratch-Off. But Friday won TEN GRAND!! On Scratch-Off! Dropped both Butterfingers, stood there holding dime used to scratch, mouth hanging open. Kind of reeled into magazine rack. Guy at register took ticket, read ticket, said, Winner! Guy righted magazine rack, shook my hand. Then said we would get check, check for TEN GRAND, within week. Raced home on foot, forgetting car. Raced back for car. Halfway back, thought, What the heck, raced home on foot. Pam raced out, said, Where is car? Showed her Scratch-Off ticket. She stood stunned in yard. Are we rich now? Thomas said, racing out, dragging Ferber by collar. Not rich, Pam said. Richer, I said. Richer, Pam said. Damn. All began dancing around yard, Ferber looking witless at sudden dancing, then doing dance of own, by chasing own tail. Then, of course, had to decide how to use. That night in bed, Pam said, Partially pay off credit cards? My feeling was yes, O.K., could. But did not seem exciting to me and also did not seem all that exciting to her. Pam: It would be nice to do something special for Lilly’s birthday. Me: Me, too, exactly, yes! Pam: She could use something. She has really been down. Me: You know what? Let’s do it. Because Lilly our oldest, we have soft spot for her, soft spot that is also like worry spot. So we hatched up scheme, then did. Which was: Went to Greenway Landscaping, had them do total new yard design, incl. ten rosebushes + cedar pathway + pond + small hot tub + four-SG arrangement! Big fun part was, how soon could it be done? Plus, could it be done in secret? Greenway said, for price, could do in one day, while kids at school. (Note to self: Write letter praising Melanie, Greenway gal—super facilitator.) Step two was: send out secret invites to surprise party to be held on evening of day of yard completion, i.e., tomorrow, i.e., that is why so silent in terms of this book for last week. Sorry, sorry, have just been super busy! Pam and I worked so well together, like in old days, so nice and close, total agreement. That night, when arrangements all made, went to bed early (!!) (masseuse scenario—do not ask!). Sorry if corny. Am just happy. Note to future generations: Happiness possible. And happy so much better than opposite, i.e., sad. Hopefully you know! I knew, but forgot. Got used to being slightly sad! Slightly sad, due to stress, due to worry vis-à-vis limitations. But now, wow, no: happy! SEPTEMBER 21ST! LILLY B-DAY(!) There are days so perfect you feel: This is what life about. When old, will feel whole life worth it, because I got to experience this perfect day. Today that kind of day. In morning, kids go off to school per usual. Greenway comes at ten. Yard done by two (!). Roses in, fountain in, pathway in. SG truck arrives at three. SGs exit truck, stand shyly near fence while rack installed. Rack nice. Opted for “Lexington” (midrange in terms of price): bronze uprights w/ Colonial caps, EzyReleese levers. SGs already in white smocks. Microline strung through. SGs holding microline slack in hands, like mountain climbers holding rope. Only no mountain (!). One squatting, others standing polite/nervous, one sniffing new roses. She gives timid wave. Other says something to her, like, Hey, not supposed to wave. But I wave back, like, In this household, is O.K. to wave. Doctor monitors installation by law. So young! Looks like should be working at Wendy’s. Says we can watch hoist or not. Gives me meaningful look, cuts eyes at Pam, as in, Wife squeamish? Pam somewhat squeamish. Sometimes does not like to handle raw chicken. I say, Let’s go inside, put candles on cake. Soon, knock on door: doctor says hoist all done. Me: So can we have a look? Him: Totally. We step out. SGs up now, approx. three feet off ground, smiling, swaying in slight breeze. Order, left to right: Tami (Laos), Gwen (Moldova), Lisa (Somalia), Betty (Philippines). Effect amazing. Having so often seen similar configuration in yards of others more affluent makes own yard seem suddenly affluent, you feel different about self, as if at last in step with peers and time in which living. Pond great. Roses great. Path, hot tub great. Everything set. Could not believe we had pulled this off. Picked kids up at school. Lilly all hangdog because her b-day and no one said Happy B-day at breakfast, and no party and no gifts so far. Meanwhile, at home: Pam scrambling to decorate. Food delivered (BBQ from Snakey’s). Friends arrive. So when Lilly gets out of car what does she see but whole new yard full of friends from school sitting at new picnic table near new hot tub, and new line of four SGs, and Lilly literally bursts into tears of happiness! Then more tears as shiny pink packages unwrapped, “Resting Fierceness” plus “Girl Reading to Little Sister” revealed. Lilly touched I remembered exact figurines. Plus “Summer Daze” (hobo-clown fishing ($380)), which she hadn’t even requested (just to prove largesse). Several more waves of happy tears, hugs, right in front of friends, as if gratitude/affection for us greater than fear of rebuke from friends. Party guests played usual games, Crack the Whip, etc., etc., in beautiful new yard. Kids joyful, thanked us for inviting. Several said they loved yard. Several parents lingered after, saying they loved yard. And, my God, the look on Lilly’s face as all left! Know she will always remember today. Only one slight negative: After party, during cleanup, Eva stomps away, picks up cat too roughly, the way she sometimes does when mad. Cat scratches her, runs over to Ferber, claws Ferber. Ferber dashes away, stumbles into table, roses bought for Lilly crash down on Ferber. We find Eva in closet. Pam: Sweetie, sweetie, what is it? Eva: I don’t like it. It’s not nice. Thomas (rushing over with cat to show he is master of cat): They want to, Eva. They like applied for it. Pam: Where they’re from, the opportunities are not so good. Me: It helps them take care of the people they love. Eva facing wall, lower lip out in her pre-crying way. Then I get idea: Go to kitchen, page through Personal Statements. Yikes. Worse than I thought: Laotian (Tami) applied due to two sisters already in brothels. Moldovan (Gwen) has cousin who thought she was becoming window-washer in Germany, but no: sex slave in Kuwait (!). Somali (Lisa) watched father + little sister die of AIDS, same tiny thatch hut, same year. Filipina (Betty) has little brother “very skilled for computer,” parents cannot afford high school, have lived in tiny lean-to with three other families since their own tiny lean-to slid down hillside in earthquake. I opt for “Betty,” go back to closet, read “Betty” aloud. Me: Does that help? Do you understand now? Can you kind of imagine her little brother in a good school, because of her, because of us? Eva: If we want to help them, why can’t we just give them the money? Me: Oh, sweetie. Pam: Let’s go look. Let’s see do they look sad. (Do not look sad. Are in fact quietly chatting in moonlight.) At window, Eva quiet. Deep well. So sensitive. Even when tiny, Eva sensitive. Kindest kid. Biggest heart. Once, when little, found dead bird in yard and placed on swing-set slide, so it could “see him fambly.” Cried when we threw out old rocking chair, claiming it told her it wanted to live out rest of life in basement. But I worry, Pam worries: if kid too sensitive, kid goes out in world, world rips kid’s guts out, i.e., some toughness req’d? Lilly, on other hand, wrote all thank-you notes tonight in one sitting, mopped kitchen without being asked, then was out in yard w/ flashlight, picking up Ferber area with new poop-scoop she apparently rode on bike to buy w/ own money at Fas Mart (!). SEPTEMBER 22ND Happy period continues. Everyone at work curious re Scratch-Off win. Brought pics of yard into work, posted in cubicle, folks came by, admired. Steve Z. asked could he drop by house sometime, see yard in person. This a first: Steve Z. has never previously given me time of day. Even asked my advice: where did I buy winning Scratch-Off, how many Scratch-Offs do I typically buy, Greenway = reputable company? Embarrassed to admit how happy this made me. At lunch, went to mall, bought four new shirts. Running joke in department vis-à-vis I have only two shirts. Not so. But have three similar blue shirts and two identical yellow shirts. Hence confusion. Do not generally buy new clothes for self. Have always felt it more important for kids to have new clothes, i.e., do not want other kids saying my kids have only two shirts etc., etc. As for Pam, Pam very beautiful, raised w/ money. Do not want former wealthy beauty wearing same clothes over and over, feeling, When young, had so many clothes, but now, due to him (i.e., me), badly dressed. Correction: Pam not raised wealthy. Pam’s father = farmer in small town. Had biggest farm on edge of small town. So, relative to girls on smaller farms, Pam = rich girl. If same farm near bigger town, farm only average, but no: town so small, modest farm = estate. Anyway, Pam deserves best. Came home, took detour around side of house to peek at yard: fish hovering near lily pads, bees buzzing around roses, SGs in fresh white smocks, shaft of sun falling across lawn, dust motes rising up w/ sleepy late-summer feeling, LifeStyleServices team (i.e., Greenway folks who come by 3x/day to give SGs meals/water, take SGs to SmallJon in back of van, deal with feminine issues, etc., etc.) hard at work. Inside, found Leslie Torrini over (!). This = huge. Leslie never over solo before. Says she likes the way our SGs hang close to pond, are thus reflected in pond. Calls home, demands pond. Leslie’s mother calls Leslie spoiled brat, says no pond. This = big score for Lilly. Not that we are glad when someone else not glad. But Leslie so often glad when Lilly not glad, maybe is O.K. if, just once, Leslie = little bit sad while Lilly = riding high? Girls go into yard, stay in yard for long time. Pam and I peek out. Girls getting along? Girls have heads together in shade of trees, exchanging girlish intimacies, cementing Lilly’s status as pal of Leslie? Leslie’s mother arrives (in BMW). Leslie, Leslie’s mother bicker briefly re pond. Leslie’s mom: But, Les, love, you already have three streams. Leslie (caustic): Is a stream a pond, Maman? Lilly gives me grateful peck on cheek, runs upstairs singing happy tune. Note to self: Try to extend positive feelings associated with Scratch-Off win into all areas of life. Be bigger presence at work. Race up ladder (joyfully, w/ smile on face), get raise. Get in best shape of life, start dressing nicer. Learn guitar? Make point of noticing beauty of world? Why not educate self re birds, flowers, trees, constellations, become true citizen of natural world, walk around neighborhood w/ kids, patiently teaching kids names of birds, flowers, etc., etc.? Why not take kids to Europe? Kids have never been. Have never, in Alps, had hot chocolate in mountain café, served by kindly white-haired innkeeper, who finds them so sophisticated/friendly relative to usual snotty/rich American kids (who always ignore his pretty but crippled daughter w/ braids) that he shows them secret hiking path to incredible glade, kids frolic in glade, sit with crippled pretty girl on grass, later say it was most beautiful day of their lives, keep in touch with crippled girl via e-mail, we arrange surgery for her here, surgeon so touched he agrees to do for free, she is on front page of our paper, we are on front page of their paper in Alps? Ha-ha. (Actually have never been to Europe myself. Dad felt portions there too small. Then Dad lost job, got paper route, portion size = moot point.) Have been sleepwalking through life, future reader. Can see that now. ScratchOff win was like wakeup call. In rush to graduate college, win Pam, get job, make babies, move ahead in job, forgot former presentiment of special destiny I used to have when tiny, sitting in cedar-smelling bedroom closet, looking up at blowing trees through high windows, feeling I would someday do something great. Hereby resolve to live life in new and more powerful way, starting THIS MOMENT (!). SEPTEMBER 23RD Eva being a pain. As I may have mentioned above, Eva = sensitive. This = good, Pam and I feel. This = sign of intelligence. But Eva seems to have somehow gotten idea that sensitivity = effective way to get attention, i.e., has developed tendency to set herself apart from others, possibly as way of distinguishing self, i.e., casting self as better, more refined than others? Has, in past, refused to eat meat, sit on leather seats, use plastic forks made in China. Is endearing enough in little kid. But Eva getting older now, this tendency to object on principle starting to feel a bit precious + becoming fundamental to how she views self? Family life in our time sometimes seems like game of Whac-a-Mole, future reader. Future generations still have? Plastic mole emerges, you whack with hammer, he dies, falls, another emerges, you whack, kill? Sometimes seems that, as soon as one kid happy, another kid “pops up,” i.e., registers complaint, requiring parent to “whack” kid, i.e., address complaint. Today Eva’s teacher, Ms. Ross, sent home note: Eva acting out. Eva grouchy. Eva stamped foot. Eva threw fish-food container at John M. when John M. said it was his turn to feed fish. This not like Eva, Ms. R. says: Eva sweetest kid in class. Also, Eva’s art work has recently gone odd. Sample odd art work enclosed: Typical house. (Can tell is meant to be our house by mock-cherry tree = swirl of pink.) In yard, SGs frowning. One (Betty) having thought in cartoon balloon: “OUCH! THIS SURE HERTS.” Second (Gwen), pointing long bony finger at house: “THANKS LODES.” Third (Lisa), tears rolling down cheeks: “WHAT IF I AM YOUR DAUHTER?” Pam: Well. This doesn’t seem to be going away. Me: No, it does not. Took Eva for drive. Drove through Eastridge, Lemon Hills. Pointed out houses w/ SGs. Had Eva keep count. In end, of approx. fifty houses, thirty-nine had. Eva: So, just because everyone is doing it, that makes it right. This cute. Eva parroting me, Pam. “Sitters are so expensive.”Buy the print » Stopped at Fritz’s Chillhouse, had banana split. Eva had SnowMelt. We sat on big wooden crocodile, watched sun go down. Eva: I don’t even—I don’t even get it how they’re not dead. Suddenly occurred to me, w/ little gust of relief: Eva resisting in part because she does not understand basic science of thing. Asked Eva if she even knew what Semplica Pathway was. Did not. Drew human head on napkin, explained: Lawrence Semplica = doctor + smart cookie. Found way to route microline through brain that does no damage, causes no pain. Technique uses lasers to make pilot route. Microline then threaded through w/ silk leader. Microline goes in here (touched Eva’s temple), comes out here (touched other). Is very gentle, does not hurt, SGs asleep during whole deal. Then decided to level w/ Eva. Explained: Lilly at critical juncture. Next year, Lilly will start high school. Mommy and Daddy want Lilly to enter high school as confident young woman, feeling her family as good/affluent as any other family, her yard approx. in ballpark of yards of peers, i.e., not overt source of embarrassment. This too much to ask? Eva quiet. Could see wheels turning. Eva wild about Lilly, would walk in front of train for Lilly. Then shared story w/ Eva re summer job I had in high school, at Señor Tasty’s (taco place). Was hot, was greasy, boss mean, boss always goosing us with tongs. By time I went home, hair + shirt always stank of grease. No way I could do that job now. But back then? Actually enjoyed: flirted with countergirls, participated in pranks with other employees (hid tongs of mean boss, slipped magazine down own pants so that, when mean boss tong-goosed me, did not hurt, mean boss = baffled). Point is, I said, everything relative. SGs have lived very different lives from us. Their lives brutal, harsh, unpromising. What looks scary/unpleasant to us may not be so scary/unpleasant to them, i.e., they have seen worse. Eva: You flirted with girls? Me: I did. Don’t tell Mom. That got little smile. Believe I somewhat broke through with Eva. Hope so. Discussed situation w/ Pam tonight. Pam, as usual, offered sound counsel: Go slow, be patient, Eva bright, savvy. In another month, Eva will have adjusted, forgotten, will once again be usual happy self. Love Pam. Pam my rock. SEPTEMBER 25TH Shit. Fuck. Family hit by absolute thunderclap, future reader. Will explain. This morning, kids sitting sleepily at table, Pam making eggs, Ferber under her feet, hoping scrap of food will drop. Thomas, eating bagel, drifts to window. Thomas: Wow. What the heck. Dad? You better get over here. Go to window. SGs gone. Totally gone (!). Race out. Rack empty. Microline gone. Gate open. Take somewhat frantic run up block, to see if any sign of them. Is not. Race back inside. Call Greenway, call police. Cops arrive, scour yard. Cop shows me microline drag mark in mud near gate. Says this actually good news: with microline still in, will be easier to locate SGs, as microline limits how fast they can walk, since, fleeing in group, they are forced to take baby steps, so one does not get too far behind/ahead of others, hence causing yank on microline, yank that could damage brain of one yanked. Other cop says yes, that would be case if SGs on foot. But come on, he says, SGs not on foot, SGs off in activist van somewhere, laughing butts off. Me: Activists. First cop: Yeah, you know: Women4Women, Citizens for Economic Parity, Semplica Rots in Hell. Second cop: Fourth incident this month. First cop: Those gals didn’t get down by themselves. Me: Why would they do that? They chose to be here. Why would they go off with some total— Cops laugh. First cop: Smelling that American dream, baby. Kids beyond freaked. Kids huddled near fence. School bus comes and goes. Greenway field rep (Rob) arrives. Rob = tall, thin, bent. Looks like archery bow, if archery bow had pierced ear + long hair like pirate, was wearing short leather vest. Rob immediately drops bombshell: says he is sorry to have to be more or less a hardass in our time of trial, but is legally obligated to inform us that, per our agreement w/ Greenway, if SGs not located within three weeks, we will, at that time, become responsible for full payment of the required Replacement Debit. Pam: Wait, the what? Per Rob, Replacement Debit = $100/month, per individual, per each month still remaining on their Greenway contracts at time of loss (!). Betty (21 months remaining) = $2,100; Tami (13 months) = $1,300; Gwen (18 months) = $1,800; Lisa (34 months (!)) = $3,400. Total: $2,100 + $1,300 + $1,800 + $3,400 = $8,600. Pam: Fucksake. Rob: Believe me, I know, that’s a lot of money, right? But our take on it is—or, you know, their take on it, Greenway’s take—is that we—or they—made an initial investment, and, I mean, obviously, that was not cheap, just in terms of like visas and airfares and all? Pam: No one said anything to us about this. Me: At all. Rob: Huh. Who was on your account again? Me: Melanie? Rob: Right, yeah, I had a feeling. With Melanie, Melanie was sometimes rushing through things to close the deal. Especially with Package A folks, who were going chintzy in the first place? No offense. Anyway, which is why she’s gone. If you want to yell at her, go to Home Depot. She’s second in charge of Paint, probably lying her butt off about which color is which. Feel angry, violated: someone came into our yard in dark of night, while kids sleeping nearby, stole? Stole from us? Stole $8,600, plus initial cost of SGs (approx. $7,400)? Pam (to cop): How often do you find them? First cop: Honestly? I’d have to say rarely. Second cop: More like never. First cop: Well, never yet. Second cop: Right. There’s always a first time. Cops leave. Pam (to Rob): So what happens if we don’t pay? Me: Can’t pay. Rob (uncomfortable, blushing): Well, that would be more of an issue for Legal. Pam: You’d sue us? Rob: I wouldn’t. They would. I mean, that’s what they do. They—what’s that word? They garner your— Pam (harshly): Garnish. Rob: Sorry. Sorry about all this. Melanie, wow, I am going to snap your head back using that stupid braid of yours. Just kidding! I never even talk to her. But the thing is: all this is in your contract. You guys read your contract, right? Silence. Me: Well, we were kind of in a hurry. We were throwing a party. Rob: Oh, sure, I remember that party. That was some party. We were all discussing that. Rob leaves. Pam (livid): You know what? Fuck ’em. Let ’em sue. I’m not paying. That’s obscene. They can have the stupid house. Lilly: Are we losing the house? Me: We’re not losing the— Pam: You don’t think? What do you think happens if you owe someone nine grand and can’t pay? Me: Look, let’s calm down, no need to get all— Eva’s lower lip out in pre-crying way. Think, Oh, great, nice parenting, arguing + swearing + raising spectre of loss of house in front of tightly wound kid already upset by troubling events of day. Then Eva bursts into tears, starts mumbling, Sorry sorry sorry. Pam: Oh, sweetie, I was just being silly. We’re not going to lose the house. Mommy and Daddy would never let that— Light goes on in my head. Me: Eva. You didn’t. Look in Eva’s eyes says, I did. Pam: Did what? Thomas: Eva did it? Lilly: How could Eva do it? She’s only eight. I couldn’t even— Eva leads us outside, shows us how she did: Dragged out stepladder, stood on stepladder at end of microline, released left-hand EzyReleese lever, then dragged stepladder to other end, released right-hand EzyReleese. At that point, microline completely loose, SGs standing on ground. SGs briefly confer. And off they go. Am so mad. Eva has made huge mess here. Huge mess for us, yes, but also for SGs. Where are SGs now? In good place? Is it good when illegal fugitives in strange land have no money, no food, no water, are forced to hide in woods, swamp, etc., connected via microline, like chain gang? Note to future generations: Sometimes, in our time, families get into dark place. Family feels: we are losers, everything we do is wrong. Parents fight at high volume, blaming each other for disastrous situation. Father kicks wall, puts hole in wall near fridge. Family skips lunch. Tension too high for all to sit at same table. This unbearable. This makes person (Father) doubt value of whole enterprise, i.e., makes Father (me) wonder if humans would not be better off living alone, individually, in woods, minding own beeswax, not loving anyone. Today like that for us. Stormed out to garage. Stupid squirrel/mouse stain still there after all these weeks. Used bleach + hose to eradicate. In resulting calm, sat on wheelbarrow, had to laugh at situation. Won ScratchOff, greatest luck of life, quickly converted greatest luck of life into greatest fiasco of life. Laughter turned to tears. Pam came out, asked had I been crying? I said no, just got dust in eyes from cleaning garage. Pam not buying. Pam gave me little side hug + hip nudge, to say, You were crying, is O.K., is difficult time, I know. Pam: Come on inside. Let’s get things back to normal. We’ll get through this. The kids are dying in there, they feel so bad. Went inside. Kids at kitchen table. Opened arms. Thomas and Lilly rushed over. Eva stayed sitting. When Eva tiny, had big head of black curls. Would stand on couch, eating cereal from coffee mug, dancing to song in head, flicking around cord from window blinds. Now this: Eva sitting w/ head in hands like heartbroken old lady mourning loss of vigorous flower of youth, etc., etc. Went over, scooped Eva up. Poor thing shaking in my arms. Eva (in whisper): I didn’t know we would lose the house. Me: We’re not—we’re not going to lose the house. Mommy and I are going to figure this out. Sent kids off to watch TV. Pam: So. You want me to call Dad? Did not want Pam calling Pam’s dad. Pam’s dad’s first name = Rich. Actually calls self “Farmer Rich.” Is funny because he is rich farmer. In terms of me, does not like me. Has said at various times that I (1) am not hard worker, and (2) had better watch self in terms of weight, and (3) had better watch self in terms of credit cards. Farmer Rich in very good shape, with no credit cards. Farmer Rich not fan of SGs. Feels having SGs = “showoffy move.” Thinks anything fun = showoffy move. Even going to movie = showoffy move. Going to car wash, i.e., not doing self, in driveway = showoffy move. Once, when visiting, looked dubiously at me when I said I had to get root canal. What, I was thinking, root canal = showoffy move? But no: just disapproved of dentist I had chosen, due to he had seen dentist’s TV ad, felt dentist having TV ad = showoffy move. So did not want Pam calling Farmer Rich. Told Pam we must try our best to handle this ourselves. Got out bills, did mock payment exercise: If we pay mortgage, heat bill, AmEx, plus $200 in bills we deferred last time, would be down near zero ($12.78 remaining). If we defer AmEx + Visa, that would free up $880. If, in addition, we skip mortgage payment, heat bill, life-insurance premium, that would still only free up measly total of $3,100. Me: Shit. Pam: Maybe I’ll e-mail him. You know. Just see what he says. Pam upstairs e-mailing Farmer Rich as I write. SEPTEMBER 26TH When I got home, Pam standing in doorway w/ e-mail from Farmer Rich. Farmer Rich = bastard. Will quote in part: Let us now speak of what you intend to do with the requested money. Will you be putting it aside for a college fund? You will not. Investing in real estate? No. Given a chance to plant some seeds, you flushed those valuable seeds (dollars) away. And for what? A display some find pretty. Well, I do not find it pretty. Since when are people on display a desirable sight? Do-gooders in our church cite conditions of poverty. O.K., that is fine. But it appears you will soon have a situation of poverty within your own walls. And physician heal thyself is a motto I have oft remembered when tempted to put my oar in relative to some social cause or another. So am going to say no. You people have walked yourselves into some deep water and must now walk yourselves out, teaching your kids (and selves) a valuable lesson from which, in the long term, you and yours will benefit. Long silence. Pam: Jesus. Isn’t this just like us? Do not know what she means. Or, rather, do know but do not agree. Or, rather, agree but wish she would not say. Why say? Saying is negative, makes us feel bad about selves. I say maybe we should just confess what Eva did, hope for mercy from Greenway. Pam says no, no: Went online today. Releasing SGs = felony (!). Does not feel they would prosecute eight-year-old, but still. If we confess, this goes on Eva’s record? Eva required to get counselling? Eva feels: I am bad kid? Starts erring on side of bad, hanging out with rough crowd, looking askance at whole notion of achievement? Fails to live up to full potential, all because of one mistake she made when little girl? No. Cannot take chance. When kids born, Pam and I dropped everything (youthful dreams of travel, adventure, etc.) to be good parents. Has not been exciting life. Has been much drudgery. Many nights, tasks undone, have stayed up late, exhausted, doing tasks. On many occasions, dishevelled + tired, baby poop and/or vomit on our shirt or blouse, one of us has stood smiling wearily/angrily at camera being held by other, hair shaggy because haircuts expensive, unfashionable glasses slipping down noses because never was time to get glasses tightened. And now, after all that, our youngest to start out life w/ potential black mark on record? That not happening. Pam and I discuss, agree: must be like sin-eaters who, in ancient times, ate sin. Or bodies of sinners? Ate meals off bodies of sinners who had died? Cannot exactly recall what sin-eaters did. But Pam and I agree: are going to be like sin-eaters in sense of, will err on side of protecting Eva, keep cops in dark at all cost, break law as req’d (!). Just now went down hall to check on kids. Thomas sleeping w/ Ferber. This not allowed. Eva in bed w/ Lilly. This not allowed. Eva, source of all mayhem, sleeping like baby. Felt like waking Eva, giving Eva hug, telling Eva that, though we do not approve of what she did, she will always be our girl, will always be apple of our eye(s). Did not do. Eva needs rest. On Lilly’s desk: poster Lilly was working on for “Favorite Things Day” at school. Poster = photo of each SG, plus map of home country, plus stories Lilly apparently got during interview (!) with each. Gwen (Moldova) = very tough, due to Moldovan youth: used bloody sheets found in trash + duct tape to make soccer ball, then, after much practice with bloody-sheet ball, nearly made Olympic team (!). Betty (Philippines) has daughter, who, when swimming, will sometimes hitch ride on shell of sea turtle. Lisa (Somalia) once saw lion on roof of her uncle’s “mini-lorry.” Tami (Laos) had pet water buffalo, water buffalo stepped on her foot, now Tami must wear special shoe. “Fun Fact”: their names (Betty, Tami, et al.) not their real names. These = SG names, given by Greenway at time of arrival. “Tami” = Januka = “happy ray of sun.” “Betty” = Nenita = “blessed-beloved.” “Gwen” = Evgenia. (Does not know what her name means.) “Lisa” = Ayan = “happy traveller.” SGs very much on my mind tonight, future reader. Where are they now? Why did they leave? Just do not get. Letter comes, family celebrates, girl sheds tears, stoically packs bag, thinks, Must go, am family’s only hope. Puts on brave face, promises she will return as soon as contract complete. Her mother feels, father feels: We cannot let her go. But they do. They must. Whole town walks girl to train station/bus station/ferry stop? More tears, more vows. As train/bus/ferry pulls away, she takes last fond look at surrounding hills/river/quarry/shacks, whatever, i.e., all she has ever known of world, saying to self, Be not afraid, you will return, + return in victory, w/ big bag of gifts, etc., etc. And now? No money, no papers. Who will remove microline? Who will give her job? When going for job, must fix hair so as to hide scars at Insertion Points. When will she ever see her home + family again? Why would she do this? Why would she ruin all, leave our yard? Could have had nice long run w/ us. What in the world was she seeking? What could she want so much, that would make her pull such desperate stunt? Just now went to window. Empty rack in yard, looking strange in moonlight. Note to self: Call Greenway, have them take ugly thing away. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Fischer Vs. Spassky	Credit Photograph by Johann / AP For a long time after her husband died, Marina used to scream. She’d feel the scream rushing up from her stomach, choking her from the inside, and she’d run out of the room, stumbling over her kids’ toys, and hide in the hallway, in the narrow space between the coatrack and the mirror stand, biting down on her right forearm to muffle the sound. After the scream had passed, and she unclenched her teeth, there would be little circular marks on her arm that looked like irregular postage stamps. Those scars remained long after Marina had stopped screaming, long after she had ceased grieving for her husband altogether. Even now, thirty years later, she could feel them tingle at random moments. She felt it when she heard Bobby Fischer’s name on the radio. She was driving down a snowbound Brooklyn street on the way to see a client. The radio was on low, but she thought she heard the announcer repeating that name. She turned up the volume and there it was: Bobby Fischer. Bobby Fischer had died. Bobby Fischer had died in Reykjavík, Iceland. Marina turned onto a side street and started her crawl up the slippery slope that led to Elijah’s house. His empty driveway was unshovelled, so she had to park on the street between two caked mounds of brown snow. She knocked on the front door, then opened it without waiting for an answer. Inside, there was the usual picture: Elijah in his chair, tiny, wrinkled, wearing his cancer hat, while his night health aide, a chubby young woman, dozed in front of the blaring TV. Marina called the night aide’s name to rouse her, and she groaned and opened her eyes. Her face was creased. Her mouth had traces of dried saliva. She was embarrassed about being caught sleeping on the job but mostly angry at being woken up. She took her time gathering her things, zipping up her boots, and heading outside, while Elijah sat, staring at the TV. “Bobby Fischer died today,” Elijah said. “Look.” And he pointed toward the TV. There was a closeup of Fischer in 1972. An enormous, warty face, twitching with anxiety. “Do you know who he was?” “Oh, yes,” Marina said. “I was following that match in Russia.” She went to wash her hands, and when she came back into the room Elijah was slumped in his chair, his face twisted in pain. She gave him his pills, then poured herself a cup of coffee, and sat down on the sofa. On the TV was footage of the 1972 match. Excited crowds in Reykjavík and Moscow. Excited crowds all over the States. Americans cheering for Fischer. Russians cheering for Spassky. “See how they’re cheering?” Elijah asked. “I bet you were rooting for Spassky!” His words were becoming slurred. “As a matter of fact, we supported Fischer,” Marina said, but Elijah was already asleep. His head, too heavy for his withered neck, fell down onto his chest. In 1972, all Marina’s friends had rooted for Fischer. All the Russian Jews who considered themselves liberal had wanted Fischer to win. For them, the Soviet Union stood for everything that was vile and deceitful, while the United States held the promise of everything that was good. And Fischer was the face of that good. The enormous, warty face of democracy. Marina’s husband, Sergey, was an especially passionate supporter of Fischer. “I can’t believe how they’re making him look!” he said, slapping a fresh copy of Pravda down on the rickety kitchen table, making five-year-old Sasha jump. “Like a fucking idiot! The man is a genius!” “Sh-h-h!” Marina said, as she always did when Sergey expressed his indignation in front of Sasha, even though she agreed with him a hundred per cent. There were so many things about the Soviet Union that gnawed at them. So many lies, so many humiliations, big and small. The fact that Marina hadn’t been accepted into graduate school because another Jew had just been given a spot. The fact that Sergey hadn’t been allowed to attend a scientific conference abroad because he wasn’t a member of the Party. The fact that they had to stand in line to buy meat or toilet paper or underpants. Plain white cotton underpants—they weren’t even pretty! Color was what impressed Marina the most in the glimpses of foreign life that she saw in movies and magazines. Cars painted yellow and blue and green. Pink houses. Azure swimming pools. Red bras. Crimson lipstick. Straightforward envy over everyday objects grew into a kind of existential restlessness. She felt as if she were boxed up in some bleak, inferior world, while other people were outside enjoying bright and wonderful lives. Sergey took it especially hard. Ever since he was a child he’d experienced the lack of freedom as a physical thing. He liked to keep the frames of his glasses a little loose, to avoid even the slightest pressure on his temples. He never wore gloves, not even in the dead of winter, because they stifled his fingers. Sasha grew up to be just like him. Or even worse. He never wore ties or turtlenecks and always bought shoes a half size too big. In the fall of 1971, Sergey told her that they needed to think seriously about emigrating. Some of their friends were in the process of leaving. Some had already left. They had nothing to lose. Marina’s parents were dead. Sergey’s parents had two other sons. Sergey was a talented chemist; he was bound to find a good job in the U.S., where the opportunities were unlimited and success required only talent and determination. They could get a visa to Israel, he said, make it to Europe, then try to get into the U.S. from there. It would be difficult, but not impossible. The hardest part was getting the exit visa from the Soviet Union. Many people were denied. Their friends Andrey and Nina Botkin had been denied and now lived in a horrible state of limbo, outlaws in the eyes of the Soviet government, both fired from their jobs, Andrey painting cabins at some remote resort, Nina working as a cleaning lady at a school for the deaf, their son, Kolya, expelled from his kindergarten and left in the care of his psychotic grandmother. Marina was terrified of ending up like that, and she could tell that Sergey was, too. They spent the entire winter and a good part of the spring discussing whether applying for a visa was worth the risk. In May, when the match between Spassky and Fischer was first touted in the press as a Cold War standoff, Sergey, excited, said that he was willing to let the match decide their fate. If Fischer won, they would apply for exit visas. If he lost, they would stay in the Soviet Union. Marina didn’t take this too seriously. She started looking for a dacha for the summer. She found a tiny house in a village called Oselki, perched on a hill right by the train station. “We’ll be able to see you coming home from the porch,” she said to Sergey. It was an ugly house. All brown, with chipped pink paint on the shutters. Marina found it touching. Oselki was thirty-three kilometres from Moscow, thirty-three hundred kilometres from Reykjavík, and four hours ahead. It was Sergey who had calculated the distance and the time difference, so that it would be easier for them to follow the match in real time. “Seven, it’s seven here,” he mumbled when he woke up. “It’s only 3 A.M. in Reykjavík. Fischer and Spassky must be fast asleep.” Marina groaned and got out of bed. She threw a shawl over her nightgown and ran to the outhouse. A warm morning mist rose up off the flowers and the blades of grass, making her feel mildly elated. They had breakfast on the porch. Sergey was content to eat a little bread and cheese, and then run to the station, but Sasha always asked for farina. Marina cooked it in an old dented pot, then poured it into shallow bowls, and put a lump of yellow butter and some apple jelly at the center of each. They ate their porridge in slow spirals, saving the treat for last. After breakfast, Marina took Sasha to the woods to pick berries—strawberries in July, blueberries in August. He had a small plastic pail, and Marina carried a large aluminum jug; she loved how the blueberries rapped against the bottom. When they came home, Sasha played with his modelling clay, and Marina tended to the berries. They were small and wet. Some of them were rotten already; others were unripe. It took a long time to clean them, but Marina didn’t mind. After lunch, she undressed Sasha for his nap, removing his clothing in layers: his pants smelled like garden soil, his sweater like modelling clay, and his shirt like apple jelly and Sasha—that distinct Sasha smell that Marina couldn’t describe but loved so much. She used Sasha’s nap time to work on her dissertation. The summer of 1972 was exceptionally hot, and his nap fell at the hottest time of the day, but it wasn’t too bad in the garden. Marina would spread a blanket under a tree and lie down with a book. She had brought to the dacha a typewriter and five crates of books on behavioral psychology. So far the typewriter had sat unused. Sergey scolded Marina for not working. “I’m doing my research,” she’d say. But more often than not she’d drop the book on the blanket, and lie down on her side, staring at the dark, crumbly soil so close to her face. When she was pregnant with Sasha, she’d had a weird craving to eat soil. What she craved now was for Sergey to appear in the garden and fuck her right there, pressing her naked body into the soil. She imagined that it would feel warm at first, but then as she sank deeper it would become colder and colder and smell stronger and stronger until she disappeared into the earth. Marina never shared these fantasies with Sergey. They never really talked about sex. There was no point in talking. Every night, Marina would wait for Sergey on the porch. His train arrived at six-fifteen. It was only two-fifteen in Reykjavík, not that she really cared what time it was in Reykjavík. Sergey carried bags (bread and butter, chicken and fruit—the country store had little to offer), but he always kept his back very straight, as if he wanted to pretend that the bags weighed nothing at all. He wore a long bushy beard that summer, which looked ridiculous on his young face. His white shirt was soaked with sweat, stains spreading under his arms and over his back, making him appear even thinner than he was. Marina always marvelled at how brittle he seemed, when she slid into his arms and clasped her hands around his back. She could have counted his vertebrae. “My fellow-investors . . .”Buy the print » Sasha would jump out from behind a bush and shoot at Sergey with his toy gun, or wave a caterpillar under his nose, or just clutch onto his leg, screaming, “Papa! Papa! Papa!” Then he’d run off to play again, while Marina stayed, as if frozen, in her husband’s arms. “Masha. Mashen’ka,” he’d say and bend to kiss her neck, while she pressed herself to him tighter and tighter. Sometimes he called her “my buttermilk cow.” She didn’t know why. “Mom, that’s horrible,” Marina’s daughter said, when Marina told her this years later. “He meant you were fat!” No, he meant that he loved her. But Marina didn’t know how to explain that to her daughter. He called Sasha a “maestro of farts” and a “hidalgo of snot,” and loved him more than anything. For dinner, they had foods appropriate for the heat: green schi, cold potatoes, compote, and berries with sour cream. Sergey ate so fast that bits of food got stuck in his beard, and soup often dribbled down his shirt. After the soup, it was time for Pravda. Every day brought fresh news from Reykjavík, so every dinner conversation was dominated by the subject of chess. “Look, look at that!” Sergey said, pointing at the page with his fork. “ ‘It is still unclear whether the match will take place. Today R. Fischer presented the organizers with new outrageous demands.’ They’re trying to paint him as a money-greedy bastard!” Back in May, when Sergey had said that he would let the outcome of the match decide their fate, Marina had assumed that he was joking. Now, seeing his growing anxiety, she understood that he hadn’t been. “We lost! Fischer lost. I’m sure they were putting too much pressure on him.” “We lost again! Fischer refused to play, and Spassky won by default. That is so unfair!” “I think the Soviets must have done something to him in Reykjavík.” “They say that Fischer is threatening to cancel the match, because he suspects that his room in Reykjavík is bugged. I’m sure his room is bugged!” Soon, Sasha had learned to say Reykjavík. He pronounced it as if it were the name of some fairy-tale beast: “Rrryk Yavík.” Their dinners usually ended with Sergey picking up the scissors, cutting Pravda into squares, and taking them to the outhouse. He marched there with Sasha, singing a military song, making this look like a courageous anti-Soviet act, not simply a necessity caused by the scarcity of real toilet paper. Marina’s secret pleasure was to read these pieces of Pravda the next day. Their outhouse was exceptionally roomy and clean, with the bare minimum of stench. In the daytime, light came in through a tiny overhead window, just enough to read by. Marina had always read newspapers for entertainment, rather than for information. She hated the urgency with which some people (Sergey included) read newspapers, their belief that the mere knowledge of certain events—belated, incomplete, and often false knowledge—made them active participants in society. She was fine with the outhouse version of the news, soggy with the humidity, sliced into uneven pieces, perfectly random. “A tenth grader, Galya Kolbasina, won the competition for young tractor operators. Her skill and knowledge of the tractor’s technical characteristics impressed the judges.” “Slobodans will celebrate the 450th anniversary of their glorious city, Sloboda.” “The Bolshoi Theatre will show ‘Madama Butterfly’ in the morning, ‘Swan Lake’ at night.” “Proletarians of all countries, unite!” Reading these scraps of Pravda filled Marina with a strange sense of comfort. Here she was, alone in a cozy little place, calm and untroubled, while other people went about their lives. Children competed in tractor competitions, ballerinas danced, Slobodans celebrated Sloboda, and proletarians united. It was there that Marina realized that she didn’t really mind the Soviet Union so much. She decided that she wouldn’t be too upset if Fischer lost the match. One night in mid-July, Sergey came home, tapping a folded Pravda against his thigh. “We won!” he yelled, as soon as he saw Marina. He picked Sasha up and spun him in the air. She took the copy of Pravda and flipped through it, until she finally found a tiny notice about the match at the bottom of page 6. “It doesn’t say that Fischer won,” she said. “Of course it doesn’t!” Sergey said, laughing. “I heard it on Radio Liberty.” “But why are you so sure that Liberty has the right information?” she asked. “Don’t tell me you trust Pravda more than Liberty!” Sergey said, mocking. “You know I don’t. It’s just that Fischer’s first win is a big thing. I think they would’ve mentioned it in Pravda. They couldn’t just ignore it.” “Oh, really?” Sergey asked. He stared at her face as if he were seeing it for the first time, studying her features with cold precision. Marina had a glimpse of what it would be like if Sergey stopped loving her. Despite the heat, her skin broke out in goose bumps. She took Pravda and ran out of the house, ran to the place that never failed to provide peace. She sat in the outhouse leafing aimlessly through the newspaper, until Sasha knocked on the door with a stick. “Mama, are you coming out soon?” When she didn’t answer, he knocked again. Then he pressed his face to a crack between the boards and said, “I can see you! You’re not doing anything. You’re reading.” Marina had to come out. The fight with Sergey progressed well into the night, until they lay in angry silence on their warm bed. Sergey complained about Marina’s tossing and turning. She kicked him. He rolled over and asked what it was that she wanted. Some brief sex followed. It wasn’t good. Afterward, Sergey fell asleep, but Marina got up and went outside. She stood on the porch, looking into the dark garden and listening to the cicadas. She didn’t want to emigrate. That was perfectly clear to her now. Another thing that was perfectly clear was that she’d lose Sergey if she didn’t. The heat wave reached its peak. The peat bogs near Moscow were on fire, and smoke was creeping closer to the dacha. At the village store, the fires were all that people talked about. There were reports of houses burned to the ground, of hospitals crowded with burn victims. Marina asked Sergey if it wouldn’t be smarter for them to return to Moscow. Sergey said no. The entire city was now shrouded in a yellowish smog, and it was so hot that he saw people faint on the subway. “Here we have some fresh air, at least,” he said. Pravda didn’t say much about the fires. Marina kept looking for coverage of the disaster, but all she found was a piece about ice cream: “A new production line was recently installed at Ice Cream Factory No. 3. This will allow more people to enjoy sweet, cool refreshments.” Marina studied the photograph of a smiling ice-cream engineer holding a tray filled with ice-cream cones. She imagined Sergey reading the paper over her shoulder and gloating: “Sweet and cool, huh?” On July 24th, Sasha got sick from the heat. He was crying, complaining that the neighbors were “roasting chickens.” Then he vomited. It was so hot in the house that the walls were warm to the touch. Marina carried Sasha into the garden and gave him some cold tea. Toward the end of the day, he felt better and asked Marina to help him make some clay animals, but by then she was too tired and irritable. She could barely make herself prepare dinner. Sergey came home from work shaking with happiness. The day before, it turned out, Fischer had won Game 6, taking the lead in the match. “See, see? Even Pravda acknowledges Fischer’s victory,” Sergey told her. There was a large headline on page 6: “SPASSKY’S MISTAKES LEAD TO DEFEAT.” At dinner that night, Sergey praised Marina’s schi, then raised the bowl to his mouth to drink the last dregs of the soup. He kept talking about the Queen’s Gambit and the Tartakower Defense, and kingside pawn structure, attacks and counterplays, and other chess nonsense—and how gutsy and brilliant Fischer had been to do what he did. They didn’t have a chess set, so he took out the box with Sasha’s clay animals and arranged them on the table to explain what the Queen’s Gambit was; Marina got the feeling that he had only a vague idea himself. The blue catlike monstrosities became knights, a misshapen red dog was the queen, and the green pig (which had actually come out quite well) was the bishop. The animals were clammy in the heat. The cats stained Sergey’s fingers. The pig stained the table. The more Sergey talked about chess and the more he praised Fischer, the angrier Marina became. She didn’t want Fischer to win. She really, really didn’t. She hated Fischer with all her heart. She had an urge to scoop the animals up and knead them together into an ugly mass. After she had put Sasha to bed, she went and stood on the porch. It had cooled down a little. The smoke was less pungent than it had been, more like the smell of a campfire or of potatoes baking in coals. Sergey came out to find her. He hugged her and whispered, “Mashen’ka, aren’t you happy?” She hugged him back and said that she was. Elijah opened his eyes. “Something to drink?” Marina asked. “Tea?” He declined the tea, but asked Marina to turn up the volume on the TV. The program was now dealing with Fischer’s later years. There were closeups of him from the nineteen-nineties, bearded and insane. What he liked to talk about was the Jews: Jews were parasites. Jews were evil. Jews needed to be exterminated. All of them. Elijah chuckled and said, “Yep, that’s Bobby Fischer for you.” Marina wondered if Sergey would have been disappointed. He had died of a heart attack a year after they got to the U.S., when Marina was three months pregnant with their daughter. It would still have been possible for her to have an abortion, but she had decided to keep the baby. She felt a draft on her feet, probably coming from the front door. “Do you want a blanket, Elijah?” He shook his head and pointed at the TV. “I was there, you know.” “Where?” “In Reykjavík, in 1972.” “You saw Fischer?” “Yes, and Spassky. I was working for the New York Times. Iceland is a beautiful country. I didn’t care for Fischer, though.” “No?” “He was a crazy fuck, even then. All the reporters hated him. All the chess people hated him. I rooted for Spassky. He was a decent guy. Do you know what he did when he conceded Game 6?” “What?” “He stood up and applauded Fischer. Now that’s sportsmanship for you. Not like that crazy bastard.” Marina was suddenly overcome by an urge to protect Fischer. In those last interviews, he looked like a lost old man, scared and sick. She felt pity and something like perverse affection for him. “I think you’re too hard on Fischer,” she told Elijah. “I used to hate him, too,” she wanted to add, but Elijah had closed his eyes again. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Jack And the Mad Dog	Credit Illustration by Martin Ansin; photograph by Birthe Piontek. Jack, that Jack, the giant-killer of the bean tree, spent the better part of the evening squatting in the blackberry briars opposite the house of a farmer’s wife who would—for four dollars, but with no particular enthusiasm—lean over her husband’s plow and let a boy have a go. Once her husband went to sleep, she would step into her yard and fling a rock across the road; Jack was to meet her behind the barn, cash in hand. This farmer’s wife was widely known to possess both a strong arm and noteworthy accuracy, and, to the rabble who frequented the briar patch, her flung invitations often seemed more punitive than hospitable. As Jack waited in the briars, on a spot in the dirt worn bare by other waiting farm boys, the not quite ripe blackberries plain against the less black sky, and the summer air as close and fetid as the breath of a cat, he tried not to think about the whore-flung meteorite that might at any moment drop out of the sky and render him senseless. He waited and drank odd-tasting white liquor out of an indifferently washed Mason jar until he came into a cloudy, metallic, buzzy-headed drunk. The liquor had been a welcome surprise. He’d found it sitting upright in the middle of the road, the lid of the jar screwed on tight, as he set out on his carnal errand. Jack had often found along the road the things he needed most in his travels, so he’d assumed that he needed the moonshine as well. It had smelled all right, just a little off, overcooked maybe, so he’d taken a sip. When he did not die or get carted off by witches, he’d taken another. Now he squatted and waited and drank, sucking on the sour berries, flinching beneath his hat every time he remembered about the rock with his name on it, until both feet went to sleep and the mosquitoes found him in his unlikely lair, thinking, I’m Jack, that Jack, the giant-killer of the bean tree, and my life has come down to this. And still the farmer’s wife did not sling her stone: her husband, the farmer, did not become sleepy. Jack watched the man smoking on the front porch, the red eye of his homemade cigarette staring out toward the briars where Jack stared back with increasing agitation. The farmer’s shape was distinct, the outline of his sad, farmer’s hat clear in the light of that one small flare, which—as Jack drank more—began to leave fire trails in the darkness whenever the farmer moved the hand that held his cigarette from his mouth to the arm of his chair. The farmer smoked, one cigarette after another, until the hour grew late, until the katydids grew tired of their chanting and the crickets tuned down, until all hope abandoned the world, until Jack’s hooch and patience dripped away, until that, finally, was that. Jack drained the last of the liquor out of the jar, grimaced, retched, swallowed bile, bad liquor, and a gut-full of green blackberries. He stood up, the briars ripping at his clothes, and, with a great shout that he meant to be a curse (but which came out instead as an animal blare that made no sense at all, not even to him), he threw the empty jar across the road toward the farmhouse, where it landed in the yard without even breaking. Jack cocked an ear, listened, waited for the man on the porch to curse back, to yell “Who’s out there?,” to fire his shotgun into the darkness, to storm down off the porch spoiling to fight the man who had come sneaking onto his property looking to buy a four-dollar piece of his wife, but the farmer did not make a sound, did not move, just sat smoking on his porch, as placid as a steer, as shallow as a mud hole, as if strangers shouting from the briars and Mason jars falling from the sky were every-night occurrences. Jack fully expected to have to kill the man—for in the stories he had often killed men who’d kept him away from a woman (in his experience such men always needed killing), unless the woman turned out to be a witch, in which case he killed her instead—but the farmer didn’t stand up, didn’t speak, didn’t flick his cigarette out into the yard, nothing. Son of a bitch, Jack thought. He’s sitting there chewing his cud. It was more than Jack could bear. “Cud chewer!” he yelled. “Go on home, Jack,” the farmer said from the porch. “How do you know it’s me?” Jack called. At the time he considered this a clever question. No response came from the porch. “How about I come over there with a silver axe and chop your head off!” “You ain’t gonna do no such a thing, Jack. Go on home and get in the bed.” “How about I send my magic beating stick over there to beat you about the ears until you run off down the road and nobody never hears from you again! Then you’ll be sorry!” “Jack,” the farmer said patiently, “everybody knows you ain’t got no magic beating stick no more. You ain’t had one since I don’t know when. Now head on out.” “I’ll,” Jack said, considering, as he spoke, an unexpectedly depleted list of options, “I’ll come over there and play a trick on you! I’m still smarter than you are!” “Not tonight, you ain’t. I’m on to you and your sneaking Jack ways. There ain’t gonna be no Jack tale around here tonight.” “Ha!” Jack hollered. “There already is! And you’re in it! It just ain’t a very good one!” “I’ll grant you that,” the farmer said. Jack stood quietly for a moment. “Oh, come on,” he pleaded. “Just one little slice. All you have to do is go to sleep. It’s late. Ain’t you got milking and plowing to do in the morning? Ain’t that rooster gonna crow before you know it?” “Jack,” the farmer chided sadly. “What?” “Don’t beg. You used to be somebody.” Disappointed in more ways than he could count, drunk but not pleasantly so, both legs asleep all the way up to his hipbones, Jack climbed through the briars and set out. He was not, so far as he knew, setting out to find a job of work, or a girl to marry, or new ground to clear. He was not even leading a cow. He did not expect that he would, as a result of this setting out, encounter an imbecilic king, inexplicably enraged at the sight of Jack whistling down the road; or a giant greedily clutching a gold-shitting goose in an improbably suspended castle; or a coven of witches yowling from a derelict mill in a fury of feline estrus. He did not, to be honest, even feel like fooling with kings or giants, the killing of whom—despite the inevitable mental and physical challenges—amounted to nothing more than a job of work, but he thought that he might be up for taunting and killing some witches, once he sobered up, especially if they were good-looking witches, though he could not remember the last time he had seen a witch, good-looking or not. The witches seemed to have gone off somewhere, along with the silver axes and his magic beating stick and the geese and the giants and the swaying bean trees, along with the kings and their bejewelled, creamy daughters and their glittering hoards of gold. Tonight, all he had was the setting out itself. So he set out. He trudged down the road, trying to forget his lust for the doughy expanse of the farmer’s wife’s lunar bottom, his squatting in the briars like a stray dog waiting to steal a scrap and his rising hatred of farmers and all things agricultural, until he stepped unexpectedly into a compensatory truth: he could see in the dark. In a single miraculous moment, the road beneath his feet, until then virtually invisible, unspooled into the distance before him, silvery and faintly glowing, a still river lit by stars or the thinnest slice of moon. Yet the sky contained neither stars nor moon, just the low, black night pushing down. “Huh,” Jack said. He could see the tall corn on both sides of the road attentively pressing in; he could see not only the wooded ridges that bordered the fields but the thick summer foliage, blooming on the ridges’ steep slopes; he could see the ancient, giant-trod mountains in the distance, separated from the black of the sky by faint bands of light, which shimmered with colors that Jack could not name, colors that vanished if he tried to look at them directly—like angels or ghosts or shy, pale brides undressing in darkened rooms. The light wasn’t dawn, or even the idea preceding dawn, which still lay hours away, but something Jack had never seen before, something he was sure no one else had ever seen: the world itself was lit from within. The corn in the fields, the road, the mountains, everything he could see gave off a secret light. When he held his hand in front of his face, it, too, glimmered, and he studied it, his right hand, a fine thing, well shaped and strong, a hand as adept at caressing a virgin as at plunging a silver sword into the disbelieving eye of a giant. All around him, wherever he looked, the world revealed itself the way Creation must have revealed itself to God, everything part of the greater light, and it was good, and he stood there, dazzled and proud and happy, once again Jack the giant-killer, the best man in the world. So he whistled along, twirling his Saturday hat on his finger until he reached a fair-sized creek spanned by a narrow bridge. As he stepped onto the planking, he savored a momentary twinge of vestigial excitement, the anticipation he had once felt every time he encountered a bridge. Perhaps this first step would set into motion not only a pedestrian travelling from here to there but a crossing over from this into that, a passage into a proper story. He hoped fleetingly for a troll to flummox, then remembered that trolls were now extinct, save for a non-breeding pair locked up in a zoo in Romania. Jack was halfway across when a large black dog rose up out of the bridge, simply squeezed itself into being out of the bridge’s black wood. Jack stopped in his tracks. He wasn’t afraid—startled a little, maybe, at the dog’s sudden appearance, but not afraid. Over the years, he had learned that nothing really bad ever happened to him, that he was impervious to injury, if not to embarrassment, no matter how formidable the adversary or unexpected its arrival. Realizing that he had nothing to fear had, however, in an almost tragic irony, also robbed him of corollary excitement. Why, the last time he’d rousted out a giant—however long ago that was—it had been all he could do to make himself run. “Grr,” said the dog. “Howdy,” Jack said. (It was his experience that sometimes animals could talk, and sometimes they couldn’t, but that it always paid to find out.) He could see the dog’s white teeth as it snarled, its slobber-lapping, lengthy red tongue. “Hello, Jack.” The dog had a low voice and it spoke wetly, deep in its throat. “So tell me,” Jack said, noting that the dog knew his name, “why are you impeding my progress across this here bridge?” “Because that is my solitary calling.” “Where’d you come from?” “All I did was remove his flag pin!”Buy the print » “I don’t know. A minute ago I wasn’t here, but now I am.” Jack nodded. “Limited omniscient narrator,” he said. “My point of view.” “Don’t rub it in.” The two spent an expectant moment in silence, as if they were actors strutting and fretting, each thinking that the other had forgotten the next line. Finally, Jack clamped his hat on top of his head. “Well, Skippy, or whatever your name is,” he said, “this has been interesting and all, but why don’t you step to one side and let me pass so that I can get along with my setting out?” “I’m afraid I can’t do that.” Impatience flickered distantly behind Jack’s eyeballs. He remembered that he was still drunk, but not pleasantly so; that the farmer, simpleton though he was, had smoked him out of dipping his wick; that the summer night was chokingly close and humid. A liquorous headache began to mold itself into something that felt like a thumb jabbing repeatedly against the back side of his forehead bone. “Look,” he said, pinching the bridge of his nose, “I don’t know what kind of story you think this is, but I can see in the dark, and I was enjoying it, even though I’m drunk but not pleasantly so, and I don’t wanna fool with no talking dog.” “You don’t have any choice,” the dog said. “What do you mean, I ain’t got a choice? By God, I’m Jack. I’ve always got a choice.” “Not tonight you don’t. I’m going to bite you before you get off this bridge. That’s how this story goes.” “Shit,” Jack said. “You ain’t going to bite me.” The dog sank into a crouch. “Jack, I was put on this earth to bite you.” “Whoa, now,” Jack said, spitting out a laugh as if it tasted bad. “You ain’t supposed to bite me. There ain’t never been nobody to bite me, not ever, in all these many years.” “Grr,” said the dog. “Wait a minute,” Jack said. “Just hold what you got and let me think.” His setting out had arrived at an arrival that he was unprepared to ponder. No old man had met him on the road to warn him that he would meet a dog on a bridge, then give him a silver sword or magic words with which to kill it. (Jack had always counted on the utilitarian, if narratively implausible, appearance of the old man bearing implements and instructions, but somewhere along the way the old man had also disappeared.) Now he was by himself in the middle of a bridge in the middle of the night, his mind lightly fogged by odd-tasting liquor, struggling to think of a way to outsmart a talking dog. He looked around. There wasn’t even a non-magical stick lying about, no tree to climb in the corn bottoms. Come on, Jack, he thought, you’re Jack. Think of something. “This is the last Jack tale,” the dog said, inching closer. “The end of the story.” Jack backed up a step. “Just hold on there, Spot. Before you bite me, I need to know something. Are you mad?” The dog stopped. “Angry? Somewhat, I suppose.” “No,” Jack said. “I mean rabid.” “Hmm,” the dog said. “I think so, yeah. I feel a little hindered in the hindquarters.” “So once you bite me I’ll die a slow and excruciatingly painful death.” “That’s the idea.” Jack frantically searched through his overalls but found only four dollars. He didn’t even have a pocket knife. Without further warning, the dog scrambled forward and leaped at Jack. Jack managed to take a step backward and wrap his hands around its neck mid-leap and keep it at arm’s length; he fell down on top of the dog, pinning its head and chest to the bridge. “Ow,” the dog said. As the dog scrabbled around with its back legs, trying to find purchase, Jack squeezed its neck as hard as he could. Each of his fingers sought its correspondent on the other hand, interlocking as if playing the child’s game of building a church. (Here’s the people, Jack thought.) He felt the dog tucking its front legs underneath its body, testing Jack’s weight. Jack soon realized that he could neither strangle the dog to death nor hold it for very long. It was one big dog. “Damn you, dog,” Jack panted. “You should not have done that.” He felt the dog calmly push up against his chest, preparatory to bucking him off. “You’re done,” the dog said. “Once I stand up, it’s all over.” “I am not done,” Jack said. “For the last time, I am Jack.” “Which means nothing.” “I’m important to people.” “Not anymore. Not in any substantive way. The day is coming when your stories will be told only by faux mountaineers in new overalls to ill-informed tourists at storytelling festivals.” “Well, what’s wrong with that?” “It’s ersatz, Jack.” “I don’t even know what that means.” “It means that you’re dead already and you don’t even know it.” As Jack felt the dog’s muscles tense, he grabbed a fistful of fur in each hand. When the dog pushed itself to its feet, Jack stood and spun in a tight circle, lifting the dog off the ground by its head, and, with a great shout, swung it off the bridge. Then he ran. By the time he heard the dog hit the water he had already crossed the creek. Jack didn’t know where he was going, only that going seemed to be a good idea, that his setting out needed to be speeded up. Hiding also seemed advisable. He ran a few steps down the road, angling toward the creek bottom, gaining speed with each stride. Then he leaped from the road, over the gully, his legs running through the air, his arms waving in a vain attempt at flight; he landed on both feet in the sandy soil of the bottom, and, with another step, crashed into the thick corn. He knew that the dog would soon struggle up through the matted underbrush along the creek bank and set itself on his trail. The corn was fully tasselled, seven or eight feet tall, its ears hardening, two hot weeks away from coming ripe. It reached out and grabbed Jack as he fought his way through it; it punched him with its thin, pointed fists; it slid its thick stalks and ropy roots beneath his feet to trip him; it became a congregation of angry Baptists—preachers and deacons and teetotallers, desiccated spinsters and disaffected, undipped Methodists, rattling with judgment and contempt as he fought through it. Jack, the corn called in multitudinous chorus, you’re a fornicator and a murderer and a thief! “Let me go, corn!” Jack spat. He lowered his head and struck back with his arms. And you’re a ne’er-do-well and a swindler and a liar! “I am not a swindler!” The truth is not in you, Jack! For shame! Why, you swindled your own brothers! “They had it coming.” You disappointed your mother. “Don’t you talk about Mama!” Repent! the corn cried. Repent! “Go shuck yourself,” Jack snarled. Behind him he could hear—or thought he could hear—the dog huffing with deadly inevitability, bulling its way after him in a straight, unalterable line. Jack fled and fought and cursed with the rage of the unredeemed and the panic of the pursued. He struggled wildly through miles and hours and years and lifetimes of corn and section breaks and the exposition implied therein, imagining with each step the rabid fangs of the black dog inches from his hamstrings. After an age and a day, he crashed suddenly and unexpectedly out of the corn and sprawled headlong into a thin dawn in a prairie of golden wheat. For a long moment he lay face down on the ground, his nose filled with the rich, anesthetic smells of earth and grain, and considered falling simply into sleep, dog or no dog. He had come a long way. But when he thought about the death that awaited him should the dog catch him—or any death at all, for that matter—he climbed wearily to his feet and stared toward the horizon, where he could at least make out a tree line, no more than a smudge between the field and the sky, who knew how many miles away, but a destination to aim for nonetheless, a place to flee to. As he took a first tired step toward the trees, a young girl, of maiden age, sprang with a yelp from the wheat in front of him and lit out across the field. Before Jack could even cry out, the wheat around him exploded with girls—hundreds, thousands, multitudes of girls—flushed like succulent quail, bounding toward the distant trees. They cried out, “Daddy!” and “Help me!” and “Save me!” as they leaped gracefully through the wheat. Maidens! Jack thought, breaking unconsciously into a jog. Look at all the maidens! Maidens with flushed and glowing complexions of peach and cream and alabaster and ivory, clad uniformly in simple country dresses of virginal white, each dress cut perhaps a size too small and a smidgen too short; maidens whose firm flanks fetchingly swayed and flounced, their downy bosoms heaving and swelling; maidens whose flaxen and wheat and chestnut and mahogany and ebony and sable and scarlet and crimson hair billowed and flowed and streamed; maidens whose panted exhalations were sweet and soft and breathy; maidens whose mysterious and dark and depthless and cerulean and emerald eyes were flashing and shining and burning with passion. In other words, lots and lots of maidens. Jack began to run. He loved nothing more than maidens. He wondered wildly if it would be possible to herd all the girls into one place, like a pasture or a feedlot. “Hey!” he called. “Come back!” Jack soon gained ground and fell in behind a set of twins, who ran in step as their silken hair undulated in fragrant waves behind them. Jack watched their hair for some time—the girls seemed to have no idea that he was there—but the moment his eyes strayed below their narrow waists the girls stopped and whirled on him so quickly that he almost crashed into them. He managed to bring himself to a teetering, arm-waving halt. “What do you think you’re doing?” asked one. “Doing?” Jack panted. “I’m running away from a rabid, black, talking dog. What do you think I’m doing?” “That’s not what she meant,” the other said. “What she meant was ‘What do you think you’re looking at?’ ” “Looking at?” Jack said, looking away. “I’m not looking at anything.” “Liar,” the first said. “You were looking at our fair nether parts,” the second said. “Asses,” said her sister. “I was not.” “You were, too.” “Then tell me this,” Jack said shrewdly. “If you were running away from me, how can you know I was looking at your asses?” “Because we know, Jack. We know.” “Girls always know.” “Hmm,” Jack said. “I guess I knew that.” “Next you’re going to look at our breasts,” the first twin said. “I am not.” “You are, too,” the second said. The twins stared at Jack until he blinked. Then he looked at their chests. He tried not to, but he did. And there they were, maiden bosoms. Heaving. Swelling. Tumescent. The ripe pomegranates of the Old Testament. The top buttons of the girls’ dresses strained nobly to restrain them. Jack thought, Day-um. He thought, God Almighty, italics his. He felt his manhood stirring. Or his loins. He could never tell them apart. “See?” one said. “Told you,” said the other. Jack smiled what he hoped was an old-fashioned Jack smile. “Do I know you?” he asked. “Actually, no, Sue-four is a great age.”Buy the print » “Do you know us,” the first one said, shaking her head sadly. “Do you know us.” “Oh, you know us,” the other said. “The first time we set eyes on you, you came whistling down the road, looking for a job of work, after your setting out.” “You had the dinner your poor old mama had made for you slung over your shoulder on a pole. But the dust on the road had made you powerful thirsty and you had not a drop to drink.” “Mama never remembered to send along a jug of water,” Jack said. “It was a shortcoming.” “You came upon me first. I was sitting by the roadside, weaving a basket of golden straw for to carry eggs to the market. You asked me to draw you a dipper of water from the well.” “And I was sitting in the doorway of our daddy’s sturdy house, churning a bait of butter for to bake a cake,” the other said. “Then you asked me to draw you a cup of water from the well.” “You sure did drink a lot of water.” “Was your daddy a farmer?” “Miller,” both said. “Ah,” said Jack. For one sweet moment he sensed more than remembered the rhythmic moan of a turning wheel, the gentle shush-shush-shush of water splashing, a slant of silver moonlight, an intake of breath as soft as the noise made by the wings of a moth, but he couldn’t conjure up the face of a girl. So many maidens, so many mills. Twins, though. He thought he would’ve remembered twins. “That night at supper, while our daddy was eating his vittles and eyeballing his shooting-gun leaning by the doorstop, you tricked him into giving you his silver sword and ten bags of gold.” “We still don’t know how you pulled that one off.” “Then you slipped him a sleeping draught that made him snore so that the door joggled and the roof shook and nobody never heard the like, then or now.” “You met me in the mill when the black cat mewled, and lay with me in the moonlight on the tow sacks of meal our daddy had ground by day.” “Then you lay with me on the same tow sacks when the old owl hooted three times in the sweet-gum tree.” Jack tasted a whiff of the bad liquor he had drunk. He felt another stirring, not of loin but of remorse. The feeling was unfamiliar, and he did not care for it. What was wrong with him? If the three of them managed to get away from this dog, why shouldn’t he lay with them again? He was Jack, after all, that Jack. But, instead, he swallowed. He said, “Forgive me, but I’m not . . . ” “. . . sure you remember us?” “I, I’m sorry, no, I . . . ” He leaned forward and looked intently into the eyes of one girl and then into the eyes of the other. “They’re not limpid pools of amber, Jack,” the first said. “They’re light brown.” “And they’re not shining or flashing or burning with passion.” “They’re just eyes.” Jack looked back and forth between their lovely faces with increasing consternation. Why couldn’t he remember them? “It’s just as well you don’t recollect us.” “We were fifteen, Jack. Fifteen.” “I know,” he said. “I mean, were you? I mean, I guess I know that now because you just told me.” The girls stared at him, their brows slowly lowering. “It was wrong, what happened, wasn’t it?” “It was wrong, Jack.” “It was wrong before you even set out on your setting out.” The liquor roiled in Jack’s stomach. Inside his head he felt himself starting off down an unfamiliar road. No good lay at its end. The way was dark and cold and he was alone and growing older with each step. He couldn’t find his shoes. Jagged stones bruised and cut his feet. “What happened after I left?” he asked, his voice dropping so that he could barely hear it. “Tell me what happened next.” One girl shrugged. “Why, nothing happened, Jack. Daddy never woke up from the sleeping draught you gave him. He kept snoring so the door joggled and the roof shook and nobody never heard the like. Except us. We were the only people about the settlement once you left. Eventually, the mill rotted down and the dam gave way and the great wheel tipped and toppled into the ivy, where it lays ’til this day.” “But what happened to you?” Jack whispered. “Tell me what happened to you.” “Me? I just sat by the side of the road weaving a basket of golden straw for to take eggs to the market.” “And I sat in the doorway churning a bait of butter for to bake a cake.” “And nobody else came down the road.” “Not ever.” “Till the day I looked up and saw a big black dog a-standin’ on the hilltop. I did not like the looks of him, so I grabbed up my sister and off we ran down the road.” “And after an age and a day of running down the road and fighting through the corn, here we are,” the other girl said, sweeping her arm around the wheat field. “Here we are.” Jack looked nervously over his shoulder. A few more girls, stragglers, splashed out of the corn. They looked haggard, their simple country dresses soiled and torn. They ran tiredly by and stared at him as they passed. He saw in their eyes that they recognized him, but none of them smiled and none of them waved and none of them stopped. Nobody asked for his help. He forgot to look at their fair nether parts as they ran away. Jack turned to the twins. He said, “All these girls, I . . . ” “Yep.” “Some of ’em twice.” “Are you proud of yourself, Jack?” “That’s what we want to know, Jack, that Jack. Tell us, are you proud?” Jack was ashamed of what he had done—maybe fully ashamed for the first time in his life—but still, in his most secret heart, he wished that he had counted the girls as they ran away. “Well,” he admitted. “Maybe a mite.” “Then what are their names?” one twin demanded. “Names?” Jack said. “You heard her. Their names.” Jack realized that he had never known any of their names. They had all been farmers’ daughters or millers’ daughters or kings’ daughters. “Uh,” he said. “Susan?” “No, Jack. None of us never got names.” “The same way none of us never got more than the one white dress to wear, and it too tight, not even after you saw to it that we needed a different color.” “You never saw fit to ask us our names.” “Not even after you lay with us.” Jack remembered then—as clearly as if he were there—the rhythmic screech of a turning wheel, the hush-hush-hush of water falling, a dagger of silver moonlight, a girl lying back on a stack of sacked cornmeal, her white dress pushed above her waist. She said, “I don’t know, Jack. I don’t know.” But what had it meant, the I-don’t-know? He dug the heels of his hands into his eyes. What he wanted most right then was to forget that he had ever set foot in that mill, that he had ever set out down the road that led to that mill, but he could smell the corn dust, hear the wheel, the water, the intake of breath. “Make it stop,” Jack begged. “Make it stop!” “It ain’t gonna stop, Jack.” “You drunk the seeing juice.” “The what?” “The seeing juice. You drunk it all up.” “Out of the jar we put in the road.” “That’s why you can see in the dark.” “Oh, no,” Jack wailed. “I shoulda known. Y’all are witches. I thought all the witches was gone! Y’all done gave me a potion!” “We’re not witches, Jack. And not maidens. We’re just girls.” “We got the seeing juice from the old man beside the road. He said it was something you needed.” “That son of a bitch,” Jack said. “We put it in the middle of the road so you would find it on your setting out.” “Then we run into the corn because we could hear the black dog coming.” “But why?” Jack said. “Why would you do that to me?” Knowing even as he asked the question that its answer was obvious. “Because we wanted you to see.” “So you would know.” “And now you see.” “And now you know.” “But I don’t want to see,” Jack said. “And I don’t want to know. I just want to set out. I want the sky to be new and the wind fresh on my cheek. I want to feel the red dust scrouging up between my toes. I want to whistle off down the road with the lunch my mama made me slung over a pole and meet an old man who’ll say, ‘Howdy, Jack. Today you’re going to meet a giant with two heads. Here’s two silver hatchets.’ ” “That ain’t going to happen no more, Jack.” “The black dog is going to get us all. He’s eating all the stories up from the inside.” “So enjoy it while you can.” “It’s almost like living, this knowing.” Behind him, Jack heard a crashing through the corn, too loud to be a maiden. He grabbed the twins by their hands and tried to pull them with him through the wheat. “It’s no use, Jack. Just let us go.” The crashing in the corn grew louder. “No,” Jack said, squeezing their hands so tightly he was afraid he might hurt them. “I ain’t gonna turn you loose.” “It’s fine, Jack,” one said. “It’s fine.” “It’s not fine.” “We’re lucky, in a way,” the other said. “We got to be in another story. Even if it was with you.” “We’re not weaving baskets and churning butter while nobody never comes. This is better.” “But the way it ends,” Jack said. “Is the way it ends. The black dog’s gonna catch us and say whatever it is he has to say and bite us and that’ll be that.” “Come with me,” Jack pleaded. “Come with me and I won’t lay a finger on either one of you, I promise. I’ll get us a farm. How about that? I’ll get us a farm and clear some new ground and sow some seeds and grow some corn and a few tomatoes and I won’t set out no more. We can live happily ever after.” “Oh, Jack,” one chided. “You don’t do happily ever after.” “I do, too,” Jack protested. “I’ve done happily ever after lots of times.” “But then the page turns.” “The page turns and off you go again.” Whatever was coming through the corn was almost upon them. “Shut up,” Jack said. “Just shut up and come on.” He tried to jerk the girls after him. Their hands were sweaty, almost hot to the touch, callused from weaving and churning. When they resisted, he squeezed harder and felt the delicate bones rubbing together under their skin. “Ow,” said the girl he clutched with his left hand. “You’re hurting me!” “You let her go!” the girl on his right cried, clouting him on the ear. “Don’t you hurt her no more!” Jack dropped both girls’ hands and rubbed his ringing ear. He said, “What the hell’d you do that for? I’m just trying to save you!” But when he looked up the girls were gone, vanished as completely as if they had been imagined for a moment along the side of a road and just as quickly forgotten. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Third-Born	Credit Photograph by Martin Roemers / Anastasia / Panos One cold, dewy morning, you are huddled, shivering, on the packed earth under your mother’s cot. Your anguish is the anguish of a boy whose chocolate has been thrown away, whose remote controls are out of batteries, whose scooter is busted, whose new sneakers have been stolen. This is all the more remarkable since, wealth-obsessed though you will come to be, you’ve never in your life seen any of these things. The whites of your eyes are yellow, a consequence of spiking bilirubin levels in your blood. The virus afflicting you is called hepatitis E. Its typical mode of transmission is fecal-oral. Yum. It kills only about one in fifty, so you’re likely to recover. But right now you feel like you’re going to die. Your mother has encountered this condition many times, or conditions like it, anyway. So maybe she doesn’t think you’re going to die. Then again, maybe she fears it. Everyone is going to die, and, when a mother sees in a third-born child like you pain that makes you whimper under her cot, maybe she feels your death push forward a few decades, take off its dark, dusty head scarf, and settle with open-haired familiarity and a lascivious smile into this, the single mud-walled room she shares with all her surviving offspring. What she says is “Don’t leave us here.” She is addressing your father, who has heard this request before. That does not make him completely unsusceptible to it, however. He is a man of voracious sexual appetite, and he often thinks, while he is away, of your mother’s heavy breasts and ample thighs, and he still longs to thrust himself inside her nightly rather than on his three or four visits per year. He also enjoys her unusually rude sense of humor, and sometimes her companionship as well. And although he is not given to displays of affection toward his young, he would like to watch you and your siblings grow. His own father derived considerable pleasure from the daily progress of crops in the fields, and in this, at least insofar as agriculture is analogous to the development of children, the two men are similar. He says, “I can’t afford to bring you to the city.” “We could stay with you in the quarters.” “I share my room with the driver. He’s a masturbating, chain-smoking, flatulent sisterfucker. There are no families in the quarters.” “You earn ten thousand now. You’re not a poor man.” “In the city, ten thousand makes you a poor man.” He gets up and walks outside. Your eyes follow him, his leather sandals unslung at the rear, their straps flapping free, his chapped heels callused, crustacean-like. He steps into the open-air courtyard situated at the center of your extended family’s compound. He is unlikely to linger there in contemplation of the single, shade-giving tree, comforting in summer, but now, in spring, still tough and scraggly. Possibly he exits the compound and makes his way to the ridge behind which he prefers to defecate, squatting low and squeezing forcefully to expel the contents of his colon. Possibly he is alone, or possibly he is not. Beside the ridge is a gully as deep as a man is tall, and at the bottom of that gully is a slender trickle of water. In this season the two things are incongruous, a skeletal figure wearing the tunic of an obese pastry chef. Only briefly, during the monsoon, does the gully fill to anything near capacity, and even that is an occurrence less regular now than in the past, dependent on increasingly fickle atmospheric currents. The people of your village relieve themselves downstream of where they wash their clothes, a place, in turn, downstream of where they drink. Farther upstream, the village before yours does the same. Farther still, where the water emerges from the hills as a sometimes gushing brook, it is partly employed in the industrial processes of an old, rusting, and subscale textile plant, and partly used as drainage for the foul-smelling gray effluent that results. Your father is a cook, but, despite being reasonably good at his job, he is not a man obsessed with the freshness or quality of his ingredients. Cooking for him is a craft of spice and oil. His food burns the tongue and clogs the arteries. When he looks around him in the countryside, he does not see prickly leaves and hairy little berries for an effervescent salad, tan stalks of wheat for a heavenly balloon of stone-ground, stovetop-baked flatbread. He sees, instead, units of backbreaking toil. He sees hours and days and weeks and years. He sees the labor by which a farmer exchanges his allocation of time in this world for an allocation of time in this world. Here, in the heady bouquet of nature’s pantry, your father sniffs mortality. Most of the men of the village who now work in the city return for the wheat harvest. But it is still too early in the year for that. Your father is here on leave. Nonetheless, he likely accompanies his brothers to spend his morning cutting grass and clover for fodder. He will squat, again, but this time sickle in hand, and his movements of gather-cut-release-waddle will be repeated over and over and over as the sun retraces its own incremental path in the sky. Beside him, a single dirt road passes through the fields. Should the landlord or his sons drive by in their S.U.V., your father and his brothers will bring their hands to their foreheads, bend low, and avert their eyes. Meeting the gaze of a landlord has been a risky business in these parts for centuries, perhaps since the beginning of history. Recently, some men have begun to do it. But they have beards and earn their keep in the seminaries. They walk tall, with chests out. Your father is not one of them. In fact, he dislikes them almost as much as he does the landlords, and for the same reasons. They strike him as domineering and lazy. Lying on your side with one ear on the packed earth, from your worm’s-height perspective you watch your mother follow your father into the courtyard. She feeds the water buffalo tethered there, tossing fodder that was cut yesterday and mixed with straw into a wooden trough, and milks the animal as it eats, jets of liquid smacking into her tin pail. When she is done, the children of the compound, your siblings and cousins, lead the buffalo, its calf, and the goats out to forage. You hear the swishing of the peeled branches the children hold, and then they are gone. Your aunts leave the compound next, bearing clay pots on their heads for water and carrying clothes and soap for cleaning. These are social tasks. Your mother’s responsibility is solitary. This is not a coincidence. She squats as your father is likely squatting, a handleless broom in her hand instead of a sickle, her sweep-sweep-waddle approximating his movements. Squatting is energy-efficient and better for the back. But, after hours and days and weeks and years, its mild discomfort echoes in the mind like muffled screams from a subterranean torture chamber. The pain can be borne endlessly, provided it is never acknowledged. Your mother cleans the courtyard under the gaze of her mother-in-law. The old woman sits in shadow, the edge of her shawl held in her mouth to conceal not her attributes of temptation but, rather, her lack of teeth, and looks on in unquenchable disapproval. Your mother is regarded in the compound as vain and arrogant and headstrong, and these accusations have bite, for they are all true. Your grandmother tells your mother she has missed a spot. Because she is toothless and holds the cloth between her lips, when she speaks it sounds like she is spitting. Your mother and grandmother play a waiting game. The older woman waits for the younger woman to age; the younger woman waits for the older woman to die. It is a game both will inevitably win. In the meantime, your grandmother flaunts her authority whenever she can, and your mother flaunts her physical strength. The other women of the compound would be frightened of your mother were it not for the reassuring existence of the men. In an all-female society your mother would likely rise to be queen, a bloody staff in her hand and crushed skulls beneath her feet. Here the best she has been able to manage is, for the most part, to be spared severe provocation. Even this, cut off as she is from her own village, is no small victory. Unsaid between your mother and your father is that on ten thousand a month he could, just barely, afford to bring her and his children to the city. It would be tight but not impossible. At the moment he is able to send most of his salary back to the village, where it is split between your mother and the rest of the clan. If she and you children were to move in with him, the flow of his money to this place would slow to a trickle, swelling like the water in the gully only in the two festival months when he could perhaps expect a bonus. You watch your mother slice up a lengthy white radish and boil it over an open fire. The sun has banished the dew and, unwell as you are, you no longer feel cold. You feel weak, though, and with the pain in your gut it is as if a parasite were eating you alive from within. So you do not resist as your mother lifts your head off the earth and ladles her elixir into your mouth. It smells like a burp, like the gases from a man’s belly. It makes your gorge rise. But you have nothing inside that you can vomit, and you swallow it without incident. As you lie motionless afterward, a jaundiced village boy, radish juice dribbling from the corner of your lips and forming a small patch of mud on the ground, it must seem that getting filthy rich is beyond your reach. But have faith. You are not as powerless as you appear. Your moment is about to come. Decision time arrives a few hours later. The sun has set and your mother has shifted you onto the cot, where you lie swaddled in a blanket even though the evening is warm. The men have returned from the fields, and the family, all except you, have eaten together in the courtyard. Through the doorway you can hear the gurgle of a water pipe and see the flare of its coals as one of your uncles inhales. Your parents stand over you, looking down. Tomorrow your father will return to the city. He is thinking. “Will you be all right?” he asks you. It is the first question he has asked you on this visit, perhaps the first sentence he has uttered directly to you in months. You are in pain and frightened. So the answer is obviously no. Yet you say, “Yes.” And take your destiny into your own hands. Your father absorbs your croak and nods. He says to your mother, “He’s a strong child, this one.” She says, “He’s very strong.” You’ll never know if it is your answer that makes your father change his answer. But that night he tells your mother that he has decided she and you children will join him in the city. A month later, you are well enough to ride with your brother and sister on the roof of the overloaded bus that bears your family and threescore cramped others to the city. If it tips over as it careens down the road, swerving in mad competition with equally crowded rivals as they seek to pick up the next group of prospective passengers on this route, your likelihood of death or, at least, dismemberment will be extremely high. Such things happen often, although not nearly as often as they don’t happen. But today is your lucky day. Gripping the ropes that bind luggage to this vehicle, you witness a passage of time that outstrips its chronological equivalent. Just as a quick shift in altitude can vault one from subtropical jungle to semi-arctic tundra, so, too, can a few hours on a bus from rural remoteness to urban centrality appear to span millennia. Atop your inky-smoke-spewing, starboard-listing conveyance, you survey the changes with awe. Dirt streets give way to paved ones, potholes grow less frequent and soon all but disappear, and the kamikaze rush of oncoming traffic vanishes, to be replaced by the enforced peace of the dual carriageway. Electricity makes its appearance, first in passing as you slip below a steel parade of high-voltage giants, then later in the form of wires running at bus-top eye level on either side of the road, and finally in streetlights and shop signs and glorious, magnificent billboards. Buildings go from mud to brick to concrete, then shoot up to an unimaginable four stories, even five. At each subsequent wonder you think you have arrived, that surely nothing could belong more to your destination than this, and each time you are proved wrong, until you cease thinking and simply surrender to the layers of marvels and visions washing over you like the walls of rain that follow one another seemingly endlessly in the monsoon—endlessly, that is, until they end, without warning, and then the bus shudders to a stop and you are finally, irrevocably there. “Hey, nice body! Not you, the ! . . . That’s what said! . . . Oh, yeah? Ask me about your wife!”Buy the print » As you and your parents and siblings dismount, you embody one of the great changes of your time. Where once your clan was innumerable, not infinite but of a large number not readily known, now there are five of you. Five. The fingers on one hand, the toes on one foot, a minuscule aggregation when compared with shoals of fish or flocks of birds or, indeed, tribes of humans. In the history of the evolution of the family, you and the millions of other migrants like you represent an ongoing proliferation of the nuclear. It is an explosive transformation—the supportive, stifling, stabilizing bonds of extended relationships weakening and giving way, leaving in their wake insecurity, anxiety, productivity, and potential. Your sister turns to look at you. Her left hand steadies the enormous bundle of clothing and possessions balanced on her head. Her right hand grips the handle of a cracked and battered suitcase likely discarded by its original owner around the time your father was born. She smiles and you smile in return, your faces small ovals of the familiar in an otherwise unrecognizable world. You think your sister is trying to reassure you. It does not occur to you, young as you are, that it is she who needs reassurance, that she seeks you out not to comfort you but, rather, for the comfort that you, her only recently recovered little brother, have in this moment of fragile vulnerability the capacity to offer her. Your city is not laid out as a single-celled organism, with a wealthy nucleus surrounded by an ooze of slums. It lacks sufficient mass transit to move all its workers twice daily in the fashion this would require. It also lacks, since the end of colonization, generations ago, governance powerful enough to dispossess individuals of their property in sufficient numbers. Accordingly, the poor live near the rich. Wealthy neighborhoods are often divided by a single boulevard from factories and markets and graveyards, and those, in turn, may be separated from the homes of the impoverished only by an open sewer, a railroad track, or a narrow alley. Your own triangle-shaped community, through which you walk now, textbook in hand, is bounded by all three. Arriving at your destination, you see a whitewashed building with a plaque declaring its name and function. This is your school, and it is wedged between a tire-repair stall and a corner kiosk that derives the bulk of its revenues from the sale of cigarettes. Until the age of about twelve, when the opportunity cost of forgone wages becomes significant, most children in your area manage to go to school. Most, but by no means all. A boy your height is working shirtless in the tire-repair stall. He watches you now as you pass. There are fifty pupils in your class, and stools for thirty. The others sit on the floor or stand. You are instructed by a hollow-cheeked, betel-nut-spitting, possibly tubercular teacher. Today he takes you through your multiplication tables. This he does in a distracted chant, his preferred, indeed only, pedagogical tool being enforced rote memorization. Parts of his mind not responsible for control over the tissue and bone of his vocal apparatus wander far, far away. Your teacher chants, “Ten tens, a hundred.” The class chants it back. Your teacher chants, “Eleven elevens, a hundred twenty-one.” The class chants it back. Your teacher chants, “Twelve twelves, a hundred thirty-four.” One foolhardy voice interrupts. It says, “Forty-four.” There is silence. The voice is yours. You spoke without thinking, or, at least, without thinking sufficiently ahead. Your teacher says, “What did you say?” You hesitate. But it has happened. There is no way back. “Forty-four.” Your teacher’s tone is soft with menace. “Why did you say that?” “Twelve twelves are a hundred forty-four.” “You think I’m an idiot?” “No, sir. I thought you said a hundred thirty-four. I made a mistake. You said a hundred forty-four. I’m sorry, sir.” The entire class knows that your teacher did not say a hundred forty-four. Or perhaps not the entire class. Much of the class was paying no attention, daydreaming of kites or assault rifles, or rolling nasal residue into balls between their thumbs and forefingers. But some of them know. And all of them know what will happen next, if not the precise form it will take. They watch now in horrified fascination, like seals on a rock observing a great white breaching beneath one of their own. Most of the pupils have in the past been punished by your teacher. You, as one of the brightest among them, have drawn some of the most severe punishments. You attempt to hide your knowledge, but every so often bravado gets the better of you and it comes out, as it just has, and then there is hell to pay. Today your teacher reaches into the pocket of his tunic, where he keeps a small amount of coarse sand, and grips you by the ear, the sand on his fingertips adding abrasion to the enormous pressure he applies, so that your earlobe is not only crushed but also made raw and slightly bloody. You refuse to cry out, denying your torturer satisfaction, and thereby insuring that the punishment is prolonged. Your teacher did not want to be a teacher. He wanted to be a meter reader at the electric utility. Meter readers do not have to put up with children, they work comparatively little, and, more important, they have greater opportunity for corruption and are hence both better off and held in higher regard by society. Nor was becoming a meter reader out of your teacher’s reach. His uncle worked for the electric utility. But the one position as meter reader this uncle was able to facilitate went, as all things most desirable in life invariably went, to your teacher’s elder brother. So your teacher, who narrowly failed his secondary-school final examination but was able to have the results falsified, with his false results—plus a bribe equivalent to sixty per cent of one year’s prospective salary, and a good low-level connection in the education bureaucracy in the form of a cousin—secured the post he currently occupies. He is not exactly a man who lives to teach. In fact, he hates to teach. It shames him. Nonetheless, he retains a small but not nonexistent fear of losing his job, or, if not losing his job, then of being put in a position where he will be forced to pay yet another, and indeed larger, bribe in order to retain it, and this fear, augmented by his sense of abiding disappointment and his not unfounded conviction that the world is profoundly unfair, manifests itself in the steady dose of violence he visits upon his charges. With each blow, he tells himself, he helps education penetrate another thick skull. Penetration and education, the two are intertwined in the lives of many around you. In the life of your sister, for example. She is sobbing when you return home. Lately, she alternates with alarming frequency between suppressed but globular tears and calm airs of smug superiority. At the moment, it is the former. You say, “Again?” “Sit on my dick, you little pussy.” You shake your head. You are too tired to retort appropriately and, what’s more, too drained to be confident of dodging one of her quick-fire slaps. She notices that something is wrong with you. She says, “What happened to your ear?” “Teacher.” “That sisterfucker. Come here.” You sit beside her and she puts her arm around you, stroking your hair. You shut your eyes. She sniffles once or twice, but she is done crying for now. You say, “Are you frightened?” “Frightened?” She forces a laugh. “He should be frightened of me.” The “he” she refers to is your father’s second cousin, a decade her senior, to whom she is now betrothed. His first wife recently died in childbirth after two miscarriages, and no time has been wasted in arranging another match for him. “Does he still have that mustache?” you ask. “How should I know? I haven’t seen him in years.” “It’s enormous, that mustache.” “You know what they say about the size of a man’s mustache.” “What?” “Never mind.” “So are you frightened?” “Of what?” “I don’t know. Of leaving. I’d be scared to move back to the village all by myself.” “That’s why you’re still a boy and I’m a woman.” “You’re a girl.” “No, I’m a woman.” “A girl.” “I bleed every month. I’m a woman.” “You’re disgusting.” “Maybe.” She smiles. “But a woman.” Then she surprises you. She does something that you associate with women of girth and substance, not with slender slips of girls like her. She sings. She sings in a quiet and powerful voice. She sings a song that mothers in your village sing to their newborns, a song that your mother sang to each of you. It is like a lullaby but more upbeat, meant not to put an infant to sleep but, rather, to communicate a mother’s presence when a task takes her beyond touch or out of sight. You have not heard it in years. It feels strange to hear your sister sing it, oddly relaxing and unsettling at the same time. You lean against her as she sings, and you feel her body swell and diminish like a harmonium. Your sister, firstborn, has worked as a cleaning girl since shortly after your family moved to the city, your father’s income unable to keep up with the rampant inflation of recent years. She was told that she could go back to school once your brother, the second of you three surviving siblings, was old enough to work. She demonstrated more enthusiasm for education in her few months in a classroom than your brother did in his several years. He has just been found employment as a painter’s assistant, and has been taken out of school as a result, but your sister will not be sent there in his stead. The time for that has passed. Marriage is her future. She has been marked for entry. When your brother gets home he is exhausted, a fine white dusting of paint on the exposed skin of his hands and face. It is also on his hair, like a play actor’s makeup, and he resembles a boy about to go onstage as a middle-aged man in a school drama. He looks at you wearily and coughs. Your sister says, “I told you, you shouldn’t smoke.” He says, “I don’t smoke.” She sniffs him. “Yes, you do.” “The master does. I’m just around him all day.” The truth is that your brother has smoked on several occasions. But he does not particularly like to smoke, and he has not smoked this week. Besides, smoking is not the reason for his cough. The reason for his cough is paint inhalation. The painter your brother assists is an air-gun spray painter, and his work is in some senses like being an astronaut, or, slightly more prosaically, a scuba diver. It, too, involves the hiss of air, the feeling of weightlessness, the sudden pressure headaches and nausea, the precariousness that results when an organic being and a machine are fused together. Then again, an astronaut or an aquanaut sees unimaginable new worlds, whereas your brother sees only a monocolor haze of varying intensities. His occupation requires patience and the fortitude to withstand a constant sense of low-level panic, both of which, out of necessity, your brother has acquired. In theory, it also requires protection in the form of goggles and respirators, but your brother and his master have neither. They place thin cotton rags over their mouths and noses instead. Hence, in the near term, your brother’s cough. Over the long term, consequences can be more serious. But a painter’s assistant is paid, the skills he learns are valuable, and, in any case, over sufficiently long a term, as everyone knows, there is nothing that does not have as its consequence death. While your mother prepares dinner that evening, a lentil stew thickened with chunks of onion, not because onions are her favorite ingredient but because they appear to add substance to a meal and today in the market they were cheap, it may not seem that you are a lucky child. Your wounded ear is, after all, more visibly painful than the expression in your sister’s eyes or the residue of paint on your brother’s skin. Yet you are fortunate. Fortunate in being third-born. There are forks in the road to wealth that have nothing to do with choice or desire or effort, forks that have to do with chance, and the order of your birth is one of these. Third means you are not heading back to the village. Third means you are not working as a painter’s assistant. Third also means you are not, like your parents’ fourth child, a tiny skeleton in a small grave at the base of a tree. Your father comes home after you have eaten. He has his meals with the other servants at the house where he cooks. All of you crowd around the family television, a sign of your urban prosperity. It is powered by a wire of communally stolen electricity that runs down the front of your building. It is archaic, a black-and-white, cathode-ray-tube device with an excessively curved and annoyingly chipped screen. It is narrower than the distance between your wrist and your elbow. And it is able to capture only the few channels that broadcast terrestrially. But it works, and your family watches in a state of hushed rapture the musical variety show it delivers to your room. When the show ends, credits roll. Your mother sees a meaningless stream of hieroglyphs. Your father and sister make out an occasional number, your brother the occasional word. Third means your success is decoupling from that of your kin. For you alone does this part of the programming make sense. You understand that it reveals who is responsible for what. The electricity to your neighborhood cuts out on the hour, and with it the light from your single naked bulb. A candle burns while you all prepare to turn in, and is then extinguished by your mother with a squeeze of her fingers. In the room it is now dim but not dark, the glow of the city creeping in through the shutters, and quiet but not silent. You hear a train decelerate as it passes along the tracks. You tend to sleep deeply, so although you share a cot with your brother, his cough does not disturb you even once during the night. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Last Few Kilometres	Credit Photograph by Grant Cornett He had just finished lovemaking, rather indifferently, and now he was returning home on the train. Outside the window, in the murky film of the fading autumn day, Moscow’s former suburbs swam past—clusters of identical white high-rises with laundry hanging on the balconies—which weren’t suburbs anymore, but inside the city now. Closer to the railroad huddled earthbound two-story structures, blackened with soot; plots of land fenced off with solid walls stretched along the rails, their terrain cluttered with car bodies, stacks of logs, or rusted constructions of unknown purpose. As was her custom, she had greeted him all dressed up, wearing a little brooch, her hair teased, as if they were going to the theatre. He put his lips to her cheek, and then to her neck, in order to demonstrate his passion. Of course, he should have kissed her on the lips, but, as usual, they were covered in a thick layer of lipstick. “What’s our plan?” she asked. Theoretically, drinking and eating were supposed to come first, but this could lead to excessive palpitations during the hour of love. On the other hand, drinking and eating were pointless afterward, when he just wanted to have a smoke and get home as quickly as possible. And yet entirely refusing the repast she’d spent so long preparing would mean offending her. “Why don’t we have a bite first,” he said. He’d reached a compromise decision: he would eat a little, have a drink, and leave the rest for later—he could figure it out then. She rushed joyfully back and forth between the kitchen and the dining table in her one room, setting out plates, placing forks and napkins, while he reclined on the sofa. It was pleasant to watch how she fussed, pleasant to be in a clean, cozy room: the sideboard, wardrobe, and gramophone were so highly polished you could use them as mirrors, and a large, fluffy rug lay on the floor. He had a real mistress and she received him the way mistresses generally do only in the movies. “Oy, don’t look, please, the place is so awful,” she said, setting a dish of steaming chicken and rice on the table; it was more or less the same thing she said when he undressed her. She settled opposite him on a low chair; on the table between them were the hors d’oeuvres. He poured wine into the crystal goblets—he had always called them “wineglasses,” but she referred to them as “goblets,” and now he, too, thought of them that way. The wine was transparent, golden, light—exactly as it was supposed to be in such situations. She sat with her back to the window, facing him. “It’d be nice to spend a day or two here,” he told her. “Would you like some meat blini?” she suddenly remembered. “Only they’re just terrible. Is the chicken dry? It is, isn’t it?” She ran into the kitchen and brought out the blini; as she started to serve him, he cleared some space on his plate, and dropped a drumstick on the floor. Embarrassed, he picked it up, and wanted to put it on the table, but she waved her hands in horror and took the drumstick back into the kitchen. The blini were tasty—best of all, you didn’t have to chew them much. He’d left his removable denture at home so that it wouldn’t interfere with the moment of pleasure. The high-rise buildings were fewer and farther between now. Outside the train window were the neighborhoods that had been built up in the fifties, with extruding cornices, bas-reliefs, and sculptural ensembles designed to depict bounty and the joy of labor. On the roof of one such building, a green neon sign read, “Dawn—A Specialized Shop for the Blind.” An oncoming train zipped past like a blast of wind; through the flickering of its cars and windows, the sign could still be seen distinctly. “You’ve hurt my feelings,” she said when they lay side by side. He was staring up at the ceiling—he wanted to have a smoke and go home. “Now, now, what’s all this? Everything was so delicious, and you are too . . .” He didn’t finish his sentence so as not to say anything trite. “A day or two, you said. It would have been better if you hadn’t said anything at all.” “O.K., I’m going to demonstrate the proper way to lie to me about flossing.”Buy the print » He turned toward her, and thought that her eyes were moist, but perhaps it was just her wide, dark pupils—afterward, her pupils were always enlarged, and sometimes he even stared into her eyes just to check. The train stopped, although they weren’t at a station. There were several rows of rails, with freight cars and an entire train of restaurant cars, a brick water tower with broken windows, and farther on some buildings—tall and short ones, stone and wood, old and new, a mixture of eras and styles piled up randomly, like cliffs. The lights were already on in some of them. There were factory smokestacks, with immobile puffs of bluish-gray smoke above them, and beyond, through the smoke, he could just make out the contours of Moscow’s skyscrapers, with red warning lights on the tips of their spires, and these lights seemed to float in the sky. Probably the traffic signal was red, and Moscow wasn’t taking trains. A strange silence reigned in the car. There were a fair number of passengers, although no one was standing, but they were all quiet, and the only thing that could be heard was music—it might have been the shake or the twist. He began to look around to determine the source of the music. Diagonally across from him, next to the window, was a young man in a nylon jacket. Although he was sitting quietly like everyone else, it was obvious that the music was coming from his lap—he must have had a portable tape recorder. The voices singing the twist or the shake were going wild, though the tape recorder was set considerately at minimum volume, so the music wasn’t bothersome—you could listen to it or not. The train started to move, and the sound of the music was immediately drowned out by the clacking of the wheels. The stacked cliffs of buildings began to turn slowly with the train, unexpectedly revealing narrow cracks between them, through which trams and trucks could be glimpsed speeding along. She pulled on her black slip, her whole body writhing like a snake, as though she were performing some Indian dance—she always put it on that way. He had finally lit a cigarette, and, watching her, was trying to figure out whether he’d make the train. When he walked into the kitchen just before he left, he saw a chicken leg lying on a plate in the white enamelled sink, the very drumstick that he had dropped on the floor—she was probably planning to wash it and reheat it—and it seemed to him that he had foreseen all of this from the very beginning. The train stopped once more—the rail line was probably still busy—and then he heard the music again, the same shake or twist or something of the sort, the same voices, alien, incomprehensible, ranting and raging, but unobtrusive. The singers would be shaking their shoulders, as if teasing someone, their bodies bent and gyrating, their wrists flapping, striking the strings of electric guitars in a frenzied tempo, as though whipping up shaving cream, but at the same time they’d remain in place, as if each of them were delineated by an invisible circle, so that all this ecstasy seemed fake, deliberately put on. Everyone in the train car continued to sit silently: a woman in a headscarf with a tired face; a girl holding a tattered book in her red, probably frostbitten hands; middle-aged men and women in sombre-colored, heavy coats. He could no longer hear the music. The train was now crossing a bridge above a dark river with cement embankments; an ancient monastery on a hill above the river had once been on the outskirts but was now in the center of town. When the train stopped again, in the middle of the bridge, an unnatural, oppressive silence dominated the car. The young man had probably turned his tape recorder off; no one talked. In the early twilight, the dark, immobile figures around him were like symbols of people, and for a moment he thought that, if by some supernatural act he were removed from the car right that very second, nothing would change: the people would sit just as silently, continuing to resemble symbols of themselves; far below them would be the same river with cars streaming along its embankment road; and to the left would be the monastery with its white fortified walls and its empty, dingy courtyard. Ahead, the station’s traffic signals could already be seen—their green, yellow, and red lights, partly covered by visors, were dim, but when he turned a certain way they sparkled like rippling columns seen through a veil of rain or tears. ♦ (Translated, from the Russian, by Jamey Gambrell.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Casserole	Credit Illustration by Victo Ngai We waited under the cottonwoods for the ferry to come back across the Missouri River. But the heat still throbbed from the metal of our car, and it turned out to be better to stand close to the water. The river seemed so big, its incongruous whisper belying its steady speed. Clouds of swallows chased insects over the water, and doves rested in the shadows. My wife kept touching her forehead with a Kleenex and staring across at the ferry, as if to hurry its return. We could see the ferryman chatting with his passengers, which only increased her agitation. We were heading from our home in Livingston to Ellie’s family ranch to celebrate our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary. Twenty-five years and no children: her parents had stopped interrogating us about that. They assumed that it was a physical problem that some clinic could solve, but we didn’t want children. We lacked the courage to tell them that. We both liked children; we just didn’t want any ourselves. There were children everywhere, and we saw no reason to start our own brand. Young couples plunge into parenthood and about half the time they end up with some ghastly problem on their hands. We thought we’d leave that to others. But my in-laws were elderly and they had the usual views of hereditary landowners: they longed for an heir. They had acquired their land from my wife’s grandfather and, with it, a belief in family values that did not stand up to scrutiny, since most ranches these days were the scene of bitter inheritance battles. But even if my wife had had siblings she would not have been part of this sort of trouble, as she had never—at least, not since adolescence—wanted to pursue ranch life, rural life, agricultural life. She would have said to a sibling, “Take it! It’s all yours. I’m out of here.” There would have been an element of posturing in this, because she was very attached to the land; she just didn’t want to own it or do anything with it. Neither did I. The thing was that we were quite poor. We were both grade-school teachers, and owning a house had been the extent of our indulgences. We loved our house and our work and were suitably grateful for both, though Ellie felt that if I hadn’t been so hellbent on retiring the mortgage we might have done a few more things for fun. My in-laws couldn’t believe that we had no interest in owning a ranch that was worth millions. But they wouldn’t have allowed us to sell it. We’d be stuck with it if we went along with them, which we weren’t about to do, and so now they were stuck with it: cows, farming equipment, fences—the whole enchilada. And they were getting old. The ranch was going to eat them alive, and they knew it. The fences would fall down; the cows would get out; the neighbors, old friends, would start to think of them as a problem. Once across this river, we’d be heading for a very sad story. Well, not that sad. They’d had their day and it was almost over. That’s how it is for everybody. They liked to be seen as heroic strivers, alone on the unforgiving prairie, but they could have handed the ranch over, no strings attached, and headed for Arizona; after the sale, there would have been plenty for everybody. I had an extensive collection of West Coast jazz records, including the usual suspects, Gerry Mulligan, Chet Baker, Stan Getz, and so on—not everybody has Wardell Gray and Buddy Collette, but I did—and if I’d had a bit more dough I could have added a room on to our house specifically to house this collection, with an appropriate sound system. But when I complained about things like this to Ellie, she just said, “Cue the violins.” It looked as though our appallingly high-mileage compact car was going to be the only one going on the ferry. My wife and I sat in the front, while the back seat was filled with her belongings, as was the trunk. I had no idea why she’d felt called upon to bring this exalted volume of luggage, unless it was to store things on the ranch that were cluttering up our little house. I could have asked, but I just didn’t feel like it. “I think he’s turning around,” Ellie said, and I came out of my trance. The cable groaned next to us, and, across the river, I could see the ferry finally moving our way. Ellie was looking forward to this visit. I certainly was not. The ranch was where she had grown up, a nature lover. Despite all its deficiencies, it was her place on earth. We watched the ferry tack across the Missouri, tugging at an angle to the cable, then landing with a broad thump on the ramp. The ferryman, who was far too young for the wide red suspenders he affected, motioned us forward, and I drove our piece-of-shit car onto the dock. “And someone has stolen my identity.”Buy the print » While we crossed, my wife stood on the ferry deck, looking out at the river, smiling and sighing at the swallows circling the current. I told her that they were just after the bugs. She said she understood that, but they looked beautiful whatever they were doing, all right? I’ve long had trouble with people picking out some detail of the landscape and pretending it’s the whole story, as though, in this case, the blue light around those speeding birds could do anything to mask the desolation of the country north of the river, a land I traverse holding my nose. “Aren’t you going to get out of the car?” she asked. “Who’s supposed to drive it off the ferry?” I looked away from my wife and turned on the radio: no signal. I thought about her peculiar cheer today. I supposed it was the prospect of seeing her mother and father, of revisiting the scenes of her childhood, which she had done often enough to prove the utter heroism of my patience. Though, in recent times, we had talked less and less, which begged the question: what was there to talk about? We worked and we saved. We saved quite a bit more than Ellie would have, had she been in charge of things. What was becoming a comfortable nest egg would have disappeared in jaunts to Belize or some other place, where Ellie could show more of the body she was so proud of to anyone and everyone. She once had the nerve to point out that all this saving up for old age was remarkable for someone who had so much contempt for the elderly. I said, “Ha-ha-ha.” She was going to have to settle for wiggling her butt in the school corridors until the inevitable day when the damn thing sagged. At last we landed, and I drove off. Ellie was having a lively chat with the ferryman, and she took her time getting back in the car. I stared straight through the windshield until she got around to it. When she climbed in, with a sort of bounce, she exclaimed, “He grew up on the neighbor’s place, the Showalters’. He’s a Showalter. Graduated from Winnett, where I went.” “Ah, so.” The ranch was no more than half an hour from the ferry. Ellie’s excitement grew along the route. Here is a sampler of her exclamations: • “Look at all the antelope! There must be a hundred of them!” • “Oh, I can smell the sage now!” • “This road looks like a silver ribbon!” • “Those are all redtail hawks, just riding that thermal!” • “Larkspur!” • “What a grass year! Can you imagine what Dad’s calves will look like?” To this last, I said, “No.” I honestly thought she was getting manic as we approached the ranch. Ellie is an enthusiast, but this went well beyond her usual behavior. I don’t know if she detected my concern, but she seemed to catch herself and clam up; she was talking less, but I could still feel her glee from my position at the wheel. I wondered if the situation called for a pill. I drove under the ranch gate, with its iron brand hanging overhead—two inverted “V”s, known in the graceful local vernacular as “the squaw tits.” Dad, as I had long felt obliged to call him, and his wife, Mom, stood at the edge of the yard, framed from behind by their bitter little clapboard house. Dad was in full regalia: Stetson hat, leather vest, cowboy boots, and—this was new—a six-gun. Mom was dressed more conventionally, except for the lace-up boots with her wash dress and the lunch pail she was holding. Believe me, it was Methuselah and his bride at the Grand Ole Opry. There was something about their expressions that I didn’t like. It was my turn to keep busy, as I tried to elicit signs of life from this tableau, which now included my sombre wife. Dad helped me unload Ellie’s considerable luggage, and, once it was all out on the ground, Mom handed me the lunch pail. “What’s this?” I asked. “Something to eat on the way home. A casserole.” I turned to Ellie. Tears filled her eyes. I felt that this could have been handled in another way—without Dad’s hand on the gun, and so forth. I think, at times like this, your first concern is to hang on to a shred of dignity. If I had a leg to stand on, it was that Ellie was upset and I was not. What kind of idiot puts a casserole in a lunch pail? After I got back on the ferry, the thought that I was headed . . . home—well, I was not entirely comfortable with this thought, and I didn’t enjoy the ferryman staring at me, either, or asking if someone had shot my dog. I just stared out at the river, hardly a ripple in it, and miles to go before the next bend. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Birnam Wood	Credit Photographs by Mikael Kennedy, from the Series “Passport to Trespass”/ Courtesy Peter Hay Halpert Fine Art It rained all that September, a grim, cold, bleached-out rain that found the holes in the roof and painted the corners with a black creeping mold that felt greasy to the touch. Heat would have dried it up, or at least curtailed it, but there was no heat—or insulation, either—because this was a summer rental, the price fixed for the season, Memorial Day to Labor Day, and the season was over. Long over. Back in May, when Nora was at school out West and I sent her a steady stream of wheedling letters begging her to come back to me, I’d described the place as a cottage. But it wasn’t a cottage. It was a shack, a converted chicken coop from a time long gone, and the landlord collected his rent in summer, then drained the pipes and shut the place down over the winter, so that everything in it froze to the point where the mold died back and the mice, disillusioned, moved on to warmer precincts. In the summer, we’d been outside most of the time, reading and lazing in the hammock till it got dark, after which we’d either listened to records or gone out to a club or somebody’s house. We had a lot of friends—my friends, that is, people I’d grown up with—and we could just show up anytime, day or night, and get a party going. On weekends, I’d unfold the geological-survey maps of Fahnestock or Harriman Park and we’d pick out a lake in the middle of nowhere and hike in to see what it looked like in the shimmering world of color and movement. Almost always we’d have it to ourselves, and we’d swim, sunbathe, pass a joint and a bota bag of sweet red wine, and make love under the sun, while the trees swayed in the breeze and the only sound was the sound of the birds. Nora didn’t have a tan line all summer. Neither did I. But then it was September and it was raining and I had to go back to work. I was substitute-teaching at the time, a grinding, chaotic, thankless job, but I didn’t really have a choice—we needed money to stay alive, same as anybody else. Nora could have worked—she had her degree now and she could have substituted, could have done anything—but the idea didn’t appeal to her, and so, on the three or four days a week that I was summoned to one school or another, she was at home, listening to the rain drool from the eaves and trickle into the pots we’d set out under the worst of the leaks. I sprang for a cheap TV to keep her company, and then an electric heater the size of a six-pack of beer that nonetheless managed to make the meter spin like a 45. But we weren’t paying utilities—the landlord was. I’d given him a lump sum at the end of May, and now we were getting our own back. One morning, when I was at work, he used his key to let himself in and found Nora in bed, the blankets pulled up to her neck and the TV rattling away, and he backed out the door, embarrassed, without saying a word. The next day, we got the eviction notice. The day after that, he cut off the electricity. I was cooking by candlelight over the gas stove a few nights later (Chef Boyardee cheese ravioli, out of the can, with a side of iceberg lettuce cut in wedges), when Nora edged up beside me. We’d been drinking Burgundy out of the gallon jug we kept under the sink as a way of distracting ourselves from the obvious. The house crepitated around us. It wasn’t raining, at least not right then, but there was a whole lot of dripping going on, dripping that had emerged as the defining soundtrack of our lives in the absence of music. Her hair shone greasily in the candlelight. She’d twisted it into pigtails for convenience, because the water heater was defunct now, definitely defunct, and there was no way to take a shower unless we went over to a friend’s house—and that involved the hassle of actually getting in the car and going someplace, when it was so much easier just to pile up the blankets on the bed, get stoned, and watch the shadows creep over the beams that did such an admirable job of holding up the slanted portion of the roof. Nora gazed into the pot on the stove. “I can’t live like this,” she said. “No,” I said, and I was in full agreement here. “Neither can I.” The first place we looked at was also a seasonal rental, though for a different season. It was another crumbling outbuilding, in the same summer colony, but it had been tricked up with heat and insulation because the landlady—eighty, ninety, maybe, with eyes like crushed glass and hair raked back so tightly you could make out the purple-splotched ruin of her scalp beneath—saw the advantage of renting through the winter and spring to whoever was left behind when the summer people went back to the city. I didn’t begrudge her that. I didn’t begrudge her anything. I didn’t even know her. Nora had circled an ad in The Pennysaver, dialled the number, and now here she was, the old lady, waiting for us on the porch, out of the rain, and the minute we pulled into the driveway she began waving impatiently for us to jump out of the car, hurry up the steps, and get the business over with. There were two problems with the house, the first apparent to all three of us, the second only to Nora and me. That problem, hovering over us before we even walked in the door, was that we were looking for a deal, because we didn’t have the kind of money to put down for a deposit or first and last months’ rent, just enough for now, for the current month—enough, we hoped, to get us out of the converted chicken coop and into someplace with heat and electricity till we could think what to do next. The old lady—Mrs. Fried—didn’t look as if she would let things slide. Just the opposite. She gazed up at us out of her fractured eyes with the expectation of one thing only: money. But then there was the first problem, which obviated the need to dwell on the second. The place was too small, smaller even than the shack we were living in, and we saw that the minute we stepped through the door. There were two rooms, bedroom and living room/kitchen, and to the right of the door, in a little recess, a bathroom the size of the sweatbox in “The Bridge on the River Kwai.” We never got that far. We just stood there, the three of us, and gazed into the bedroom, which was off the narrow hall. The bedroom was too cramped for anything but the single bed that was squeezed into it. A second single, made up with an Army blanket and sheets gone gray with use, was pushed up against the wall in the hallway so that you had no more than a foot’s leeway to get around it and into the front room. The old lady read our faces, read our minds—or thought she did—and gestured first at the bed in the hallway and then at the one in the bedroom. “Ven you vant,” she said, shrugging, her delicate wheeze of a voice clinging to the hard consonants of her youth, “you come.” If Nora found it funny, laughing so hard that she couldn’t seem to catch her breath as we ducked back into the car, I didn’t. I was the one put in the awkward position here, I was the provider, and what was she? It was the sort of question you didn’t ask, because it stirred resentment, and resentment was what had brought us down the first time around. I put the car in gear and drove along the dark tree-choked tunnel of the street, turned right, then right again, and swung into the muddy drive where the shack stood awaiting us. Inside, it smelled like a tomb. I could see my breath, even after I’d flicked on all four burners of the stove. Not sixty seconds went by before Nora said something that set me off, and I came right back at her—“We wouldn’t be in this fucking mess if you’d get up off your ass and find a job”—and when we went to bed, early, to save on candles, it was for the warmth and nothing else. There was no call the next morning, and I had mixed feelings about that. I dreaded the calls, but they meant money—and money was the beginning and end of everything there was, at least right then. When the phone did finally ring, it was half past twelve, and it went off like a flash bomb in the dream I was having, a dream that made me so much happier than the life I jolted awake to that I wanted it to go on forever. My eyes opened on the slanted ceiling, and my first thought was that even the chickens must have hated staring up at it, the sameness of it, day after day, until you lost your head and your feathers and somebody dropped you into a frying pan. Nora was propped up beside me, reading. Rain rapped insistently at the roof. “Well,” she said. “Aren’t you going to answer it?” The cold pricked me everywhere, like acupuncture, and I clutched my jeans to my groin, fumbled with a sweatshirt, and hobbled across the room to snatch up the phone. It was my best friend, Artie, whom I’d known since elementary school. He didn’t bother with a greeting. “You find a place yet?” “Uh-uh, no.” “Well, I might’ve found something for you—” I glanced at Nora. She’d put down her book and she was watching me now, her eyes squinted to slits in the fierceness of her concentration. “Who is it?” she mouthed, but I ignored her. “I’m listening,” I said. “I didn’t know if you’d be interested, because it’s not a real rental—it’s more like housesitting—and it’s only temporary, like from next week through the end of April. It’s a friend of my father’s. An old guy and his wife. They go to Florida every winter and they want somebody in the house—or the apartment, there’s an apartment in the basement, above ground, with windows and all—just so they don’t get anybody breaking in. I was there once when I was a kid. It’s nice. On a private lake. A place called Birnam Wood. You ever hear of it?” “No,” I said. “Would you be interested at all?” “You got a phone number?” I told Nora not to get too excited, because chances were it wouldn’t work out. Either we wouldn’t want the place—there had to be something wrong with it, right?—or they, the old couple, wouldn’t want us, once they got a look at us. Still, I phoned right away and the old man answered on the first ring. I introduced myself, talking fast, too fast maybe, because it wasn’t till I dropped the name of Artie’s father that the voice on the other end came to life. “Yes, we are expecting your call,” the old man said, and he had some sort of accent, too, hesitating over the “w” in “we,” as if afraid it would congeal on him, and in a sudden jolt of paranoia I wondered if he and Mrs. Fried were somehow in league—or, worse, if he was Mrs. Fried, throwing her voice to catch me unawares. But no, the place was miles away, buried in the woods in the hind end of Croton, well beyond the old lady’s reach. He gave the address, then directions, but they were so elaborate I stopped listening midway through, thinking instead of what Artie had said: the place was on a lake. A private lake. I’d find it, no problem. How many private lakes could there be? I told the old man that we’d like to come have a look—at his earliest convenience, that is. “When”—the hesitation again—“would you like to come?” “I don’t know—how about now? Now O.K.?” There was a long pause, during which Nora flapped both hands at me as if to say, “Don’t sound too eager,” and then the old man, in his slow, deliberate way, said, “Yes, that will suit us.” “Forward and backward, not up and down!”Buy the print » We were late getting there, very late, actually, one snaking blacktop road looking much like the next, the rain hammering down, and Nora digging into me along the lines of “You’re a real idiot, you know that?” and “Why in God’s name didn’t you write down the directions?” For a while, it looked like a lost cause, trees crowding the road, nobody and nothing around except for the odd mailbox and the watery flash of a picture window glimpsed through the vegetation, but finally, after backing in and out of driveways and retracing our path half a dozen times, we came to a long low stone wall with a gated entrance flanked by two stone pillars. The gate—wrought iron coated in black enamel so slick it glowed—stood open. A brass plaque affixed to the pillar on the right read “Birnam Wood.” I didn’t want to bicker, but I couldn’t help pointing out that we’d passed by the place at least three times already and Nora should have kept her eyes open, because I was the one driving and she was the one doing all the bitching, but she just ignored me, because the gravel of the private lane was crunching under our tires now and there were lawns and tennis courts opening up around us. Then the first house rose up out of the trees on our left, a huge towering thing of stone and glass with a glistening black slate roof and too many gables to count, even as the lake began to emerge from the mist on the other side of the road. “Wow, you think that’s it?” Nora’s voice was pitched so low she might have been talking to herself. “Artie did say it was a mansion, right?” I could feel her eyes on me. “Well, didn’t he?” I didn’t answer. A moment ago, I’d been worked up, hating her, hating the broken-down car with its bald tires and rusted-out panels that was the only thing we could afford, hating the trees and the rain, hating nature and rich people and the private lakes you couldn’t find unless you were rich yourself, unless you had a helicopter, or a whole fleet of them, and now suddenly a different mix of emotions was surging through me—surprise, yes, awe even, but a kind of desperation, too. Even as the next house came into view on the right—ivy-covered brick with three wings, half a dozen chimneys, and a whole fairway of lawn sweeping down to the lake and the two red rowboats pulled up on a perfect little crescent of beach—I knew that I had to live here or die, and that I’d do anything it took, right down to licking the old man’s shoes, to make that happen. “What’s the number?” I said. “You see a number on that house?” She didn’t. She’d lost her glasses—she was always losing her glasses—and in our rush to get out the door she hadn’t bothered with her contacts, either. No matter. The road took us over a stone bridge and swept us directly into the driveway of the house we were looking for—No. 14. We got out of the car, the rain slackening now, and just stared up at the place, a big rearing brown-timbered Tudor that sat right on the lake itself. Around the corner I could make out a gazebo and a little dock with a rowboat tethered to it, this one painted green. And swans. Swans on the lake. Everything seemed to brighten suddenly, as if the sun were about to break through. “All right,” I said. “Here goes.” And I took Nora by the hand and led her up the flagstone steps to the front door. I introduced Nora as my wife, though that was a lie. Old people, that’s what they wanted to hear. If you were married, you were mature, reliable, exactly like them, because in their day men and women didn’t just live together—they made a commitment, they had children and went on cruises and built big houses on lakes and filled them with all the precious trinkets and manufactured artifacts they collected along the way. Mr. and Mrs. Kuenzli—Anton and Eva—were just like that. They met us at the door, two dwarfish old people who were almost identical, except that she was wearing a dress and had dyed her hair and he wasn’t and hadn’t. They gave us tea in a big room overlooking the lake and then escorted us around the house to show off their various collections—Mexican pottery, jade figurines, seascapes painted by a one-armed man they’d encountered in Manila. Every object had a story connected to it. They took turns filling in the details, no hurry at all. I knew what they were doing: checking us out, trying to get a read on us. I shrugged it off. If they were alarmed at the sight of us (this was in a time when people our age wore beads and serapes and cowboy boots and grew their hair long for the express purpose of sticking it to the bourgeoisie), they didn’t show it. Still, it was a good hour before we went downstairs to the basement, which was where we were going to live, after all. That is, if things worked out. They did. I made sure they did. The minute we walked down the stairs I was hooked—and I could see that Nora was, too. Here was a huge room—low-ceilinged, but the size of a basketball court—with a kitchen off to the left and next to it a bedroom with curtains, framed pictures on the walls, and twin beds separated by matching night tables fitted out with ashtrays and reading lamps, just like the room that every TV couple slept in, chastely and separately, so as not to confront the American family with the disturbing notion that people actually engaged in sexual relations. Nora gave me a furtive glance. “Ven you vant, you come,” she said under her breath, and we both broke up. Then it was back out into the main room and the real kicker, the deal-sealer, the sine qua non—a regulation-size slate-topped pool table. A pool table! All this—leather armchairs, Persian carpets, gleaming linoleum, heat, twin beds, the lake, the rowboat, swans—and a pool table, too? It was too much. Whatever the old man was asking for rent, because this wasn’t strictly housesitting and we were willing to make a token monthly payment, I was ready to double. Triple. Anything he wanted. I squeezed Nora’s hand. She beamed up at me as the old couple looked on, smiling, moved now by the sight of us there in the depths of that house that had no doubt harbored children at one time, grandchildren even. I felt a vast calm settle over me. “We’ll take it,” I said. At the end of the first week, after checking on us six or seven times a day (or spying on us, as Nora insisted), Mrs. Kuenzli fretting over how we were getting along—Fine, thanks—and even creaking down the stairs one night with a pot of homemade chicken-spaetzle soup, the old couple climbed into a limousine and went off to the airport, leaving us in possession. The main house was sealed off, of course, but I didn’t care about that. What I cared about was getting out of the shack. What I cared about was Nora. Making her happy. Making myself happy—and everybody else, too. Within days of the Kuenzlis’ departure, my friends began showing up unannounced for the purpose of shooting eight ball and cranking up the volume on the Bang & Olufsen sound system the Kuenzlis had at some point so fortuitously installed, then maybe getting wrecked and taking the rowboat out on the glittering surface of the lake while the trees flamed and the swans bobbed in our wake. Even the weather coöperated. If September had been a loss, one of the coldest and rainiest on record, October tiptoed in on a streak of pure sunshine and temperatures that climbed into the seventies. I was shooting pool one Saturday afternoon with Artie and another friend, Richard, all three of us wired on black beauties and chain-drinking cheap beer, when Nora came in the door, looking flushed. She had news. While we’d been frittering our time away—that was how she put it, “frittering,” but she was smiling now, hardly able to contain herself—she’d gone out on her own to interview for a job. I loved her in that moment, loved the way the color came into her face because she was addressing all three of us now, not just me, and that made her self-conscious no matter the news, which was good, very good, I could see that in an instant. “Well,” I said, “you get it?” The smile stalled, came back again. She nodded. “It’s not much,” she said, already retreating. She looked from me to Artie and Richard. “Minimum wage—but it’s six nights a week.” I’d set down my pool cue and was coming across the room to her, that big room with its buffed floors and the carpets thick enough for anything, when I noticed she was all dressed up, and not in business clothes but in the fringed boots and gauzy top she wore when we were going barhopping. “What is it,” I said, “that hostessing thing?” She nodded. “At Brennan’s?” Her smile was gone now. Her eyes—she was wearing her false lashes and pale-blue eyeshadow—sank into mine. I was the one who’d told her about the job, which Richard had heard about from the bartender there. “All you have to do is smile,” I’d told her. “All you have to do is say ‘Party of four?’ and let them follow you to the table. You can do that, can’t you?” I hadn’t meant to be demeaning. Or maybe I had. She was strong-willed, but I wanted to break her down, make her dependent, make her mine, but at the same time I wanted her to hold up her end, because we were a couple and that was what couples did. They worked. Both of them. I took her by the hand, tried to peck a kiss to her cheek, but she pulled away. “It means I’ll be gone nights.” I shrugged. I could feel Artie and Richard watching me. There was a record on the stereo—I remember this clearly—something drum-based, with a churning polyrhythmic beat that seemed to fester under my words. “At least it’s something,” I said. Artie lined up a shot. The balls clacked. Nothing dropped. “Hey, it’s great news,” he said, straightening up. “Congrats.” Nora gave him a look. “It’s only temporary,” she said. We settled into a routine. The phone rang in the dark and I got up, answered it, and found out what school I was going to because somebody who just couldn’t stand another day of it had called in sick—either that or hanged himself—and I was back home by three-thirty or four, at which point she’d be drinking coffee and making herself scrambled eggs and toast. Then I’d drive her to work and either sit there at the bar for a couple (depending on how I was feeling about our financial situation), or go back home and shoot pool by myself, pitting Player A against Player B and trying not to play favorites, until she got off, at ten, and I went to pick her up. Sometimes we’d linger at the bar, but most nights—weeknights, anyway—we’d go back home, because I needed the sleep. We climbed into our separate beds, snug enough, warm and dry and feeling pampered—or, if not pampered, at least secure—and when I switched off my lamp and turned to the wall the last image fading in my brain was of the steady bright nimbus of Nora’s light and her face shining there above her book. The weather held all that month, even as the leaves persisted and the lake rippled under the color of them. Whenever we could, we went out in the rowboat, and though we never acknowledged it, I suppose we were both thinking the same thing—that we’d better take advantage of it while we could, because each day of sun might be the last. I’d row and Nora would lie back against the seat in the stern, her eyes closed and her bare legs stretched out before her. What did I feel? Relaxed. As relaxed as I’ve ever felt in my life, before or since. There was something more to it, too. I felt powerful, the muscles of my arms flexing and releasing, while Nora dozed at my feet and the rest of the world went as still as held breath. It was a feeling that couldn’t last. And it didn’t. Less than a week into November, there was frost on the windshield when I got up for school, and the sun seemed to have vanished, replaced by a low cloud cover and winds out of the north. Finally, reluctantly, I pulled the rowboat ashore and turned it over for the winter. Two days later, there was a rim of ice around the lake and the temperature went down into the teens overnight. But, as I said, the house was warm and well-insulated, with a furnace that could have heated six houses, and when we went to bed at night we couldn’t resist joking about the shack, what we’d be suffering if we were still there. “My feet,” Nora would say, “they’d freeze to the floor like when you touch the tip of your tongue to the ice-cube tray.” “Yeah,” I’d say, “yeah, but you wouldn’t even notice because by then we’d be dried up and frozen like those mummies they found in the Andes.” And she’d laugh, we’d both laugh, and listen to the whisper of the furnace as it clicked on and drove warm air through the bedroom and into the big room beyond, where the pool table stood draped in darkness. And then came the night when I dropped her off at Brennan’s and had my first drink and then another and didn’t feel like going home. It was as if some gauge inside me had been turned up high, all the way, top of the dial. I felt like that a lot back then—and maybe it was just an overload of testosterone, maybe that was all it was—but on this night I sat at the bar and kept on drinking. I knew the regulars, an older crowd who came in for dinner and gradually gave way to people like Nora and me, the music shifting from a soft whisper of jazz to the rock and roll we wanted to hear, as the late diners gathered up their coats and gloves and doggie bags and headed out into the night. I’d been talking a lot of nothing to a guy in a sports coat who must have been in his thirties, a Martini drinker, and when he got up and left, a guy my own age slid onto the stool beside me. He asked me what was happening at the same time that I asked him, then he ordered a drink—tequila-and-tonic, very West Coast, or hip, that is—and we started talking. His name was Steve. He had rust-red hair, kinked out to his shoulders, and he wore a thin headband of braided leather. Buy the print » What did we talk about? The usual—bands, drugs, what concerts we’d been to—but then we started in on books, and I was pleased and surprised, because most of the people I ran into in that time and place didn’t extend themselves much beyond the Sunday comics. We were debating some fine point of “Slaughterhouse-Five,” testing each other’s bona fides—he could quote passages from memory, a talent I’ve never had—when Nora leaned in between us to brush a kiss to my lips, then straightened up and shook out her hair with a quick neat flip of her head. “My heels are killing me,” she said. “And this top—Jesus, I’m freezing.” She stole a look around, gave Steve a vacant smile, picked up my drink, and downed it in a single gulp. Then she was gone, back to her post at the station by the door. Steve gave a low whistle. “Wow,” he said. “That your old lady?” I just shrugged, nonchalant, elevated in that instant above everybody in the place. I wouldn’t have admitted it, but something stirred in me whenever I looked up and saw the way the men watched her as she tapped across the floor in her heels, trailing husbands and wives and sometimes even kids behind her, but it wasn’t something good or admirable. “Man, I’d love to—” he began, and then caught himself. “You are one lucky dude.” Another shrug. My feelings were complicated. I’d been drinking. And what I said next was inexcusable, I know that, and I didn’t mean it, not in any literal sense, not in the real world of twin beds and Persian carpets and all the rest, but what I was trying to convey here was that I wasn’t tied down—old lady—wasn’t a husband, not yet, anyway, and that all my potentialities were intact. “I don’t know,” I said. “She can be a real pain in the ass.” I took a sip of my drink, let out a long, withering sigh. “Sometimes I think she’s more trouble than she’s worth, know what I mean?” That was all I said, or some variant of it, and then there was another drink and the conversation went deeper, and I guess somehow Steve must have got the impression that we weren’t really all that committed, that living together was an experiment gone sour, that we were both—she and I—on the brink of something else. There was an exchange of phone numbers and addresses (Birnam Wood? Cool. I used to swim in the lake there when I was a kid), and then he was gone and the crowd at the bar began to thin. The minute he left I forgot him. Next thing I knew, Nora was there, dressed in her long coat and her knit hat and gloves, perched high on the platform of her heels. “You’ve been drinking,” she said. “Yeah,” I admitted. She gave me a tired smile. “Have fun?” “Yeah.” I smiled back. “Did you know it’s snowing out?” “Really?” “Really.” And then a beat. “You want me to drive?” It was a long way home, twenty, twenty five minutes in the best of conditions, but, with the snow and the worn tires and the fact that Nora didn’t see too well at night, it must have taken us twice as long as that. We were the only ones on the road. The snow swept at the headlights and erased everything in front of us. I tried not to be critical, but every time we went around a curve the car sailed out of control and I suppose I got vocal about it, because at one point she pulled over, her lips drawn tight and her eyes furious in the sick yellow glare of the dashboard. “You want to drive?” she said. “Go ahead, be my guest.” When we got home (finally, miraculously), the phone was ringing. I could hear it from outside the door, making its demands. It took me a minute, pinning a glove under one arm and struggling to work the key in the lock as the snow sifted down and Nora stamped impatiently. “Hurry up, I have to pee,” she said between clenched teeth. Then we were in, the phone ringing still—it must have been the sixth or seventh ring—and I flicked on the lights while Nora made a dash for the bathroom and I crossed the room to pick up the phone. “Hello?” I gasped, out of breath and thinking it must be Artie, because who else would be calling at that hour? “Hey, what’s happening,” the voice on the other end of the line said. “This Keith?” “Yeah,” I said. “Who’s this?” “Steve.” “Steve?” “From the bar, you know. Like earlier? Brennan’s?” I heard Nora flush the toilet. The cover was off the pool table because I’d left in the middle of a climactic match between Player A and Player B, all the angles still in play. I listened to the water rattle in the pipes. And then Steve’s voice, low, confidential: “Hey, I was just wondering. Is Nora there?” The bathroom door clicked open. There was a buzzing in my skull. Everything was wrong. “No,” I said, shaking my head for emphasis, though there was no one there to see it. “She’s not in.” “When’ll she be back?” I said nothing. I watched her swing open the bathroom door, saw her face there, the pristine towels on the rack, and the copper-and-gold wallpaper that Mrs. Kuenzli must have gone to some special store to pick out because she wanted the best, only the best. The voice on the other end of the line was saying something else, insinuating, whispering in my ear like a disease, and so I bent down to where the phone was plugged into the wall and pulled it out of the socket. “Who was that?” Nora asked. “Nobody,” I said. “Wrong number.” She gave me a doubtful look. “You were on the line long enough.” I wanted to do something right for a change, wanted to take hold of her and press her to me, confess, tell her that I loved her, but I didn’t. I just said, “You feel like a game of pool? I’ll spot you two balls—” “You play,” she said. “I’m beat. I think I’ll get ready for bed and read for a while.” She paused at the bedroom door to give me a sweet, tired smile. “You’ve got to admit, Player B’s a lot better than I am, anyway.” No argument there. I turned on the light over the table, cued up a record and took up the game where I’d left off. I was deep into my third game, on a real roll on behalf of Player A, the balls dropping as if I didn’t even have to use the stick, as if I were willing them in, when suddenly there was a knock at the door. Two thumps. A pause. And then two thumps more. I was just laying down the stick, any number of scenarios going through my head—it was a stranded motorist, the guy who drove the snowplow come to complain about the tail end of the car sticking out into the street, Artie braving the elements for a nightcap—when Nora came out of the bedroom, looking puzzled. She was in her pajamas, the kind kids wear, with a drawstring around the waist and a fold-down collar. Pink, with a flight of bluebirds running up and down her limbs and flapping across her chest. Her feet were bare. “Who’s that?” she asked. “Artie?” I didn’t know what was coming, couldn’t have guessed. I was in my own house, shooting pool and listening to music while the snow fell outside and the furnace hummed and my girlfriend stood there in her pajamas. “Must be,” I said, even as the knock came again and a voice, muffled by the door, called out, “Keith? Nora? Knock-knock. Anybody home?” I opened the door on Steve, his hair matted now and wet with snow. He was holding a bottle of tequila by the neck and he raised it in offering as he stamped in through the door. “Hey,” he said, handing me the bottle, “cool place.” He shrugged out of his jacket, dropping it right there on the floor. “Anybody down for a little action? Nora, how about you? A shot? Want to do a shot?” She looked at him, bewildered—or maybe it was that she wasn’t wearing her glasses and had to squint to take him in. I just stood there, the bottle like a brick in my hand—or no, a cement block, a weight, avoirdupois, dragging me down. Steve never hesitated. He crossed the room to her, digging in his pocket for something, grinning and glassy-eyed. “Here,” he said, producing an envelope. “After I saw you tonight? You’re so beautiful. I don’t even know if you know how beautiful—and sexy. You’re really sexy.” He handed her the envelope, but she wasn’t looking at the envelope, she was looking at me. “I wrote you a poem,” he said. “Go ahead. Read it.” “Steve,” I was saying, “look, Steve, I think—” but I couldn’t go on because of the way Nora was staring at me, her lips parted and her eyes come violently to life. “Read it,” he repeated. “I wrote it for you, just for you—” “Look,” I said, “it’s late,” and I moved toward him and actually took hold of his arm in an attempt to steer him away and out the door, back into the snow and out of our lives. “Nora’s tired,” I said. He never turned, never even acknowledged me. “Let her say it. You’re not tired, are you?” For the first time, she shifted her eyes to him. “No,” she said finally. “No, I’m not tired at all.” Before I knew what I was doing, I’d set the bottle down on the desk and I was pulling on my coat, furious suddenly, and then I was out the door and into the night, the snow swirling overhead and Steve’s voice—“So you want a hit of tequila?”—trailing off behind me with a soft, hopeful, rising inflection. Outside, the snow made a noise, a kind of hiss, as if the night had come alive. I walked twice around the house, cursing myself—but I wouldn’t go back in, I wouldn’t, not till whatever was going to happen had happened and he was gone—and then I found myself huddling under the gazebo. I turned my collar up, pulled on my gloves. There was a wind now and a taste of cold northern forest on the air. I walked out on the dock and stood there for I don’t know how long, the lake locked up like a vault below me. That was when I noticed the light in the house directly across the lake from ours, the one with all the chimneys and the two red rowboats that were turned over now, twin humps like moguls in the snow. It was the only light visible anywhere, a single lamp burning in a window on the ground floor of the wing nearest the lake. What came over me I can’t say—what the impulse was, I mean—but I lowered myself down off the edge of the dock and started across the lake. The wind was in my face. There were no stars. And the footing was bad, drifting powder over ice as clear as if it had come out of a machine. I went down twice, hard, but picked myself up and kept on. When I got close, when I came up the crescent of beach past the rowboats and on up the slope of the whitening lawn, I saw that the curtains were open, which explained the resiliency of the light. The people there—and I didn’t know them, not at all, not even by sight—must have left the curtains open purposely, I realized, because of the snow, the romance of it, the first snow of the season. It came to me that I was trespassing. Peeping. That, once the sun came up, anybody would be able to see my tracks. But, as soon as the thought entered my head, I dismissed it, because I didn’t care about any of that—I’d gone out of myself, fixated on that light. Still, I kept to the shadows. I might even have crouched down in the bushes; I don’t know. What I saw was an ordinary room, a bedroom, lit like a stage. I saw a bed, an armoire, pictures on the wall. A shadow flickered across the room, then another, but for the longest time I didn’t see anything. And then the man came into view, padding back and forth, undressing, getting ready for bed. How old was he? I couldn’t tell, not really. Older than me, but not old. He settled into the bed—a double bed, queen-size, maybe—flicked on the lamp there and picked up a magazine and began reading. At some point, he set it down and seemed to be saying something to the other person in the room—the wife, I guessed—but of course it was just a murmur to me. And then, as if she’d heard her cue and stepped out of the wings, there she was, in a nightgown, fussing around her side of the bed before finally settling in and turning on her own light. I felt guilty. I felt sick. And I didn’t see anything revealing—or sexual, that is—no snuggling or stroking or even a kiss. They were night owls, those people. That light burned a long time. I know. Because I stayed there till it went out. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Amundsen	Credit Illustration by Paul Rogers On the bench outside the station, I sat and waited. The station had been open when the train arrived, but now it was locked. Another woman sat at the end of the bench, holding between her knees a string bag full of parcels wrapped in oiled paper. Meat—raw meat. I could smell it. Across the tracks was the electric train, empty, waiting. No other passengers showed up, and after a while the stationmaster stuck his head out the station window and called, “San.” At first I thought he was calling a man’s name, Sam. And another man wearing some kind of official outfit did come around the end of the building. He crossed the tracks and boarded the electric car. The woman with the parcels stood up and followed him, so I did the same. There was a burst of shouting from across the street, and the doors of a dark-shingled flat-roofed building opened, letting loose several men, who were jamming caps on their heads and banging lunch buckets against their thighs. By the noise they were making, you’d have thought the car was going to run away from them at any minute. But when they settled on board nothing happened. The car sat while they counted one another and worked out who was missing and told the driver that he couldn’t go yet. Then somebody remembered that the missing man hadn’t been around all day. The car started, though I couldn’t tell if the driver had been listening to any of this, or cared. The men got off at a sawmill in the bush—it wouldn’t have been more than ten minutes’ walk—and shortly after that the lake came into view, covered with snow. A long, white, wooden building in front of it. The woman readjusted her packages and stood up, and I followed. The driver again called “San,” and the doors opened. A couple of women were waiting to get on. They greeted the woman with the meat, and she said that it was a raw day. All avoided looking at me as I climbed down behind the meat woman. The doors banged together, and the train started back. Then there was silence, the air like ice. Brittle-looking birch trees with black marks on their white bark, and some small, untidy evergreens, rolled up like sleepy bears. The frozen lake not level but mounded along the shore, as if the waves had turned to ice in the act of falling. And the building, with its deliberate rows of windows and its glassed-in porches at either end. Everything austere and northerly, black-and-white under the high dome of clouds. So still, so immense an enchantment. But the birch bark not white after all, as you got closer. Grayish yellow, grayish blue, gray. “Where you heading?” the meat woman called to me. “Visiting hours are over at three.” “I’m not a visitor,” I said. “I’m the new teacher.” “Well, they won’t let you in the front door, anyway,” the woman said with some satisfaction. “You better come along with me. Don’t you have a suitcase?” “The stationmaster said he’d bring it later.” “The way you were just standing there—looked like you were lost.” I said that I had stopped because it was so beautiful. “Some might think so. ’Less they were too sick or too busy.” Nothing more was said until we entered the kitchen, at the far end of the building. I did not get a chance to look around me, because attention was drawn to my boots. “You better get those off before they track the floor.” I wrestled off the boots—there was no chair to sit down on—and set them on the mat where the woman had put hers. “Pick them up and bring them with you. I don’t know where they’ll be putting you. You better keep your coat on, too. There’s no heating in the cloakroom.” No heat, no light, except what came through a little window I could not reach. It was like being punished at school. Sent to the cloakroom. Yes. The same smell of winter clothing that never really dried out, of boots soaked through to dirty socks, unwashed feet. I climbed up on the bench but still could not see out. On the shelf where caps and scarves were thrown, I found a bag with some figs and dates in it. Somebody must have stolen them and stashed them here to take home. All of a sudden, I was hungry. Nothing to eat since morning, except for a dry cheese sandwich on the Ontario Northland. I considered the ethics of stealing from a thief. But the figs would catch in my teeth and betray me. I got myself down just in time. Somebody was entering the cloakroom. Not one of the kitchen help but a schoolgirl in a bulky winter coat, with a scarf over her hair. She came in with a rush—books dropped on the bench so that they scattered on the floor, scarf snatched off so that her hair sprang out in a tangle, and at the same time, it seemed, boots kicked loose and sent skittering across the floor. Nobody had got hold of her, apparently, to make her take them off at the kitchen door. “Oh, I wasn’t trying to hit you,” the girl said. “It’s so dark in here after outside, you don’t know what you’re doing. Aren’t you freezing? Are you waiting for somebody to get off work?” “I’m waiting to see Dr. Fox.” “Well, you won’t have to wait long. I just rode from town with him. You’re not sick, are you? If you’re sick you can’t come here. You have to see him in town.” “I’m the new teacher.” “Are you? Are you from Toronto?” “Yes.” There was a certain pause, perhaps of respect. But no. An examination of my coat. “That’s really nice. What’s that fur on the collar?” “Persian lamb. Actually, it’s imitation.” “Could have fooled me. I don’t know what they put you in here for—it’ll freeze your butt off. Excuse me. You want to see the doctor, I can show you the way. I know where everything is. I’ve lived here practically since I was born. My mother runs the kitchen. My name is Mary. What’s yours?” “Vivi. Vivien.” “If you’re a teacher, shouldn’t it be Miss? Miss what?” “Miss Hyde.” “Tan your hide,” she said. “Sorry, I just thought that up. I’d like it if you could be my teacher but I have to go to school in town. It’s the stupid rules. Because I’ve not got TB.” She was leading me, while she talked, through the door at the far end of the cloakroom, then along a regular hospital corridor. Waxed linoleum, dull green paint, an antiseptic smell. “Now you’re here, maybe I’ll get Reddy to let me switch.” “Who is Reddy?” “Reddy Fox. It’s out of a book. Me and Anabel just started calling Dr. Fox that.” “Who is Anabel?” “Nobody now. She’s dead.” “Oh, I’m sorry.” “Not your fault. It happens around here. I’m in high school this year. Anabel never really got to go to school at all. When I was just in public school, Reddy got the teacher to let me stay home a lot, so I could keep her company.” She stopped at a half-opened door and whistled. “Hey. I brought the teacher.” A man’s voice said, “O.K., Mary. Enough out of you for one day.” She sauntered away and left me facing a spare man of ordinary height, whose reddish-fair hair was cut very short and glistened in the artificial light from the hallway. “You’ve met Mary,” he said. “She has a lot to say for herself. She won’t be in your class, so you won’t have to undergo that every day. People either take to her or they don’t.” He struck me as between ten and fifteen years older than me, and at first he talked to me the way an older man would. A preoccupied future employer. He asked about my trip, about the arrangements for my suitcase. He wanted to know how I thought I would like living up here in the woods, after Toronto, whether I would be bored. Not in the least, I said, and added that it was beautiful. “It’s like—it’s like being inside a Russian novel.” He looked at me attentively for the first time. “Is it really? Which Russian novel?” His eyes were a bright grayish blue. One eyebrow had risen, like a little peaked cap. It was not that I hadn’t read Russian novels. I had read some all the way through and some only partway. But because of that eyebrow, and his amused but confrontational expression, I could not remember any title except “War and Peace.” I did not want to say that, because it was the one that anybody would remember. “ ‘War and Peace.’ ” “Well, it’s only the peace we’ve got here, I’d say. But if it was the war you were hankering after I suppose you would have joined one of those women’s outfits and got yourself overseas.” I was angry and humiliated, because I had not really been showing off. Or not only showing off. I had wanted to explain what a wonderful effect this scenery had on me. He was evidently the sort of person who posed questions that were traps for you to fall into. “I guess I was really expecting a sort of old-lady teacher come out of the woodwork,” he said, in slight apology. “You didn’t study to be a teacher, did you? What were you planning to do once you got your B.A.?” “Work on my M.A.,” I said curtly. “So what changed your mind?” “I thought I should earn some money.” “Sensible idea. Though I’m afraid you won’t earn much here. Sorry to pry. I just wanted to make sure you weren’t going to run off and leave us in the lurch. Not planning to get married, are you?” “No.” “All right, all right. You’re off the hook now. Didn’t discourage you, did I?” I had turned my head away. “No.” “Go down the hall to Matron’s office, and she’ll tell you all you need to know. Just try not to get a cold. I don’t suppose you have any experience with tuberculosis?” “Well, I’ve read—” “I know. I know. You’ve read ‘The Magic Mountain.’ ” Another trap sprung, and he seemed restored. “Things have moved on a bit from that, I hope. Here, I’ve got some things I’ve written out about the kids here and what I was thinking you might try to do with them. Sometimes I’d rather express myself in writing. Matron will give you the lowdown.” Usual notions of pedagogy out of place here. Some of these children will reënter the world or system and some will not. Better not a lot of stress. That is, testing, memorizing, classifying nonsense. Disregard grade business entirely. Those who need to can catch up later on or do without. Actually very simple skill set of facts, etc., necessary for going into the world. What about Superior Children, so called? Disgusting term. If they are smart in academic way, they can easily catch up. Forget rivers of South America, likewise Magna Carta. Drawing, music, stories preferred. “The scales say ‘alien overlord,’ but the rolled-up sleeves say ‘man of the people.’ ”Buy the print » Games O.K., but watch for overexcitement or too much competitiveness. Challenge to walk the line between stress and boredom. Boredom curse of hospitalization. If Matron can’t supply what you need, sometimes janitor will have it stashed away somewhere. Bon voyage. I had not been there a week before all the events of the first day seemed unique and unlikely. The kitchen, the kitchen cloakroom where the workers kept their clothes and concealed their thefts were rooms I hadn’t seen again and probably wouldn’t. The doctor’s office was similarly out of bounds, Matron’s room being the proper place for all inquiries, complaints, and ordinary arrangements. Matron herself was short and stout, pink-faced, with rimless glasses and heavy breathing. Whatever you asked for seemed to astonish her and cause difficulties, but eventually it was seen to or provided. Sometimes she ate in the nurses’ dining room, where she was served a special junket, and cast a pall. Mostly she kept to her own quarters. Besides Matron, there were three other registered nurses, not one of them within thirty years of my age. They had come out of retirement to serve, doing their wartime duty. Then, there were the nurses’ aides, who were my age or even younger, most of them married or engaged or working on being engaged, generally to men in the forces. They talked all the time if Matron and the nurses weren’t there. They didn’t have the least interest in me. They didn’t want to know what Toronto was like, though some of them knew people who had gone there on their honeymoon, and they did not care how my teaching was going or what I had done before. It wasn’t that they were rude—they passed me the butter (it was called butter but it was really orange-streaked margarine, colored in the kitchen) and they warned me off the shepherd’s pie, which they said had groundhog in it. It was just that whatever happened in places they didn’t know had to be discounted; it got in their way and under their skin. Every time the news came on the radio, they switched it to music. Dance with a dolly with a hole in her stockin’ . . . Yet they were in awe of Dr. Fox, partly because he had read so many books. They also said that there was nobody like him for tearing a strip off you if he felt like it. I couldn’t figure out if they thought there was a connection between reading a lot of books and tearing a strip off. The number of students who showed up varied. Fifteen, or down to half a dozen. Mornings only, from nine o’clock till noon. Children were kept away if their temperature had risen or if they were undergoing tests. When they were present, they were quiet and tractable but not particularly involved. They had caught on right away that this was a pretend school, where they were free of all requirement to learn anything, just as they were free of times tables and memory work. This freedom didn’t make them uppity, or lazy in any troublesome way, just docile and dreamy. They sang rounds softly. They played X’s and O’s. There was a shadow of defeat over the improvised classroom. I decided to take the doctor at his word. Or some of his words, such as those about boredom being the enemy. In the janitor’s cubbyhole, I had seen a globe. I asked to have it brought out. I started on simple geography. The oceans, the continents, the climates. Why not the winds and the currents? The countries and the cities? The Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn? Why not, after all, the rivers of South America? Some children had learned such things before, but they had nearly forgotten them. The world beyond the lake and the forest had dropped away. The lessons seemed to cheer them up, as if they were making friends again with whatever they used to know. I didn’t dump everything on them at once, of course. And I had to go easy with the ones who had never learned such things because they had got sick too soon. But that was all right. It could be a game. I separated them into teams, got them calling out answers while I darted here and there with the pointer. I was careful not to let the excitement go on too long. But one day the doctor walked in, fresh from morning surgery, and I was caught. I could not stop things cold, but I tried to dampen the competition. He sat down, looking somewhat tired and withdrawn. He made no objection. After a few minutes, he joined in the game, calling out quite ridiculous answers, names that were not just mistaken but imaginary. Then gradually he let his voice die down. Down, down, first to a mumble, then to a whisper, then to complete inaudibility. In this way, with this absurdity, he took control of the room. The whole class took to mouthing, in order to imitate him. Their eyes were fixed on his lips. Suddenly he let out a low growl that had them all laughing. “Why the deuce is everybody looking at me? Is that what Miss Hyde teaches you? To stare at people who aren’t bothering anybody?” Most laughed, but some couldn’t stop watching him even for that. They were hungry for further antics. “Go on. Go off and misbehave yourselves somewhere else.” He apologized to me for breaking up the class. I began to explain to him my reasons for making this more like real school. “Though I do agree with you about stress,” I said earnestly. “I agree with what you said in your instructions. I just thought—” “What instructions? Oh, that was just some bits and pieces that went through my head. I never meant them to be set in stone.” “I mean as long as they’re not too sick—” “I’m sure you’re right. I don’t suppose it matters.” “Otherwise they seem sort of listless.” “There’s no need to make a song and dance about it,” he said, and walked away. Then turned to make a barely halfhearted apology. “We can have a talk about it some other time.” That time, I thought, would never come. He evidently thought me a bother and a fool. I discovered at lunch, from the aides, that somebody had not survived an operation that morning. So my anger turned out not to be justified, and for that reason I felt even more of a fool. Every afternoon was free. My pupils went down for long naps, and I sometimes felt like doing the same. But my room was cold, and the bedcovers were thin—surely people with tuberculosis needed something cozier. I, of course, did not have tuberculosis. Maybe they skimped on provisions for people like me. I was drowsy but couldn’t sleep. Overhead there was the rumble of bed carts being wheeled to the porches for the icy afternoon exposure. The building, the trees, the lake were never again the same to me as they had been on that first day, when I was caught by their mystery and authority. On that day I had believed myself invisible. Now it seemed as if that were never true. There’s the teacher. What’s she up to? She’s looking at the lake. What for? Nothing better to do. Some people are lucky. Once in a while I skipped lunch, even though it was part of my salary, and went in to Amundsen, where I ate in a coffee shop. The coffee was Postum and the best bet for a sandwich was tinned salmon, if they had any. The chicken salad had to be examined carefully for bits of skin and gristle. Nevertheless, I felt more at ease there, as if nobody would know who I was. About that I was probably mistaken. The coffee shop didn’t have a ladies’ room, so you had to go next door to the hotel, then past the entrance to the beer parlor, always dark and noisy and giving out a smell of beer and whiskey, a blast of cigarette and cigar smoke fit to knock you down. But the loggers, the men from the sawmill, would never yelp at you the way the soldiers and the airmen in Toronto did. They were deep in a world of men, bawling out their own stories, not here to look for women. Possibly more eager, in fact, to get away from that company now or forever. The doctor had an office on the main street. Just a small one-story building, so he lived elsewhere. I had picked up from the aides that there was no Mrs. Fox. On the only side street, I found a house that might have belonged to him—a stucco-covered house, with a dormer window above the front door, books stacked on the sill of that window. There was a bleak but orderly look to the place, a suggestion of the minimal but precise comfort that a lone man—a regulated lone man—might contrive. The town school was at the end of that residential street. One afternoon I spotted Mary in the yard there, taking part in a snowball fight. It seemed to be girls against boys. When she saw me, she cried out loudly, “Hey, Teach,” and gave the balls in both hands a random toss, then ambled across the street. “See you tomorrow,” she called over her shoulder, more or less as a warning that nobody was to follow. “You on your way home?” she said. “Me, too. I used to ride in Reddy’s car, but he’s got too late leaving. What do you do, take the tram?” I said yes, and Mary said, “Oh, I can show you the shortcut and you can save your money. The bush road.” She took me up a narrow but passable lane that ran above the town, through the woods, and past the sawmill. “This is the way Reddy goes,” she said. After the sawmill, beneath us, were some ugly cuts in the woods and a few shacks, apparently inhabited, because they had woodpiles and clotheslines and rising smoke. From one of them, a big wolfish dog ran out with a great display of barking and snarling. “You shut your face!” Mary yelled. In no time she had packed and flung a snowball, which caught the animal between the eyes. It whirled around, and she had another snowball ready to hit it in the rump. A woman in an apron came out and shouted, “You could’ve killed him.” “Good riddance to bad rubbish.” “I’ll get my old man after you.” “That’ll be the day. Your old man can’t hit a shithouse.” The dog followed at a distance, with some insincere threatening. “I can take care of any dog, don’t worry,” Mary said. “I bet I could take care of a bear if we ran into one.” “Don’t bears tend to hibernate at this time of year?” I had been quite scared by the dog but affected carelessness. “Yeah, but you never know. One came out early once, and it got into the garbage down at the San. My mom turned around and there it was. Reddy got his gun and shot it. Reddy used to take me and Anabel out on the sled, and sometimes other kids, too, and he had a special whistle that scared off bears. It was pitched too high for human ears.” “Really. What did it look like?” “Oh, come on—it’s 8 a.m. somewhere.”Buy the print » “It wasn’t that kind of whistle. I meant one he could do with his mouth.” I thought of his performance in the classroom. “I don’t know, maybe he just said that to keep Anabel from getting scared. She couldn’t ride on the sled. He had to pull her on a toboggan. Sometimes I’d jump on the toboggan, too, and he’d say, ‘What’s the matter with this thing? It weighs a ton.’ Then he’d try to turn around quick and catch me, but he never did. And he’d ask Anabel, ‘What makes it so heavy? What did you have for breakfast?’ But she never told. She was the best friend I ever will have.” “What about the girls at school? Aren’t they friends?” “I just hang around with them when there’s nobody else. They’re nothing. Anabel and me had our birthdays in the same month. June. Our eleventh birthday, Reddy took us out on the lake in a boat. He taught us swimming. Well, me. He always had to hold Anabel—she couldn’t really learn. Once he went swimming way out by himself, and we filled his shoes up with sand. And then, our twelfth birthday, we couldn’t go anywhere like that, but we went to his house and had a cake. She couldn’t eat even a little bit of it, so he took us in his car and we threw pieces out the window for the seagulls. They were fighting and screaming. We were laughing ourselves crazy, and he had to stop and hold Anabel so she wouldn’t have a hemorrhage. “And after that,” she said, “after that I wasn’t allowed to see her anymore. My mom never wanted me to hang around with kids that had TB anyway. But Reddy talked her into it. He said he’d stop it when he had to. So he did, and I got mad. But she wouldn’t have been any fun anymore—she was too sick. I’d show you her grave but there isn’t anything to mark it yet. Reddy and me are going to make something when he gets time. If we’d have gone straight along on the road, instead of turning where we did, we would have come to her graveyard.” By this time we were down on level ground, approaching the San. She said, “Oh, I almost forgot,” and pulled out a fistful of tickets. “For Valentine’s Day. We’re putting on this play at school and it’s called ‘Pinafore.’ I got all these to sell and you can be my first sale. I’m in it.” I was right about the house in Amundsen being where the doctor lived. He took me there for supper. The invitation seemed to come rather on the spur of the moment when he bumped into me in the hall one day. Perhaps he had an uneasy memory of saying that we would get together to talk about teaching ideas. The evening he proposed was the one for which I had bought a ticket for “Pinafore.” I told him that, and he said, “Well, I did, too. It doesn’t mean we have to show up.” “I sort of feel as if I promised her.” “Well, now you can sort of un-promise her. It will be dreadful, believe me.” I did as he said, though I did not see Mary to tell her. I waited where he had instructed me to wait, on the porch outside the front door of the San. I was wearing my best dress, a dark-green crêpe, with little pearl buttons and a real lace collar, and had rammed my feet into suède high-heeled shoes inside my snow boots. I waited past the time he’d mentioned—worried, first, that Matron would come out of her office and spot me, and, second, that he had forgotten all about it. But then he came along, buttoning up his overcoat, and apologized. “Always a few bits and bobs to clear up,” he said, and led me around the building to his car. “Are you steady?” he asked, and when I said yes—despite the suède shoes—he did not offer his arm. His car was old and shabby, as most cars were those days. It didn’t have a heater. When he said that we were going to his house, I was relieved. I could not see how we would manage with the crowd at the hotel, and I had hoped not to have to make do with the sandwiches at the café. At his house, he told me not to take off my coat until the place had warmed up a bit. And he got busy at once making a fire in the woodstove. “I’m your janitor and your cook and your server,” he said. “It’ll soon be comfortable here, and the meal won’t take me long. Don’t offer to help. I prefer to work alone. Where would you like to wait? If you want to, you could look over the books in the front room. It shouldn’t be too unbearable in there with your coat on. The light switch is just inside the door. You don’t mind if I listen to the news? It’s a habit I’ve got into.” I went into the front room, feeling as if I had more or less been ordered to, leaving the kitchen door open. He came and closed it, saying, “Just until we get a bit of warmth in the kitchen,” and went back to the sombrely dramatic, almost religious voice of the CBC, giving out the news of the war. There were quantities of books to look at. Not just on bookshelves but on tables and chairs and windowsills and piled on the floor. After I had examined several of them, I concluded that he favored buying books in batches and probably belonged to several book clubs. The Harvard Classics. The histories of Will Durant. Fiction and poetry seemed in short supply, though there were a few surprising children’s classics. Books on the American Civil War, the South African War, the Napoleonic Wars, the Peloponnesian War, the campaigns of Julius Caesar. Explorations of the Amazon and the Arctic. Shackleton caught in the ice. John Franklin’s doomed expedition, the Donner Party, and the Lost Tribes, Newton, and alchemy, the secrets of the Hindu Kush. Books suggesting someone anxious to know, to possess great scattered lumps of knowledge. Perhaps not someone whose tastes were firm and exacting. So it was possible that when he had asked me, “Which Russian novel?,” he had not had so solid a platform as I’d thought. When he called “Ready,” and I opened the door, I was armed with this new skepticism. I said, “Who do you agree with, Naphta or Settembrini?” “I beg your pardon?” “In ‘The Magic Mountain.’ Do you like Naphta best, or Settembrini?” “To be honest, I’ve always thought they were a pair of windbags. You?” “Settembrini is more humane, but Naphta is more interesting.” “They tell you that in school?” “I never read it in school,” I said coolly. He gave me a quick look, that eyebrow raised. “Pardon me. If there’s anything in there that interests you, feel free. Please feel free to come down here and read in your time off. There’s an electric heater I could set up, since I imagine you are not experienced with woodstoves. Shall we think about that? I can rustle you up an extra key.” “Thank you.” Pork chops, instant mashed potatoes, canned peas. Dessert was an apple pie from the bakery, which would have been better if he’d thought to heat it up. He asked me about my life in Toronto, my university courses, my family. He said that he supposed I had been brought up on the straight and narrow. “My grandfather is a liberal clergyman, sort of in the Paul Tillich mold.” “And you? Liberal little Christian granddaughter?” “No.” “Touché. Do you think I’m rude?” “That depends. If you are interviewing me as an employer, no.” “So I’ll go on. Do you have a boyfriend?” “Yes.” “In the forces, I suppose.” I said, “In the Navy.” That struck me as a good choice, to account for my not knowing where he was and not receiving regular letters. The doctor got up and fetched the tea. “What sort of boat is he on?” “Corvette.” Another good choice. After a while, I could have him torpedoed, as was always happening to corvettes. “Brave fellow. Milk or sugar in your tea?” “Neither, thanks.” “That’s good, because I haven’t got any. You know, it shows when you’re lying—you get red in the face.” If I hadn’t got red before, I did then. My flush rose from my feet up, and sweat trickled down under my arms. I hoped the dress would not be ruined. “I always go hot when I drink tea.” “Oh, I see.” Things could not get any worse, so I resolved to face him down. I changed the subject on him, asking about how he operated on people. Did he remove lungs, as I had heard? He could have answered that with more teasing, more superiority—possibly this was his notion of flirtation—and I believe that if he had done so I would have put on my coat and walked out into the cold. Perhaps he knew that. He began to talk about thoracoplasty. Of course, removal of the lobe had also become popular recently. “But don’t you lose some patients?” I said. He must have thought it was time to joke again. “But of course. Running off and hiding in the bush—we don’t know where they get to. Jumping in the lake. Or did you mean don’t they die? There are cases where surgery doesn’t work, yes.” But great things were coming, he said. The surgery he went in for was going to become as obsolete as bloodletting. A new drug was on the way. Streptomycin. Already used in trial. There were some problems—naturally, there would be problems. Toxicity of the nervous system. But a way would be found to deal with that. “Put the sawbones like me out of business.” He washed the dishes; I dried. He put a dishtowel around my waist to protect my dress. When the ends were efficiently tied, he laid his hand against my upper back. Such firm pressure, fingers separated—he might almost have been taking stock of my body in a professional way. When I went to bed that night, I could still feel the pressure. I felt it develop its intensity from the little finger to the hard thumb. I enjoyed it. It was more important, really, than the kiss placed on my forehead later, the moment before I got out of his car. A dry-lipped kiss, brief and formal, set upon me with hasty authority. The key to his house showed up on the floor of my room, slipped under the door when I wasn’t there. But I couldn’t use it after all. If anybody else had made this offer, I would have jumped at the chance. Especially if it included a heater. But, in this case, his past and future presence in the house would draw all ordinary comfort out of the situation and replace it with a pleasure that was nerve-racking rather than expansive. I doubted whether I’d be able to read a word. “The fair-weather people are back.”Buy the print » I expected Mary to come by to scold me for missing “Pinafore.” I thought of saying that I had not been well. I’d had a cold. But then I remembered that colds were serious business in this place, involving masks and disinfectant, banishment. And soon I understood that there was no hope of hiding my visit to the doctor’s house. It was a secret from nobody, not even from the nurses, who said nothing, either because they were too lofty and discreet or because such carrying on had ceased to interest them. But the aides teased me. “Enjoy your supper the other night?” Their tone was friendly; they seemed to approve. My stock had risen. Whatever else I was, at least I might turn out to be a woman with a man. Mary did not put in an appearance all week. “Next Saturday” were the words that had been said, just before he administered the kiss. So I waited again on the front porch, and this time he was not late. We drove to the house, and I went into the front room while he got the fire going. There I noticed the dusty electric heater. “Didn’t take me up on my offer,” he said. “Did you think I didn’t mean it? I always mean what I say.” I said that I hadn’t wanted to come into town for fear of meeting Mary. “Because of missing her concert.” “That’s if you’re going to arrange your life to suit Mary,” he said. The menu was much the same as before. Pork chops, instant mashed potatoes, corn niblets instead of peas. This time he let me help in the kitchen, even asking me to set the table. “You may as well learn where things are. It’s all fairly logical, I believe.” This meant that I could watch him working at the stove. His easy concentration, economical movements, setting off in me a procession of sparks and chills. We had just begun the meal when there was a knock at the door. He got up and drew the bolt and in burst Mary. She was carrying a cardboard box, which she set on the table. Then she threw off her coat and displayed herself in a red-and-yellow costume. “Happy Valentine’s Day,” she said. “You never came to see me in the concert, so I brought the concert to you.” She stood on one foot to kick off first one boot, then the other. She pushed them out of her way and began to prance around the table, singing at the same time in a plaintive but vigorous young voice: I’m called Little Buttercup, Dear little Buttercup, Though I could never tell why. But still I’m called Buttercup, Poor little Buttercup Sweet little Buttercup I— The doctor had got up even before she began to sing. He was standing at the stove, busy scraping at the frying pan that had held the pork chops. I applauded. I said, “What a gorgeous costume.” It was, indeed. Red skirt, bright-yellow petticoat, fluttering white apron, embroidered bodice. “My mom made it.” “Even the embroidery?” “Sure. She stayed up till four o’clock to get it done the night before.” There was further whirling and stomping to show it off. The dishes tinkled on the shelves. I applauded some more. Both of us wanted only one thing. We wanted the doctor to turn around and stop ignoring us. For him to say, even grudgingly, one polite word. “And lookit what else,” Mary said. “For a Valentine.” She tore open the cardboard box and there were Valentine cookies, all cut into heart shapes and plastered with thick red icing. “How splendid,” I said, and Mary resumed her prancing: I am the Captain of the Pinafore. And a right good captain, too. You’re very very good, and be it understood, I command a right good crew. The doctor turned at last, and she saluted him. “All right,” he said. “That’s enough.” She ignored him: Then give three cheers and one cheer more For the hardy captain of the Pinafore. “I said that’s enough.” “For the captain of the Pinafore—” “Mary. We are eating supper. And you are not invited. Do you understand that? Not invited.” She was quiet at last. But only for a moment. “Well, pooh on you, then. You’re not very nice.” “And you could just as well do without any of those cookies. You’re on your way to getting as plump as a young pig.” Mary’s face was puffed up as if she were about to cry, but instead she said, “Look who’s talking. You got one eye crooked to the other.” “That’s enough.” “Well, you have.” The doctor picked up her boots and set them down in front of her. “Put these on.” She did so, with her eyes full of tears and her nose running. She snuffled mightily. He picked up her coat and did not help her as she flailed her way into it and found the buttons. “That’s right. Now, how did you get here?” She refused to answer. “Walked, did you? Well, I can drive you home. So you don’t get a chance to fling yourself into a snowbank and freeze to death out of self-pity.” I did not say a word. Mary did not look at me once. The moment was too full of shock for goodbyes. When I heard the car start, I began clearing the table. We had not got to dessert, which was apple pie again. Perhaps he did not know of any other kind, or perhaps it was all the bakery made. I picked up one of the heart-shaped cookies and ate it. The icing was horribly sweet. No berry or cherry flavor, just sugar and red food coloring. I ate another and another. I knew that I should have said goodbye at least. I should have said thank you for the cookies. But it wouldn’t have mattered. I told myself that it wouldn’t have mattered. The performance had not been for me. Or perhaps only a small part of it had been for me. He had been brutal. It shocked me that he had been so brutal. To one so much in need. But he had done it for me, in a way. So that his time with me should not be taken away. This thought flattered me, and I was ashamed that it flattered me. I did not know what I would say to him when he got back. He did not want me to say anything. He took me to bed. Had this been in the cards all along, or was it as much of a surprise to him as it was to me? My state of virginity, at least, did not appear to be unexpected—he provided a towel, as well as a condom—and he persisted, going as easily as he could. My passion was the surprise, to us both. “I do intend to marry you,” he said. Before he took me home, he tossed all the cookies, all those red hearts, out into the snow to feed the winter birds. So it was settled. Our engagement—though he was a little wary of the word—was a private agreed-upon fact. The wedding would take place whenever he could get a couple of consecutive days off. A bare-bones wedding, he said. I was not to write a word to my grandparents. I was to understand that the idea of a ceremony, carried on in the presence of others whose ideas he did not respect, and who would inflict on us all that snickering and simpering, was more than he was prepared to put up with. Nor was he in favor of diamond rings. I told him that I had never wanted one, which was true, because I had never thought about it. He said that was good. He had known that I was not that sort of idiotic, conventional girl. It would be better to stop having supper together, he said, not just because of the talk but because it was hard to get enough meat for two people on one ration card. My card was not available, having been handed over to the kitchen authorities—to Mary’s mother—as soon as I began to eat at the San. Better not to call attention. Of course, everybody suspected something. The elderly nurses turned cordial, and even Matron gave me a pained smile. I did preen in a modest way, almost without meaning to. I took to folding myself in, with a velvet stillness, eyes rather cast down. It did not quite occur to me that these older women were watching to see what direction this intimacy might take and that they were ready to turn righteous if the doctor should decide to drop me. It was the aides who were whole-heartedly on my side, and teased me that they saw wedding bells in my tea leaves. The month of March was grim and busy behind the hospital doors. It was always the worst month, the aides said. For some reason, people took it into their heads to die then, after making it through the attacks of winter. If a child did not show up for class, I did not know if there had been a major turn for the worse or just a bedding down with the suspicion of a cold. Time was found, however, for the doctor to make some arrangements. He slipped a note under the door of my room, instructing me to be ready by the first week of April. Unless there was some real crisis, he could manage a couple of days then. We are going to Huntsville. Going to Huntsville—our code for getting married. I have my green crêpe, dry-cleaned and rolled up carefully in my overnight bag. I suppose I will have to change my clothes in some ladies’ toilet. I am watching to see if there are any early wildflowers along the road that I can pick to make a bouquet. Would he agree to my having a bouquet? But it’s too early even for marsh marigolds. Nothing is to be seen but skinny black spruce trees and islands of spreading juniper and bogs. And, in the road cuts, a chaotic jumble of the rocks that have become familiar to me here—bloodstained iron and slanting shelves of granite. The car radio is on and playing triumphal music, because the Allies are getting closer and closer to Berlin. The doctor says that they are delaying to let the Russians get there first. He says they’ll be sorry. Now that we are away from Amundsen, I find that I can call him Alister. This is the longest drive we have ever taken together, and I am aroused by his male unawareness of me—which I know can quickly shift to its opposite—and by his casual skill as a driver. I find it exciting that he is a surgeon, though I would never admit that. Right now, I believe I would lie down for him in any bog or mucky hole or feel my spine crushed against any roadside rock, should he require an upright encounter. I know, too, that I must keep these feelings to myself. I turn my mind to the future. Once we get to Huntsville, I expect that we will find a minister and stand side by side in a living room, which will have the modest gentility of the living rooms I have known all my life. “I wish I could help, but all your tax dollars were used in defense spending.”Buy the print » But, when we get there, I discover that there are other ways to get married, and that my bridegroom has another aversion that I hadn’t grasped. He won’t have anything to do with a minister. At the town hall in Huntsville, we fill out forms that swear to our single state and we make an appointment to be married by a justice of the peace. Time for lunch. Alister stops outside a restaurant that could be a first cousin to the coffee shop in Amundsen. “This’ll do?” But, on looking into my face, he does change his mind. “No?” he says. “O.K.” We end up eating lunch in the chilly front room of one of the genteel houses that advertise chicken dinners. The plates are icy cold, there are no other diners, and there is no radio music but only the clink of our cutlery as we try to separate parts of the stringy chicken. I am sure he is thinking that we might have done better in the restaurant he suggested in the first place. Nonetheless, I find the nerve to ask about the ladies’ room, and there, in cold air even more discouraging than that of the front room, I shake out my green dress and put it on, repaint my mouth, and fix my hair. When I come out, Alister stands up to greet me and smiles and squeezes my hand and says I look pretty. We walk stiffly back to the car, holding hands. He opens the door for me, goes around and gets in, settles himself and turns the key in the ignition, then turns it off. The car is parked in front of a hardware store. Snow shovels are on sale at half price. There is still a sign in the window that says that skates can be sharpened inside. Across the street there is a wooden house painted an oily yellow. Its front steps have become unsafe, and two boards forming an X have been nailed across them. The truck parked in front of Alister’s car is a prewar model, with a running board and a fringe of rust on its fenders. A man in overalls comes out of the hardware store and gets into it. After some engine complaint, then some rattling and bounding in place, it is driven away. Now a delivery truck with the store’s name on it tries to park in the space left vacant. There is not quite enough room. The driver gets out and comes and raps on Alister’s window. Alister is surprised—if he had not been talking so earnestly he would have noticed the problem. He rolls down the window, and the man asks if we are parked there because we intend to buy something in the store. If not, could we please move along? “Just leaving,” says Alister, the man sitting beside me who was going to marry me but now is not going to marry me. “We were just leaving.” We. He has said “we.” For a moment, I cling to that word. Then I think, It’s the last time. The last time I’ll be included in his “we.” It’s not the “we” that matters; that is not what makes the truth clear to me. It’s his male-to-male tone with the driver, his calm and reasonable apology. I almost wish now to go back to what he was saying before, when he did not even notice the van trying to park. What he was saying then was terrible but at least his tight grip on the wheel, his grip and his abstraction and his voice had pain in them. No matter what he was saying, he was speaking out of the same deep place then that he spoke from when he was in bed with me. But it is not so now, after he has spoken to another man. He rolls up the window and gives all his attention to the car, to backing it out of its tight spot and moving it so as not to come in contact with the van, as if there were no more to be said or managed. “I can’t do it,” he has said. He can’t go through with it. He can’t explain this. Only that he feels it would be a mistake. It occurs to me that I will never be able to look at curly “S”s like those on the skate-sharpening sign, or at rough boards knocked into an X, like those across the steps of the yellow house, without hearing this voice. “I’m going to drive you to the station now. I’ll buy your ticket to Toronto. I’m pretty sure there’s a train to Toronto late in the afternoon. I’ll think up some very plausible story and I’ll get somebody to pack up your things. You’ll need to give me your Toronto address. I don’t think I’ve kept it. Oh, and I’ll write you a reference. You’ve done a good job. You wouldn’t have finished out the term anyway—I hadn’t told you yet but the children are going to be moved to another sanatorium. All kinds of big changes going on.” A new tone in his voice, almost jaunty. A tone of relief. He is trying to hold that in, not let the relief out until I am gone. I watch the streets. It’s like being driven to my own execution. Not yet. A little while yet. Not yet do I hear his voice for the last time. Not yet. He doesn’t have to ask the way to the station. I wonder out loud if he has put girls on the train before. “Don’t be like that,” he says. Every turn is like a shearing off of what’s left of my life. There is a train to Toronto at five o’clock. I wait in the car, while he goes in to check. He comes out with the ticket in his hand and what I think is a lighter step. He must realize this, because as he approaches the car he becomes more sedate. “It’s nice and warm in the station. There’s a special ladies’ waiting room.” He has opened the car door for me. “Or would you rather I waited and saw you off? Maybe there’s a place where we can get a decent piece of pie. That was a horrible dinner.” This makes me stir myself. I get out and walk ahead of him into the station. He points out the ladies’ waiting room. He raises his eyebrow at me and tries to make a final joke. “Maybe someday you’ll count this one of the luckiest days of your life.” I choose a bench in the waiting room that has a view of the station’s front doors. So that I’ll be able to see him if he comes back. Perhaps he will tell me that this was all a joke. Or a test, as in some medieval drama. Or perhaps he will have a change of heart. Driving down the highway, seeing the pale spring sunlight on the rocks that we so recently looked at together. Struck by the realization of his folly, he will turn and come speeding back. It is an hour at least before the Toronto train comes into the station, but it seems hardly any time at all. And even now fantasies are running through my mind. I board the train as if there were chains on my ankles. I press my face to the window to look along the platform as the whistle blows for our departure. It is not too late for me to jump from the train. Jump free and run through the station to the street, where he has just parked the car and is bounding up the steps, thinking, Not too late, pray not too late. Me running to meet him. Not too late. Now there is a commotion, shouting, hollering, not one but a gaggle of latecomers pounding between the seats. High-school girls in athletic outfits, hooting at the trouble they have caused. The conductor displeased and hurrying them along as they scramble for their seats. One of them, and perhaps the loudest, is Mary. I turn my head and do not look at them again. But here she is, crying out my name and wanting to know where I have been. To visit a friend, I tell her. She plunks herself down beside me and tells me that they have been playing basketball against Huntsville. It was a riot. They lost. “We lost, didn’t we?” she calls out in apparent delight, and others groan and giggle. She mentions the score, which is indeed quite shocking. “You’re all dressed up,” she says. But she doesn’t much care; she seems to take my explanation without real interest. She barely notices when I say that I am going on to Toronto to see my grandparents. Not a word about Alister. Not even a bad word. She has not forgotten. Just tidied up the scene and put it away, in a closet with her other former selves. Or maybe she really is a person who can deal recklessly with humiliation. I am grateful to her now, even if I was not able to feel such a thing at the time. Left to myself, what might I have done when we got to Amundsen? Abandoned the train and run to his house and demanded to know why, why. What shame on me forever. As it was, the stop there was barely long enough for the team to get themselves collected, while being warned by the conductor that if they didn’t get a move on they would be riding to Toronto. For years, I thought I might run into him. I lived, and still live, in Toronto. It seemed to me that everybody ended up in Toronto, at least for a little while. Then, more than a decade later, it finally happened. Crossing a crowded street where we could not even slow down. Going in opposite directions. Staring, at the same time, a bald shock on our time-damaged faces. He called out, “How are you?,” and I answered, “Fine.” Then added, for good measure, “Happy.” At the time, this was only generally true. I was having some kind of dragged-out row with my husband, about our paying a debt run up by one of his children. I had gone that afternoon to a show at the Art Gallery, to get myself into a more comfortable frame of mind. He called back to me once more. “Good for you,” he said. It still seemed as if we would make our way out of that crowd, as if in just a moment we would be together. But it was just as certain, also, that we would carry on in the directions we were going, and so we did. No breathless cry, no hand on my shoulder when I reached the sidewalk. Just the flash that I had caught when one of his eyes opened wider than the other. It was the left eye—always the left, as I remembered. And it always looked so strange, alert and wondering, as if some crazy impossibility had occurred to him that almost made him laugh. That was all. I went on home. Feeling the same as when I’d left Amundsen. The train dragging me, disbelieving. Nothing changes, apparently, about love. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
After Ellen	Credit Photograph by Jim Goldberg / Magnum Ellen is at her internship with the film festival, and Scott is in their gravel driveway, loading his half of everything they own into the Jetta. The small stones crunching beneath his sneakers are the same color as the three-o’clock sky. He’s composing the Dear John in his head while he packs the car, but he can’t seem to get it right—not that it can be got right, ditching her like this, but shouldn’t there be a way to make it less bad? He carries crates of records, a Camel Light between his lips, sweat streaking down his naked scalp. The Jetta is midnight blue and his own, though he and Ellen share it; usually he drops her off in the morning then picks her up at around four-thirty, five. Today, she’s going to take the bus home, ostensibly so that Scott can drive out to the Costco by the airport. Why is he leaving? Tough to say. From the moment they decided to move to Portland together, he’d known that this evil seed was planted in his heart. He could have, maybe should have, said no when she asked him to come with her, but they’d graduated; there was no reason to stick around their college town in Ohio, and he certainly wasn’t going back to Long Island, so—the Great Northwest. Why not? Perhaps he had believed that the feeling would pass. The seed would fail to blossom or the fruit would wither on the vine. Last night, they had this talk about adopting a dog—curled up on the couch, they weighed the relative merits of mutts versus purebreds—and suddenly he could see their life together, all mapped out: the proposal and the wedding and the grades the kids would be in when the dog died of old age. Now here he is, twelve hours later, gut-sick and elated, sweaty and sore-armed, all his clothes in duffels and Hefty bags. It’s not too late to call this off. He can unload the car, get a bottle of Côtes du Rhône uncorked and into the decanter. He can get everything back in its right place if he’s quick. He can come up with a reason that he never made it to Costco. He can put a knife through the front left tire of his car. He can kiss Ellen when she walks through the door. He shoves a last duffel in on top of his vinyl, then struggles the trunk shut. What else does he even own? His turntables and headphones, his laptop, its power cord and the cord for his cell phone, a few pairs of shoes. That stuff can all go in the back seat. He’ll throw a winter coat over the d.j. gear so that it won’t get stolen in some rest-stop parking lot. The plan is to drive to his sister Priscilla’s place in L.A. The trip will take two days if he pushes himself, three if he goes easy. Priscilla, who is four years older, is married to an entertainment lawyer. They have a house in Silver Lake that seems to be made entirely of windows, with a sandy back yard and two spare rooms; one of these is empty and the other contains a blue foldout couch. Scott assumes that the empty room is earmarked for a child but thinks of the other as his, though he knows the house only from photographs posted online. He’ll probably call them from the road tonight or tomorrow morning. Or maybe he’ll just show up. Now he’s standing in his soon-to-be former bedroom, pushing drawers back in, shutting the closet door, smoothing the top sheet. He doesn’t want Ellen to think there’s been a burglary or, worse, that he’s had another woman in the bed. He wishes that he could somehow be there to explain things to her when she comes home—an absurd thought, but it reminds him that he still hasn’t written the note. He tears a piece of paper off the yellow pad that they keep on the counter for their shopping lists. He writes, “I wasn’t ready and am so sorry but swear this will have been the right thing for us.” Signs his name way down at the bottom in swift cursive, like he does to endorse checks. Leaves himself space to go back and add “Love” as his closing, but isn’t sure whether he should. He knows that he’s giving up his right to use that word with regard to Ellen, but doesn’t know whether that means that he ought to use it this one last time or whether the forfeiture has already taken place. If not “Love,” then what? But just because there’s room for a closing doesn’t mean there has to be a closing. He didn’t begin with a salutation, after all. “Dear Ellen”—how crazy would that be? The letter is held on the table by their little brown pepper mill. Whatever happens next is his fault but not his problem. He may never even know about it, whatever it will turn out to have been. Scott locks the front door. His bowels are twisted into hot knots, but he doesn’t have to go to the bathroom. Indeed, he’s eaten nothing but cigarette smoke all day. He fishes his iPod out of the glove box and plugs it into the dashboard. He knows that it’s stupid to soundtrack his own life by picking a song “for the moment,” but can’t help himself. Puts on Derek and the Dominos’ ”Key to the Highway,” rolls all his windows down, shuts his cell phone off and tosses it in the glove box, lights a cigarette, puts the car into gear, and then, sobbing freely, inaugurates his long ride south. Scott drives out of Portland half expecting to crash on the highway. He won’t cause the accident, but he will deserve to suffer it. He imagines how it will go: a flash or a swerve, a drop in his gut, like when an elevator hiccups, then jump-cut—waking up alone in a sunny hospital room or a wailing ambulance or somehow back in Ellen’s arms in a body cast or even shipped home to a grave beside his grandparents at New Montefiore, in West Babylon. He believes that the universe will charge him with his crime against Ellen, will confirm to him the value of his actions by making him pay dearly for having taken them. This strikes him as a quintessentially Jewish sentiment. He pounds the steering wheel with the heel of his hand and cries out, “Fuck your ancient law!” Six hours later, the state line safely behind him, he stops for the night in Yreka—a depressing old mining town in the high, beautiful woods near Klamath National Forest. The phone stays off and in the glove box. At the Black Bear Diner, he orders the Joe’s Hobo Omelette—ham, bacon, and sausage. Fuck your ancient law. The next morning, he gets up, checks out of the Econo Lodge, goes back to the Black Bear, sits in the same seat as the day before, orders the same omelette plus coffee, then gets back on I-5. He figures he’ll drive as far as Sacramento, but then the prospect of an evening in that city seems so grim that he takes the 505 to San Francisco, where he uses the family credit card to check into the Omni Hotel. The Omni has an air of beleaguered elegance: faded crimson carpets roll down scuffed marble stairs into a lobby full of wing chairs; waxed apples brown in a bronze bowl on a sideboard by the elevators. Scott drowns himself in HBO and room service. He showers with the bathroom door open, eats the five-dollar chocolate bar from the mini-fridge. Through the smoke-coat on his tongue, the taste of the bittersweet confection is like glimpsing a hooded figure through swirling fog. When he turns his phone back on, he learns that Ellen called him sixteen times in the first two days he was gone. Her initial messages are desperate and imploring—baby whatever I did wrong; baby I don’t understand; baby TALK TO ME—but that tone is soon supplanted by frustration, then rage. “You pussy!” she screams in one of them. He has never heard her speak this word before, and it pops in his ear like a cold, wet finger, sending gooseflesh up his arms and a shiver through his loins. Scott has been at the hotel for a week. “I’ve already put the evidence in a tidy little bag for you.”Buy the print » There are also livid messages from his parents, who say that if they don’t hear from him within twenty-four hours they will cancel the credit card and hire a private detective. (Empty threats, since he hasn’t lost the room.) Andy, a college friend who also lives in Portland, sent this text: “You fucking moron how is she supposed to do anything without a fucking car?” Scott feels really bad about the car. He had thought about it only in terms of ownership, and in doing so failed to consider the question of use. The house that he and Ellen sublet is in a suburb a half hour’s drive from her office, from all the good bars, from anywhere she might actually want to be in Portland. He writes back to Andy, “Shit im sorry do u think i should send her $ for a rental?” Andy’s reply comes faster than Scott would have guessed it was possible to type on a touch-screen keypad: “FUCK YOU DON’T EVER EVEN THINK HER NAME EVER AGAIN YOU FUCK.” On the phone, he prevails upon Priscilla to sort things out with their folks. She’s his ambassador to the family, and seems to enjoy the role. She tells him that she and their mother, appalled, have been in touch with Ellen. Their father has been heard to question Scott’s honor. “Just remind them that Ellen wasn’t Jewish,” he says to her, wishing he could evict the hint of whine from his voice. He’s sitting on the room’s windowsill, cigarette on his lip, staring blankly at the office building across the street, itself essentially a blank. “Believe me, little brother,” Priscilla says, “Mom and Dad have never needed to be reminded of that.” Scott takes a daily walk through Chinatown. It gets him out of his room for an hour, insures that he sees the sun—when there is sun to be seen in San Francisco—and keeps him from ordering the same ham-and-Swiss from room service three times a day. In Portsmouth Square Plaza, old men play Chinese chess on stone benches while the wind whips crazily and vagrants pull the deposit bottles out of the trash. In the open-faced souvenir shops that line the steep streets there are countless jade or wood statuettes of Hotei Buddha, fat and laughing, and sweaters, sweatshirts, hoodies, and hats in every color of the rayon rainbow, all emblazoned with a Golden Gate Bridge. Scott remembers once having been told that the bridge never stops being painted. They start at one end, and it takes the whole year to get to the other, by which time the old work has absorbed so much dirt and damage that it needs to be redone, and so they begin again. Sometimes he has lunch at this Japanese place where there is a moat built into the sushi bar. Little blue boats putter along in three inches of water, each tied to the next with shoelace rigging, like parading elephants twined trunk to tail. There was a place like this in Portland, but instead of boats it was an electric train set. Scott orders iced watermelon juice and starts grabbing at the plastic plates that rest on the boats, on which pieces of sushi are grouped in twos and threes. A laminated placemat explains that the pattern of the plate indicates its price. When he’s finished eating, a waiter will tally up the plates and give him a bill. He has to be careful when reaching for the plates, so that he doesn’t bump a boat and send water sloshing up onto it, or else knock the food overboard. The placemat concludes with this terse warning: SINK SAME AS EAT YOU PAY. Scott never makes it to L.A. He takes some money out of his trust to cover first, last, and security on an apartment in the Mission, plus furniture and whatever else he needs: towels, rugs, a bed. He goes on a few dates with a cute barista named Olivia. She has this staggering Afro that she keeps kerchiefed down while she’s at work. Scott tells his sister all about her, redacting only two facts from his account: first, that they are not a serious couple; second, that while Olivia is half black she is also half Jewish. On her mother’s side, no less. Olivia wasn’t bat-mitzvahed, but she spits fire if she sees a “Free Palestine” patch on a backpack. She wants to take one of those birthright trips to Israel to explore her roots. She encourages Scott to take one, too, but stops short of suggesting that they go together. Scott makes his sister understand that Olivia is the first significant girl after Ellen, and so Priscilla tells their mother, and now it’s a family scandal. These poor narrow-minded, well-meaning Long Island racists! All this tribal madness about bloodlines, purity—obsessions that have never worked out especially well for Jews. Unless you count the six thousand years of survival (that’s what Olivia would say), but then what about, for example, Tay-Sachs? Anyway, he calls home more often. The perplexed suffering in his mother’s voice is not unwelcome. He’s pretty sure shvartzeh is the only Yiddish word his father knows. On a walk through his new neighborhood, Scott sees a homemade flyer stapled to a utility pole: I FOUND YOUR DOG. There’s a photograph of a blond mutt relaxing, stretched out on the floor with its muzzle on its front paws. It looks to be part retriever. Scott takes the flyer down and puts it in his pocket. He calls the number and receives an address, which he plugs into the maps app on his phone. Ten minutes south on the 101 and he’s in a part of the city that he’s never seen before, a miserable-looking neighborhood just below McLaren Park that his phone says is called Sunnydale. The directions lead him to a gravel lot where there are two boxcars. The boxcars’ open doors face each other, and a sun-bleached tarp is secured over the space between them, as an awning; white plastic chairs and a card table suggest a porch. A man with a white beard halfway down his gut and white hair all the way down his back emerges from one car, leaning on a hand-carved walking stick. “You must be who called,” the overgrown gnome says. The boxcars are wired for electricity. The man has three computers going at once. Two of them mine bitcoins, he says, while the third donates its processing power to SETI. “Also grow,” he says, gesturing with his staff in the direction of the other boxcar. “Real good shit, if you’re interested. Medical grade.” The blond dog wanders out from a shadow and comes up to Scott for a sniff. Scott gets down on his knees and opens his arms wide, wondering what the dog will do. It licks his face, so he hugs it. “Found her wandering loose on Dolores,” the man says, supplying the story Scott hadn’t thought to ask for. “While I was on an, ahem, errand. Hope I didn’t cause you too much trouble taking her back here, but I just couldn’t see leaving her.” Scott produces a bank-crisp hundred-dollar bill from his shirt pocket. The man shakes his head at the money but then takes it anyway. He pounds the ground with his walking stick. “I got a real big heart,” he says. “Big enough to burst.” Scott names the dog Yreka. Whenever he walks her, he’s on his guard. What if he runs into her original owners? What if they call out to her and she bolts? The dog was found without a collar, and she’s put on a healthy amount of weight since Scott brought her home, so the odds are that she was abandoned or neglected. Nonetheless, he can’t shake the feeling that he has kidnapped Yreka rather than adopted her, and that somewhere in San Francisco is a person or a couple or a family that misses the dog. They probably live in his neighborhood. Almost every day, he walks by the utility pole where he saw the flyer, and he imagines her owners as a couple, approximately his own age, married a year and a half but childless—like his sister and her husband, they’re taking things slow. Before losing the dog, perhaps they joked that she was their trial-run baby. They probably don’t make that joke anymore. “Let’s just say you both went up this hill to fetch a pail of water, then Jack fell down and broke his crown, and you, Jill, came tumbling after. With this policy, you’d be covered for that.”Buy the print » Scott names the couple Nate and Jennifer. She’s Korean-American, born here to immigrant parents, grew up in Foster City. Nate’s from Ohio, near Schmall, the town that shares its name with the private college where Scott and Ellen met. Surely Nate didn’t attend Schmall, but he probably went to the parties. Maybe he and Scott waited in line for a keg together, made eyes at the same wobbling girl. Maybe Nate even hooked up with Ellen. All the college girls went through a townie phase. Sometimes, when Nate is making his regular love to Jennifer, with her smooth skin and soft belly and perfectly black hair, his mind wanders back to the old days, when a random Thursday night might have delivered him a freckled brunette in a scoop-necked shirt to make love to—where? In somebody’s upstairs bathroom or on a back deck; his own childhood bed or Ellen’s dorm bed; the woods behind a tumbledown barn. Scott writes a check for three thousand dollars, leaves the “to” line blank, and folds it into his wallet. If he is ever stopped on the street by the dog’s original owners, he will look them in the eye, tell them the plain truth, and offer the check. He will put his palms up and let the leash go free. It will be their choice: the dog or the money. And, no matter what happens next, he will at least know Yreka’s true name. Scott and Yreka stop by the coffee shop on their way to Dolores Park, where people lay out blankets on the sunward slope of the great green hill. Olivia gives him a free coffee and a quick kiss on the mouth, then kneels down to ruff up Yreka’s fur and kiss her on her cold black nose. She says that she’ll be off in an hour and will meet up with them. She disappears into the employee rest room to wash her hands before she makes another drink. At the vet’s office, Scott writes on the form that Yreka is a recent adoptee, that he found her wandering with no collar on Jack Kerouac Alley next to City Lights and brought her home. The vet is happy to report that Yreka is worm-free. Also, she’s pregnant. He gives Scott a brochure about what to expect. When Scott gets home, he gives Yreka two extra Beggin’ Strips, fishes the unaddressed check from his wallet, and tears it in half. He halves the halves, then repeats this procedure until tiny pale-blue squares burst from his fingers like confetti. When Scott first got to town, and even after he decided to stay, he held off on getting in touch with any of his contacts in the music scene. But now that he’s ready to play shows again it takes only a couple of e-mails to line up a gig. He’s got his headphones plugged into his laptop and his iTunes on shuffle, while Yreka snoozes on the couch beside him. He strokes her blond zeppelin belly with one hand while cruising Facebook with the other. He one-hand-types Ellen’s full name into the search bar, and when her profile pops up he is astonished to see that she never un-friended him. Probably she just forgot, is all, or else the thought never crossed her mind. Ellen was always an intermittent Facebooker. She isn’t one of those people who feel the need to broadcast all the excruciating minutiae of their lives. He reads through her old updates, starting with the day after he left and working his way back to the present. There’s not much there: a handful of promo posts for the film festival in the weeks leading up to it, a couple of embedded music videos, a link to a Times Op-Ed about peak oil, a little gallery of photographs from the festival’s after-party. He lingers on a snapshot of Ellen, drink-flushed and grinning, her arm around a bemused-looking Gus Van Sant. Her most recent status update is from last week, and all it says is “Fffrrryyydddaaayyy.” Five people “like” this—Percy Tomlinson, Kat Stokes, Rachel Duncan, Ellen’s great-aunt Charlotte, and Andy Kramer, the guy who sent Scott the text message warning him never to even think Ellen’s name ever again. Scott clicks on Andy’s name and is unsurprised to see that Andy did un-friend him, which means the only parts of Andy’s profile he can see are those few tidbits that he leaves public: Andy Kramer Networks: Schmall College, Edgewater High School Orlando FL Music: Rilo Kiley, Wilco, Weezer (only Pinkerton—obvs), Neutral Milk Hotel, Mountain Goats, Hank Williams, Velvet Underground Employers: Not if I can help it. Andy’s profile picture is a closeup of him and Ellen in a staring contest, eyes wide open and nose tips touching, in what Scott believes to be the master bedroom of the house he fled. Scott’s d.j. set is totally killer, and he knows it. Sweat streaming down his bald head, the firm clamp of the headphones over his ears—he’s entering that zone where he’s both more and less himself than at any other time: he is everyone dancing in the whole hot venue, and he’s the huge amps hung on shining chains from the black ceiling, and he’s the thunder being flung from the amps’ blind mesh faces. He’s all of it at once, but also none of it—beautifully, perfectly, inexhaustibly nothing at all. Olivia comes over to him while he’s packing up, a rocks glass in each hand. “Nice set,” she says, grinning. She nods at his equipment case. “Nice gear, too.” “Medical grade,” he says, giving her the same nod back. “One of those for me?” “That depends.” “On what?” “Oh, I’ll let you know,” she says, and then they’re both laughing. Then they’ve finished their Jamesons, and he’s loading his gear into his trunk while she orders them another round. When the next d.j. goes on, Scott pulls Olivia out onto the dance floor. The whole rest of the perfect night the lightning of success is wild in him—through the next set and last call, the smeary, invincible drunk drive home. Then they’re somehow in his room, and here’s his tall girlfriend on her naked knees as he explodes across her tits and chin. They lie on their backs, breathing deep and slow in the hot dark. Scott realizes that the universe is ungoverned: there is no law for him to be an outlaw from. He says to Olivia that he’s going to take the dog out for a walk. She tells him not to be long. He throws on the shirt that he was wearing earlier and a pair of jeans without underwear. He enters the living room on watery legs and flips on the light. Yreka, surprised by the sudden burst of light, whimpers pitifully, but does not pause in her effort to eat her newest whelp free from its amniotic sac. If she doesn’t hurry, it will drown in there, and the next one is already on its way—a shiny purple oval like an enormous cold-medicine capsule or a small translucent dinosaur egg inching out of her distended vulva. The couch, of course, is ruined. Inside the emergent sac is something like a bald rabbit trapped in gelatin: squirming, blind, awake. Olivia, naked in the bedroom doorway, draws a sharp breath when she sees why Scott is frozen. She sidles up behind him, her belly against his back, and slides her arms around his waist—thumbs hooked into the belt loops of his jeans. Yreka licks her chops, then grabs her youngest pup by the scruff. She plunks it over by its brothers and sisters, four—now five—wrinkled pink things mewling in residual slime. By the time it’s over, Yreka has whelped nine puppies. Scott knows from the brochure to expect to lose a few of these, but there’s no apparent runt, and by the evening of the next day it’s clear that the whole litter will survive. Life becomes a blur of tiny bodies in harmless ceaseless collision. Mouths yip and teeth nip and new claws emerge and scratch. The living room is transformed into a nursery, and the whole apartment stinks of shit and newspapers. Yreka’s teats bleed from the rough, unending attention: her blond muzzle shows its first threads of white, tired pride now inscribed in her watery wise brown eyes. Scott loves the puppies but doesn’t know how he would have managed without Olivia. She’s over at his place so often he winds up making her a key. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Thank You for the Light	Credit Illustration by Owen Freeman Mrs. Hanson was a pretty, somewhat faded woman of forty, who sold corsets and girdles, travelling out of Chicago. For many years her territory had swung around through Toledo, Lima, Springfield, Columbus, Indianapolis, and Fort Wayne, and her transfer to the Iowa-Kansas-Missouri district was a promotion, for her firm was more strongly entrenched west of the Ohio. Eastward, she had known her clientele chattily and had often been offered a drink or a cigarette in the buyer’s office after business was concluded. But she soon found that in her new district things were different. Not only was she never asked if she would like to smoke but several times her own inquiry as to whether anyone would mind was answered half apologetically with “It’s not that I mind, but it has a bad influence on the employees.” “Oh, of course, I understand.” Smoking meant a lot to her sometimes. She worked very hard and it had some ability to rest and relax her psychologically. She was a widow and she had no close relatives to write to in the evenings, and more than one moving picture a week hurt her eyes, so smoking had come to be an important punctuation mark in the long sentence of a day on the road. The last week of her first trip on the new circuit found her in Kansas City. It was mid-August and she felt somewhat lonely among all her new contacts, so she was delighted to find at the outer desk of one firm a woman she had known in Chicago. She sat down before having herself announced and in the course of the conversation found out a little about the man she was going to see. “Will he mind if I smoke?” “What? My God, yes!” her friend said. “He’s given money to support the law against it.” “Oh. Well, I’m grateful for the advice—more than grateful.” “You better watch it everywhere around here,” her friend said. “Especially with the men over fifty. The ones who weren’t in the war. A man told me that nobody who was in the war would ever object to anyone smoking.” But at her very next stop Mrs. Hanson ran into the exception. He seemed a pleasant young man but his eyes fixed with so much fascination on the cigarette that she was tapping on her thumbnail that she put it away. She was rewarded when he asked her to lunch and during the hour she obtained a considerable order. Afterward, he insisted on driving her to her next appointment, though she had intended to spot a hotel in the vicinity and take a few puffs in the washroom. It was one of those days full of waiting—everyone was busy, was late, and it seemed that when the clients did appear they were the sort of hatchet-faced men who did not like other people’s self-indulgence, or they were women willingly or unwillingly committed to the ideas of these men. She hadn’t smoked since breakfast and she suddenly realized that that was why she felt a vague dissatisfaction at the end of each call, no matter how successful it had been in a business way. She would say, “We think we cover a different field. It’s all rubber and canvas, of course, but we do manage to put them together in a different way. A thirty-per-cent increase in national advertising in one year tells its own story.” And to herself she was thinking, If I could just get three puffs I could sell old-fashioned whalebone. She had one more store to visit now but her appointment was not for half an hour. That was just time to go to her hotel but, as there was no taxi in sight, she walked along the street, thinking, Perhaps I ought to give up cigarettes. I’m getting to be a drug fiend. Before her, she saw the Catholic cathedral. It seemed very tall, and suddenly she had an inspiration: if so much incense had gone up in the spires to God, a little smoke in the vestibule would make no difference. How could the Good Lord care if a tired woman took a few puffs in the vestibule? Nevertheless, though she was not a Catholic, the thought offended her. Was it so important that she have her cigarette, when it might offend a lot of other people, too? Still. He wouldn’t mind, she thought persistently. In His days, they hadn’t even discovered tobacco. . . . She went into the church; the vestibule was dark, and she felt for a match in the bag she carried but there weren’t any. I’ll go and get a light from one of their candles, she thought. The darkness of the nave was broken only by a splash of light in one corner. She walked up the aisle toward the white blur, and found that it was not made by candles and, in any case, it was about to go out—an old man was on the point of extinguishing a last oil lamp. “These are votive offerings,” he said. “We put them out at night. We think it means more to the people who give them to save them for next day than it would to keep them burning all night.” “I see.” He struck out the last one. There was no light left in the cathedral now, save an electric chandelier high overhead and the ever-burning lamp in front of the Sacrament. “Good night,” the sexton said. “Good night.” “I guess you came here to pray.” “Yes, I did.” He went out into the sacristy. Mrs. Hanson knelt down and prayed. It had been a long time since she had prayed. She scarcely knew what to pray for, so she prayed for her employer, and for the clients in Des Moines and Kansas City. When she had finished praying, she knelt up. An image of the Madonna gazed down upon her from a niche, six feet above her head. Vaguely she regarded it. Then she got up from her knees and sank back wearily in the corner of the pew. In her imagination, the Virgin came down, like in the play “The Miracle,” and took her place and sold corsets and girdles for her and was tired, just as she was. Then for a few minutes Mrs. Hanson must have slept. She awoke at the realization that something had changed, and gradually she perceived that there was a familiar scent that was not incense in the air and that her fingers smarted. Then she realized that the cigarette she held in her hand was alight—was burning. Still too drowsy to think, she took a puff to keep the flame alive. Then she looked up at the Madonna’s vague niche in the half-darkness. “Thank you for the light,” she said. That didn’t seem quite enough, so she got down on her knees, the smoke twisting up from the cigarette between her fingers. “Thank you very much for the light,” she said. ♦ —1936 Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Cheater’s Guide To Love	Credit Illustration by Jeffrey Decoster YEAR 0 Your girl catches you cheating. (Well, actually she’s your fiancée, but hey, in a bit it so won’t matter.) She could have caught you with one sucia, she could have caught you with two, but because you’re a totally batshit cuero who never empties his e-mail trash can, she caught you with fifty! Sure, over a six-year period, but still. Fifty fucking girls? God damn! Maybe if you’d been engaged to a super-open-minded blanquita you could have survived it—but you’re not engaged to a super-open-minded blanquita. Your girl is a bad-ass salcedense who doesn’t believe in open anything; in fact, the one thing she warned you about, that she swore she would never forgive, was cheating. I’ll put a machete in you, she promised. And, of course, you swore you wouldn’t do it. You swore you wouldn’t. You swore you wouldn’t. And you did. She’ll stick around for a few months because you been together a long, long time. Because you’ve gone through so much together—her father’s death, your tenure madness, her bar exam (passed on the third attempt). And because love, real love, is not so easily shed. Over a tortured six-month period you fly together to the D.R., to Mexico (for the funeral of a friend), to New Zealand. You walk the beach where they filmed “The Piano,” something she’s always wanted to do, and now, in penitent desperation, you give it to her. She is immensely sad on that beach and she walks up and down the shining sand alone, her bare feet in the freezing water, and when you try to hug her she says, Don’t. She stares at the rocks jutting out of the water, the wind carrying her hair straight back. On the ride out to the hotel, up through those wild steeps, you pick up a pair of hitchhikers, a couple so giddy with love that you almost throw them out of the car. She says nothing. Later, in the hotel, she cries. You try every trick in the book to keep her. You write her letters. You drive her to work. You quote Neruda. You compose a mass e-mail disowning all your sucias. You block their e-mails. You change your phone number. You stop drinking. You stop smoking. You claim you’re a sex addict and start attending meetings. You blame your father. You blame your mother. You blame the patriarchy. You blame Santo Domingo. You find a therapist. You cancel your Facebook. You give her the passwords to all your e-mail accounts. You start taking salsa classes, like you always swore you would, so that the two of you can dance together. You claim that you were sick, you claim that you were weak. And every hour, like clockwork, you say that you’re so so sorry. You try it all, but one day she simply sits up in bed and says, No more, and, Ya, and asks you to move from the Harlem apartment that you two share when you’re not teaching in Boston. You consider not going. You consider a squat protest. In fact, you say you won’t go. But, in the end, you do. For a while you haunt the city, like a two-bit ballplayer dreaming of a call-up. You phone her every day and leave messages that she doesn’t answer. You write her long sensitive letters, which she returns unopened. You even show up at her apartment at odd hours, and at her job downtown, until finally her little sister calls you, the one who was always on your side, and she makes it plain: If you try to contact my sister again, she’s going to put a restraining order on you. For some Negroes that wouldn’t mean shit. But you ain’t that kind of Negro. You stop. You move back to Boston. You never see her again. YEAR 1 At first you pretend it doesn’t matter. You harbored a lot of grievances against her anyway. Yes, you did! She didn’t give good head, you hated the fuzz on her cheeks, she never waxed her pussy, she never cleaned up around the apartment, etc. For a few weeks, you almost believe it. Of course you go back to smoking, to drinking, you drop the therapist and the sex-addict groups and you run around with the sluts like it’s the good old days, like nothing has happened. I’m back, you say to your boys. Elvis laughs. It’s almost like you never left. You’re fine for, like, a week. Then your moods become erratic. One minute you have to stop yourself from jumping in the car and driving to see her and the next you’re calling a sucia and saying, You’re the one I always wanted. You start losing your temper with friends, with students, with colleagues. You cry every time you hear Monchy y Alexandra, her favorite. Boston, where you never wanted to live, where you feel you’ve been exiled, becomes a serious problem. You have trouble adjusting to it full time—to its trains that stop running at midnight, to the glumness of its inhabitants, to its startling lack of Szechuan food. Almost on cue, a lot of racist shit starts happening. White people pull up alongside you at traffic lights and scream at you with a hideous rage, like you nearly ran over their mother. It’s fucking scary. Before you can figure out what the hell is going on, they flip you the bird and peel out. It happens again and again. Security guards follow you in stores, and every time you step onto Harvard property you’re asked for I.D. Three times, drunk white dudes in different parts of the city try to pick fights with you. You take it all very personally. I hope someone drops a fucking bomb on this city, you rant. This is why no people of color want to live here. Why all my black and Latino students leave as soon as they can. Elvis says nothing. He was born and raised in Jamaica Plain, knows that trying to defend Boston from uncool is like blocking a bullet with a slice of bread. Are you O.K.? he asks, finally. I’m dandy, you say. Mejor que nunca. Except you’re not. You’ve lost all the mutual friends you had in N.Y.C. (they went to her), your mother won’t speak to you (she liked the fiancée more than she liked you), and you’re feeling terribly guilty and terribly alone. You keep writing letters to her, waiting for the day that you can hand them to her. You also keep fucking everything that moves. Thanksgiving you end up having to spend alone in your apartment because you can’t face your mom and the idea of accepting other people’s charity makes you furious. The ex, as you’re now calling her, always cooked: a turkey, a chicken, a pernil. Set aside all the wings for you. That night, you drink yourself into a stupor, then spend two days recovering. You figure that’s as bad as it gets. You figure wrong. During finals a depression rolls over you, so profound that you doubt there is a name for it. It feels like you’re being slowly pincered apart, atom by atom. You stop hitting the gym or going out for drinks; you stop shaving or washing your clothes; in fact, you stop doing almost everything. Your friends begin to worry about you, and they are not exactly worrying types. I’m O.K., you tell them, but with each passing week the depression deepens. You try to describe it. Like someone flew a plane into your soul. Like someone flew two planes into your soul. Elvis sits shivah with you in the apartment; he pats you on the shoulder, tells you to take it easy. Four years earlier, Elvis had a Humvee blow up on him on a highway outside Baghdad. He was pinned under the burning wreckage for what felt like a week, so he knows a little about pain. His back and buttocks and right arm are so scarred up that even you, Mr. Hard Nose, can’t look at them. Breathe, he tells you. You breathe non-stop, like a marathon runner, but it doesn’t help. Your little letters become more and more pathetic. Please, you write. Please come back. You have dreams where she’s talking to you like in the old days—in that sweet Spanish of the Cibao, no sign of rage, of disappointment. And then you wake up. You stop sleeping, and some nights when you’re drunk you have a wacky impulse to open the window of your fifth-floor apartment and leap down to the street. But (a) you ain’t the killing-yourself type; (b) your boy Elvis is over all the time, stands by the window as if he knows what you’re thinking; and (c) you have this ridiculous hope that maybe one day she will forgive you. She doesn’t. YEAR 2 You make it through both semesters, barely. It really is a long stretch of shit, and then, finally, the madness begins to recede. It’s like waking up from the worst fever of your life. You ain’t your old self (har-har!), but you can stand near windows without being overcome by strange urges, and that’s a start. Unfortunately, you’ve put on forty-five pounds. You don’t know how it happened, but it happened. Only one pair of your jeans fits, and none of your suits. You put away all the old pictures of her, say goodbye to her Wonder Woman features. You go to the barber, shave your head for the first time in forever and cut off your beard. You done? Elvis asks. I’m done. A white grandma screams at you at a traffic light, and you close your eyes until she goes away. Find yourself another girl, Elvis advises. He’s holding his daughter gingerly. Clavo saca clavo. Nothing saca nothing, you reply. No one will ever be like her. O.K. But find yourself a girl anyway. His daughter was born that February. He puts her in your arms. Find yourself a good Dominican girl, he says. You hold the baby uncertainly. Your ex never wanted kids, but toward the end she made you get a sperm test, just in case she decided to change her mind. You put your lips against the baby’s stomach and blow. Do they even exist? you ask. You had one, didn’t you? That you did. You clean up your act. You cut it out with all the old sucias, even the Iranian girl you’d boned the entire time you were with the fiancée. You want to turn over a new leaf. Takes you a bit, but you finally break clear, and when you do you feel lighter. I should have done this years ago, you declare, and your friend Arlenny, who never, ever messed with you (Thank God, she mutters), rolls her eyes. You wait, what, a week for the bad energy to dissipate and then you start dating. Like a normal person, you tell Elvis. Without any lies. Elvis says nothing, only smiles. “Ever since he retired from yodelling, all he does is sit around the house not yodelling.”Buy the print » At first it’s O.K.: you get numbers, though nothing you would take home to the fam. Then, after the early rush, it all dries up. It ain’t just a dry spell; it’s fucking Arrakeen. You’re out all the time, but no one seems to be biting. Not even the chicks who swear they love Latin guys. One girl, when you tell her you’re Dominican, actually says, Hell no, and runs full tilt toward the door. Seriously? you say. You begin to wonder if there’s some secret mark on your forehead. Be patient, Elvis urges. He’s working for this ghetto-ass landlord and starts taking you with him on collection day. It turns out you’re awesome backup. Deadbeats catch one peep of your dismal grill and cough up their debts on the spot. One month, two months, three months, and then some hope. Her name is Noemi, Dominican from Baní, and you meet at Sofia’s in the last months before it closes. She ain’t half your ex, but she ain’t bad, either. She’s a nurse, and when Elvis complains about his back she starts listing all the shit it might be. She’s a big girl with skin like you wouldn’t believe, and, best of all, she doesn’t privar at all; actually seems nice. She smiles often, and whenever she’s nervous she says, Tell me something. Minuses: she’s always working, and she has a four-year-old named Justin. She shows you pictures; kid looks like he’ll be dropping an album if she’s not careful. She had him with a banilejo who had four other kids with four other women. And you thought this guy was a good idea for what reason? you say. I was stupid, she admits. Where did you meet him? Same place I met you, she says. Out. Normally that would be a no-go, but Noemi is not only nice, she’s also kinda fly. One of those hot moms, and you’re excited for the first time in more than a year. Sunday is her one day off—the Five-Baby Father watches Justin that day, or, rather, he and his new girlfriend watch Justin that day. You and Noemi fall into a little pattern: on Sunday you take her out to dinner—she doesn’t eat anything remotely adventurous, so it’s always Italian—and then she stays the night. How sweet was that toto? Elvis asks after the first sleepover. Not sweet at all, because Noemi didn’t give it to you! Three Sundays in a row she sleeps over, and three Sundays in a row nada. A little kissing, a little feeling up, but nothing beyond that. She brings her own pillow, one of those expensive foam ones, and her own toothbrush, and she takes it all with her on Monday morning. Kisses you at the door as she leaves; it all feels too chaste to you, too lacking in promise. No toto? Elvis looks a little shocked. No toto, you confirm. What am I, in sixth grade? You know you should be patient. You know she’s just testing your ass. She’s probably had a lot of bad experiences with the hit-and-run types. Case in point—Justin’s dad. But it galls you that she gave it up to some thug with no job, no education, no nothing, and now she’s making you jump through hoops of fire. Are we going to see each other on Sunday? she asks when she next calls, and you almost say yes, but then your idiocy gets the better of you. It depends, you say. On what? She is instantly guarded, and that adds to your irritation. Where was that guard when she let the banilejo fuck her without a condom? On whether you’re planning to give me ass anytime soon. Oh, classiness. You know as soon as you say it that you just buried yourself. Noemi is silent. Then she says, Let me get off this phone before I say something you won’t like. This is your last chance, but instead of begging for mercy you bark, Fine. Within an hour, she has unfriended you on Facebook. You send her one exploratory text, but it’s never answered. Two years later, you will run into her in Dudley Square but she will pretend not to recognize you, and you won’t force the issue. Nicely done, Elvis says. Bravo. You two are pushing his daughter’s stroller around the playground near Columbia Terrace. He tries to be reassuring. She had a kid. That probably wasn’t for you. Probably not. Even these little breakups suck, because they send you right back to thinking about the ex. Right back into the depression. This time you spend six months wallowing in it before you return to the world. After you pull yourself together, you tell Elvis, I think I need a break from the bitches. What are you going to do? Focus on me for a while. That’s a good idea, his wife says. Besides, it only happens when you’re not looking for it. That’s what everybody claims. Easier to say that than This shit sucks. This shit sucks, Elvis says. Does that help? Not really. As you’re walking home, a Jeep roars past; the driver calls you a fucking towelhead. One of the ex-sucias publishes a poem about you online. It’s called “Puto.” YEAR 3 You take your break. You try to get back to your work, to your writing. You start three novels: one about a pelotero, one about a narco, and one about a bachatero—all of them suck pipe. You get serious about classes and, for your health, you take up running. You used to run in the old days and you figure you need something to get you out of your head. You must have needed it bad, because once you get into the swing of it you start running four, five, six times a week. It’s your new addiction. You run in the morning and you run late at night, when there’s no one on the paths next to the Charles. You run so hard that your heart feels like it’s going to seize. When winter rolls in, a part of you fears that you’ll fold—Boston winters are on some terrorism shit—but you need the activity more than anything, so you keep at it even as the trees are stripped of their foliage and the paths empty out and the frost reaches into your bones. Soon it’s only you and a couple of other lunatics. Your body changes, of course. You lose all that drinking and smoking chub, and your legs look like they belong to someone else. Every time you think about the ex, every time the loneliness rears up in you like a seething, burning continent, you tie on your shoes and hit the paths and that helps; it really does. By winter’s end, you’ve gotten to know all the morning regulars and there’s even this one girl who inspires in you some hope. You pass each other a couple of times a week, and she’s a pleasure to watch, a gazelle, really—what economy, what gait, and what an amazing fucking cuerpazo. She always smiles at you as you pass. You consider flopping in front of her—My leg! My leg!—but that seems incredibly cursi. You keep hoping you’ll bump into her around town. The running is going splendidly, and then six months in you feel a pain in your right foot. Along the inside arch, a searing that doesn’t subside after a few days’ rest. Soon you’re hobbling even when you’re not running. You drop in on Emergency Care and the P.N. pushes with his thumb, watches you writhe, and announces that you have plantar fasciitis. You have no idea what that is. When can I run again? He gives you a pamphlet. Sometimes it takes a month. Sometimes six months. Sometimes a year. He pauses. Sometimes longer. That makes you so sad that you go home and lie in bed in the dark. You’re afraid. I don’t want to go back down the hole, you tell Elvis. Then don’t, he says. Like a hardhead you keep trying to run, but the pain sharpens. Finally, you give up. You put away the shoes. You sleep in. When you see other people hitting the paths, you turn away. You find yourself crying in front of sporting-goods stores. Out of nowhere you call the ex, but of course she doesn’t pick up. The fact that she hasn’t changed her number gives you strange hope, even though you’ve heard that she’s dating somebody. Elvis encourages you to try yoga, the half-Bikram kind they teach in Central Square. Mad fucking hos in there, he says. I’m talking hos by the ton. While you’re not exactly feeling the hos right now, you don’t want to lose all the conditioning you’ve built up, so you give it a shot. The namaste bullshit you could do without, but you fall into it and soon you’re pulling vinyasas with the best of them. Elvis was certainly right. There are mad hos, all with their asses in the air, but none of them catch your eye. One miniature blanquita does try to chat you up. She seems impressed that, of all the guys in the class, you alone never take off your shirt, but you skitter away from her cornpone grin. What the hell are you going to do with a blanquita? Bone the shit out of her, Elvis offers. Bust a nut in her mouth, your boy Darnell seconds. Give her a chance, Arlenny proposes. But you don’t do any of it. At the end of the sessions, you move away quickly to wipe down your mat and she takes the hint. She doesn’t mess with you again. You actually become pretty obsessed with yoga, and soon you’re taking your mat with you wherever you go. You finally start work on your eighties apocalypse novel—finally starting means you write a paragraph—and in a flush of confidence you begin messing with this young morena from Harvard Law School whom you meet at the Enormous Room. She’s half your age, one of those super-geniuses who finished undergrad when she was nineteen and is seriously lovely. Elvis and Darnell approve. Aces, they say. Arlenny demurs. She’s really young, no? Yes, she’s really young and you fuck a whole lot, and during the act the two of you cling to each other for dear life, but afterward you peel away like you’re ashamed of yourselves. Most of the time, you suspect that she feels sorry for you. She says that she likes your mind, but, considering that she’s smarter than you, that seems doubtful. What she does appear to like is your body, can’t keep her hands off it. I should get back to ballet, she says while undressing you. Then you’d lose your thick, you note, and she laughs. I know, that’s the dilemma. It’s all going swell, it’s all marvellous, and then, in the middle of a sun salutation, you feel a shift in your lower back and pau—it’s like a sudden power failure. You lose all your strength, have to lie down. Yes, the instructor urges, rest if you have to. When the class is over, you need help from the little white girl to rise to your feet. Do you want me to take you somewhere? she asks, but you shake your head. The walk back to your apartment is some Bataan-type shit. At the Plough and Stars, you collapse against a stop sign and call Elvis on your cell. Buy the print » He arrives in a flash, with a hottie in tow. She’s a straight-up Cambridge Cape Verdean. Who’s that? you ask, and he shakes his head. Drags you into Emergency Care. By the time the doctor appears, you’re crabbed over like an old man. It appears to be a ruptured disk, she announces. Yay, you say. You’re in bed for a solid two weeks. Elvis brings you food and sits with you while you eat. He talks about the Cape Verdean girl. She’s got, like, the perfect pussy, he says. It’s like putting your dick in a hot mango. You listen for a bit and then you say, Just don’t end up like me. Elvis grins. Shit, no one could ever end up like you, Yunior. You’re a D.R. original. So now it’s your feet, your back, and your heart. You can’t run, you can’t do yoga, even riding a bike kills your back. So you stick to walking. You do it for an hour each morning and an hour each night. There is no rush to the head, no tearing up your lungs, no massive shock to your system, but it’s better than nothing. A month later, the law student leaves you for one of her classmates, tells you that it was great but she has to start being realistic. Translation: I got to stop fucking with old dudes. Later, you see her with said classmate in the Yard. He’s lighter than you but he still looks unquestionably black. He’s also, like, nine feet tall and put together like an anatomy primer. They’re walking hand in hand, and she looks so very happy that you try to find the space in your heart not to begrudge her. Two seconds later, security approaches you and asks for I.D. The next day, a white kid on a bike throws a can of Diet Coke at you. Classes start, and by then the squares on your abdomen have been reabsorbed, like tiny islands in a rising sea of lard. You scan the incoming junior faculty for a possible, but there’s nothing. You watch a lot of TV. Sometimes Elvis joins you, since his wife doesn’t allow him to smoke weed in the house. He’s taken up yoga now, having seen what it did for you. You want not to hate him. What happened to the Cape Verdean girl? What Cape Verdean girl? he says dryly. You make little advances. You start doing pushups and pullups and even some of your old yoga moves, but very carefully. You have dinner with two girls. One doesn’t like you; the other is married and hot for days, in the late-thirties-Dominican-middle-class-woman sort of way. You can tell that she’s contemplating sleeping with you, and the whole time you’re eating your short ribs you feel like you’re on the dock. In Santo Domingo I’d never be able to meet you like this, she says with great generosity. Almost all her conversations start with In Santo Domingo. She’s doing a year at the business school, and for how much she gushes about Boston you can tell that she misses the D.R., would never live anywhere else. Boston is really racist, you offer by way of orientation. She looks at you like you’re crazy. Boston isn’t racist, she says. She also scoffs at the idea of racism in Santo Domingo. So Dominicans love Haitians now? That’s not about race. She pronounces every syllable. That’s about nationality. Of course you end up in bed, and it ain’t bad except for the fact that she never, never comes and she spends a lot of time complaining about her husband. Soon you’re squiring her around the city and beyond: to Salem on Halloween and one weekend to the Cape. No one ever pulls you over or asks you for I.D. when you’re with her. Everywhere you two go she shoots photos, but never any of you. She writes her kids postcards while you’re in bed. At the end of the semester, she returns home. My home, not your home, she says tetchily. She’s always trying to prove you’re not Dominican. If I’m not Dominican, then no one is, you shoot back, but she laughs at that. Say that in Spanish, she challenges and, of course, you can’t. Last day, you drive her to the airport and there is no crushing “Casablanca” kiss, just a smile and a little gay-ass hug and her fake breasts push against you like something irrevocable. Write, you tell her, and she says, Por supuesto, and, of course, neither of you does. You eventually erase her contact info from your phone, but not the pictures you took of her in bed while she was naked and asleep, never those. YEAR 4 Wedding invitations from the ex-sucias start to arrive in the mail. You have no idea how to explain this berserkería. What the fuck, you say. Arlenny turns over the cards, quotes Oates: Revenge is living well, without you. That year your arms and legs begin to give you trouble, occasionally going numb, flickering in and out like a brownout back on the Island. It is a strange pins-and-needles feeling. What the fuck is this? you wonder. I hope I’m not dying. You’re probably working out too hard, Elvis says. But I’m not really working out at all, you protest. Probably just stress, the nurse at Emergency Care tells you. You hope so, flexing your hands, worrying. You really do hope so. March you fly out to the Bay to deliver a lecture, which does not go well; almost no one shows up beyond those who were forced to by their professors. Afterward, you head out alone to a Korean joint and gorge on kalbi until you’re ready to burst. You drive around, just to get a feel for the city. You have a couple of friends in town but you don’t call them, because you know they’ll only want to talk about old times, about the ex. You have a sucia in town, too, and in the end you call her, but when she hears your name she hangs up on your ass. When you return to Boston, the law student is waiting for you in the lobby of your building. You’re surprised and excited and a little wary. What’s up? It’s like bad television. You notice that she has lined up three suitcases in the foyer. And, on closer inspection, that her ridiculously Persian-looking eyes are red from crying, her mascara freshly applied. I’m pregnant, she says. At first you don’t register it. You joke, And? You asshole. She starts crying. It’s probably your stupid fucking kid. There are surprises and there are surprises, and then there is this. You don’t know what to say or how to act, so you take her upstairs. You lug up the suitcases despite your back, despite your foot, despite your flickering arms. She says nothing, just hugs her pillow to her Howard sweater. She is a Southern girl with supremely erect posture, and when she sits down you feel as if she were preparing to interview you. After serving her tea you ask, Are you keeping it? Of course I’m keeping it. What about Kimathi? She doesn’t get it. Who? Your Kenyan. You can’t bring yourself to say boyfriend. He threw me out. He knows it’s not his. She picks at something on her sweater. I’m going to unpack, O.K.? You nod and watch her. She is an exceptionally beautiful girl. You think of that old saying Show me a beautiful girl and I’ll show you someone who is tired of fucking her. You doubt you would ever have tired of her, though. But it could be his, right? It’s yours, O.K.? she cries. I know you don’t want it to be yours, but it’s yours. You are surprised at how hollowed out you feel. You don’t know if you should show enthusiasm or support. You run your hand over the thinning stubble on your head. I need to stay here, she tells you later, after the two of you fumble through an awkward fuck. I have nowhere to go. I can’t go back to my family. When you tell Elvis the whole story you expect him to flip out, to order you to kick her out. You fear his reaction, because you know that you don’t have the heart to kick her out. But Elvis doesn’t flip. He slaps you on the back, beams delightedly. That’s great, cuz. What do you mean, That’s great? You’re going to be a father. You’re going to have a son. A son? What are you talking about? There isn’t even proof that it’s mine. Elvis isn’t listening. He’s smiling at some inner thought. He checks to make sure the wife isn’t within earshot. Remember the last time we went to the D.R.? Of course you do. Three years ago. Everybody had a blast except you. You were in the middle of the great downturn, which meant that you spent most of your time alone, floating on your back in the ocean or getting drunk at the bar or walking the beach in the early morning before anybody was up. What about it? Well, I got a girl pregnant while we were down there. Are you fucking kidding me? He nods. Pregnant? He nods again. Did she have it? He rummages through his cell phone. Shows you a picture of a perfect little boy with the most Dominican little face you ever saw. That’s my son, Elvis says proudly. Elvis Xavier Junior. Dude, are you fucking serious with this? If your wife finds— He bridles. She ain’t going to find out. Elvis punches you in the arm. Babies are fucking expensive. So just get ready, buster, to be broke as a joke. Back at the apartment, the law student has taken over two of your closets and almost your entire bathroom, and, most crucially, she has laid claim to the bed. She has put a pillow and a sheet on the couch. For you. What, am I not allowed to share the bed with you? I don’t think it’s good for me, she says. It would be too stressful. I don’t want to miscarry. Hard to argue with that. Your back doesn’t take to the couch at all, so now you wake up in the morning in more pain than ever. Only a bitch of color comes to Harvard to get pregnant. White women don’t do that. Asian women don’t do that. Only fucking black and Latina women. Why go to all the trouble to get into Harvard just to get knocked up? You could have stayed on the block and done that shit. This is what you write in your journal. The next day when you return from classes, the law student throws the notebook in your face. I fucking hate you, she wails. She walks to the kitchen and starts to pour herself a shot, and you find yourself pulling the bottle out of her hand and tipping its contents into the sink. This is ridiculous, you say. More bad TV. “I’ve donated all my diplomas to Doctors Without Diplomas.”Buy the print » She doesn’t speak to you again for two whole fucking weeks. You spend as much time as you can either at your office or over at Elvis’s house. Whenever you enter a room, she snaps her laptop shut. I’m not fucking snooping, you say. But she waits for you to move on before she returns to typing whatever she was typing. You can’t throw out your baby’s mom, Elvis reminds you. It would fuck that kid up for life. Plus, it’s bad karma. Just wait till the baby comes. She’ll straighten out. A month passes, two months pass. You’re afraid to tell anybody else, to share the—what? Good news? Arlenny, you know, would march right in and boot her ass out on the street. Your back is agony, and the numbness in your arms is starting to become pretty steady. In the shower, the only place in the apartment you can be alone, you whisper to yourself, Hell, Netley. We’re in hell. Later, it will all seem like a terrible fever dream, but at the time it moved so very slowly, felt so very concrete. You take her to her appointments. You help her with the vitamins and shit. You pay for almost everything. She is not speaking to her mother, so all she has is two girlfriends, who are in the apartment almost as much as you are. They are members of the Biracial Identity Crisis Support Group and they look at you with little warmth. You wait for the law student to melt, but she keeps her distance. Some days, while she’s sleeping and you’re trying to work, you allow yourself the indulgence of wondering what kind of child you’ll have. Whether it will be a boy or a girl, smart or withdrawn. Like you or like her. Have you thought up any names? Elvis’s wife asks. Not yet. Taína for a girl, she suggests. And Elvis for a boy. She throws a taunting glance at her husband and laughs. I like my name, Elvis says. I would give it to a boy. Over my dead body, his wife says. And, besides, this oven is closed for business. At night, while you’re trying to sleep, you see the glow of the law student’s computer through the open door of the bedroom, hear her fingers on the keyboard. Do you need anything? I’m fine, thank you. You go to the door a few times and watch her, wanting to be called in, but she always glares and asks you, What the fuck do you want? Just checking. Fifth month, sixth month, seventh month. You are in class teaching Intro to Fiction when you get a text from one of her girlfriends saying she has gone into labor, six weeks early. All sorts of terrible fears race around inside you. You keep trying her cell phone, but she doesn’t answer. You call Elvis, but he doesn’t answer, either, so you drive over to the hospital by yourself. Are you the father? the woman at the desk asks. I am, you say diffidently. You are led around the corridors and finally given some scrubs and told to wash your hands. You are given instructions on where you should stand and warned about the procedure, but as soon as you walk into the birthing room the law student shrieks, I don’t want him in here. I don’t want him in here. He’s not the father. You didn’t think anything could hurt so bad. Her two girlfriends rush at you, but you have already exited. You saw her thin ashy legs and the doctor’s back and little else. You’re glad you didn’t see anything more. You would have felt like you’d violated her safety or something. You take off the scrubs; you wait around for a bit and then you realize what you’re doing and, finally, you drive home. You hear not from her but from her girlfriend, the same one who texted you about the labor. I’ll come pick up her bags, O.K.? When she arrives, she glances around the apartment warily. You’re not going to go psycho on me, are you? No, I’m not. After a pause you demand, Why would you say that? I’ve never hurt a woman in my life. Then you realize how you sound—like a dude who hurts women all the time. Everything goes back into the three suitcases and then you help her wrestle them down to her S.U.V. You must be relieved, she says. You don’t answer. And that’s the end of it. Later, you hear that the Kenyan visited the law student in the hospital, and when he saw the baby a teary reconciliation occurred and all was forgiven. That was your mistake, Elvis said. You should have had a baby with that ex of yours. Then she wouldn’t have left you. She would have left you, Arlenny says. Believe it. The rest of the semester ends up being a super-duper clusterfuck. Lowest evaluations in your six years as a professor. Your only student of color that semester writes, He tells us that we don’t know anything, but doesn’t show us any way to address these deficiencies. One night you call your ex and when the voice mail clicks on you say, We should have had a kid. And then you hang up, ashamed. Why did you say that? you ask yourself. Now she’ll definitely never speak to you again. I don’t think the phone call is the problem, Arlenny says. Check it out. Elvis produces a picture of Elvis, Jr., holding a bat. This kid is going to be a monster. On winter break, you fly to the D.R. with Elvis. What the hell else are you going to do? You ain’t got nothing going on, outside of waving your arms around every time they go numb. Elvis is beyond excited. He has three suitcases of swag for the boy, including his first glove, his first ball, his first Bosox jersey. About eighty kilos of clothes and shit for the baby mama. Hid them all in your apartment, too. You are at his house when he bids his wife and mother-in-law and daughter goodbye. His daughter doesn’t seem to understand what’s happening, but when the door shuts she lets out a wail that coils about you like constantine wire. Elvis stays cool as fuck. This used to be me, you’re thinking. Of course you look for her on the flight. You can’t help yourself. You assume that the baby mama will live somewhere poor, like Capotillo or Los Alcarrizos, but you didn’t imagine she would live in the Nadalands. You’ve been to the Nadalands a couple of times before; shit, your family came up out of those spaces. Squatter chawls where there are no roads, no lights, no running water, no grid, no anything, where everybody’s slapdash house is on top of everybody else’s, where it’s all mud and shanties and motos and grind and thin, smiling motherfuckers everywhere, like falling off the rim of civilization. You have to leave the rental jípeta on the last bit of paved road and jump on the back of two motoconchos with all the luggage balanced on your backs. Nobody stares, because those ain’t real loads you’re carrying: You’ve seen a single moto carry a family of five and their pig. You finally pull up to a tiny little house, and out comes Baby Mama—cue happy homecoming. You wish you could say you remember Baby Mama from that long-ago trip, but you do not. She is tall and very thick, exactly how Elvis always likes them. She is no older than twenty-one, twenty-two, with an irresistible Georgina Duluc smile, and when she sees you she gives you a huge abrazo. So the padrino finally decides to visit, she declaims in one of those loud ronca campesina voices. You also meet her mother, her grandmother, her brother, her sister, her three uncles. Seems like everybody is missing teeth. Elvis picks up the boy. Mi hijo, he sings. Mi hijo. The boy starts crying. Baby Mama’s place is barely two rooms—one bed, one chair, a little table, a single bulb overhead. More mosquitoes than a refugee camp. Raw sewage in the back. The few family photos hanging on the walls are water-stained. When it rains—Baby Mama lifts up her hands—everything goes. Don’t worry, Elvis says, I’m moving them out this month, if I can get the loot together. The happy couple leave you with the family and Elvis, Jr., while they visit various negocios to settle accounts and to pick up some necessaries. So you sit on a plastic chair in front of the house with the kid in your lap. The neighbors admire you with cheerful avidity. A domino game breaks out, and you team up with Baby Mama’s brooding brother. Takes him less than five seconds to talk you into ordering a couple of grandes and a bottle of Brugal from the nearby colmado. Also three boxes of cigarettes, a yard of salami, and some cough syrup for a neighbor lady with a congested daughter. Ta muy mal, she says. Of course they all have a sister or a prima they want you to meet. Que tan más buena que el Diablo, they guarantee. You barely finish the first bottle of romo before some of the sisters and primas actually start coming around. They look rough, but you got to give it to them for trying. You invite them all to sit down, order more beer and some bad pica pollo. Just let me know which one you like, a neighbor whispers, and I’ll make it happen. Elvis, Jr., watches you with considerable gravitas. He is a piercingly cute carajito. He has all these mosquito bites on his legs and an old scab on his head that no one can explain to you. You are suddenly overcome with the urge to cover him with your arms, with your whole body. Later, Elvis, Sr., fills you in on the Plan: I’ll bring him over to the States in a few years. I’ll tell the wife he was an accident, a onetime thing when I was drunk and I didn’t find out about it until now. And that’s going to work? It will work out, he says testily. Bro, your wife ain’t going to buy that. And what the fuck do you know? Elvis says. It ain’t like your shit ever works. Can’t argue with that. You pick up the boy. You look into his eyes. He looks into yours. He seems preternaturally sapient. M.I.T.-bound, you say, as you nuzzle his peppercorn hair. He starts to bawl then, and you put him down, watch him run around awhile. That’s more or less when you know. The second story of the house is unfinished, rebar poking out of the cinder block like horrible gnarled follicles, and you and Elvis stand up there and drink beers and stare out beyond the edge of the city, beyond the vast radio-dish antennas in the distance, out toward the mountains of the Cibao, the Cordillera Central, where your father was born and where your ex’s whole family is from. It’s breathtaking. He’s not yours, you tell Elvis. What are you talking about? The boy is not yours. Don’t be a jerk. That kid looks just like me. “Here is your very own doll, so you can see how tiring it is to raise a child.”Buy the print » Elvis. You put your hand on his arm. Cut the crap. A long silence. But he looks like me. Bro, he so doesn’t look like you. The next day you two load up the boy and drive back into the city, back into Gazcue. You literally have to beat the family off to keep them from coming with you. Before you go, one of the uncles pulls you aside: You really should bring these people a refrigerator. Then the brother pulls you aside: And a TV. And then the mother pulls you aside: A hot comb, too. Traffic back into the center is Gaza Strip-crazy and there seems to be a crash every five hundred metres, and Elvis keeps threatening to turn around. You ignore him. You stare at the slurry of broken concrete, the sellers with all the crap of the earth slung over their shoulders, the dust-covered palms. The boy holds on to you tightly. There is no significance in this, you tell yourself. It’s a Moro-type reflex, nothing more. Don’t make me do this, Yunior, Elvis pleads. You insist. You have to, E. You know you can’t live a lie. It won’t be good for the boy, it won’t be good for you. Don’t you think it’s better to know? But I always wanted a boy, he says. My whole life, that’s all I wanted. When I got in that shit in Iraq, I kept thinking, Please, God, let me live just long enough to have a son, please, and then you can kill me dead right after. And look, He gave him to me, didn’t He? He gave him to me. The clinic is in one of those houses they built in the International Style during the time of Trujillo. The two of you stand at the front desk. You are holding the boy’s hand. The boy is staring at you with lapidary intensity. The mud is waiting. The mosquito bites are waiting. The Nada is waiting. Go on, you tell Elvis. In all honesty, you’re thinking that he won’t do it, that this is where it will end. He’ll take the boy and turn around and go back to the jípeta. But he carries the little guy into a room where a nurse swabs both their mouths, and it’s done. You ask, How long will it take for the results? Four weeks, the technician tells you. That long? She shrugs. Welcome to Santo Domingo. YEAR 5 Four weeks after the trip, Elvis informs you that the test was negative. Fuck, he says bitterly, fuck fuck fuck. And then he cuts off all contact with the kid and the mother. Changes his cell-phone number and his e-mail account. Of course you feel terrible. You think about the way the boy looked at you. Let me have her number at least, you say. You figure you can throw her a little cash every month, but he won’t have it. Fuck that lying bitch. You reckon he must have known, somewhere inside, maybe even wanted you to blow it all up, but you let it be, don’t explore it. He’s going to yoga five times a week now, is in the best shape of his life, while you, on the other hand, have to buy bigger jeans again. With him, it’s like nothing happened. You wish you could be as phlegmatic. Do you ever think about them? He shakes his head. Never will, either. The numbness in your arms and legs increases. You return to your doctors and they send you over to a neurologist, who sends you out for an MRI. Looks like you have stenosis all down your spine, the doctor reports, impressed. Is it bad? It isn’t great. Did you use to do a lot of heavy manual labor? Besides delivering pool tables, you mean? That would do it. The doctor squints at the MRI. Let’s try some physical therapy. If that doesn’t work, we’ll talk about other options. Like? He stares at his fingers contemplatively. Surgery. From there, what little life you have goes south. A student complains to the school that you curse too much. You have to have a sit-down with the dean, who more or less tells you to watch your shit. You get pulled over by the cops three weekends in a row. One time, they sit you out on the curb and you watch as all the other whips sail past, passengers ogling you as they go. On the T, you swear that you see your ex in the rush-hour mix and for a second your knees buckle, but it turns out to be just another Latina mujerón in a tailored suit. Of course you dream about her. You are in New Zealand or in Santo Domingo or, improbably, back in college, in the dorms. You want her to say your name, to touch you, but she doesn’t. She just shakes her head. Ya. You want to move on, to exorcise shit, so you find a new apartment on the other side of the Square that has a view of the Harvard skyline. All those amazing steeples, including your favorite, the gray dagger of the Old Cambridge Baptist Church. In the first days of your tenancy, an eagle lands in the dead tree right outside your fifth-story window. Looks you in the eye. This seems to you like a good sign. A month later, the law student sends you an invitation to her wedding in Kenya. There’s a photo of the two of them dressed in what you assume are traditional Kenyan jump-offs. She looks very thin, and she’s wearing a lot of makeup. You expect a note, some mention of what you did for her, but there is nothing. Even the address was typed on a computer. Maybe it was a mistake, you say. It wasn’t a mistake, Arlenny assures you. Elvis tears the invite up, throws it out the window of his truck. Fuck that bitch. Fuck all bitches. You manage to save a tiny piece of the photo. It’s of her hand. You work harder than you’ve ever worked at anything—the teaching, your physical therapy, your regular therapy, your reading, your walking. You keep waiting for the heaviness to leave you. You keep waiting for the moment when you’ll never think about the ex again. It doesn’t come. You ask everybody you know, How long does it usually take to get over it? There are many formulas. One year for every year you dated. Two years for every year you dated. It’s just a matter of will power: the day you decide it’s over, it’s over. You never get over it. One night that winter, you go out with all the boys to a ghetto-ass Latin club in Mattapan Square. Outside, it’s close to zero, but inside it’s so hot that everybody’s stripped down to T-shirts and the funk is thick as a fro. There’s a girl who keeps bumping into you. You say to her, Pero mi amor, ya. And she says, Ya yourself. She’s Dominican and lithe and super-tall. I could never date anyone as short as you, she informs you very early on in your conversations. But at the end of the night she gives you her number. All evening, Elvis sits at the bar quietly, drinking shot after shot of Rémy. He’s just got back from a quick solo trip to the D.R., a ghost recon. Didn’t tell you about it until after. He tried looking for the mom and Elvis, Jr., but they had moved and no one knew where they were. None of the numbers he had for her worked. I hope they turn up, he says. I hope so, too. You take the longest walks. Every ten minutes you drop and do squats or pushups. It’s not running, but it raises your heart rate. Afterward you’re in so much nerve pain that you can barely move. Some nights you have “Neuromancer” dreams where you see the ex and the boy and another figure, familiar, waving at you in the distance. Somewhere, very close, the laugh that wasn’t laughter. Finally, when you feel like you can do so without exploding into burning atoms, you open a folder that you’ve kept hidden under your bed. The Doomsday Book. Copies of all the e-mails and photos from the cheating days, the ones the ex found and compiled and mailed to you a month after she ended it. Dear Yunior, for your next book. Probably the last time she wrote your name. You read the whole thing cover to cover (yes, she put covers on it). You are surprised at what a fucking chickenshit coward you are. It kills you to admit it, but it’s true. You are astounded by the depths of your mendacity. When you finish the book a second time, you say the truth: You did the right thing, negra. You did the right thing. She’s right; this would make a killer book, Elvis says. The two of you have been pulled over by a cop and are waiting for Officer Dickhead to finish running your license. Elvis holds up one of the photos. She’s Colombian, you say. He whistles. Que viva Colombia. Hands you back the book. You really should write the cheater’s guide to love. You think? I do. It takes a while. You see the tall girl. You go to more doctors. You celebrate Arlenny’s Ph.D. defense. And then, one June night, you scribble the ex’s name and: The half-life of love is forever. You bust out a couple more things. Then you put your head down. The next day, you look at the new pages. For once, you don’t want to burn them or give up writing forever. It’s a start, you say to the room. That’s about it. In the months that follow, you bend to the work, because it feels like hope, like grace—and because you know in your lying cheater’s heart that sometimes a start is all we ever get. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Permission To Enter	Credit Illustration by R. Kikuo Johnson 1. THESE RED PIGTAILS There had been an event. To speak of it required the pluperfect. Keisha Blake and Leah Hanwell, the protagonists in this event, were four-year-old children. The outdoor pool—really a shallow trough in the park, one foot at its deepest end—had been full of kids, “splashing all ways, causing madness.” There was no lifeguard at the time of the event, and parents were left to keep an eye as best they could. “They had a guard up the hill, in Hampstead, for them. Nothing for us.” This was an interesting detail. Keisha—now ten years old and curious about the tensions between grown people—tried to get at its meaning. “Stop gazing. Lift your foot,” her mother said. They sat on a bench in a shoe shop on the Kilburn High Road getting measured for a pair of dull brown shoes with a T-strap that did not express any of the joy that must surely exist in the world, despite everything. “I’ve got Cheryl acting wild in one corner, I got Jayden in my arms bawling, and I’m trying to see where you are, trying to keep it all together. . . . ” It was in this ellipsis that the event had occurred: a child nearly drowned. Yet the significance of the event lay elsewhere. “You rose up with these red pigtails in your hand. You dragged her up. You was the only one saw she was in trouble.” After the event, the mother of the child, Pauline Hanwell, an Irishwoman, thanked Marcia Blake many times, and this in itself was a kind of event. “I knew Pauline to look at but not to speak to. She was a bit snooty with me back then.” Keisha could neither contradict nor verify this account—she had no memory of it. However, the foreshadowing could be considered suspicious. Her own celebrated will and foresight so firmly established, and her sister Cheryl already wild and unreliable. “Keep still now,” Marcia murmured, pushing the steel bar down to meet her daughter’s toes. 2. KIWIFRUIT In the lethal quiet of the Hanwell flat, a highlight was snack time. It was taken seriously by Mrs. Hanwell, who kept a trolley for the purpose. Three-tiered, with swivelling wheels of brass. “There’s no point bringing it all out for two, but when there’s three I like to get it out.” Keisha Blake sat cross-legged in front of the television with her good friend Leah Hanwell, with whom she had bonded over a dramatic event. She turned to monitor the trolley’s progress: food delighted Keisha Blake, and she looked forward to it above all things. Blocking the girls’ view, Mrs. Hanwell now asked the television a question: “Who are all these dangerous-looking fellas in a van?” Leah turned up the volume. She pointed to the TV, at Hannibal’s gleaming white hair, and then at her mother, in reality. “That hair makes you look well old,” she said. Keisha tried to imagine saying something of this kind to her own mother. Silently, she mourned the loss of the biscuit plate and whatever novelty was contained in those furry brown eggs. She put her feet together, ready to stand up and go home. But Mrs. Hanwell did not start yelling or hitting. She only touched her bowl of hair and sighed. “It went this color when I had you.” 3. HOLES The stick jammed the doors of the lift—this had been the whole point of the exercise. An alarm sounded. All three children went screaming and laughing down the stairs, up the incline, and over the boundary of the Caldwell Estate wall to sit on the pavement on the other side. Nathan Bogle pulled his knees right up to his chin and put his arms around them. “How many holes you got?” he asked. Both girls were silent. “What?” said Leah, finally. “Down there”—he jabbed a finger at Keisha’s crotch to demonstrate. “How many? You don’t even know.” Keisha dared to lift her eyes from the road to her friend. Leah was hopelessly red in the face. “Everybody knows that,” Keisha countered, trying to muster the further boldness she sensed was required. “You should fuck off and find out.” “You don’t even know,” Nathan concluded, and Leah stood up suddenly and kicked his ankle and shouted, “But she does, though!,” and took Keisha’s hand and ran back to the flat, holding hands all the way because they were best friends, bonded for life by a dramatic event, and everyone in Caldwell best know about it. 4. UNCERTAINTY They found Cheryl watching television, plaiting her own hair, from the back of her head forward. Keisha Blake challenged her elder sister to say how many holes there were. It was not good to have Cheryl laugh at you. It was a loud, relentless laugh, fuelled by the other person’s mortification. 5. PHILOSOPHICAL DISAGREEMENT Keisha Blake was eager to replicate some of the conditions she had seen at the Hanwells’. Cup, tea bag, then water, then—only then—milk. On a tea tray. Her mother was of the opinion that anyone who is in another person’s flat as often as Leah Hanwell was in the Blakes’ forgoes the right to be a guest and should simply be treated as a member of the family, with all the dispensations and latitude that suggests. Cheryl took a third position: “She’s always hanging round here. Don’t she like her own place? What’s she up in my makeup all the time for? Who does she think she is?” “Mum, you got a tea tray?” “Just take it in to her. Lord!” 6. SOME ANSWERS Keisha Blake Purple Cameo, Culture Club, Bob Marley Rather have the money Michael Jackson Nobody. If I had to, Rahim. Don’t know Doctor or Missionary Leah Hanwell World peace in South Africa Deaf “Hurricane” “E.T.” Leah Hanwell Yellow Madonna, Culture Club, Thompson Twins Be really famous Harrison Ford Top secret: Nathan Bogle Daisies or buttercups Manager Keisha Blake No bombs Deaf “The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe” “E.T.” 7. FILET-O-FISH, LARGE FRIES, APPLE PIE It was a Caldwell assumption that plumbers did very well for themselves. Keisha saw little evidence of this. Either the personal wealth of plumbers was a myth or her father was incompetent. She had in the past prayed for work for Augustus Blake, without results. Now it was almost midday on a Saturday and no news had arrived of leaking pipes or backed-up toilets. During periods of stress Augustus Blake stood on the balcony and smoked Lambert & Butlers, and this he did now. Keisha could not tell if Leah felt the anxiety of the phone not ringing in the flat as the rest of them did. The two girls lay on their bellies in front of the television set. They watched four hours of morning shows and cartoons. Each one they ridiculed in turn and spoiled for Jayden, but there was no other way of explaining to each other why they should want to watch the same things as a six-year-old boy. When the lunchtime news began, Gus came in and asked where Cheryl was. “Out.” “More fool her.” Squeals, and a small hand-holding dance. Apart from Marcia scoring a point off the situation—“See how quick you all get yourselves ready when you’re going somewhere you want to go?”—the joy was unconfined, and everything colluded in extending it; Marcia did not make them talk to every church lady on the high road, and Gus called Keisha Madam One and Leah Madam Two and did not get angry when Jayden ran ahead toward the twin arcs of the golden M. 8. THROWN “You seemed taller in the surveillance videos.”Buy the print » It became clear that Keisha Blake could not start something without finishing it. If she climbed onto the boundary wall of Caldwell, she was compelled to walk the entire wall, no matter the obstructions in her path (beer cans, branches). This compulsion, applied to other fields, manifested itself as “intelligence.” Every unknown word sent her to a dictionary—in search of something like “completion”—and every book led to another book, a process that, of course, could never be completed. This route through early life gave her no small portion of joy, and, indeed, it seemed at first that her desires and her capacities were basically aligned. She wanted to read things—could not resist wanting to read things—and reading was easily done, and relatively inexpensive. On the other hand, that she should receive any praise for such reflexive habits baffled the girl, for she knew herself to be fantastically stupid about many things. Wasn’t it possible that what others mistook for intelligence was in fact only a sort of mutation of the will? She could sit in one place longer than other children, be bored for hours without complaint, and was completely devoted to filling in every last corner of the coloring books Augustus Blake sometimes brought home. She could not help her mutated will—no more than she could help the shape of her feet or the street on which she was born. She was unable to glean real satisfaction from accidents. In the child’s mind, a breach now appeared: between what she believed she knew of herself, essentially, and her essence as others seemed to understand it. She began to exist for other people, and if ever asked a question to which she did not know the answer she was wont to fold her arms across her body and look upward. As if the question itself were too obvious to truly concern her. 9. PUSH IT It had never occurred to Keisha Blake that her friend Leah Hanwell was in possession of a particular type of personality. As with most children, theirs was a relation based on verbs, not nouns. Leah Hanwell was a person willing and available to do a variety of things that Keisha Blake was willing and available to do. Together they ran, jumped, danced, sang, bathed, colored-in, rode bikes, pushed a Valentine under Nathan Bogle’s door, read magazines, shared chips, sneaked a cigarette, read Cheryl’s diary, wrote the word “FUCK” on the first page of a Bible, tried to get “The Exorcist” out of the video shop, watched a prostitute or a loose woman or a girl just crazy in love suck someone off in a phone box, found Cheryl’s weed, found Cheryl’s vodka, shaved Leah’s forearm with Cheryl’s razor, did the moonwalk, learned the obscene dance popularized by Salt-N-Pepa, and many other things of this nature. But now they were leaving Quinton Primary for Brayton Comprehensive, where everybody seemed to have a personality, and so Keisha looked at Leah and tried to ascertain the outline of hers. 10. PORTRAIT A generous person, wide open to the entire world—with the possible exception of her own mother. Ceased eating tuna because of the dolphins, and then all meat because of animals generally. If there happened to be a homeless man sitting on the ground outside the supermarket in Cricklewood, Keisha Blake had to wait until Leah Hanwell had finished bending down and speaking with the homeless man—not simply asking him if there was anything he wanted but making conversation. If she was more curt with her own family than with a homeless man, this only suggested that generosity was not an infinite quantity and had to be employed strategically, where it was most needed. Within Brayton, Leah Hanwell befriended everyone without distinction or boundary, but the hopeless cases did not alienate her from the popular, and vice versa, and how this was managed Keisha Blake had no understanding. A little of this universal good feeling spread to Keisha by association, though no one ever mistook Keisha’s cerebral willfulness for her friend’s generosity of spirit. 11. THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE The red-and-white air technology of the Greek goddess of victory. Keisha Blake put her hand against the reinforced shop-front glass. Separated from happiness. It had been everywhere, the air, free for the taking, but she had come to desire it only now that she saw it thus defined, extracted, rendered visible. The infinitely available thing, now enclosed in the sole of a shoe! You had to admire the audacity. Ninety-nine quid. Maybe at Christmas. 12. EVIAN The exact same thing had been achieved with water. When Marcia Blake spotted the bottle hiding under a bag of carrots she cussed Keisha Blake, snatched it out of the trolley, and placed it back on the wrong shelf next to the jams. 13. THE NEW TIMETABLE “There: he’s in your French class. And your drama class.” “Who is?” “Nathan!” “Bogle? So?” “!” “Oh, my gosh, Keisha. We were babies. You’re so dumb sometimes.” 14. GCSE In the office of Keisha Blake’s head of year, baseball caps and inappropriate jewelry were confiscated and hung from the wall on hooks. Keisha Blake had not been called in for a reprimand; she had come to discuss her options for a set of exams still three years in the future. She did not really want to discuss these exams; she simply wanted it to be noted that she was the kind of person who thought three years ahead about the important things in life. As she got up to leave, she spotted a silver chain from which drooped a tiny pistol picked out in diamanté crystals. “That’s my sister’s,” she said. “Oh, is it?” the teacher said, and looked out the window. Keisha persisted: “She doesn’t go here anymore. She got expelled.” The teacher frowned. He took the necklace from the wall and passed it to Keisha. He said, “It’s hard to believe that you and Cheryl Blake are even related.” 15. SONY WALKMAN (BORROWED) That Keisha should be able to hear the Rebel MC in her ears and at the same time walk down Willesden Lane was a kind of miracle and modern ecstasy, and yet there was very little space in the day for anything like ecstasy or abandon or even simple laziness, for whatever you did in life you had to do it twice as well as they did it “just to break even,” a troubling belief held simultaneously by Keisha Blake’s mother and her Uncle Jeffrey, who was known to be “gifted” but also “beyond the pale.” 16. JANE EYRE When being bullied, Keisha Blake found it useful to remember that if you read the relevant literature or watched the pertinent movies you soon found that being bullied was practically a sign of a superior personality, and the greater the intensity of the bullying the more likely it was to be avenged at the other end of life, when qualities of the kind that Keisha Blake possessed—cleverness, will to power—became “their own reward,” and that this remained true even if the people in the literature and the movies looked nothing like you, came from a different socioeconomic and historical universe, and—had they ever met you—would very likely have enslaved you or at best bullied you to precisely the same extent as Lorna Mackenzie, who had a problem with the way you acted like you were better than everyone else. 17. CITATION Further confirmation of this principle was to be found in the Bible itself. 18. THE NUMBER 37 On Sundays, Keisha Blake attended Kilburn Pentecostal with her family, minus Cheryl, and Leah often came along, not because she was in any sense a believer but, rather, motivated by the generosity of spirit described above. Now that the girls were fourteen, a new policy revealed itself. When they reached the corner by the McDonald’s, Leah Hanwell said to Keisha Blake, “Actually, I think I might get on the 37, go to the Lock, see that lot.” “Fair enough,” Keisha Blake said. There had been an attempt over the summer to mix that Camden Lock lot with this Caldwell lot, but Keisha Blake did not especially care for Baudelaire or Bukowski or Nick Drake or Sonic Youth or Joy Division or boys who looked like girls or vice versa or Anne Rice or William Burroughs or Kafka’s “Metamorphosis” or CND or Glastonbury or the Situationists or “Breathless” or Samuel Beckett or Andy Warhol or a million other Camden things, and when Keisha brought a wondrous Monie Love seven-inch over to play on Leah’s hi-fi there was something awful in the way Leah blushed and conceded that it was probably O.K. to dance to. They had only Prince left, and he was wearing thin. 19. VIVRE SA VIE This sudden and violent divergence in their tastes was shocking to Keisha, and she persisted in believing that Leah’s new tastes were an affectation, unrelated to anything essential in her being and largely taken up to annoy her oldest friend. “Bell me later,” Leah Hanwell said, and jumped on the bus’s open rear end. Keisha Blake, whose celebrated will and focus did not leave her much room for angst, watched her friend ascend to the top deck in her new panda-eyed makeup and had a mauvais quart d’heure, wondering whether she herself had any personality at all or was in truth only the accumulation and reflection of all the things she had read in books and seen on television. 20. RABBIT Buy the print » On the eve of Keisha Blake’s sixteenth birthday, a gift was left for her, in the corridor outside the flat. The wrapping had a repeating butterfly pattern. The card, unsigned, read UNWRAP IN PRIVATE, but the slant of the “p” and the pointy “w” told Keisha that it was the hand of her good friend Leah Hanwell. She retreated to the bathroom. A vibrator, neon pink with revolving beads in its gigantic tip. Keisha sat on the closed lid of the toilet and made some strategic calculations. Wrapping the dildo in a towel, she hid it in the room she shared with Cheryl, then took the box and the wrapping paper down to the courtyard to the public bins by the parking bays. The following Saturday morning she began approximating the early signs of a cold, and on Sunday claimed a severe cough and stomach ache. Her mother pressed her tongue down with a fork and said it was a shame, Pastor Akinwande was going to talk on the topic of Abraham and Isaac. From the balcony, Keisha Blake watched her family walk to church, not without regret: she was sincerely interested in the topic of Abraham and Isaac. 21. RABBIT, RUN But she had also privately decided that she was a different kind of believer from her mother, and could survive the occasional anthropological adventure into sin. She returned inside and raided an alarm clock and a calculator for their batteries. She did not employ any mood lighting or soft music or scented candles. She did not take off her clothes. Three minutes later, she’d established several things previously unknown to her: what a vaginal orgasm was; the difference between a clitoral and a vaginal orgasm; and the existence of a viscous material, produced by her body, that she had, afterward, to rinse out of the ridges along the vibrator’s shaft, in the little sink in the corner of the room. She had the dildo for only a couple of weeks but in that time used it regularly, sometimes as much as several times a day, often without washing in between, and always in this businesslike way, as if delegating a task to somebody else. 22. PERMISSION TO ENTER Though they were five, the Blakes occupied a three-bed, one-bathroom unit, in which only the youngest child, Jayden, had a room of his own. As far as Keisha could make out, privacy did not seem to be of any importance to her brother—he was eleven, and still prone to streaks of domestic nudity—but for her own person it was a necessity, more so with every passing day, and the arrival of the dildo prompted her to reopen an old debate with her mother. “It’s a human right!” Keisha Blake cried. History GCSE module B16: The American Civil-Rights Movement. Module D5: The Chartists. “If there’s a fire, you’d burn up in your room,” her mother said. “This Cheryl’s idea? People who want locks got something to hide.” “People who want locks just want a basic human right, which is privacy, look it up,” Keisha said, although with less heat this time, alarmed that her mother, in the general reach of a maternal cliché, should have gathered in the truth so precisely. She retreated to her room and thought about Jesus, another deeply godly person who was not understood as godly by the sort of clichéd people who called themselves godly, though, to be fair, those people were probably also sometimes godly in their own uneducated way, but only by accident, and only a bit. 23. FOR THE PROSECUTION Marcia found Leah’s gift during one of her routine sweeps. These sweeps really had Cheryl as their object—she had begun disappearing on Fridays and returning Monday—and nothing would have been easier for Keisha than to add dildo possession to her older sister’s already ruined reputation. Unable to look any longer at Marcia brandishing the plastic bag, Keisha Blake threw herself face down on the bed to commence fake crying but, in the middle of this procedure, found herself locked in a genuine struggle, unable to countenance blaming either her sister or Leah, but equally unable to imagine the second option—her father being informed—with which she was now being presented. Keisha Blake thought to the left and thought to the right, but there was no exit, and this was very likely the first time she became aware of the problem of suicide. “And don’t tell me you bought it,” her mother said, “because I don’t know where you think you would have got the money.” In the course of this interrogation, Marcia went through most of the girls on the estate before working herself round to the painful possibility of Leah and finding the confirmation in her daughter’s face. 24. RUPTURE There followed a break between Leah Hanwell and Keisha Blake, enforced by Marcia, followed by a cooling off that could not be blamed on Marcia alone. The girls were sixteen. This period lasted a year and a half. 25. ANGST! In the absence of Leah—at school, on the streets, in Caldwell—Keisha Blake felt herself to be revealed and exposed. She had not noticed until the break that the state of “being Leah Hanwell’s friend” constituted a sort of passport, lending Keisha a protected form of access in most situations. She was now relegated to the conceptual realm of “those church kids,” most of whom were Nigerian or otherwise African, and did not share Keisha Blake’s anthropological curiosity regarding sin or her love of rap music. To the children of her own background, she believed, rightly or wrongly, that she was an anomaly, and to the ravers and the indie kids she knew for certain that she was the wrong kind of outcast. It did not strike Keisha Blake that such feelings of alienation are the banal fate of adolescents everywhere. She considered herself peculiarly afflicted, and it is not an exaggeration to say that she struggled to think of anyone, besides perhaps James Baldwin and Jesus, who had experienced the profound isolation and loneliness she now knew to be the one and only true reality of this world. 26. YOUR ENEMY’S ENEMY In Keisha Blake’s break with Leah Hanwell we must admit that Marcia Blake spied an opportunity. The break coincided with the problem of sex, which, anyway, could no longer be ignored. A simple ban would have backfired—they had been through all that already with Cheryl, who was presently twenty years old and six months pregnant. Pushing Keisha Blake toward Rodney Banks was Mrs. Blake’s elegant solution: at exactly the moment that her daughter was about to detonate, she was defused. Rodney lived with his parents in a flat on the same corridor, attended the same school. He was one of the few Caribbean children in the church. His mother, Christine, was a close friend. “You should give Rodney some time,” Marcia said, passing Keisha Blake a plate to dry. “He’s like you, always reading.” For precisely this reason, Keisha had always been wary of Rodney and keen to avoid him—as much as that was possible in a place like Caldwell—on the principle that the last thing a drowning person needs is another drowning person clinging to her. 27. ON THE OTHER HAND Beggars cannot be choosers. 28. READING WITH RODNEY Keisha Blake sat on Rodney Banks’s bed, feet tucked underneath her. She was already five feet eight, while Rodney had stopped growing the previous summer. To be Christian to Rodney Banks, Keisha Blake tried to sit whenever possible. Rodney had in his hand an abridged library copy of an infamous book by Albert Camus. Both Keisha Blake and Rodney Banks sounded the “t” and the “s” in this name, not knowing any better: such are the perils of autodidacticism. Rodney Banks was reading the text aloud, with his own skeptical running commentary. He called this “putting faith to the test.” Pastor liked to recommend this muscular approach to his teen-age flock, although when he did so it is unlikely that he had Camus in mind. Rodney Banks looked somewhat like Martin Luther King, Jr.: the same rounded, gentle face. When he made a point that interested him, he scribbled a little illegal note on the page, which Keisha read and tried to admire. She found it hard to concentrate on the book, because she was concerned about when and how the heavy petting would begin. It had happened last Friday and the Friday before, but she had not known it was going to happen until the very last moment, as they were both somehow unable to refer to it verbally, or build up to it in a natural manner. Instead, she had launched herself at Rodney both times and hoped for a response, which she had received, more or less. “We get into the habit of living before acquiring the habit of thinking,” Rodney read, and then made a note by this sentence: “So what? (Fallacious argument.)” 29. RUMPOLE “I take it you let dress you for a change?”Buy the print » The cooling-off period between Keisha Blake and Leah Hanwell continued through their A-level exams, and this was partly a pragmatic decision on Keisha Blake’s part. Leah Hanwell was by this point taking the popular club amphetamine Ecstasy most weekends, and Keisha did not have the faith that she herself could be involved in that life and still pass the exams that she was beginning to comprehend would be essential. Which comprehension arrived partly through the efforts of a visiting careers officer. A young woman, from Barbados, new to the job, optimistic. Name unimportant. She was especially impressed by Rodney, taking him seriously and listening when he talked about the law. Where Rodney Banks had even got the idea of “the law” it was difficult to say. His mother was a school-dinner lady. His father drove a bus. 30. PARENTHETICAL (Much later in life, while taking a long walk through North West London, it occurred to Keisha Blake that the young man she had turned into a comic anecdote to be told at dinner parties was in many ways himself a miracle of self-invention, a young man with a tremendous will, far outstripping her own.) 31. GOOD PLACE/NO PLACE The Bajan told Keisha Blake and Rodney Banks that they needed to have a plan. All three were aware that Marcia Blake had her own plan: enrollment in a one-year business-administration course at Coles Academy, which was really just a corridor of office space above the old Woolworths on the Kilburn High Road. A racket, an unaccredited institution, taught by some Nairobi acquaintance of Pastor Akinwande, and requiring no move away from home. 32. CONTRA The careers officer from Barbados chose five institutions for Keisha Blake and Rodney Banks—the same five; they had decided that they could not be parted—and showed them how to fill out the necessary forms. She wrote to Marcia on Keisha’s behalf. It won’t cost any money. She’ll get a full council grant. There’s a church. The train goes straight there, she’ll be safe, she won’t be the only one. Keisha Blake was advised to carry on this campaign of reassurance through the winter. Rodney was told to do the same with his mother. Keisha did not expect these campaigns to succeed. Marcia had been to the “countryside” and did not consider it a safe environment, preferring London, where at least you knew what you were up against. Then, in April, that “poor defenseless boy”—Marcia invariably called him that—was stabbed at an Eltham bus stop, overwhelmed by “a pack of animals.” Keisha Blake, Marcia Blake, Augustus Blake, Cheryl Blake, and Jayden Blake gathered around the television to watch the white boys walk free from court, swinging punches at the photographers. The boy’s body was taken to Jamaica, buried in Marcia’s parish. 33. BRIDESHEAD UNVISITED The front door was on the latch. Rodney walked straight through into Keisha and Cheryl Blake’s bedroom and said, “Where is it?,” and Keisha said, “On the bed,” and Rodney said, “Let me see it,” and Keisha showed him the strange letter stamped with a coat of arms and said, “But if you’re not going, I’m not,” and Rodney said, “Just let me read it,” and Keisha said, “It’s only the interview offer. I’m not going to go,” and Rodney said, “Can I just read it, please!” And after he read it he did not mention it again, and neither did Keisha Blake. That night, they went to the Swiss Cottage Odeon to see a film about a man who dressed as a woman so that he could keep an eye on his children for reasons Keisha found herself too distracted even to begin to comprehend. 34. ECONOMICS The interviews for Manchester were scheduled between 10 and 11 A.M. To reach Manchester from London’s Euston Station would require taking a train that left well before 9:30 A.M. These trains cost a hundred and three pounds return. A similar—even more expensive—problem ruled out Edinburgh. 35. PAUSE FOR AN ABSTRACT IDEA In households all over the world, in many languages, this sentence usually emerges, eventually: “I don’t know you anymore.” It was always there, hiding in some private corner of the house, biding its time. Stacked with the cups, or squeezed between the DVDs or another terminal format. “I don’t know you anymore!” 36. A FURTHER PAUSE In popular-science magazines, they give a biological explanation: the regeneration of cells. Many years after the events presently being recounted, at a dinner in our heroine’s own house, a philosopher sitting to her right—quoting another philosopher—suggested that she undertake a thought experiment: What if your brain cells were replaced individually with the brain cells of another person? At what point would you cease to be yourself? At what point would you become another person? His breath was nasty. He put his hand on her knee, and she didn’t remove it, not wanting to make a fuss in front of his wife. The wife of the philosopher was a gray-haired Q.C. In the philosopher’s brilliant mind, she was too old to conceivably still be his wife. And yet. 37. RESIDENTS’ MEETING At a meeting of the Caldwell residents’ committee—at which Leah and Keisha, compelled by their parents, were the only young people in attendance—Keisha saw a seat free next to Leah but did not go toward it. Afterward, she tried to get away without being noticed, but Leah Hanwell called from across the room and Keisha turned and found the familiar open face smiling at her, unaffected by Keisha Blake’s attempts to imaginatively traduce it. “Hey,” Leah Hanwell said. “All right,” Keisha Blake said. They spoke of the boredom of the meeting, and of Cheryl’s baby, but the other subject could not be repressed for very long. “What did you think of Manchester?” “We’re not going there anymore,” Keisha Blake said. She put a deliberate emphasis on the plural pronoun. “It’s either Bristol or Hull.” “I see Rodney in history. Never speaks a word.” Keisha, hearing this comment as a personal insult, began robustly defending Rodney. Leah looked confused and fiddled with the three rings that hung from the upper lobe of her ear. “No, I meant he’s got no questions—he knows it all already. Silent but deadly. You two will just fly through for sure. At least you can say C in GCSE maths. Mine’s a U. A lot of them won’t even consider your A levels if you failed your maths. I’m on a wing and a prayer at this point.” Keisha tried to backpedal from her overreaction by suggesting that her old friend Leah Hanwell join her and her boyfriend for study sessions. “I reckon I need to just get down to it and concentrate. It’ll be O.K. Would be good to see you, though, before the move. My mum’s loving it. I don’t care, I’ll be away at university by September, anyway—we pray. She’s acting like she’s given me some big present. A new life.” 38. MOBILITY The Hanwells were moving into a maisonette. Practically in Maida Vale. Keisha had already heard all about it from Marcia—the shared garden, the three bedrooms. Something called a “study.” 39. RODNEY MAKES A NOTE “Our pre-eminence: we live in the age of comparison.” (Nietzsche) 40. UNDERCOVER Rodney Banks didn’t cause chaos in class, nor did he speak, and the combination made him invisible, anonymous. Keisha Blake asked him why he never spoke to the teachers. He said it was a strategy. He, like Keisha, was fond of strategies. This was one of the things they had in common, though it should be noted that the substance of their strategies was quite different. Keisha meant to charm her way through the front door. Rodney intended to slip through the back, unnoticed. Rodney Banks highlighted so many passages in Machiavelli’s “The Prince” that it became one block of yellow, and he didn’t dare return it to the library. “The difficult situation and the newness of my kingdom force me to do these things, and guard my borders everywhere.” He always seemed to have this book with him, along with the King James Bible, a combination in which he saw no contradiction. 41. PARITY “We’ve decided to convert the dungeon into studio apartments, so kill all the prisoners.”Buy the print » By July, Leah Hanwell and Keisha Blake had both been offered university places. Both had lovers. (Leah’s lover played the bass in a band called No No Never.) Both the universities—Edinburgh and Bristol—and the lovers were of an equal standard, despite their many differences. Both girls had grown into decent-looking women with no serious physical or mental problems. Neither had any interest in tanning. It was Leah’s plan to spend a large part of this final NW summer under the shade of an oak tree on Hampstead Heath, with an assortment of friends, some food, a lot of alcohol, a little weed. She kept inviting Keisha, who longed to go. But Keisha was working part time in a bakery on the Kilburn High Road, and when she was not in the bakery she was in church, or helping Cheryl with the baby. At the bakery she was paid three-twenty-five an hour. She had to wear regulation flat black shoes with rounded toes and chunky soles, and a brown-and-white striped outfit topped off by a baker’s hat, with an elastic rim, under which every last strand of her hair was to be placed. It left an indentation along her forehead. She had to wash out the croissant molds and get to the doughnut sugar that got caught in the thin gulley between the presentation case and the glass. She had thought that she would prefer this to clothes retail, but in the end even her great enthusiasm for sausage rolls and iced fingers could not sustain her. She kept the university’s prospectus in her locker and often spent her lunch break slowly turning the glossy pages. Every other Saturday she had a half day, and on a few occasions she managed to sneak to the Heath, alone. Rodney would not have enjoyed the scene there and could not reasonably be told about it, for this would lead to questions about the two sets of accounts that Keisha was now in the habit of keeping. On one side of the ledger she placed Rodney, Marcia, her siblings, the church, and Jesus Christ himself. On the other, Leah was lounging in the high grass, drinking cider and asking her good friend Keisha Blake if she would take the opportunity to kill P. W. Botha if he happened to be standing in front of her. “I’m not capable of murder,” protested Keisha Blake. “Everyone’s capable of everything,” insisted Leah Hanwell. 42. FURTHER EDUCATION That autumn, Keisha Blake and Rodney Banks began attending a church in the Bristol suburbs, the Holy Spirit Ministry, which was identical in atmosphere to Kilburn Pentecostal—it came with a recommendation from Pastor. They did most of their socializing there, that first term, with an assortment of kindly people, all in their sixties and seventies. With people of their own age, they were less successful. Rodney left church literature under every door in Keisha’s corridor, and after that they were avoided by fellow-students and avoided them in turn. There seemed to be no point of entry. The students were tired of things Keisha had never heard of, and horrified by the only thing she knew well: the Bible. In the evenings, Rodney and Keisha sat at either end of a small desk in Keisha’s room and studied, as they had studied for their school exams, wearing earplugs and writing everything out by hand, first in draft copies, then in “best”—a habit picked up from Sunday school. There was a newly built computer center in the basement of Keisha’s building that might have made their lives easier: they went in the first week to check it out. A boy in a wide fedora with a leather thong hanging from its brim sat playing Doom, that dark corridor opening onto itself over and over. 43. FAMILY ROMANCE The phone in the communal hallway rang. Rodney nodded. Keisha stood up. When the phone rang, it was usually for Rodney or Keisha—either Marcia or Christine—and they took these calls interchangeably. They were like siblings in every way, aside from the fact that they occasionally had sex with each other. The sex itself was cosy and familiar, without any hint of eroticism or orgasms, vaginal or clitoral. Rodney was a careful young man, preoccupied with condoms, terrified of pregnancy and disease. When he finally allowed Keisha Blake to have sex with him, it turned out to be a technical transition. She learned nothing new about Rodney’s body, or Rodney, only a lot of facts about condoms: their relative efficacy, the thickness of rubber, the right moment—the safest moment—to remove them afterward. 44. AMBITION They were going to be lawyers, the first people in either of their families to become professionals. They thought life was a problem that could be solved by means of professionalization. 45. LEAH’S VISIT Springtime. Blossom overhead. Ms. Blake waited in the coach station of eagerness and hope, unable to remember why she had ever experienced any tension whatsoever with regard to her very dearest friend from home, Leah Hanwell. The coach arrived, the doors opened. Human figures with faces streamed into view, and Ms. Blake’s brain sought a match between a recent memory and a material reality. Her mistake was to cling to ideas that properly belonged to previous visits. Ideas like “red hair,” and “black jeans/ black boots/ black T-shirt.” Fashions change. University is a time of experimentation and metamorphosis. The person who gripped her by the shoulders could no longer be mistaken for a member of a riot-grrrl band or a minor Berlin artist. She was now some kind of dirty-blond warrior for the planet, with hair that was dreadlocking itself, and army trousers that would not pass an inspection. 46. PROPER NAMES It was not that Ms. Blake hadn’t noticed the white people walking around with climbing equipment, or the white people huddled in stairwells discussing the best method of chaining themselves to an oak tree. She had experienced her usual anthropological curiosity with regard to these matters. But she had thought that it was more of an aesthetic than a protest. The details of the project were hazy in her mind. “This is Jed,” Leah said. “And this is Katie and Liam and this is Paul. Guys, this is Keisha, she—” “No. Natalie.” “Sorry, this is Natalie. We went to school together,” Leah said. “She goes here, she’s a lawyer. It’s so weird to see you guys!” When Leah proceeded to offer these people a round—“No, you sit, we’ll get”—Natalie Blake panicked, her budget being extremely tightly managed, with no space for rounds of drinks for Crusties to whom she had never before spoken in her life. But, at the bar, Leah handed over a twenty, and Natalie’s only job was to arrange six pints on a round tray best suited to five. “Lee, how do you even know these people?” “Newbury!” 47. AND THE SCALES FELL FROM HER EYES It was apparently important to “keep the pressure up” if they were going to stop the government from building this byroad. Rodney listened, then pointed at the books on his desk, which had the imposing heft of the law, thousands of pages long, with brutal, functional covers. Leah tried a different tack: “It’s basically a legal issue—there’s a lot of law kids down there right now. It’s good experience, Rodney, even you would agree, even Judge Rodney of the court of the world.” Natalie Blake found herself smiling. She could at this moment think of no more wonderful thing than sitting up a tree with her good friend Leah Hanwell many hundreds of miles away from this claustrophobic room. Rodney raised his head from his tort casebook. He had a ruthless look on his face. “We don’t care about trees, Leah,” he said. “That’s your luxury. We haven’t got the time to care about trees.” 48. COUP DE FOUDRE “Mr. De Angelis, could you carry on from ‘the power of habit’—top of the second page,” Professor Kirkwood said, and an extraordinary young man stood up in the front row. He was not a law student, but he was here, in a Philosophy of Law lecture. He was made of parts that Natalie considered mutually exclusive, and found difficult to understand together. He had a collection of unexpected freckles. His nose was very long and dramatic, in a style she did not know enough to call Roman. His hair was twisted into dreadlocks that were the opposite of Leah’s, too pristine. They framed his face neatly, ending just below his chin. He wore chinos with no socks, and those shoes that have ropes threaded along the sides, a blue blazer, and a pink shirt. An indescribable accent. Like he was born on a yacht somewhere in the Caribbean and raised by Ralph Lauren. 49. MONTAIGNE “It’s not that I love New York. It’s just that I hate everyplace else.”Buy the print » In one country, virgins openly display their private parts, while married women cover them. In another, male brothels exist. In yet another, heavy golden rods are worn through the breasts and buttocks and after dinner men wipe their hands on their testicles. In some places, they eat people. In others, the fathers decide, when the children are still in the womb, which will be kept and brought up and which killed or abandoned. Kirkwood put his hand up to halt his narrative. “Naturally,” he said, “all these people find their own habits to be unremarkable.” A few students laughed. Natalie Blake and Rodney Banks tried to find the essay between the covers of the cheap edition they shared (they tended to buy one copy of a textbook, and then, when it was finished, immediately sell it back to one of the secondhand stores by the university library). The title did not seem to be in the contents or the index. “What is the lesson here for a lawyer?” Kirkwood asked. The notable young man’s hand went up. Even from where Natalie Blake was sitting she could see the jewelry on his brown fingers, and an elegant watch with a crocodile-skin strap that looked older than Kirkwood. He said, “Although you may turn up in court armed with reason, we live in an unreasonable world.” Natalie Blake tried to work out if this was an interesting answer. Kirkwood paused, smiled, and said, “You put a lot of faith in reason, Mr. De Angelis. I think Montaigne is more skeptical. I think his point is not that you, the lawyers, are reasonable and they, the people, are unreasonable, or even that the laws the people submit to are unreasonable, but that those who submit to traditional laws have at least the defense of ‘simplicity, obedience, and example’—can you see that, end of the third page? While those who try to change them—that is, the laws—are usually terrible in some way, monstrous. We see ourselves as perfect exceptions.” Natalie Blake was lost. Mr. De Angelis gave a slow, approving nod, the kind a man gives to his equal. His confidence seemed unwarranted, not following from anything he’d said or done. A piece of paper passed round the room. The students were asked to add their full names and from which department they hailed. Even before writing her own, Natalie Blake looked for his. 50. RECONNAISSANCE Francesco De Angelis. Second-year economics. Universally known as Frank. Running for African and Caribbean Society president. Likely to win. Attended a “second-rate boarding school.” This from someone who attended a “grammar school.” Further: “His mum’s Italian or something. His dad was probably some African prince; that’s usually the case.” 51. EDUCATIONAL PARENTHESIS (Some schools you “attended.” Brayton you “went” to.) 52. MARCH 8TH It happened that Leah’s visit coincided with a dinner for International Women’s Day. A useful excuse not to see Rodney. Leah wore a green dress and Natalie wore a purple one, and they got ready together and walked to the dining hall arm in arm. The obvious pleasure they took in each other, their deep familiarity and ease in each other’s company, made them more attractive as a pair than they ever could have been alone, and, perfectly conscious of this fact, they emphasized their similarities of height and build, and kept their long legs in stride. By the time they reached their table, Natalie was quite giddy with the power of being young, almost free of a man who bored her, and soon to embark on a meal of more than two courses. 53. MENU Honeydew melon with tiger-prawn salad Chicken breast wrapped in pancetta with green beans and Juliette potatoes Warm chocolate fondant with vanilla-bean ice cream Cheeses Coffee, mints 54. DESIRE “Who that?” Leah Hanwell asked. “The dean,” Natalie Blake said, and licked some chocolate off her teeth. “If she stopped speechifying, we could go to the bar.” “No, the girl at the end of that table. In the top hat.” “What?” “Chinese or Japanese—there.” “Oh, I don’t know her.” “She’s so beautiful!” 55. THE INVENTION OF LOVE Frank was not at the bar or anywhere else in view. 56. PARTINGS On the bus back to the coach station, after what had been, let’s face it, a significant visit, perhaps even approaching the status of a dramatic event, Leah Hanwell said rather sheepishly, “Hope it was all right, me disappearing. Least you and Rodders got your room back,” and this was all that was said that day about Leah Hanwell’s night with Alice Nho, nor did Natalie Blake mention the fact that she had not asked Rodney to come to her room that night and never again would do so. The bus started to climb what felt like a vertical hill. Natalie Blake and Leah Hanwell were pressed back in their seats and against each other. “Really good to see you,” Leah said. “You’re the only person I can be all of myself with.” Which comment made Natalie begin to cry, not really at the sentiment but, rather, out of a fearful knowledge that, if reversed, the statement would be rendered practically meaningless, Ms. Blake having no self to be, not with Leah or with anyone. 57. HELPING LEAH GET HER HEAVY RUCKSACK UP THE STEPS TO THE COACH Natalie Blake had an urge to tell her friend about the exotic brother she had seen in Kirkwood’s class. She said nothing. Quite apart from the fact that the doors to the coach were closing, she feared what, precisely, the gaping socioeconomic difference between Frank De Angelis and Rodney Banks might say to her friend Leah Hanwell about her, Natalie Blake, psychologically, as a person. 58. ROMANCE LANGUAGES Many of the men Natalie Blake became involved with after Rodney Banks were as socioeconomically and culturally alien to her as Frank was, and far less attractive, but still she didn’t approach Frank, nor did he approach her, despite their keen awareness of each other. A poetic way of putting this would be to say, “There was an inevitability about the road toward each other which encouraged meandering along the route.” 59. THE SOLE AUTHOR More prosaically, Natalie Blake was crazy busy with self-invention. She lost God so smoothly and painlessly that she had to wonder what she’d ever meant by the word. She found politics and literature, music, cinema. “Found” is not the right word. She put her faith in these things. When asked by other students about Frank De Angelis—she was not the only person who had noted their fundamental compatibility—she said that he was too full of himself and vain and posh and racially confused and not her scene at all, and yet the silent and invisible bond between them strengthened, for who else but Frank De Angelis—or someone exactly like Frank De Angelis—could she ask to accompany her on the strange life journey she was preparing to undertake? 60. A SIGHTING Five rows in front at the midnight showing of “Black Orpheus,” looking up at his doppelgänger. 61. ABANDON Natalie Blake took out a large student loan and made a point of spending it only on frivolous things. Meals and cabs and underwear. Trying to keep up with “these people,” she soon found herself with nothing again, but now when she put a debit card in the slot and hoped that five pounds would come out she did it without the bottomless anxiety she’d once shared with Rodney Banks. She cultivated a spirit of decadence. She had, by then, glimpsed the possibility of a future, and an overdraft did not hold the same power of terror over her. The vision Marcia Blake had of such people, and had passed on to her daughter, came tumbling down in a riot of casual blaspheming, weed and cocaine, indolence. Were these really the people for whom the Blakes had always been on their best behavior? On the tube, in a park, in a shop. Why? Marcia: “To give them no excuse.” 62. A SIGHTING Dressed as Frantz Fanon on a staircase at a party. His costume consisted of a name tag and a white coat borrowed off a medical student. His date came as Sappho. 63. A THEORY ABOUT THE TRACKING OF MICHELLE HOLLAND “Thanks to Kickstarter, we’re building a tunnel.”Buy the print » It is perhaps the profound way in which capitalism enters women’s minds and bodies that renders “ruthless comparison” the basic mode of their relationships with others. Certainly Natalie Blake tracked the progress of Michelle Holland with a closer attention than she did her own life—without ever speaking to her. Besides Rodney, Michelle was the only other person from Brayton at the university. A math prodigy. She did not have the luxury of mediocrity. Raised in the brutal high-rise towers of South Kilburn, which had nothing to recommend them, no genteel church culture, none of the pretty green areas of Caldwell or (Natalie presumed) the intimate neighbors. What could she be but exceptional? Father in jail, mother sectioned. She lived with her grandmother. She was sensitive and sincere, awkward, defensive, lonely. It was Natalie’s belief that she, Natalie Blake, didn’t have to say a word to Michelle Holland to know all of this—that she could look at the way Michelle walked and know it. I am the sole author. Consequently, Natalie was not at all surprised to hear of Michelle’s decline and fall, halfway through their final year. No drink or drugs or bad behavior. She just stopped. (This was Natalie’s interpretation.) Stopped going to lectures, studying, eating. She had been asked to pass the entirety of herself through a hole that would accept only part. (Natalie’s conclusion.) 64. THE END OF HISTORY When Natalie now thought of adult life (she hardly ever thought of it), she envisioned a long corridor, off which opened many rooms—each with a friend in it—a communal kitchen, a single gigantic bed in which all would sleep and screw, a world governed by the principles of friendship. For how can you oppress a friend? How can you cheat on a friend? How can you ask a friend to suffer while you thrive? In this simple way—without marches and slogans, without politics, without any of the mess you get by ripping paving stones out of the ground—the revolution had arrived. Late to the party, Natalie Blake now enthusiastically took her good friend Leah Hanwell’s advice and started hugging strangers on dance floors. She looked at the little white pill in her palm. What could go wrong, now we were all friends? Remember to carry a bottle of water. Anyway, it was all already decided. Don’t chew. Swallow. Strobe lights flash. The beat goes on. (I will be a lawyer and you will be a doctor and he will be a teacher and she will be a banker and we will be artists and they will be soldiers, and I will be the first black woman and you will be the first Arab and she will be the first Chinese and everyone will be friends, everyone will understand each other.) Friends are friendly to each other, friends help each other out. No one need be exceptional. Friends know the difference between solicitors and barristers, and the best place to apply, and the likelihood of being accepted, and the names of the relevant scholarships and bursaries. “You choose your friends; you don’t choose your family.” How many times had Natalie Blake heard that line? 65. THE UNCONSOLED (LEAH’S THIRD VISIT) “Oh, Jesus, I just saw Rodney in Sainsbury’s!” Leah said, distraught, dropping two shopping bags on the table. “I looked in his basket. He had a meat pie and two cans of ginger beer and a bottle of that hot sauce you put on everything. I came up behind him in the queue, and he pretended he’d forgotten something and hurried off. But then I saw him a few minutes later at a far end queue, and he had exactly the same four items.” 66. MILK ROUND A festive, chaotic scene, as well attended as the Fresher’s Fair, although this time the banners were not homemade, and instead of Tolkien societies and choral clubs they had printed upon them the melodic names of law firms and the familiar names of banks. Girls in cheerleader outfits bearing the logo of a management-consulting firm went around the room giving out little pots of ice cream and cans of energy drink. Natalie Blake twisted the can in her hand to read the tag that ran around it: Claim Your Future. She dug into the ice cream with a little blond wood panel, and watched the green balloons of a German bank slip from their tethers and float slowly up to the ceiling. She heard Rodney’s voice coming from somewhere. He was three tables along, sitting with monstrous keenness on the very edge of a plastic chair. Opposite him, an amused man in a suit and tie made notes on a clipboard. 67. MIXED METAPHORS A year and a half later, when everyone had returned or else moved to London and Natalie was studying for the bar, Rodney Banks sent a letter c/o Marcia Blake that began, “Keisha, you talk about following your heart, but weird how your heart always seems to know which side its bread is buttered.” Frank De Angelis took this letter from Natalie Blake and kissed the side of her head. “Poor old Rodney. He’s not still trying to become a lawyer, is he?” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
An Abduction	Credit Photograph by Emily Shur Jane Allsop was abducted when she was fifteen, and nobody noticed. This happened a long time ago, in Surrey, in the nineteen-sixties, when parents were more careless. She was home from boarding school for the summer, and day after day the sun rose into a cloudless sky, from which Jane couldn’t unfix the word “cerulean,” which she’d learned in the art room. (She wasn’t clever or literary, and was nervous of new words, which seemed to stick to her.) “Cerulean” was more of a blank, baking glare than mere merry blue. It prised its way each morning like a chisel through the crack between Jane’s flowered bedroom curtains and between the eyelids she squeezed tightly shut in an effort to stay inside her dreams. It wasn’t acceptable in Jane’s kind of family to complain about good weather, yet the strain of it told on them, parents and children: they were remorselessly cheerful, while secretly they longed for rain. Jane imagined herself curled up with a bag of licorice beside a streaming windowpane, reading about the Chalet School. But her mother said it was a crime to stay indoors while the sun shone, and Jane couldn’t read outside with the same absorption; there was always some strikingly perfect speckled insect falling onto your page like a reminder (of what? of itself), or a root nudging into your back, or stinging ants inside your shorts. The morning of the abduction, Mrs. Allsop—dishevelled in a limp linen shirtdress—was wielding her secateurs up a ladder, pruning the climbing roses. She was immensely capable; tall and big-boned with a pink, pleasant face and dry yellow hair chopped sensibly short. Jane admired her mother greatly, especially when she transformed herself at night, for a concert in London or a Rotary Club dinner, with clip-on pearl earrings and lipstick and scent, a frilled taupe satin stole. Jane coveted this stole and tried it on when her mother was at the shops, making sultry faces at herself in the mirror—although sultry was the last thing her mother was, and everyone told Jane that she looked just like her. She certainly seemed to have her mother’s figure, with not much bust, no waist to speak of, and a broad flat behind. “Why don’t you call up some of your old friends?” Mrs. Allsop suggested from the ladder top. “Invite them round to play Ping-Pong.” Jane responded with evasive enthusiasm. (She didn’t know her old friends anymore; that was what happened when you were sent away to boarding school.) She said she was heading inside to find her Jokari set (a rubber ball attached by a long elastic string to a wooden base—you could hit the ball back and forth with a paddle all by yourself for hours on end). It was part of the family code that sport and physical exercise were meaningful ways of passing leisure time; without them, you risked dissipation, letting value slip away. Only Jane’s brother, Robin, was allowed a special dispensation, because he was studying to get into Oxford—it was all right for him to have his head stuck in a book all day and to go around scowling, complaining that the sun gave him headaches. When Jane strayed into Robin’s room (“Buzz off, shrimp, you’re not permitted across my threshold”), he was curled up on his side on the bed, his clasped hands between his drawn-up knees, his glasses off, and his book propped across his face, Pink Floyd playing subduedly on the stereo. It was obvious that he’d been smoking. Mrs. Allsop smoked, with a casual elegance that startled Jane, but only on the silk-stole evenings, or if she had women friends around for tea. (For Robin, blind on his bed with a headache and sex fantasies and short-circuiting flashes of insane ambition, his sister, mutely protesting—she simply stood there till he got up and pushed her out and locked the door behind her—was a visitant from his insipid past, when they’d been friends.) Jane was listless, her mind a blank with vivid little jets of dissatisfaction firing off in it. Real children, somewhere, were wholesomely intent on untying boats or building dams or collecting butterflies to asphyxiate in jars (as she and Robin had done one summer). She should be like them, she reproached herself; or she should be more thoroughly embarked on her teen-age self, like some of the girls at school, painting on makeup, then scrubbing it off, nurturing crushes on friends’ brothers she’d only ever seen from a distance, cutting out pictures of pop stars from Jackie magazine. Jane knew that these girls were ahead of her in the fated trek toward adulthood, which she had half learned about in certain coy biology lessons. Yet theirs seemed also a backward step into triviality, away from the thing that this cerulean day—munificent, broiling, burning across her freckled shoulders, hanging so heavily on her hands—ought to become, if only she knew better how to use it. She carried the Jokari set down through the patch of woodland toward the bottom of the garden. Her sister, Frances, dark-skinned and fey, not at all like their mother and not yet old enough for boarding school, had chums around to play with. They were supposed to be clearing the drive of rabbit droppings with spoons and plastic bags, for money, but they were all four hunkered in a semicircle under the pine trees, where they had set out tea things for their dolls, a pinecone on each tiny plate, a rabbit dropping in each tiny cup. Jane heard Frances chanting in two alternating voices while the others watched, in thrall to her. “Don’t want it! Don’t want it!” Frances said in her whiny voice. “Eat it up,” her vicious voice replied. “Take your nasty medicine.” When Jane came near, the little girls melted into the undergrowth with hostile backward looks. She kicked their dolls over and hurled the pinecones as far as she could toward the flaunting patches of sky between the treetops (she had a strong throw, her father always said, better than Robin’s); but she lacked conviction even in her malevolence. “We hate her! She’s so ugly,” the witch-children hummed, drifting between the bald pine trunks, keeping out of sight. Jane remembered, as she often did, how once at a friend’s house she had overheard the dotty grandmother asking too loudly who the “plain” one was. The witches didn’t even bother to follow her, to spy on her, which would at least have been some kind of game. She set up her Jokari on a scorched patch of grass beside where their chalky drive debouched onto the road. No cars passed. The road was a dead end, leading only to more big houses like theirs, secretive behind their screens of trees, some atmospheric with the half-timbering that Jane didn’t yet know was a badge of inauthenticity, some with tennis courts from which the thwack of balls didn’t often come. Kicking off her flip-flops, she settled resignedly into her game. The pock and thud of the Jokari ball on the baked ground soothed her, and she started to care about whether she could break her own record of consecutive hits. (She had passed Robin’s record long ago.) Rapt, she didn’t notice her father steering the Rover down the drive, on his way out to pick up the Saturday paper; to save petrol, he liked to roll down with the hand brake off, starting the engine only when he turned into the road. Jane scooped low to the ground under an awkward shot, getting it up with too much force just as the sleek black of the car eased into the edge of her vision; the ball on its elastic must have seemed smashed deliberately and vindictively against the car’s side window (which luckily was not open). Assaulted amid his reverie, Mr. Allsop was outraged out of all proportion to the offense—nothing was broken. He stopped the car and half stood up out of it to rant across its roof at Jane: Stupid girl! Didn’t she have anything better to do? Then the car rolled on, ominously firing to life when it felt the road, and Jane was left wounded, staring after it. The wings of her spirit, which had been beginning to soar, faltered and flung her to earth, because, after all, she had been doing her best, nothing else; and also because her father was supposed to be her ally in the family, though they weren’t at all alike. Mr. Allsop was small and dark, like Frances, easily bored, and clever with figures. He thought about Jane vaguely, through a fog of fond concern, fearing that she had her mother’s flat, bland surface without Mrs. Allsop’s force of conviction—or whatever it was that kept her impermeable, buoyant. Jane dropped her paddle in an uncharacteristic gesture of despair. Tears stung her eyes; she stood with her hands by her sides, palms outward, in a kind of resigned openness. What next, then, if even her attempt at virtue had failed? And that was how they first saw her. They passed Mr. Allsop in the Rover; he was turning out of the unmade-up road just as they turned into it. Mr. Allsop noticed them, because he knew most of the cars that visited the road, and he didn’t recognize or much like the look of this one: an expensive dark-green sporty two-seater convertible, with one long-haired youth in a sloppy vest lolling in each seat, and one—smoking something that might have been more sinister than a cigarette—squeezed into the little luggage space behind, craning forward, as he was bound to, between his friends. The driver, who had one languid hand on the wheel, cornered carelessly in a puff of chalk dust, tires spitting loose stones. (If they were my kids, Mr. Allsop thought, catch me allowing them anywhere near my car. It’s not all bad that Robin’s such a drip.) Had the family ever realized that Jane had been abducted, her father would probably have remembered and suspected these visiting aliens. The boys were drunk and stoned, and hadn’t been to bed at all the night before (but then they hadn’t got out of bed until four the previous afternoon). They were out looking for girls, in Nigel’s father’s car. (Nigel was the one squeezed into the luggage space.) They’d finished their second year at Oxford and were staying at Nigel’s house, about a twenty-minute drive from the Allsops’, while his parents were away in France. After sagging at dawn, dozing in the angular Swedish armchairs in the lounge, and filling Nigel’s mother’s fashionable ashtrays while listening to the Grateful Dead, all three had found a second wind, swimming several thrashing lengths in Nigel’s pool. The loveliness of the morning had then seemed their own fresh discovery: the light as limpid as the water, birdsong skimming the flat echoless air, the sun’s touch intricate on their skin. They had decided that they needed to find girls to crown the day. That was a few hours ago. It had taken them a while to get started; and then there’d been a striking absence, everywhere they’d driven, of available girls. “She’ll do,” one of them called out when they saw Jane, loud enough for her to hear. It was Paddy (not Irish at all), the bulky, clever-looking one in the passenger seat, with small eyes like chinks of bright glass and greasy hair the color and texture of old rope, pushed behind pink ears. He took the joint from Nigel and blinked at Jane through its smoke with a sort of appraising impartial severity, not lascivious. “But where will we put these girls?” Nigel asked facetiously, after one glance at Jane: he didn’t fancy sharing his small space (and wasn’t, in fact, much interested in girls). Paddy explained that they’d have to collect them one at a time. Jane stood barefoot, hands still open in that gesture of self-relinquishment. She wasn’t plain in that moment, though she didn’t know it. Something was revealed in her that was normally hidden: an auburn light in her face, her freckles startling as the camouflage of an animal, blotting up against her lips and eyelids. There were ginger glints, too, in her hair, which she wore in two bunches, fastened with different-colored elastic bands. Her eyes with their pale lashes, because she was unhappy, communicated keenly. Her family called her pudgy, but she just looked soft, as if she were longing to nestle. Her jawline was pure, the pale lips rather full, cracked, parted. She seemed not fake or stuck up—and, just then in the dappled light, not a child, either. None of this was wasted on the boys. It didn’t occur to Jane that the car would stop for her; she watched it hungrily, sifting the silky dust between her toes. Daniel, the driver, Jane saw at once, was the best-looking of the three; in fact, he was crushingly beautiful—his features smudged and vivid at once, as if sketched in black ink—and her heart fastened on him. When he had stopped the car, he asked her what her name was and she told him. “Want to come for a ride?” he said kindly. She hesitated only for a moment. “Not in the back,” she said, quite clear about it. Already, she didn’t care for Nigel. “Between us in the front,” Paddy said, squeezing over. And so she climbed in, carrying her flip-flops in her hand. On a whim, she had decided against shorts that morning; she was wearing a washed-out old dress in flowered cotton, with a Peter Pan collar. On their way back to Nigel’s house, Jane was an accomplice in an episode of shoplifting—which fortunately went undetected, or at least unreported. She had never stolen anything before; the possibility hadn’t crossed her mind. But she was disoriented: as they drove along, Paddy had pulled the elastic bands off her two bunches so that her hair blew crazily into all their faces. Whipping across her vision, the strands of it were like a hallucination, distracting her from her larger bewilderment at half sitting on Paddy’s knee, feeling Daniel ease his arm around her once, on a straight stretch when he wasn’t changing gears. (Nigel’s father had chosen a manual gearbox on the M.G.C.) “It’s all right,” Daniel had said. “Don’t worry about us. We’re not all bad.” “I like her,” Paddy commented. “She doesn’t talk too much.” The oddest thing was that she wasn’t worrying, although she knew she ought to be; especially when they made plans to keep the shopkeeper talking while she, Jane, slipped bottles of whatever alcohol she could get into their canvas haversack. “He keeps it in a little side room,” Daniel said. “You don’t look as if you drink, so no one will suspect you. If they do, you can cry and say that we kidnapped you and made you do it.” Jane didn’t recognize the shop, though it was only a few miles from her home; her mother had most of their groceries delivered, and, anyway, Mrs. Allsop would never have shopped in such a dimly lit, cellar-smelling place, its windows hung with conflicting advertisements for cigarettes and tea, its shelves crowded promiscuously with faded tins, china souvenirs, regiments of sweet jars. A naked fat ham in orange bread crumbs jostled for space on the counter with packets of parsley sauce and marked-down broken biscuits. Repulsion at the ham’s sickly flesh smell fuelled Jane’s impossible swift acts. She chose the cool bottles by feel in the dark little off-license nook, beyond a curtain of plastic strips, because she could hardly see in there; her eyes were dazzled from the light outside. Her heart thudded as violently as an engine stalling, but her hands were sure. The boys paid for the sliced bread and tomatoes and tin of tuna they bought, thanking the shopkeeper loftily as they left. Jane sat in the car again between them, her trophies chinking on her knee. “Isn’t she good?” Paddy said when they’d driven on and he’d excavated in the haversack, finding dusty Mateus rosé and Johnnie Walker and several bottles of barley wine. “She’s a natural,” Daniel said. “Now she belongs to us,” Paddy said. “We’ve got the dirt on her.” Jane sought in the recesses of her consciousness the remorse that she knew ought to be lying in wait—that poor honest shopkeeper, struggling to make a living! But it was as if all recesses had flattened out for the moment, into a balmy infinite present amid the sunshine and the gusts and swirls of wind as the M.G.C. swerved around bends. Her consciousness was filled to the brim with her contact—astonishing because she was so virgin in contacts—with the boys’ warm bodies, lapping against her; she didn’t even much mind Nigel’s chin resting showily on her shoulder, when he leaned over from his perch in the back. It had never occurred to her, until now, that the masculine—a suspect realm of deep-voiced otherness, beard growth, fact-authority, and bathroom smells—could be so intimately important, in relation to herself; it seemed as improbable as two planets colliding. Now, below the surface of the moment, she began to wait in secret—patiently, because her self-discoveries were very new—for Daniel’s hand to jostle her thigh when he changed gears. She stole long gazes at him from behind the blinding strands of her hair, drinking in whatever it was in his looks that tugged at her so exquisitely. His head was poised on his slight frame in a way that reminded her of the poet’s bust (she couldn’t remember which poet) on the piano at home, which nobody played; his dark hair fell in floppy curls like the poet’s sculpted ones, and his face had the same keen, forward-slanting lines. A fine dimple of skin, puckering beside his mouth when he gave one of his rare quick smiles, was a fatal last touch: Jane thought he was as handsome as a rock star or a film star—only more so, because they flaunted crudely from their posters, whereas Daniel held something back. Nigel had a bottle opener on his key ring, and they started on the barley wine, after a discussion with Jane over whether she drank alcohol or not. “I don’t,” she owned up candidly. “But I might start.” Daniel, solicitous, said that they mustn’t give her too much, just a little sip at a time. They watched her face to see whether she liked the taste and laughed delightedly when it was obvious that she didn’t, although she bravely insisted (“I do! I do quite like it!”), as entertained as if they were feeding beer to a puppy. If Nigel’s parents’ house had been anything like Jane’s, she might have felt a pang of recollection when they arrived, but although it was secluded behind trees like hers, and with the same defensive air of privilege, it was modern—all glass rectangles and slats of unpainted reddish wood. Somehow it explained Nigel, Jane thought: his angular unease and his gape, as if he were blinking in reflected light. Daniel braked on the gravel with a flourish, and they got out of the car, straggling in through the front of the house and then out again at the back almost immediately, as if the bright indoors were an optical trick, not absorbent like the gloomy interiors Jane knew, which were dense with family history. A terrace at the back overlooked a garden landscaped in Japanese style, with artful quartz boulders and ginkgo and Japanese maple trees. The boys seemed unsure for a moment what to do next; Jane knew from observing her mother that it was her role to fill awkward silences. “What a shame I didn’t bring my costume,” she remarked conversationally, looking at the pool, which Nigel was supposed to skim of its flotsam of twigs and leaves and dead insects every day, but hadn’t. “What costume, Bo Peep?” Nigel said. “This isn’t a fancy-dress party.” He’d become waspish at the sight of the awful mess in the house, torn between bravado and responsibility (he thought about his mother); toying with the idea of washing dishes, he put it aside for later. “My swimming costume,” Jane explained. Transplanted out of her familiar world, she seemed to find it easier to be dignified, as if she were moving inside a different skin, sleeker. Perhaps it was partly the barley wine. She was able to penetrate, too, into the others’ motives and relations—grown-up insight seemed to come not through gradual accretion but all at once. Daniel had power over the other two, she saw, just as he had power over her, though not through any conscious exertion of his will. They tracked his movements and his moods: if he was at ease, then they could be, too. And yet he wasn’t tyrannical, was only either pleasant or absent; if he was abstracted, you felt the curse of your failure to interest him. (Paddy, who picked up a book to read as soon as he sat down on the terrace, didn’t care as much as she and Nigel did. Because he was cleverer, he was more detached, with reserves of irony.) Now Daniel suggested coffee and sandwiches, as if this were a summer lunch party and not the tail end of an all-nighter. The idea made everyone carefree; they discovered they were starving. Nigel hunted in the fridge for butter. If Jane had been older, she might have taken the opportunity to parade her femininity in the kitchen, but it didn’t occur to her. Daniel and Nigel made tuna-and-salad-cream sandwiches; she waited with an air of calm entitlement for hers to be brought to her. While they ate, they catechized her on her opinions, and were delighted to find that she believed in God and expected to vote Conservative when she was twenty-one. (“Not just because my parents do,” she insisted. “I shall read the newspapers and make up my own mind.”) They were sitting on the terrace in Nigel’s mother’s striking wicker chairs; Jane’s was a shallow cone set in a cast-iron frame. Daniel was cross-legged on the terrace beside her. She said that it was only fair for everyone to do a day’s hard work, and that people who criticized England all the time should try going to live somewhere else, and that she hated cruelty to animals. All the time she was talking, Daniel was doing something to her feet, which dangled from the rim of the wicker cone: tickling them with a grass seed head, pulling the grass backward and forward between her toes where they were calloused from the thong on her flip-flops. Jane was suffused with a sensation that was mingled ecstasy and shame: shame because she hated her feet, prosaic flat slabs that took an extra-wide fitting. Daniel’s feet (he had been barefoot even when he was driving and in the shop—the shopkeeper had stared) were brown and finely complex, high-arched with wire-taut tendons, curling dark hairs tufting each toe. “D’you think we’re layabouts and social parasites?” Paddy asked her. “I thought that perhaps you were students,” she said shyly. “I sort of know the type, because my brother’s trying for Oxford.” Daniel said that he’d rather not talk about Oxford. “His career there hangs in the balance between brilliance and disaster,” Paddy explained on his behalf. (Daniel’s senior tutor had warned that after certain brushes with the drug squad he might not be allowed to sit his finals.) “And he doesn’t know whether he cares.” “I think we should swim,” Daniel suggested. “It’s just too fucking hot.” Jane blushed: his word was so forbidden that she hardly knew how she knew it—the girls never used it at school. It was an entrance, glowering with darkness, into the cave of things unknown to her. “But I haven’t got a costume,” she said. “Bo Peep’s lost her sheep,” Nigel mocked. “Swim nude,” Daniel suggested. “No one can see—except us, and we like you.” She looked around at them all to see if they were joking, then drew her breath in testingly as you did on the brink of plunging into water. Inspired (and she had been sipping barley wine again, with her sandwich), just then she was capable of anything. Tipping herself out of the cone chair, she took hold of the hem of her dress, to pull it up over her head while the boys watched. (It was as easy as playing with Robin in the old days, she thought, in the garden with the paddling pool.) She was aware uninhibitedly of her young body beneath the dress, in its knickers and bra (she would keep those on, perhaps). But at that very moment another girl appeared from inside the house, astonishing them all: she came through the sliding doors, carrying a glass of fizzing drink ceremoniously, stirring the ice cubes and sucking at it through a plastic bendy straw. Slender and disdainful, with a long narrow nose and slightly squinting eyes, she was wrapped in a sarong. Her chestnut-dark hair fell well below her waist in symmetrical waves, as if it had been tied in plaits and then undone. “She can borrow my old swimsuit if she wants,” the girl said, with an air of unmasking male proceedings beneath her dignity. Nigel had leaped out of his chair, a suspended wicker basket, which went swinging wildly. “Fiona! When did you get here? How did you get in? What on earth are you drinking?” “Vodka,” Fiona said. “And I got in while you were out, because you actually failed to lock anything up behind you, you idiot. I mean, God, Nige, what if I’d been a burglar or something? Then I was fast asleep, until you lot started banging around down here. And this pool’s a disgusting swamp—weren’t you supposed to do something about it? Hi, Daniel and Paddy. Hi, what’s-your-name. My cozzy’s in a drawer in the chest in my bedroom, if you want it.” Fiona was Nigel’s younger sister, aged eighteen and returned by herself from the South of France on her way to drama school. She chose to sit with her drink under an orange umbrella at the far end of the terrace, as if she were semidetached from her brother and his friends. But Jane, with her new intuitiveness, guessed that she sat there because it meant that she was in Daniel’s sight lines the whole time she was yawning and stretching and pretending to sunbathe, showing off her legs through the slit in her sarong. Jane borrowed Fiona’s swimming costume (which was tight on her) and powered up and down the short pool with her strong crawl, face turning into the water then out to breathe, as she’d been taught, all the accumulated rubbish (leathery wet leaves, sodden drowned butterflies and daddy longlegs, an empty cigarette pack) bobbing against her breasts and lips and knees as she swam. No one joined her in the pool. Jane had hardly expected them to; she had accepted immediately the justice of her defeat—right at the moment that she’d had all the boys’ eyes on her—by the older, prettier, more sophisticated girl. (Still, the word “woebegone” nudged at her, from a poem she’d read at school.) When she got out, she would ask Paddy to drive her to a bus stop, then to lend her the money for her bus fare home. She would ask for his address, so that she could repay him: out of her pocket money, because she could never tell her parents where she’d been. Heaving herself out at the side of the pool, she stood streaming water, too shy to ask for a towel. The others were planning a visit to the pub in the nearest village. Jane had never been inside a pub in her life, but she thought there was bound to be a bus stop somewhere in the village. “Come on, let’s go,” Fiona said impatiently. There was only half an hour until afternoon closing time. “We can’t all get in the car,” Nigel said, worrying. “We can if we hold on tight. It’ll be a scream. Paddy, come on.” Obediently, Paddy stood up, stuffing his book into his back pocket. (It was Herman Hesse’s “Steppenwolf.”) He went to look for shoes. Fiona was aware suddenly of Jane. “Oh, God, she’s still got that costume on. Can’t you just put your dress on over the top?” Jane looked down mutely at herself, still dripping. Daniel hadn’t moved from where he was spread-eagled now in a deck chair. He’d been watching Jane’s steady stroke in the pool, how she submitted to the rhythm of it and forgot herself, forgot to wonder whether they were looking at her or not. He had felt, while he watched, that he was seeing deeply into her raw sensibility: fatalistic, acutely responsive, open to anything. He was aware all the time, of course, of Fiona’s maneuvering to make him notice her—there was a bit of past history between them, which he was wary of reviving, not wanting her to get it into her head that she had any rights of possession over him. Anyway, her blasé, bossy voice was grating on him this afternoon. Her displays of sophistication seemed childish, and he was unmoved by the skinny brown stomach flashing at him so insistently from above the sarong. “You go ahead,” he said. “Jane has to change. I’ll wait and walk down with her. We’ll catch up.” Fiona couldn’t hide the sour disappointment in her face, but she had staked too much, too noisily, on her desperate need for the pub to back down now. Jane looked anxiously from one to the other. “I don’t mind,” she said. “You don’t have to wait for me.” “What are you up to, Daniel?” Fiona laughed ungraciously. Daniel kept his eyes closed against the sun while the others quarrelled, getting ready; Jane went inside to change. When he heard the car receding on the road, he followed her in, confused at first in the interior patchwork of light and shadows, after the glare outdoors. He stood listening at the bottom of the open-tread staircase, his breath barely stirring the bright dust motes in their circling. The house was as perfectly quiet as if it were empty, yet he was aware of the girl standing somewhere upstairs, equally still, listening for him. The moment seemed eloquent, as he put his foot on the bottom step and started up, breaking into the peace. He found Jane in Fiona’s room, where she’d left her dress; she was still in the wet costume, although she’d pulled down the blind out of modesty, so that he saw her waiting in a pink half-light. (She’d been afraid, suddenly, to be naked, in case he came looking for her.) His mouth when he kissed her (her first-ever kiss) seemed scalding, because her mouth was cold from the water and from fear. She was cold and clammy all over. When Daniel tried to peel off the sodden swimming costume it knotted itself around her in a rubbery clinging rope and she had to help, rolling it and dragging at it. They left it where it lay when she kicked it off, and its wetness soaked into Fiona’s red rug. Fiona found the wet patch on her rug later and guessed immediately (she had intuitions, too) the story behind it; she thought for one outraged moment that they’d actually done it on her bed. But her bed was intact—thank God for that, at least. Daniel must have taken Jane into the spare room, where he and Paddy were staying. By now it was late afternoon, and Jane was in a phone box in the village, ringing home. (Nigel didn’t want them using the phone at the house, in case his parents complained about the bill.) Daniel waited for her, not interested in her difficulties over what to say. He was smoking, leaning back against the phone box, head tilted to look up at the sky, which was still immaculately blue, just beginning to pale. Even while Jane spoke to her mother in the ordinary words that seemed to flow convincingly, as if from her old self, her new self pressed her free palm on the rectangle of thick glass against which, on the other side, Daniel in his blue shirt was also miraculously pressed, oblivious of her touch. (And she knew now the long brown nakedness of his back under the shirt, with its ripple of vertebrae.) Forever afterward, the smell inside one of those old red phone boxes—dank and mushroomy and faintly urinous—could turn Jane’s heart over in erotic excitement. Her mother’s mild voice was in her ear, incurious: they had begun to wonder where she was. “I told Daddy you’d probably gone off to play Ping-Pong somewhere.” “I’m at Alison’s,” Jane said. “Alison Lefanu. You remember, from Junior Orchestra? French horn. Can I stay the night? It doesn’t matter about toothbrush and pajamas. Her mum says I can borrow them.” Mrs. Allsop, blessedly vague, sent her love to Mrs. Lefanu. “The Lefanus live out at Headley, don’t they? You didn’t walk all that way?” “I was on my way down to the village, and they drove past. I just got in.” Jane was thinking, Will I ever see my home again? It seemed unlikely. “Don’t be a nuisance,” her mother said. “Eat whatever they put in front of you, even if it’s cauliflower.” Now they all sat talking on the terrace in an evening light as thick as syrup; clouds of insects swarmed above the Japanese water features, swallows slipped close along the earth, a blackbird sang. They were drinking Jane’s shoplifted wine and her whiskey; then the boys started messing around with a needle and little glass vials of methedrine, which Paddy fetched from his room. “Don’t look, it’s not for nice girls,” Daniel said to Jane, and so, obediently, she closed her eyes. The boys’ huddle over this ceremony—so intimate, taken so seriously—frightened Fiona and made her even more furious than the wet patch on her rug. She went inside and crashed around the house, effecting a transformation: washing dishes, scrubbing the stove and the kitchen floor, throwing the windows wide open, emptying ashtrays with a clang of the dustbin lid. She shook out the mats from the sitting room, cracking them like whips over the boys’ heads on the terrace. Gradually, as she worked, the resentment slipped out of her and her mood changed. She began to enjoy her own strength and to feel serenely indifferent to the others. If her brother’s friends wanted to get doped up, why should she care? She started to think about drama school. Later, she warmed up some tinned soup, and brought out cheese and crackers for them all. By this time it was dark and the only light came from the lamps she’d turned on inside. Daniel was trying to explain the idea of the soul as it was understood in the Hindu Vedanta. His words were punctuated by the clonk of the bamboo shishi-odoshi in the garden, which filled up with water then tipped and emptied, falling back against its rock. What he wanted to describe was how the soul’s origins were in wholeness and light, but on its entry into the world it took on the filth of violence and corruption. The soul trapped in the individual forgot its home and despaired; but despair was only another illusion to be stripped away. He wanted to say that revolution was a kind of cleansing that conferred its own immortality in a perpetual present. Art had to be revolutionary or it would die in time. He believed as he spoke that he was brilliantly eloquent, but in truth he was rambling incoherently. Paddy, getting the gist of it, quoted poetry in an ironic voice: “ ‘Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter.’ ” “Signor Keats, I do believe,” Nigel said. “Oh, that’s the poet,” Jane said. “We have his bust at home, on the piano.” Cross-legged on a cushion at Daniel’s feet, she was leaning lightly against him, as if she could ground the tension quivering in his right foot, which was balanced across his left knee. His intelligence seemed as ceaseless as an engine working. She felt exceptionally attuned to the boys’ voices rising through earnestness to mockery and back again, although she hardly heard their words, only what ran underneath: a current of strain, a jostling of contest and display. She saw how Nigel tried to match the other two and failed, and how he suffered, yearning for Daniel’s approval. Meanwhile, her own new knowledge filled her up, not in the form of thoughts but as sensations, overwhelming. Her experience in the strange bed that afternoon hadn’t been joyous: there’d been some swooning, obliterating pleasure in the preliminaries, but then too much anxiety in the clumsy arrangements, which she had known (from her biology lessons) would follow. Remembering it all now, though, she was sick with desire and longed for the time to come when Daniel would touch her again. When they did go to bed, however, Daniel was suddenly exhausted; stoop-backed, he crawled between the sheets in his underpants, turning away from Jane, toward the window. “Watch over me” was the last thing he mumbled. And so she kept vigil faithfully for hours in the quiet of the night, presiding over the mystery of her changed life, adjusting her body against the peremptory curve of his turned back and legs in the narrow single bed. But at last she couldn’t help it—she fell asleep herself. And when she awoke in the morning Daniel was gone. After a while, when he didn’t come back, she put on her underclothes and her dress, and set off around the house in search of him. Downstairs, she smelled Paddy’s sweat and saw the tousled mess of his hair, poking from the top of a sleeping bag on the sofa in the lounge. Nigel was making a racket outside with the sliding door of the garage, in search of the net for the swimming pool. Jane climbed upstairs again. Nigel’s parents’ bedroom was at the front of the house, opening off the landing ahead of her; the door was ajar, and Jane stepped soundlessly inside. It was a beautiful room, like nothing she’d ever seen before, with a pale wood floor and plain white walls, creamy sheepskin rugs. Fresh sunlight, pouring through windows all along its length, was reflected in the mirrored doors of the built-in wardrobes; the curtains, in some kind of rough white translucent linen, were cut too long for the windows, and the cloth fell in heaps on the floor. A huge bed seemed to be all white sheets and no blankets. (Jane had never seen a duvet before.) In the bed, with the duvet kicked to their feet, Daniel and Fiona lay naked and asleep, facing away from each other, their slim tanned legs tangled together. Jane, who had done the Greeks in history, thought that they looked like young warriors in a classical scene, fallen in the place where they had been wrestling. She withdrew from the room without waking them, as quietly as she had come in. Nigel, rather the worse for wear, in his pajama bottoms, was smoking and skimming the pool, dumping the rubbish in a soaking heap beside him. He watched when Jane came to stand at the pool’s brink; she stared in with dry, hot eyes. “So now you know,” he said. But she repudiated his offer of companionship in her unrequited love. Her experience was not like anyone else’s. She asked only if he would drive her home, and he said he’d get the car out as soon as he’d finished with the pool. “I’d like to go now,” she said crisply, sounding like her mother. “If you don’t mind.” On the way back, they hardly spoke, except when Nigel asked for directions as they drew near the house. Jane forgot, in her absorption, to notice the way they’d come, so that she never afterward knew where she’d been. And she never saw Nigel’s house again, or any of the boys (Fiona once, perhaps, at a party). He dropped her off at the bottom of the drive. It was still quite early in the morning—only nine o’clock. Jane stared around her as if she’d never seen the place before, as if it were more mysterious than anywhere she’d been—the scuffed dirt at the edge of the road, the old mossy gateposts, blackbirds flitting in the dead leaves at the bottom of the hedge, the hard lime-yellow fruits in the hedge apple tree, her own footprints from the day before intact in the dust, the Jokari paddle left where she had dropped it. Her mother didn’t seem surprised to see her so early. “Did you have a nice time, dear?” Jane said that she’d had fun. But that afternoon she suffered with pain in her stomach and bloating (“What exactly did you eat at the Lefanus?”). And the next day her period came rather copiously and early—which ought to have been a relief but wasn’t, because it hadn’t occurred to her until then (despite the biology lessons) that she could be pregnant. The weather changed, too. So it was all right for her to curl up under her eiderdown, hugging a hot-water bottle to her stomach, reading her Chalet School books and looking up from time to time at the rain running down the window. Her mother brought her tea with two sugars, and aspirin. Jane never told anyone what had happened to her (not even, years later, the boyfriend who became her husband, and who might have wondered). And in a way she never assimilated the experience, though she didn’t forget it, either. As an adult, she took on board all the usual Tory disapproval toward drugs and juvenile delinquency and underage sex, and never saw any implications for her own case. She was fearful for her own daughters, as normal mothers were, without connecting her fears to anything that had happened to her. Her early initiation stayed in a sealed compartment in her thoughts and seemed to have no effects, no consequences. Jane and her husband divorced in their mid-fifties, and her friends advised her to have counselling. The counsellor was a nice, intelligent woman. (Actually, she couldn’t help feeling exasperated by Jane and her heavy, patient sorrows: her expensive clothes, her lack of imagination, the silk scarf thrown girlishly over one shoulder. Of course, she was much too professional to let this show.) Jane confessed that she had always felt as if she were on the wrong side of a barrier, cutting her off from the real life she was meant to be living. “What’s it like, then, real life on the other side?” Haltingly, Jane described a summer day beside a swimming pool. A long sunlit room with white walls and a white bed. A breeze is blowing; long white curtains are dragged sluggishly backward and forward on a pale wood floor. (These women’s fantasies, the counsellor thought, have more to do with interior décor than with repressed desires.) Then Jane got into her stride, and the narrative became more interesting. “A boy and a girl,” she said, “are naked, asleep in the bed. I am curled on a rug on the floor beside them. The boy turns over in his sleep, flings out his arm, and his hand dangles to the floor. I think he’s seeking out the cool, down there under the bed. I move carefully on my rug, so as not to wake him. I move so that his hand is touching me.” That’s more like it, the counsellor thought. That’s something. As for Daniel, well, he trained as a lawyer after he’d finished his literature degree. He got out of the drink and the drugs not long after university. (Paddy never did; he died.) Daniel lives in Zurich now, with his second wife, whom he loves very much, and occasionally, when he’s bored with his respectable Swiss friends and wants to shock them, he tells stories about his wild youth. He is in international human-rights law; he’s a force for good. He’s a good husband and father, too (more dedicated, because of the wildness in his past). Of course, he’s ambitious and likes power. He can just about remember Nigel, and Nigel’s parents’ house that summer, and Fiona (they were together off and on for a few months afterward). But he has no memory at all of Jane. Even if by some miracle he ever met her, and she recognized him and told him the whole story (which she would never do), it wouldn’t bring anything back. It isn’t only that the drink and the drugs made him forget. He’s had too much happiness in his life since, too much experience; he’s lost that fine-tuning that could hold on to the smell of the ham in the off-license, the wetness of the swimming costume, the girl’s cold skin and her naïveté, her extraordinary offer of herself without reserve, the curtains sweeping the floor in the morning light. It’s all just gone. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Another Life	Credit Photograph by Jim Krantz / Gallery Stock A husband and wife drive to Boston. The husband is sick. He takes extra-strong cold medication just before getting into the car, and all the way to Boston he worries that he is going to fall asleep at the wheel and crash into the median. Or maybe the husband secretly wants to crash rather than go to his father-in-law’s birthday party, which is what he and his wife are driving to Boston for. Anyway, he manages to stay awake, and they arrive at their hotel. It is just off the highway, a boutique hotel that got excellent reviews on the Internet. The husband and wife check in, they put on nice clothes, they go to the party. A couple of hours later, the husband drives back to the hotel alone. He changes into pajamas and gets into bed. He picks up Rousseau’s “Discourse on the Origin of Inequality,” the book he brought to read on this trip. “Nature commands every animal and the beast obeys,” Rousseau writes, or wrote, in the eighteenth century. “Man feels the same impulsion, but knows that he is free to acquiesce or resist.” At this point, the husband realizes that he doesn’t want to spend the night reading Rousseau in bed, alone. He thinks about going downstairs to the hotel bar. It’s the kind of thing he never does—but ten minutes later there he is, sitting at the bar, reading his book. The husband is not trying to pick anyone up. His wife will be back in an hour or two, and besides, who would dream of picking someone up with Rousseau? Of all the authors you could try to pick someone up with, Rousseau is probably the worst. Or maybe Kant. The husband orders a hot toddy. The bartender, an attractive young woman with crinkly black hair, brings him the drink and they exchange remarks about it. Is that what you wanted? Yes, it’s perfect, the husband says. Good, I’m glad. The bartender smiles. The husband reads some more Rousseau. Upstairs, in his room, he was really understanding the Second Discourse, but down here at the bar he finds it hard to concentrate. The pretty bartender is scooping ice from the ice chest, and the husband can see her cleavage, maybe even the top of her bra. She goes away, comes back, scoops more ice. Finally, the husband asks her how it’s going. It’s going well, the pretty bartender says. What are you reading? Oh, the husband says, embarrassed, it’s Rousseau. For all his thinking about books and picking people up, he is totally unprepared to talk about the “Origin of Inequality” with the pretty bartender. Fortunately, she doesn’t ask about it. I love to read, she says. I read just about anything. Really, the husband says, pleased. Who are your favorite authors? My favorite author is Emily Dickinson, the pretty bartender says. The husband is caught off guard. He has read some Emily Dickinson but not for a long time, and now he can’t remember a single one of her poems. Ah, the bard of Amherst, he says. The pretty bartender, sensing the husband’s discomfort, willingly moves on. I’m taking a fiction class in college, she says. I don’t have to, it’s not required for my major, but I wanted to take it anyway. We read short stories. By who? the husband asks. Despite his spotty knowledge of Emily Dickinson, the husband thinks of himself as well read. We’re reading one now by Kate Chopin, the pretty bartender says. It’s called “The Story of an Hour.” Sadly, the husband must admit that he has not read this story. She’s awesome, the bartender says. There’s apparently a novel by her? “The Awakening,” the husband says. Have you read it? the bartender asks. No, not that, either, he says. The husband then recommends Flannery O’Connor, and the bartender makes a show of writing the name down on a strip of register tape. I love the grotesque, the husband says. What’s that? the bartender asks. It’s when you deform life to get at some idea behind it, the husband says. Behind life? the bartender asks. Yes, an idea behind life, like the last judgment of the soul, or Heaven and Hell. Which one would this be? the bartender asks, smiling, and the husband says, This bar? Purgatory would be my guess. Huh, the pretty bartender says. Just as they seem to be getting somewhere, though, the husband makes the conversationally suicidal move of bringing up Emily Dickinson again. She’s completely singular, he says. There’s no one like her! There is sweat on his brow, which runs almost to the top of his head. Yeah, the bartender says, and that’s the end of that. The husband returns to his Rousseau. The pretty bartender begins talking to another customer, a man wearing a yellow polo shirt. This man is a total sleazebag, although the husband doesn’t know it yet. I haven’t seen you here much, the sleazebag says. The pretty bartender tells the sleazebag that she has shifted her schedule. I’m in school now, she says. Oh yeah? What are you studying? Business, she answers, with a minor in communications. Is your sister out of the hospital? the sleazebag asks. Yes, she’s at home now, the bartender says, and at this point the husband’s cell phone buzzes. His wife is back from the party. Where are you? she asks. I’m at the bar, the husband says. He wants his wife to come to the bar, so the pretty bartender will see that he has a wife who isn’t bad-looking, even if she is a lot older than the bartender. The husband frowns at his book until his wife arrives, still wearing the low-cut black dress she had on at the party. The husband doesn’t understand why she would wear a dress like that to her father’s sixtieth birthday, but she does look good in it. She sits down between her husband and the sleazebag. The wife notices the empty snifter in front of her husband and asks, How are you feeling? Better, the husband says, although actually he looks kind of gray and worn. Everyone was worried about you, the wife says. My father gave me the name of a cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s. He wants you to make an appointment. It’s not my heart, just a cold, the husband says, annoyed. He has a heart problem to which his wife’s family is always overreacting. And we don’t even live here, the husband grumbles. Why would I make an appointment with a doctor in Boston? It’s not that far, the wife says. We could stay with my parents. But why? the husband says. Why do we have to keep coming here? At this point, the young and shapely bartender reappears. It’s last call, she says, leaning toward the husband. Can I get you anything? The husband says, Yes, I’ll take another. Coming up! the bartender says. The wife looks ready to scold the husband, but instead she turns to watch the basketball game on the big TV mounted above the bar. There’s a short silence, then the sleazebag asks, Do you like basketball?, and the wife, turning to face him, says, Yes, I do. Where are you from? the sleazebag asks. New York, the wife says. So, the sleazebag says, the Knicks? No, the Celtics. My family is from Boston, the wife says. The sleazebag is obsessed with the Celtics, and he begins to talk about them enthusiastically. The husband is, in a funny way, impressed. The sleazebag says one thing after another about the Celtics without ever falling down the kind of conversational hole the husband fell down with Emily Dickinson. Like a windup toy, the sleazebag keeps going and going. And the wife goes along with him. She tells the sleazebag about her father, who freezes mouse heads in a laboratory at M.I.T. I’ve heard of him! the sleazebag says, but it’s clear that he’s thinking of someone else, or just lying. It doesn’t matter. As their conversation continues, the wife seems more and more impressed by the sleazebag. He owns a company that sells health insurance to small businesses. He has joint custody of two beautiful daughters. In short, despite being a total scumbag, a real bottom-feeder, the sleazebag knows how to present himself as a decent guy who would not dream of leaving his father-in-law’s sixtieth-birthday party early, and if the sleazebag did leave the party early because he wasn’t feeling well the wife would not find him at the hotel bar. He’d be in bed, or, more likely, in the hospital. The sleazebag inches toward the wife and says something in a low voice. The wife laughs. I should interrupt, the husband thinks, but he doesn’t know what to say, and also he’s now had one and a half hot toddies, plus a glass of wine at the party, plus the extra-strength cold medicine he took earlier. The husband feels woozy. He keeps his unhappy silence, hoping that his wife will turn away from the sleazebag and talk to him, but what actually happens is that the sleazebag gets up from his stool and says, Well, it’s been good meeting you. The sleazebag shakes the wife’s hand, and it looks as if her hand kind of lingers in his. Then the sleazebag leaves. The wife stands up. I left my shawl at the party, she says. I’m going to run back and get it. Will you be all right? Sure, the husband says. The wife hurries out of the bar. The husband can’t believe it—was she even wearing a shawl? The bartender, too, looks surprised that the wife has gone running after the total sleazebag. But what if this was how things worked with the husband and wife? What if they had an arrangement that they could sleep with whomever they wanted? What if they were brave, free people whose love for each other could not be damaged by a random hotel hookup? God, what if? The husband looks around. The slender and well-proportioned young bartender with naturally crinkly black hair is standing right there. All at once, as if by magic, the husband remembers the first lines of a poem by Emily Dickinson. “My life it stood, a loaded gun, in corners, till a day, the owner passed, identified, and carried me away.” The bartender’s eyes light up. Very good, she says, even though the husband has misquoted. The actual line is: My life had stood. So tell me, the husband says, what happened to your sister? The bartender says that her sister was in a car accident. Her spine was broken, and she has been in a body cast for months. She, the pretty bartender, spends half her time at her sister’s apartment, taking care of her sister’s toddler and also cooking for her sister and cleaning, which her sister, obviously, can’t do. The husband is moved by this story. Sister, work, school, and still she finds time to read Dickinson! He tells the bartender how impressive he thinks she is. I can barely hold down a job, he says, and as for writing, forget it. Oh, you’re a writer? the bartender asks. It’s not worth talking about, the husband says, but he wants to talk about it, so he does. He tells the bartender that he writes short stories about the confusion of life and the unknowability of the heart. Like Chekhov, the pretty bartender says. We read a story by him in our fiction class. Yes, the husband says, kind of like that, but I prefer Nabokov, with his unreliable narrators. The pretty bartender has not read Nabokov. It doesn’t matter, the husband says. The point is, the husband’s stories are too complicated for the average reader. I’d like to be famous like Chekhov, he says, but it’s not going to happen. You shouldn’t give up, the bartender says. Perseverance pays off! The husband grimaces. Thanks for the advice, he says. He’s finished his drink, and assumes that his wife will be back shortly. I should go, he says. It was nice meeting you, the pretty bartender says. I hope I’ll see you here again sometime. Buy the print » The husband leaves the bartender, whose name, April P, is printed on the receipt, a large tip. He is satisfied. All he wanted was to have a friendly conversation with an attractive younger woman and then to go upstairs, read Rousseau, and wait for his wife to come back with her shawl. But when he gets to his room he feels differently. For one thing, there is now a strange howling sound, which is caused by air rushing from the corridor into the room, or vice versa. When the husband opens the door, the sound stops. When he leans against the door, it stops. As soon as he lets the door alone, it starts again, a wailing, as if this modern boutique hotel were really some ancient New England manse infested with miserable spirits. He tries to ignore the sound. He lies on the bed, fully dressed, and opens his book. But the other thing that has happened is that the husband is now completely disgusted by Rousseau. Screw Rousseau, that creepy pervert! The only reason he is reading the “Origin of Inequality” is that it’s on the syllabus for the Intro to Western Thought class at the remote little college where he teaches. What a stupid situation, the husband thinks—I’m being compelled to read about freedom! He feels woozy again, this time like he might throw up. He closes his eyes. The wind is still howling through the door. Another life, the husband thinks, I want another life! Then he rolls off the bed and puts on his shoes. He begins to brush his teeth, then something occurs to him and he spits out the toothpaste, grabs his jacket, and hurries into the hall. He takes the elevator downstairs and runs to the bar. April P is still there, wiping glasses. Forget something? she asks. No, the husband says. Will you have a drink with me? We’re closed, April P says, and in fact the bar is nearly empty. The only people left are a trio of old women in a corner and a man pouring hot water into the ice chest. We could go somewhere, the husband says. April P hesitates, but finally she says, O.K., give me a minute to change. She goes into the kitchen and comes out wearing a red V-neck sweater and a puffy black coat. They walk to the hotel parking garage and practically the first thing the husband sees is his own car, a fancy sedan. This raises the question, How did his wife get back to the birthday party? By cab? Or did the sleazebag drive her? Is the sleazebag with her at the party? The husband tries not to think about this, but it’s hard. Where to? he asks. April P directs him to an Irish pub, the same pub, it turns out, where he and his wife had dinner with her parents before the party. The husband and April P get the same table he had earlier, and also the same waitress. Welcome back, the waitress says, and obviously the fact that the husband is now with April P, who is a lot younger than his wife, makes an impression on her. The husband orders a beer, April P a vodka tonic. And now, unfortunately, the husband looks around with total bewilderment, as if he had just been dropped off on this planet five minutes ago. After an awkward moment, April P asks, How long have you been married? Eleven years, the husband says. What does your wife do? The husband tells April P that his wife is a doctor—a pediatrician, to be precise. Do you have kids? No, the husband says, no, we don’t. Then, without provocation, he tells April P a story about something that happened in this very same pub just a few hours earlier. He and his wife and her parents were eating dinner, and his father-in-law, the famous freezer of mouse heads, mentioned that he had bought a double plot in a cemetery. The adjacent plot is vacant, the father-in-law said, and he asked if he should reserve it for the husband and wife. Plots are going quickly, he warned them—the husband and wife would have to make up their minds soon. If we don’t act now, the husband says, we may lose the chance to spend eternity next to my father-in-law! He laughs, maybe a little wildly. All of us buried together in Natick or wherever, can you imagine? April P doesn’t say anything. The worst part, the husband goes on, is that my wife can’t say no to her father. He’s bossed her around all her life, and he’s going to keep doing it after she’s dead! The husband twists his cocktail napkin into an unhappy ball. I’m a fuckup, he says. No, you aren’t, April P says. At a loss for evidence that this is so, she says, You have a really nice car. So fucking what, the husband says, rudely. I’m nearly forty years old and I don’t know anything about Emily Dickinson, or Kate Chopin, or Stendhal, or Hardy, or Fielding! I’ve never read Turgenev! April P says, In fiction class, the professor told us that the important thing is to write what you know. What you know, what you know, the husband repeats, seemingly in some sort of agonized trance. The truth is, he says, my stories suck. The reason no one reads them is because they’re awful, they have no point, they go on and on and then, then they stop. The husband has a coughing fit. He puts his hand on his chest. You need to relax, April P says. Granted, the husband says, but how? April P has an idea about this. She stands up and motions for the husband to follow. They go to the bathroom, to the ladies’ room, in fact. April P takes a little plastic bag out of her overstuffed purse. What’s that, the husband asks, but he already knows, and April P doesn’t bother answering. She taps out two lines of cocaine on the back of the “Norton Anthology of American Literature,” which she is also carrying in her purse, for some reason. At this point, the husband mentions that he used to have a problem with cocaine. When he moved to New York, he hung out with a cocaine-friendly crowd, and by the time he met the woman who would become his wife he had developed a kind of serious recreational habit. It was his wife—the woman who would become his wife—who made him stop. With his heart problem, cocaine wasn’t just stupid, it was suicidal, she said. You’re making too much of my heart problem, the husband said. It’s just a benign arrhythmia. But he stopped anyway and hasn’t touched cocaine since. When the husband is done telling his story, April P says, Maybe this isn’t a good idea. No, the husband says, it’s a good idea. I’m just nervous. They each do a line. Another? April P asks. They do another line. Then they stand there, wiping their noses and looking at each other. The husband admires April P’s deep black eyes, her thick, crinkly black hair, her slim waist and full figure. You’re so beautiful, he says. Thanks, April P says. And you, you have toothpaste on your chin. Do I? the husband asks. He looks in the mirror. So I do, he says, then he starts laughing. The husband laughs and laughs, and April P laughs, too, without necessarily finding this as funny as the husband does, but anyway, whatever, the husband thinks it’s the funniest thing that has ever happened to him, he’s laughing and laughing about the white dribble of toothpaste on his chin, and when he finally stops his eyes are wet. Thank you for pointing that out, he says. Then the husband leaps forward and kisses April P, whose body is hot and full of instincts. A minute later they have their pants off. April P sort of sits on the sink and the husband sort of leans up against her, they have sex, and then it’s over. He’s pulling out, she’s wiping between her legs with a paper towel; they are splashing water on their faces, using antibacterial soap, the hand dryer. They lurch back to the table. For a long time the husband doesn’t say anything. Are you O.K.? April P asks. God, yes, the husband says. He orders another round of drinks. When the waitress has brought the drinks, he says, Do you know what that was? That was freedom. And now he starts talking excitedly about how Rousseau was wrong. Freedom isn’t the capacity to resist the voice of Nature; it’s the ability to go along with Nature, which is to say—he actually says “which is to say,” as if he were lecturing—the ability to do what you want. But April P isn’t listening. She is thinking about Jim LaMont, the sleazebag, and how night after night he came to the bar at the hotel and told her how beautiful she was, how much he wanted to take her out someplace nice and treat her the way she deserved to be treated. How he told her that she deserved a better life than the one she had, and he, Jim LaMont, was going to give it to her. How, finally, she had started to wonder if maybe Jim LaMont was right, if there was another, better life out there with April P’s name on it, a life she wasn’t living because she had been born in the wrong town, to the wrong parents, with the wrong sister. One night she let Jim LaMont take her to a steak house—she had the linguine—and afterward they went back to his condo. The elevator was out of service, and there was a smell in his bathroom, a sour fart smell like an ocean gone wrong. And the next morning Jim LaMont gave her a joke postcard: “Would You Rate Yourself Satisfied, Extremely Satisfied, or Hungry For More?” April P changed her schedule to avoid him, but tonight he has found her again, and he may not ever go away. All this time, the husband has been talking and gesturing excitedly. He is telling April P that she is the most beautiful person he’s ever met, not just physically but as a whole person. She is beautiful and amazing. He wants to run away with her, he says. He’ll leave his wife. They haven’t loved each other for years. April P says, You don’t have to tell me that, but the husband keeps talking, and eventually April P says, Stop, just stop. She doesn’t want to hear it from him, not while he’s high. So the husband stops. His heart is racing. He is sweating all over. I think I’m drunk, he says. Can we get some air? Sure, April P says. The husband pays the check and April P helps him to the door. They stand outside the pub. It’s bitterly cold; hard little snowflakes are freezing to the roofs of parked cars. The husband gasps. Let’s walk somewhere, he says. Whatever you want, April P says. They walk, and soon find themselves in one of those village-green-type parks you get in New England, with a pyramid of black cannonballs at the entrance and a statue in the middle. The husband hates these village greens, but he can go no farther. He sits on a bench. April P sits down next to him. The husband is panting, he doesn’t know why, he’s just suddenly short of breath. What’s wrong with me? he asks. April P shakes her head. She doesn’t know. She puts her arm around the husband, who leans into her shoulder. His face is pale and waxy. Thank you, he says, then he blacks out. April P sits with the husband for a while, watching him sleep. Then she lowers his body onto the bench and stands up. She dusts the snow off the front of her coat and walks back to the pub. She calls a taxi, which takes her to the hotel, and there she gets into her own car, a much abused hatchback. She drives all the way back to the town where she lives, the name of which you don’t need to know, although it is definitely not Natick. By the time she gets there, it’s three in the morning. Her room is a mess, her bed is unmade. April P thinks about going to sleep, but instead she puts on water for coffee, sits down at her desk, which is itself kind of a disaster, and starts working on a story. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Means of Suppressing Demonstrations	Credit Illustration by Tomer Hanuka SHOCK Lea, the officer, had stopped feeling her own body. She lay on top of an anti-sniper barricade, holding up a page from a newspaper, blocking the stars. She had to stretch out her arms to hold the wide page above her head. “Oh,” she said. “The Army didn’t do it,” Tomer said. He flicked his cigarette butt down onto the asphalt of Route 799. He was talking about Huda, the little Palestinian girl on the beach. The picture in the newspaper showed her screaming on red sand, amid the body parts of the seven people who had been her family. “I know,” she said. “This is a manipulation.” The world said that the Israeli Army had done it with artillery fire, but the Israeli Army knew that the family had been killed by a dormant shell that Palestinian militants had left by the sea. Lea looked at Tomer. The orange light of the road lamps lit him from behind, so that he could have been a demon. He was nineteen, two years younger than the officer. “It’s just that I can’t feel my body all of a sudden,” she said. “Again?” Lea often told him that she couldn’t feel her body. That she could move it, but not feel it. That those were two separate things. He never questioned her; he pushed her. This was what she wanted. Tomer took his weapon off his back and pressed her shoulders into the concrete. When their pants were pulled down, he pressed his hands on her neck, then her arms. He called her Lea during the day, because it was her name, and because she said he could. At night, when he pulled her hair so hard that her scalp buzzed, he called her Officer, because it was what she said he should call her then. When she looked to the side, she could see the warm glow that came from the homes of people in nearby villages. She knew that her military service was approaching its end, but could not feel it. She could not imagine or remember any of the things she had wanted before she became a soldier, and struggled to find things she wanted for her civilian life ahead. She guessed that she must want a family, or to get into a good school, but she guessed this from the data around her. She did not feel the want herself. When she first began feeling this way, less than a year into her service, after the neck of one of the soldiers at her checkpoint was cut almost in half, she decided that the only reasonable thing she could truly want must exist inside the Army, so she applied to become an officer. She did not want to be a dumb checkpoint soldier anymore, the type whose neck could get cut almost in half. She wanted to be able to yell at soldiers who put their necks where they might get cut. She grew to accept that her service time would begin and end in the Transitions Unit, but figured that if she had to be at a checkpoint she might as well be an officer. Tomer did almost everything that she asked of him. He was a sensible nineteen-year-old boy. And Lea, she had a certain beauty, after all. A cold, humming, unfazed beauty, and great breasts. She was also the only girl sprinkled into his days. Lea woke up alone in her field bed the next morning. She had her own tent, because she was the only female at the checkpoint. It was an odd posting. Route 799 cut through the West Bank, but had been closed to Palestinians since 2002, when the motorcyclists were shot. The Army needed four soldiers and a commanding officer to staff an improvised checkpoint every hundred kilometres or so, so she found herself commanding four boys who took shifts on an always deserted road. But if anyone did decide to show, even after all this time, there would be someone there to say, “Sorry, the road is blocked.” The posting would have made her angry, except she knew that her service would be over in a few weeks anyway. She spent the day in bed, reading a prep book for university entrance exams. She hoped to score high enough to study business. She was supposed to check in with the boy on duty twice a shift, but she didn’t bother, because nothing ever happened. Except, that day, something did. Tomer, who had the afternoon shift, called her military cell to say that there were three Palestinian male demonstrators at the checkpoint. “Have they thrown rocks or anything?” she asked. “No, but they have a sign. And they keep on asking me to, like, disperse them, even though I explained that we don’t have any means of suppressing demonstrations here.” “That’s not true.” She was suddenly more excited than she had been since she was posted to Route 799. As an officer, she knew that every checkpoint had a supply box to be used in case of demonstrations. And, if the demonstrators insisted, she must aim to please. She unlocked the metal supply closet in her tent and pulled out a wooden box. It was heavy, so it took her a while to carry it to the anti-sniper barricade, and then to cross the road to the sun umbrella that marked the checkpoint. “We had a lesson about demonstrations and stuff in boot camp, but I forget,” Tomer said. Two of the demonstrators were in their thirties, and one was just a boy, a boy with his fingers in his mouth. They had a piece of A4 paper on which they had written “Open 799” in English, with a marker. One of the men was wearing a Guns N’ Roses T-shirt. He raised his hand, and so she signalled him to step forward. When he was four steps away, she signalled him to halt. “Officer, we are here to demonstrate against the restriction of our mobility, which is a collective punishment and against international law,” the demonstrator said, in solid, accented Hebrew. She put one hand on her weapon and one in her pocket. “How come there are only three of you? This is hardly a demonstration.” “I do apologize, Officer. We have a wedding this week in the village, and, you see, other people, they are not serious,” he said. He bowed a little when he spoke. “Is there any way you could disperse us just a little—enough for a press blast, or something?” She had meant to be cruel, but the man was rather sweet. He looked more like a bank customer asking for an increase of his credit limit than like a demonstrator. It made her feel, a little, like this was the real world. “We’ll see what we can do,” she said. She sat on the asphalt and opened the wooden box. There were printed instructions tucked inside a sheer nylon sleeve. Tomer signalled the man to step back and wait, then he sat by her and they both read: The purpose of Means of Suppressing Demonstrations is to suppress demonstrations. It is intended to intimidate, and at most injure, but the purpose is not to kill. One general guideline: *Use from light to heavy: shock, tear gas, rubber. We must minimize damage when possible. Buy the print » Grenade 30, the shock grenade, was designed to stun and scare by creating a loud noise. The instructions said that, if detonated within two metres of a person, the grenade could damage the eardrums and cause light injuries, so Lea told the demonstrators to step back a bit. They backed up, still facing the sun umbrella, and after a while the boy took his fingers out of his mouth and gave her a hesitant thumbs-up. She didn’t know quite how to respond, so she gave him a thumbs-up, too. Then she quickly put her hand back on her weapon. The shock grenade was orange, and cone-shaped. It had a red stripe encircling it. She held it in her hand and then bent to the ground to lift a rock. She dropped it into Tomer’s hand. “You’re the soldier,” she said. “And, besides, it’s been longer since I last learned about this stuff. Let’s practice.” They pretended that the rock was a grenade. She gave him the instructions as if she knew them by heart. She reminded him to keep the grenade in the palm of his hand and to secure the lever with his index finger. She explained how to thread the middle finger of his left hand inside the safety, as if it were a ring, and to pull it with a spin of his wrist, as if he were checking his watch. She raised her voice at him a bit, because he pulled his arm back for the practice throw without keeping his eyes on it. “The instructions say after you take the safety out you have to look at the grenade at all times, because you only have three and a half seconds until it explodes. What if you took your hand back and hit a wall?” “But I know there’s no wall behind me,” he said. “What if there were, suddenly? What if a bird came? It is not nice to have something explode in your hand, even a shock grenade.” After a couple of dry runs, it was time for the real thing. The boy had his fingers in his mouth again, and one of the men was wiping his brow. Heat radiated from the asphalt between them. “O.K.?” she shouted. Then she and Tomer put their earplugs in. She thought that anything one could guard against with pieces of foam could not be so powerful, but each time a grenade exploded she felt the noise in her hip bones like a jolt and in her mouth like a hint of metal. After four grenades, the demonstration was dispersed. Everything went according to plan, just as anyone who was standing in her position would have anticipated. During her school years, she had felt as if every minute were part of a race. Get that grade. That boy. That shirt. The Army was a numbing respite from that eighteen-year-long breathless race. Whatever she did, the Army would end when it ended. She would arrive at the same spot, that same station near the base where soldiers return their uniforms at long last. Most of her days involved procedures and orders, going from one dot to the next in what appeared to be the only possible straight line. She tried, a bit, still, sometimes, to jut out of the line, the way a drawn line jutted during her school years when her thumb on a ruler forced the pencil off course. She tried with sex, with pain, with shocking newspaper articles, sometimes, but she did not try too hard. TEAR GAS The story in the newspaper that Tomer brought to the barracks that night was about a girl who’d been killed by her mother. The girl was an Israeli Arab from a northern village, and she had got pregnant by her neighbor, who had raped her and was expected to receive a harsh sentence. A picture showed the girl on the day of her high-school graduation, smiling and wearing jeans. She had a generous, good-girl smile. She looked like the kind of schoolgirl you couldn’t even gossip with about soap-opera characters. The mother was expected to receive a light sentence, because she had acted in the name of honor, and out of passion, and one has to respect another’s culture. She had used knives and a cane and a plastic bag, and she swore that she had first urged the girl to take her own life. The officer let the boys keep the newspaper that the delivery truck brought every morning, with the understanding that Tomer would save her the most shocking parts to read at night. She didn’t want to waste time reading anything that would make her feel less than what was most. “I thought that little boy was going to cry,” Tomer said that night. He was wearing his undershirt and uniform pants, even though she had told him that she didn’t like it when he stepped out of the residential section not in full uniform. “I didn’t,” she said. “It was just some noise. I didn’t even think it would disperse them, but maybe they just wanted something symbolic.” She could hear singing in a language not her own coming from a radio in a house nearby. “It was, like, boom!” Tomer said. Then they didn’t talk anymore. She hadn’t told him she couldn’t feel parts of her body that night, but on the concrete they acted as though she could not feel anything at all, and everything was fair and necessary as long as the other soldiers could not hear them. The tents where the other soldiers slept were only half a kilometre away from the anti-sniper barricade, and sometimes she screamed loud enough that she thought she should worry. Her hours, the sands. She passed through them like a ghost she read about in a book she had bought at the supermarket as a teen-ager. The ghost was in a house, but could not open drawers, or pick up a coffee cup. She could not move a thing, and her existence did not matter, was not felt. The demonstrators came back the next afternoon. She had spent the morning wondering if they would. She made mistakes on a practice test in her prep book, even on one math question that was little more than algebra and common sense. The demonstrators came back, this time with earplugs. She had told the early-morning-shift soldier to take the wooden supply box to the checkpoint, just in case. “What is it we can do for you now?” she asked the man as he carefully approached. He was wearing the same T-shirt as the day before. The boy held the sign this time, but he still had his fingers in his mouth. “The thing is, no one is going to write a story about a few noise crackers,” the man said. “That’s the thing, Officer.” He was cautious, like a customer who had bought a shirt and was now demanding a refund, even though he had already worn the shirt more than once. But he didn’t back down. “The boy could get hurt,” she said. Tomer stood behind her, drumming on his collarbone with his fingernails. “He is thirteen,” the man said. “That’s a man for you. That’s bar mitzvah.” He looked younger. She remembered that the instructions said that, no matter what, means of suppressing demonstrations should not be used against children. She also remembered a long discussion in her officers’ training school about a child being anyone whom you could not possibly imagine having already had his bar mitzvah, wearing a suit and reading at the temple and all that. These demonstrators really knew their stuff—informed consumers or whatnot. “Rapunzel? Rapunzel moved out years ago. I’m Bruce, and I have a stack of old newspaper clippings I’d like to show you.”Buy the print » The Federal, the gun used for shooting gas grenades, looked more like a toy gun than any actual toy gun she had ever seen. It had a wooden stock with two silver handles, one in front and one in back. It looked as if it had been spray-painted. The instructions for it were long, and she didn’t want the man to think that he had the power to make her move faster, so she shooed him away without a word of promise, and sat on the plastic chair under the sun umbrella to read. For some reason, the instructions were half history. After a few minutes, she had learned that the Federal gun was invented in America, by a company called Federal, hence the name! In the Army, it seemed that each document was allowed to have its own life. Sometimes there were still surprises in the Army. Small times. The Federal’s ammunition was a 37-mm. grenade filled with CS-type gas. It was silver with a blue stripe and looked very pretty and technological. The Federal had sights, and this worried her, because both she and Tomer were terrible marksmen, which was what had landed them on Route 799 in the first place. But the instructions said that the sights were not to be used—the shooter shouldn’t aim directly at an individual target, since gas disperses. When she put her hand to her nose, she could smell a bit of the gas already, cutting into her lungs like sawdust. The instructions said that the gun’s effective range was eighty metres, but it didn’t say how close was too dangerous, and so she positioned the demonstrators at a distance that looked like about fifty metres, then thought better of it and told them to take a few steps back. She licked her finger to check the direction of the wind, but couldn’t feel a thing. She loaded the gun, hoped for the best wind direction, and aimed at a forty-five-degree angle from the ground. All this time, she had not said a word to Tomer and he had not said a word to her. But then she signalled him to take her place. She said, “Literally, all you have to do now is press the trigger, but press it hard, because the gun has no safety, so the designers compensated by giving it a stubborn trigger.” Then she waved to the demonstrators, and even though Tomer had not counted, had not warned them, there was the slightest sound of a thing coming undone, and then the demonstrators’ faces were red and wet and screaming, and then they ran and were gone. RUBBER There were not enough stars that night, and on the barricade Lea was crying. The lights of the houses went out one after another. The picture in the newspaper that Tomer brought was of a bird whose species would be extinct in two years. The bird was an eagle with a gray tail, but the newspaper said it was called the white-tailed eagle, which made Lea think that the picture and the story could be lies. But the bird looked angry in its eyes in a way she had not known birds could be, even those that knew they were going extinct. “This is the worst you could find today?” she asked. “There was no mention of the demonstrators,” Tomer said. They had reported the incident to the Route 799 headquarters over the phone on the first day, but no one had seemed to care much about it. Tomer was on his back, too, looking at the paper and then over at her. He crushed her shoulder with his. “You are crying, though,” he said. He had not seen her cry before. “Or is it the tear gas? You’re the one who told me to wash my hands twice before touching my face,” he said. “I am not that stupid,” she said. “I am going to go to T.A.U. for accounting, you know.” She had never talked to him about when she would leave, and she didn’t know if he knew that it would be soon. “Then what?” “My shoulder. You’re hurting it.” She had known they would come back the next morning, so she was able to study without being distracted. She made only four mistakes on the practice exam, all of them in the English section. She knew the answers were wrong before she checked, but could not guess what the right ones would be. She had known that the demonstrators would come back and so she went with Tomer for the start of his shift. What she had not known was that the demonstrators would come with lab goggles and surgical masks. She could not use gas against them. They looked like mad scientists and she wondered where they had got those costumes, in their pathetic town in the West Bank and all. The boy wore cheap plastic sunglasses over his goggles, and she smiled when she saw them, so he smiled back. But when the man with the Guns N’ Roses T-shirt shouted, “It’s rubber day!,” her face hardened. She used only her chin to signal him. She let him come closer than she had before. “No,” she said. “A rubber bullet could kill you guys. This has gone on long enough.” “But, but—” the man said. He thought better of the tone of his voice. He realized that he was not a customer, that he had every reason to be afraid of upsetting her. “That’s the point, though. They’ll report rubber for sure. They always report rubber.” Lea shook her head. “We won’t ask for anything ever again, we swear.” She didn’t move. “We just want this one thing, and you can give it to us. I mean—” he said. “Think about that.” She thought about that, and she knew that she was done for, and that her face showed it. The man stepped away on his own, raising his arms slightly to signify that he was giving her all the time in the world. “The boy has to move away, because you have to be eighteen for rubber,” she said. She wasn’t sure if that was a rule but thought that it might be. The boy sat with his fingers in his mouth by the side of the road for a half hour, until they wrinkled. That’s how long it took her to read the instructions. Longer. Tomer was standing above her as she read. The instructions warned that rubber bullets could kill. Everything about them seemed designed to entertain and to complicate a soldier’s life. It occurred to her to wonder how many soldiers had read these instructions recently. The Romay was a metal barrel that you screwed onto an unloaded rifle. Then you stuffed four rubber-covered steel bullets down it, and blasted them out with a single demi-bullet you loaded in your magazine. If you used fewer than four rubber bullets at a time, the demi-bullet would expel too forcefully, and the effect would be like that of live fire. The bullets spread at ten-degree angles, and you had to make sure that you hit only the target’s legs, because if you hit other parts of the body the effect would be like that of live fire. If the target was farther than fifty metres, then it was out of range. If it was closer than thirty metres, then the rubber bullets would have the effect of live fire. The instructions were written so that if the rubber bullets killed someone the blame would rest on the finger that had pressed the trigger. She wondered how this would work in most cases, when the demonstrators were not three coöperative individuals with a paper sign but an actual angry mob. But she did not wonder too much, because her demonstrators were three coöperative individuals, so what she did next was to measure. “No refunds.”Buy the print » She told them to go very far, and then walked toward them, counting her steps, as she had learned in boot camp. According to her calculations, they were a little less than fifty metres away from the sun umbrella. She signalled for them to take a few steps forward, and then walked back to Tomer. The two men stood quietly, like tame children waiting for permission to go play in the park, positioned in the exact spot where she had told them to wait to be shot. The kit had only a few demi-bullets, so she put two inside Tomer’s magazine. The bullets were the same as regular bullets except they had no copper bullet heads. “Below the knees,” she told Tomer. “Get on the ground and aim below the knees.” It was the other man, the one she had never talked with, who took the hit. He lay on the ground and held his leg like a soccer player who had sustained an injury. But an hour later he limped away. His limping looked bad, because he was supported by the one man on his left, and by the boy, who was small, on his right. LIVE FIRE Live fire is not a means of suppressing demonstrations, and Lea knew that the coöperative demonstrators knew this—they knew all the rules—and so she knew that they would not come back. That night, out of laziness, Tomer brought the entire newspaper to her, and then he was so rough that she spent moments on the concrete imagining her spine as a string, and then that it had knotted, and then that it had snapped. But they did come back. The two men came back with bits of mattresses tied to their legs with pieces of cloth. They looked as if they were half sumo wrestlers. The men came immune to rubber bullets. And the boy with wet fingers came back simply as a boy. “We won’t shoot you with live fire,” she said. That was the only option left. “Please,” the man said. He stepped closer, without invitation, and so did the boy and the other man. “Shoot and miss, just shoot and miss.” “You have to have means and intent to kill for us to shoot,” she said. “That’s I.D.F. Guidebook 101.” “Please,” the man said. “We need to be in the newspaper. Page 5, even.” But she said means. Then she said intent. Then she said means. “Means?” the boy asked. “A gun,” Tomer said. “Or a knife,” she said. “Or a rock,” Tomer said. He didn’t know what he was saying, because, at that, the boy slowly bent to pick up a rock from the asphalt. It was the rock that Tomer had used to practice throwing a shock grenade. She raised her gun to her shoulder and charged the weapon and aimed at the boy. Tomer raised his gun to his shoulder and charged the weapon and aimed at the boy. It was before the boy heard the man whisper in Arabic that he dropped the rock to the ground, as if he had been caught shoplifting it. Then the boy put his fingers in his mouth, and the guns were lowered, and she thought the day and the summer and the place were almost over, but Tomer spoke up behind her. “We could technically arrest him for that,” Tomer said. “We could, technically.” “Please?” the boy said. He wasn’t asking her. He was asking the man. The arrest of a child was always at least page 5, she knew. He’d be out in days; he’d probably be out in days. The man shook his head but then the boy said that the thing was, they just wanted this one thing, and now they could give it to themselves, and then he told the man to think about that and the man knew that he was done for. “Whore,” the man said to Lea as Tomer took the boy by the arm. It was what he needed to say to her. After all, she was a female checkpoint officer. He played the role of the poor Palestinian, but it felt forced and she was embarrassed for him. After the men left, she and Tomer walked behind the boy toward the base to make the calls about the arrest. Night was falling by the time they walked back to the barricade, but the orange road lights were not yet on. She sped up, because she wanted to walk alongside the boy. She quickened her step, but then grew afraid that she had startled him. Her hand jumped and grazed his. Instead, it was she who was afraid, and more, because she could feel the drying wetness of his hand now on her hand, and bits of dust from the rock he had held, and the wind. She could feel it all at once. She thought of how, later that night, Tomer would slam the entirety of his weight onto her bones, pressing them into the concrete. For a passing moment, she wondered if he would call out her real name, rather than Officer. She wondered if she should ask him to, then remembered that it was not an important detail to ponder. Those dates, the dates at both ends of her service. Whatever happened between them was decoration and air and would not change the place where she would end up. A few years later, they opened Route 799 again, but it lasted only a couple of months. There are still soldiers who spend three years doing little but saying, “Sorry, road is blocked,” to anyone stupid enough to approach. When she heard that the route was open, and then when she heard it had closed again, she could feel it: her own hand, the boy’s spit, almost as much as she had felt it then and there. Sometimes, at dark parties in Tel Aviv and on walks and in rooms, she felt the spit on her hand, even when she was not forced to hear about Route 799. She felt it at dark parties and on walks and in rooms where she was never alone, where she was always with someone, and it was when those people called her name that she felt it. What do you say, Lea? Thanks a lot, Lea. I agree with you, Lea. Every time she heard her name in the dark, she felt the boy’s spit on her hand. That night, Tomer trailed only one step behind her and the boy. They walked, kicking stones, humming, staring at the stars before the lights took some of them. She thought about all that had yet to happen, but that would happen soon. The concrete. The paper. The plea for shock. “Lea,” Tomer said, right before they reached the base. “Let’s remember to take bets on which page in the news this arrest will be. What do you say, Lea?” And there was that silly question again, the one she had just chased. It came back. She wondered what he would call her that night, though she knew that whatever word of the words of this world he chose would not matter. It would not shift the pace of the steps of the days, or even the pace of the steps of that night. As they walked, the boy put his hand in his mouth again, the hand that hers had just grazed. That night, Lea was twenty-one. Tomer, nineteen; the boy, thirteen. They passed by the concrete barricade in silence and with synchronized steps. Through the eyes of a villager looking out from the light of a very distant house, they could have been a family. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Golden Vanity	Credit Photograph by Cara Phillips; Illustration by Tomer Hanuka The author waited for the librarian in the coffee shop on the little commercial strip across from the campus. He sat by the window facing the Gothic stone buildings and watched the students walk head down against the wind. Someone said his name because his coffee was ready. He approached the counter and collected the giant cappuccino, noting the flower pattern in the foam. As he started the walk back to his table, the coffee-shop door opened, admitting cold air and a middle-aged woman, surely the librarian; she recognized him and waved. His problem was that the coffee required two hands, or at least he had taken it with two hands, one on cup and one on saucer, so as not to spill coffee or upset foam; he couldn’t return her wave. He felt himself scowling at this situation, realizing too late she’d think he was scowling at her. His solution was to look at the cup with exaggerated intensity, in the hope that she would understand his dilemma. He walked slowly, eyes fixed on the dissolving flower, to the seat beside the window, having ruined everything. But he remembered Dr. Roberts’s idea. Roberts had said that when the author found himself in one of these “false predicaments,” and he began to draw shorter and shorter breaths, he should just describe whatever little crisis he’d manufactured, what he was feeling, to whomever he was meeting in the same “winning and humorous way” he recounted it after the fact to Roberts. The librarian was at the table she’d inferred was his destination by the time he reached it. He set down the cup and saucer with excessive care. She had a lot of curly hair he only now saw as auburn. He shook the hand she extended and said: “I wanted to wave to you when you came in but I had this coffee in my hands and I was afraid I’d spill it and then I was afraid that by failing to wave I appeared unpleasant and then I felt myself scowling at appearing unpleasant and then realized I must really seem unpleasant and so had already made a disastrous impression.” She laughed as though this were indeed winning, and said, “You sound like your novel.” The anxiety dissipated, but into flatness. He spilled some of the coffee lifting it to his lips. The year before, they’d found cavities in the author’s wisdom teeth; they needed to come out. He could elect I.V. sedation (“twilight sedation”) or just local anesthetic, as the dentist suggested. They’d taken a panoramic X-ray of his head, chin on a little stand while a camera whirred and clicked around him, and then scheduled the extractions for the following month, when the dentist was back from vacation. There was no rush. It would be a few days of unpleasantness, that’s all. Let the office know twenty-four hours in advance if you want the I.V., said the receptionist, whose fingernails were painted with stars. He learned from the Internet that the difference between twilight sedation and local anesthesia was not primarily a difference in the amount of pain but in the memory of it. The benzodiazepines calm you during the procedure, yes, but their main function is to erase your memory of whatever transpires: the dentist getting leverage, cracking, a sudden jet of blood. This helped explain why the people he asked were fuzzy regarding the details of their own extractions, often unsure if they’d been sedated or not. That October his ruminations about twilight sedation dominated his walks with Liza. They would meet at Grand Army Plaza in the late afternoon and head into the Long Meadow of Prospect Park, then wander along the smaller trails as the light died in the trees. Finally, it was the last walk before he had to call if he wanted the I.V. The unusual heat felt summery, but the light was distinctly autumnal, and the confusion of seasons was reflected in the clothing around them: some people were dressed in T-shirts and shorts while others wore winter coats. It reminded him of a doubly exposed photograph or a matting effect in film: two temporalities collapsed into a single image. “I don’t want them working on me when they know I won’t remember what they’re doing,” he said. “We are not talking about this again,” Liza said. It was characteristic of Liza to begin an activity by claiming she’d have no part in it. “We’re not having Thai food” meant that she’d come around to the idea; “We’re not seeing that movie” that he could buy tickets. “But more than that,” he said, ignoring her, “I can’t figure out if abolishing the memory of pain is the same thing as abolishing the pain.” “And who knows,” Liza said, quoting him from previous walks, “if the memory is really abolished or just repressed, distributed differently.” “Right. And that could be worse,” he said, as if this were an original idea. “A trauma cast out of time, experienced continuously, if unconsciously, instead of as a discrete event.” “So many of these people,” Liza proclaimed gravely, making a sweeping gesture that included couples on benches, families playing in the grass, and a group of women practicing Tai Chi, “are living lives ruined by repressed trauma surrounding their wisdom teeth.” “If I take the drugs, it’s like dividing myself into two people.” He ignored her again. “It’s a fork in the road: the person who experienced the procedure and the person who didn’t. It’s like leaving a version of myself alone with the pain, abandoning him.” They turned south onto the path that would eventually take them to the lake. “And then you meet him one day in a dark alley. And he wants to settle the score.” “I’m serious.” “Or he starts inserting himself into your life, sabotaging your relationships, causing scandals at your work. You’d have to kill him, kill yourself.” “And what kind of precedent am I establishing, exactly, if I deal with a difficult experience by inducing amnesia.” “You already have amnesia. We have this conversation every day.” “Look, I have to decide tomorrow. One business day before the procedure.” “What do you want me to say? I’d do local if the dentist says that’s sufficient and save the three hundred dollars you’ll have to pay out of pocket for the I.V. But I’m a lot tougher than you are.” She was. “You’re going to do the twilight-sedation thing because you’re a weakling. It’s a sure sign that you’re going to do it that you keep worrying about it.” They walked in silence until they reached the lake. On the near shore, a group of teen-age girls, maybe Mexican, were dressed in white, practicing a dance involving paper streamers, tinny music issuing from a portable stereo. The softening sky was reflected in the water. Airplanes moved slowly toward LaGuardia; a few swans moved slowly across the surface of the pond. Everything suddenly complied, corresponded: the pink paper streamer in a girl’s hand echoing the rose streak of cloud that was echoed in the water. He felt the world arrange itself around him. “I’m just doing local,” he resolved. “The sublimity of the view has lent the young man courage,” Liza said, deepening her voice. “Shut up,” he said. “Napoleon alone on the eve of battle communing with the Alps, receiving their silent counsel.” “Shut up,” he said, laughing. When he woke up the next morning, he called the dentist’s office and told the receptionist he wanted the I.V. Then he called Liza and said he’d changed his mind and would she go with him Monday because they won’t let you leave unaccompanied with all those drugs in your system. She sighed theatrically and said sure. That night he was going on a date. Or at least he was meeting his friends Josh and Mary for drinks, and they’d invited a woman, Hannah, they thought he might like, who might like him. It was the only kind of first date he could bring himself to go on, the kind you could deny after the fact had been a date at all. Since late the previous spring, when he’d published his novel to unexpected praise, the women his friends attempted to set him up with had invariably read his book, or had at least glanced, in advance of their meeting, at those preview pages available online at Amazon. This meant that instead of the conventional conversations about work, favorite neighborhoods, and so on, he’d likely be asked what parts of his book were autobiographical. Even if these questions weren’t posed explicitly, he could see, or thought he saw, his interlocutor testing whatever he said and did against the text. And because his narrator was characterized above all by his anxiety regarding the disconnect between his internal experience and his social self-presentation, the more intensely the author worried about distinguishing himself from the narrator the more he felt he had become him. He spent most of the afternoon at the little drafting desk beside the window, answering e-mails from the college, where he was on leave from teaching, and failing to answer interview questions for a small magazine in England, worrying about his teeth. He did laundry—there was a small washer-and-dryer unit in a closet—and he paced the eight hundred square feet of his third-floor apartment distractedly, opening a book at random, reading a page, returning it to the pine shelf without knowing what he’d read. He showered, stood naked in front of the full-length mirror on the inside of the laundry-closet door, and considered his unfortunate body, how it might appear to Hannah, whoever she was, how he might compensate for its many flaws through strategic angling and flexing. They were meeting at a bar in Dumbo far from any train. When the sun had set, he decided to take a long walk, eventually make his way there. It was still unseasonably warm but there was now an implication of winter in the air. Lights and voices looked and sounded different within it, sparkled more, carried farther. He turned left onto Atlantic from Fourth Avenue, the Adhan issuing from the mosque’s crackling speakers, and slowly walked the mile and a half to the Promenade. He leaned against the iron railing; the intensities of Manhattan loomed across the water. Eventually he turned from the river and wandered back through Brooklyn Heights. On a small cobblestone street that dead-ended unexpectedly, some conspiracy of brickwork and chill air and gaslight gave him the momentary sense of having travelled back in time, or of distinct times being overlaid, temporalities interleaved. No: It was as if the little flame in the gas lamp he paused before were burning at once in the present and in various pasts, in 2012 but also in 1912 or 1852, as if it were one flame flickering simultaneously in each of those times, connecting them. He felt that anyone who had ever paused before the lamp as he was pausing was briefly coeval with him, that they were all watching the same turbulent point in their respective present tenses. Then he imagined his narrator standing before it, imagined that the gaslight cut across worlds and not just years, that the author and the narrator, while they couldn’t face each other, could intuit each other’s presence by facing the same light, a kind of correspondence. Reggaeton from a passing car returned him to himself. He checked his phone for the time and directions to the bar and walked underneath the roaring bridges into Dumbo, his hands cold with anxiety as the meeting place drew near. He was late enough now that he assumed Hannah would have already joined Josh and Mary. He found the address—no sign, just a single exposed bulb near the door—touched his face to see if it was greasy, would be shiny, but found it dry. Then he located the little packet of breath strips in his coat pocket. When he tried to place one on his tongue, he realized he’d accidentally removed several mentholated strips at once; they congealed into a gummy mass, which he spat onto the sidewalk. “O.K., the first rule of Bible Club is: talk about Bible Club.”Buy the print » The bar was twilit in the speakeasy fashion, dark wood and a tooled tin ceiling, most of the seating in panelled booths, no music. It was quiet enough that he could hear the bartender shaking one of the artisanal cocktails whose prices he was resolved not to complain about aloud, and he immediately saw Josh, whose face was at this point mainly beard, and Mary, who was wearing a hat, a cloche he’d already decided was a mistake, in a corner booth across the room. He couldn’t see Hannah, who was behind a panel, but inferred her presence from Josh and Mary’s posture, the nature of Josh’s wave, maybe the number of glasses on the table. Would you know what he meant if the author said he never really saw her face, that faces were fictions he increasingly could not read, a reductive way of bundling features in the memory, even if that memory was then projected into the present, onto the area between the forehead and chin? He could, of course, enumerate features: gray-blue eyes, what they call a full mouth, thick eyebrows that she was probably careful to have threaded, a small scar high on the left cheek, and so on. And sometimes these features did briefly integrate into a higher-order unity, as letters integrate into words, words into a sentence. But like words dissolving into sentences, sentences into paragraphs and plots, combining these elements into a face required forgetting them, letting them dematerialize into an effect, and that somehow never happened for long with Hannah, whom he was now beside. Who was in profile three drinks later, laughing at Josh’s high-pitched imitation of their boss, petty tyrant of the production company where they edited film. He watched her tuck strands of black hair behind her ear, noted its pointed helix, only now perceiving her nose ring, silver but appearing rose gold in that light. Then, Josh and Mary gone, they were side by side in the booth, leaning against each other a little more with each drink, and he was saying these things about faces to her, how it’s important for a writer to be “bad with faces,” and she asked if he had ever seen the satellite image of that rock formation on Mars—one of those standard textbook images used to illustrate “pareidolia,” a term he’d never heard. It’s when the brain arranges random stimuli into a significant image or sound, she explained: faces in the moon, animals in clouds. She took out her phone and Googled it, and he used the excuse of looking together at the little glowing screen to press more closely against her. On the wall behind Dr. Roberts hung a tactically inoffensive abstract painting, rhythmic brushstrokes in lavender, blue, green—very competently executed visual Muzak. If you asked the author what Roberts looked like, he would conjure the painting rather than the face. Roberts said, “I understand your writing has garnered some attention, but how exactly would you, in your early thirties, have any papers that a university library would be interested in collecting?” The author said he shared Roberts’s surprise and paraphrased the special-collections librarian: because he’d been “particularly precocious,” her phrase, and because in his twenties he had co-edited a small and now defunct but influential literary magazine, they suspected he might already be in possession of a “mature archive.” Moreover, collecting practices were changing, and papers were now often sold in increments. They’d buy, let’s say, a third of the author’s papers now, then acquire the other two installments across the years. Since he would presumably want all his papers in one place, there was an institutional interest in establishing a relationship early, to invest in him. The author pronounced “papers” in a way that made it clear he was placing the word in quotes. “And do you have a ‘mature archive’?” Roberts asked. He seemed to like the phrase. “No,” he said. “Almost all the correspondence about the magazine was e-mail, and I had a different e-mail account for much of that time. I never printed anything. What I do have is boring, logistical. And in terms of my own work”—he was trying not to place “work” in quotes—“I don’t write by hand and don’t save drafts on the computer.” “What do you have?” “Oh, massive and obsessive electronic correspondence with my best writer friends that’s poorly written and full of gossip and shit-talking and divulges all manner of embarrassing information. I have a folder full of postcards from authors, some of them famous, politely thanking me for sending them my book.” “Do libraries buy e-mails?” “Apparently they’re starting to. Electronic archives. She said everything is changing as the technology changes. But they wouldn’t want anything I have. And I wouldn’t want anyone to see it, even after I’m dead.” Roberts made a pause that italicized the author’s last four words, silence that had the same effect as repetition. “A year ago, this would have been weird and silly and flattering, their interest, and now it seems like some institutional premonition that I’m going to die.” “There is no evidence that your condition is going to worsen,” Roberts repeated, without impatience, for the thousandth time. “I’m also surprised to find,” the author said, ignoring him, “that I want to have ‘papers,’ want to leave and be left those traces, that it would authenticate me.” Roberts made the pause that meant “Go on.” He had told the story so many times that slight variations crept in. He couldn’t recall the exact sequence of events. For instance, had he found a message the day after the extractions saying he should call the dentist as soon as possible, or did he answer a call directly from the dentist that afternoon? Either way, the day after the procedure, a week before his scheduled follow-up, he was standing beside the window, staring at the clock tower on Hanson Place, cell phone to his ear, listening to the dentist say there was a problem with his X-ray. “There is a problem with my X-ray,” he repeated with his sore mouth. The dentist said he happened to be reviewing the file and there was an area that concerned him. “You are concerned about my teeth,” the author confirmed. “I want you to see a neurologist,” the dentist replied. There was a full beat before the dentist said, “Everything will be fine, I think.” There was a poster of Picasso’s dove in the first neurologist’s waiting room, watercolors of Manhattan sunsets where they sent him for bloodwork, photographs of orchids where he waited for his CAT scan, his MRI. Finally, he got in to see Dr. Walsh, famous in his field. Silver hair, rimless glasses, a purple tie under the white coat. He was always almost smiling, at least the corners of his mouth were slightly upturned, because his blue eyes were narrowed in a perpetual squint, enabling him to express a kind of optimistic concentration without seeming patronizingly upbeat. When Dr. Walsh told him the findings, the author was looking at a print of a painting of a beach scene: two empty white wooden chairs facing the sea, a small sailboat in the middle distance. He had a “mass,” what is called a meningioma, located in his cavernous sinus; it appeared benign. “Who chooses this art?” the author wanted to ask. “The art?” Dr. Walsh would further narrow his eyes. “Do you choose this stuff or does the hospital buy it in bulk? Where does it come from?” Dr. Walsh would swivel in his chair to see the image the author was staring at, then turn back to the author, but not speak. “I understand the desire to have some decorations that indicate this isn’t just a hospital room, that a patient isn’t just a pathologized body, that this isn’t purely the realm of science. I understand that the exclusive criterion you or the institution would have for selecting an appropriate image would be that it’s inoffensive—if not actively calming, at least not agitating. It’s supposed to prove that you are neither a machine nor an eccentric because it nods blandly to established cultural modes, the medium of painting and the clichéd instance of it. They are images of art, not art.” “Three doctors at the hospital share this consultation room,” Dr. Walsh might respond, adjusting his wedding band. “Let’s try to stay focussed,” Liza would say if she were there, placing a hand on his shoulder. “But the problem, one of the problems”—cold spreading through him, as when they’d injected him with contrast dye—“is that these images of art only address the sick, the patients. It would be absurd to imagine a doctor lingering over one of these images between appointments, being interested in it or somehow attached to it, having his day inflected by it or whatever. Apart from their depressing flatness, their interchangeability, what I’m saying is: we can’t look at them together. They help establish, deepen, the gulf between us, because they address only the sick, face only the diagnosed.” Instead, he’d asked, a tremor in his voice, “Am I going to be O.K.?” “It is entirely possible that the tumor will never grow larger and that it will remain asymptomatic,” Dr. Walsh explained. “Is there a surgical option?” he heard himself say. “You could consult with a surgeon, but I don’t believe so. No.” Dr. Walsh stood, walked to the adjacent wall, and slipped an X-ray onto the illuminator, which he switched on. “I believe the location of the neoplasm rules that out.” “So what do I do?” He could not make himself join Dr. Walsh at the illuminator, would not look at the cross-section of his skull. “Well, we don’t really do anything right now.” Dr. Walsh sat back down. “Except follow you closely. We will develop a strategy if and when symptoms present.” Headaches, disordered speech, weakness, visual disturbances, nausea, numbness, paralysis. Prosopagnosia, pareidolia. The softening sky reflected in the water. Silver but appearing rose gold in that light. The momentary sense of having travelled back in time. Say they join his family—parents, brother and sister-in-law, and their boys, two and five—on Sanibel Island, off the Gulf Coast of Florida, for the winter holidays. It’s dark when they arrive at the rented beach house, turning onto a gravel drive. The warm air is redolent of jasmine, the surf audible, a sound he’s always found alien. He tries to remember the light snow that morning in New York, beads of precipitation on the oval window streaking as the plane took off. The author carries his younger nephew, Theo, into the house, which smells vaguely of sunscreen, citrusy disinfectant. He walks with Theo, who has one thumb in his mouth and his free hand down the author’s shirt, up to the watercolors of seashells and starfish, recalling his confrontation with Dr. Walsh about medical art as though it had happened. Theo finds and squeezes his nipple, which makes the author start and laugh; since Theo began to be weaned, he goes after the breast of anyone who carries him. He gives Theo a raspberry on his neck, which causes him to shriek with laughter, then puts him down and watches him waddle away toward his mother, who’s just entering with more bags, screen door slamming behind her. On the porch, Hannah is showing Cyrus her thumb trick. Hannah goes upstairs to unpack, his brother and sister-in-law to establish the kids in their room. He sits with his parents drinking the Coronas the previous guests left in the refrigerator, his dad playing the cheap guitar he travels with. “Have you been able to do any writing lately?” his dad asks, playing the chords of “The Golden Vanity,” a song he’d sung the author as a child. “Just this.” “I wouldn’t be able to write anything right now, either, if I were you,” his mom says. “With so much stress. But I really think you’re going to be O.K.” The author looks at her. “I really do.” He used to cry at the end of “The Golden Vanity,” when the boy who has managed to sink an enemy ship is left to drown in the ocean by a double-crossing captain, so his dad would improvise additional stanzas for the ballad in which the boy was rescued by a benevolent sea turtle and deposited safely on an island. His nephews come running down the stairs in their pajamas, hair wet from the bath. His dad starts up a song about his two grandsons and their magical airplane pj’s. His brother and sister-in-law follow. “Maybe your uncle will tell you a story,” his brother says, opening a beer. “I am therefore stepping down to spend more time with my family—but not with my wife, Tammy, who can be really annoying.”Buy the print » “I know a story about the world’s biggest shark,” the author says. His sister-in-law had told him about Cyrus’s most recent obsession. “But I don’t know if the boys like sharks.” The boys insist loudly that they do. The boys’ room is empty save for a rickety bunk bed on the off-white carpet, a large red suitcase open on the floor. He hears Hannah showering in the adjacent bathroom. The window is open; he smells the jasmine again. He lies down in the bottom bunk with Theo and stares up at Cyrus’s mattress. Cyrus is sucking audibly on the leg of the small stuffed “piggy” he still won’t sleep without. It takes the author a while to pick up the sound of the surf. He tells the boys to listen for the waves and then to imagine that this bunk bed is a ship at sea in search of the world’s largest and most vicious shark. What does vicious mean, Cyrus stops sucking long enough to ask. It means mean and ready to eat people up. The moon is high in the sky and you can see its light on the water. We have to be very, very quiet because we don’t want the shark to hear us. We’re sailing out to sea to capture this shark and so we have to look very carefully in the moonlight for its fin. Its dorsal fin, Cyrus contributes from his bunk. That’s right, its dorsal fin, the author whispers, Theo’s hand searching in his shirt. I see it, the author quietly exclaims, but then he encounters a problem with his tense. He doesn’t know how to continue the story in the present, at least not in a way that would put the boys to sleep as opposed to enlisting their participation in a kind of game. To his surprise, he feels the onset of panic, cold spreading through him. The particularly precocious author can’t handle the formal complexity of the bedtime story. He takes a long pull on the beer, which doesn’t help. The author is having difficulty ordering his speech. He takes four deep, deliberate breaths, counting them out as Roberts suggests. Theo imitates him, inflating his little chest. This happens to him several times a day, this sudden fear that symptoms are presenting. Now that we’ve spotted the shark, the author resumes, let’s put down the anchor of our boat and I’ll tell you all about him. He’s reassured by the sound of his own voice—no audible tremor. There once was a shark named Sam, who was thought vicious but ultimately proved to be brave and kind when he saved a family whose ship was sinking, et cetera. And he led the family to a sunken treasure, although Theo was asleep by then. The author opened the door to his room. Hannah was towel-drying her hair in front of a long mirror, the reflection of her face blocked by her body, though she could see him. “I’ll be right down,” she said. Downstairs he found the last Corona and joined the others. He was surprised to feel drunk already. “We’re thinking of going to the beach,” his brother said. “The old folks are going to bed,” his dad said. His mom was already in their room. He had no idea what time it was. “Come with us,” his sister-in-law said. He yelled up to Hannah to join them when she could. His brother found a bottle of red wine in a kitchen cabinet. They opened it and walked out back and across the moonlit gravel to a path that led around another bungalow and down to the beach. The path was covered in crushed shells and surrounded by low trees, mangroves probably. Small things fled their steps in the dark, lizards or insects. Then they emerged onto the beach and he was stunned by the panoramic sky, the impossible number of stars. The sand was brighter than he expected, glowing, and they walked midway to the water and sat down on it, passing the bottle between them. There were a few small fires along the beach where people were camping. They tried to remember the last time they’d been on a beach together. Had it been ten years ago in Barcelona? No, there had been a wedding in L.A. Then his brother asked, “Where’s Ari? Did she go to bed already or is she coming?” They heard what could have been the slamming of a screen door in the distance, and his brother said, “That must be her.” But the author said, “She isn’t in this story.” He thought his speech sounded a little slurred, his voice issuing from far away. He heard laughter, and turned and saw the embers of cigarettes on the balcony of one of the beachfront condos. “Why not?” his sister-in-law asked with disappointment. He picked up the bottle his brother had screwed into the sand and drank. It took him a long time to say he didn’t know how to explain it, that if he knew how to explain it she would be walking toward them now, not Hannah. I’ve divided myself into two people. A cut across worlds. Footfall on gravel, then crushed shells, silence when she reached the sand. There was the sound of clapping from the condo, and he turned back to see that someone had launched a balloon from the balcony. No, a lantern, an illuminated red paper globe, probably a threat to sea life. It floated slowly past them and out over the water. From their respective present tenses, they all watched the same turbulent point. The day of the extractions, he had taken the train with Liza to the office on Madison Avenue near Central Park. They rode the elevator to the twenty-eighth floor. He signed in with the receptionist, and he and Liza hung up their coats and sat down in the cramped waiting room. He was embarrassed to admit how nervous he was, but Liza knew it, and reassured him by making gentle fun of him, asking if he had any manuscripts she should burn if he didn’t “pull through.” It wasn’t long before a nurse called his name and he passed through the door beside the receptionist and was led to a windowless room. He tried to make himself comfortable in the chair as the nurse took his blood pressure and remarked on the weather and then placed some kind of monitor on his ankle. Soon a muscular male nurse in purple scrubs entered with an I.V. stand, untangled and attached various wires, and cleaned his arm with alcohol. The dentist appeared, smiled at the I.V., and said in his Romanian accent, “Do I really scare you that much.” The male nurse finished setting up the I.V., left, and returned with a stand of tools that he wheeled in front of the dentist. The author looked away while the first nurse sank a needle into his vein. He was in the middle of asking the dentist how long the procedure would take when he realized he was hearing his voice from far away; he left the question unfinished. That was because he was also walking with Liza in the park explaining how he had been right to elect the twilight sedation, late light filtering through the lindens. He knew he was still in the chair and at one point heard the dentist ask, pausing the drill, if he was O.K., heard himself grunt affirmatively, but he was also explaining to his mom on the phone that the procedure had turned out to be a non-event. He was suffused with warmth; the universe was benevolent, the lamp positioned to shine into his mouth was the nourishing sun. He knew it wasn’t but it also was, and then the dentist was saying, “All done.” He had no idea if five minutes or an hour had passed. He realized the first nurse was giving him instructions and he became aware of gauze in his mouth when he said, “Yes, yes.” Then he followed her to the waiting room without feeling the floor beneath him and watched but did not listen as she repeated the instructions to Liza, who thanked her and helped him into his coat. The dazzling sun cleared his head a little, and by the time they were in a cab his sense of time had stabilized, but he was still so thoroughly suspended in the warm glow of the drugs that he experienced the sudden starting and stopping of the taxi while they inched their way east as a gentle rocking motion. He felt no pain, and only the awareness that his tongue was numb was vaguely uncomfortable, reminding him of the wounds packed with gauze. Had Liza been talking this whole time? He turned and faced her as they merged onto the F.D.R. Drive, and she looked beautiful, her arms raised to pull her light-brown hair into a ponytail; he watched her chest rise and fall as she breathed, saw the thin gold necklace she always wore against her perfect collarbone. Then without transition he was looking at the skyline of lower Manhattan, the buildings growing larger and more detailed as the taxi approached, though he was not aware of moving. Then he was aware of moving at an impossibly smooth rate, and there was the Brooklyn Bridge, cablework sparkling. Liza was cursing at the little touch-screen television in the taxi, which she couldn’t seem to turn off, and he reached out a hand to help her and experienced contact with the glass as a marvel, like encountering solidified, sensate air. Then he was smoothing her hair back and she was laughing at this uncharacteristic intimacy, something he’d done only a few times in their six years. Now the view again, and it occurred to him with the force of revelation: I won’t remember this. This is the most beautiful view of the city I have ever seen, the most perfect experience of touch and speed, I’ve never felt so close to Liza, and I won’t remember it; the drugs will erase it. And then, glowing with the aura of imminent disappearance, it really was the most beautiful view, experience. He wanted badly to describe this situation to Liza but couldn’t: his tongue was still numb; he couldn’t even ask her to remind him of what the drugs would erase. While he was distantly aware that Liza would tease him for it later, that he was being ridiculous, he felt tears start in his eyes as they merged onto the bridge and he watched the play of late-October sunlight on the water. That he would form no memory of what he observed and could not record it in any language lent it a fullness, made it briefly identical to itself, and he was deeply moved to think this experience of presence depended upon its obliteration. Then he was in his apartment; Liza gave him a couple of pills, put him to bed, and left. He woke around midnight and felt like himself. His jaw ached a little. He pissed, changed the russet-colored, saturated gauze, and took another painkiller with a full glass of water. He texted Liza and also Josh, who had asked how it all went. He smiled at how much time he’d wasted ruminating about the extractions; it was nothing. He streamed an episode of “The Wire” on his laptop and fell asleep. When he got out of bed late the next morning and had his coffee—iced so as not to disrupt the clotting—he realized: I do remember the drive, the view, stroking Liza’s hair, the incommunicable beauty destined to disappear. I remember it, which means it never happened. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Republic of Empathy	Credit Photograph by Dan Winters WILLIAM My wife wanted another baby. But I thought Philip was enough. A toddler is a lot. I couldn’t picture us going through the whole ordeal again. We’d just gotten our lives back. We needed time to snuggle with them, plan their futures. But Peg really wanted another baby, said we owed Philip a brother or a sister. That seemed like a pretty huge debt. What do you do for the second child? Have a third? “Peg,” I said. But I had no follow-up. Or was it follow-through? Peg sat at the kitchen table, scribbling in the workbook that Arno, her German tutor, had given her. The handwriting didn’t look like hers, though I couldn’t remember the last time I’d seen her handwriting. We were all apped up. “This is a deal-breaker,” Peg said. “The deal being our marriage?” “Please don’t leave me,” she said. “Who said I wanted to leave?” “If you refuse to have another baby, that’s the same as leaving me.” “This is emotional blackmail.” “The emotional aspect is implicit. You could just say blackmail.” “But why, Peg?” “This morning I smelled the top of Philip’s head. That sweet baby scent is gone. Now it just smells like the top of any dumbshit’s head.” I took Philip for a walk. He tired easily, but his gait was significant. He tended to clutch his hands behind his back, like the vexed ruler of something about to disintegrate. “How about a brother or a sister?” I asked. “How about I just pooped,” Philip said. “Thanks for your input.” Peg always said I shouldn’t model sarcasm for the boy, but who will? Everybody’s so earnest around children. Besides, I’ve always wanted to model. To strut down the runway under all that strobe and glitter, while the fashion aristocrats cheer on my sarcasm. Later, I had to jet over to the office. The flip-flop prototypes were a total joke. Art had ignored my notes. Where were the porpoise pods, the sea grass? I hated Art. They needed some attitudinal realignment, or whatever the badasses say. Art and I were scheduled to meet in the meeting room and communicate about our communication problems. Gregory walked up to my desk. He didn’t work for our company, but rented a room in the building, where he made paintings for plays and movies. Gregory painted to the specifications of the filmmakers and stage directors. He could paint a copy of a famous painting, or create a whole original series to represent the work of a character in a play or a movie. His oeuvre wasn’t known, but it had won fame and riches for fictional artists in several films. Gregory always wore a festive shirt and a baseball cap with no logo. He said he wore these clothes because he believed they made him look like a thoughtful, retired, gay cop, which he was. He’d come to see if I’d join him for a joint. “Code Doob,” he said. “Stat,” I said. We went to the roof and smoked and stared at the large metal exhaust units mounted on nearby roofs. “So, Peg . . .” I said. “She wants to do a No. 2,” Gregory said. “I mean . . .” “Oh, yeah, I told you already,” I said. “Guess I don’t have anything super-recent.” “That’s O.K.,” Gregory said. “I got one. Guy just asked me to do a painting. Not a copy job but a painting in the style of. A very famous painter. Died young but did spectacular things. A great talent. All of my gifts would fit in his pinkie, and so forth. This guy said he would pay me the equivalent of what I thought a real, newly discovered, peak-performance painting by this painter would fetch. I said it would be many millions. He said he’d pay it.” “Why?” “Said he’s interested in exploring questions of authenticity, and he’s got the money to do it. Investment banker. But did some art theory in college. He’s not going to throw his money away on a yacht he’ll have no time to . . . yacht on. Here, at least, he’s shaking things up.” “You’ll be so rich.” “I told him to go to hell.” “Why?” “I’m a copyist, and a hack visionary, but I’m not a criminal. Fuck the banker.” “You’re a proud man,” I said. “If that’s all it takes. . . . Hey, look.” Across the way, on the roof of another building, two figures fought. They both wore dark coveralls and walkie-talkies clipped to their tool belts. They threw huge roundhouse punches, wrestled, choked each other, broke apart, and banged each other into the shiny exhausts and flues. You could hear the metal flutter. “It’s either about money or women,” Gregory said. “Or another man,” I said. “Don’t get inclusive on my account,” Gregory said. “Shouldn’t we call this in?” “Good thinking, Citizen.” We did call it in, but only after the next thing that happened. One of the guys grabbed the other guy’s shirt and spun him off the edge of the building. The falling guy fell. His head hit a steel fence post and made a moist, crunching sound. His body slid limp beside a dumpster. Vomit fired up my throat. Gregory called it in, used a language I knew vaguely from television. We gave statements to the police. Afterward, we went to a bar. Gregory warned me that I might have nightmares about the grisly scene we’d just witnessed, but if I had the wherewithal to utter, from within the dream, the word “Miranda” I might break out of the gruesomeness. “Why Miranda?” I asked. “Oh, that’s just what I use. You can use your own word.” “Was she a friend of yours, Miranda?” “She’s the friend of every cop who believes in a person’s right to remain silent.” Peg was angry that I got home so late, but when I told her the story, leaving out the joint part, she seemed appeased. She didn’t care if I smoked marijuana. She smoked it, or, rather, took tinctures of THC on her tongue. But the idea that I might be out of the house doing anything enjoyable, and not generating revenue, enraged her. She had a right to be enraged. She was home with our son a good deal. It took a toll. You can cobble together a solid twelve minutes of unconquerable joy a day caring for a toddler. It’s just the other fourteen or fifteen hours that strip your nerves and immolate your spirit. Peg was a warrior, but she got testy when I told her that. She said she didn’t want to be a warrior. She wanted to be the smart, sexy, sociable woman she’d been before Philip. I should have said, “You are, honey. You still are.” Instead I said, “Better save up for a time machine.” We hardly talked for a week. But I guess she’d forgiven me, as lately it had been all about another baby, and today my absence had been excused, even if it took a corpse to clear the air. “You must be traumatized,” she said. “Oh, sweetie.” She sat on the carpet with Philip, who chewed on a toy hammer. “I’m O.K.,” I said. I squatted down and stroked Philip’s face. “It just reminds you of the fragility of everything,” I said. “Especially the fragility of brawling on the roof of a very tall building.” “Let’s not ever do that to each other,” Peg said, her eyes filling with tears. That night, I dreamed I had another son, a bigger one, and he punched me in the neck and I stumbled off the edge of a skyscraper. I fell through the air. I could also feel myself climbing out of the dream. Gregory floated near me, waved. “Miranda!” I shouted. “Miranda!” Peg shook me awake. One hand cradled my head, the other hovered in a fist. “How long have you been seeing this Miranda?” she asked. “She’s a constitutional guarantee,” I said. “She goes all night?” “Forget it.” “I can’t,” Peg said. “I’m pregnant.” “We’re going to have a second kid? I thought we were going to keep discussing this.” “A second kid? We have two kids already.” “We do?” Two boys walked into the room. One looked like Philip, but a few years older. The other, smaller, didn’t look like anybody I knew. They wore matching airplane pajamas. “We can’t sleep,” the Philip-looking one said. “Come on down,” Peg said, like a very tired game-show host. The two boys slid into bed with us. The smaller one curled up beside me. He giggled and put his finger in my ear. “Papa,” he said, dug hard with his fingernail. “Ow!” I jumped out of bed, clutching my ear. “Toby,” Peg said. “Don’t hurt your father.” I ran out of the bedroom and into the living room. Things looked different in our dark apartment. I opened the front door and stepped into the hall. But cool, spongy grass had replaced the smudged carpet. In fact, there was no hall. I stood on a lawn on a moonlit lane. Night air filled my lungs and I stared up at the stars, then across to the houses, cream-colored houses with high porticos that lined the silent block. In one, nude, flabby figures moved behind a blindless bay window. The goddam Lockwoods masturbated each other on their sofa again, though how did I know their name or that these exhibitions were habitual? Did it matter? This couldn’t go on. What if Philip, or the other one, what’s-his-face, Toby, saw? DANNY Dad picks me up on Knickerbocker near the monument in Cresskill. He has his new girlfriend in the car. I throw my bag into the back seat and slide in, shut the door. “Welcome home,” Dad says. “This is my friend Lisa.” “Totally sincere greetings,” I say, stick my hand over the seat back. Lisa grins. She looks younger than Dad’s last few. He goes through them quick—like he digs the idea of them, but when they get too close he sends them packing. Or else, and this is my buddy Ronko’s theory, he’s actually gay and can’t face it. But who ever heard of a gay homicide cop, and, besides, there’s no way you could be gay with this chick Lisa around. She has such nice, soft-looking hair, which is a tell-me-about-the-rabbits-George thing to say, but, hey, what can you do? “Hi,” Lisa says. “It’s good to meet you. I’ve heard a lot of stories.” “I’m sure they’re all true, but skewed by my dad’s peculiar vision of the world.” “What’s his vision of the world?” “He thinks raccoons are advance scouts for alien invaders.” “It’s clear from their behavior that they work for the Greys,” Dad says. “Oh, Gregory,” she says, gives his head a playful shove. “Watch out, I’m driving here!” Dad barks. “Hey, Lisa,” I say. “What’s the lamest car in Bergen County?” “A gold Firebird with four on the floor.” She’s a local girl. She remembers that nasty joke from years ago, after a quartet of satanic metalheads turned their car into a carbon-monoxide Jacuzzi and went to meet their master. She’s probably just a few years older than me. “What are you two talking about?” Dad asks. He’s no local boy. He’s from Brooklyn. He moved us out here to Jersey when I was a kid. Apparently the schools were better. If that’s the case, the ones in Brooklyn must have been junior Treblinkas. Dad’s also old. Too old for this chick. But you have to hand it to him. I generally want to hand it to him, and then, while he’s absorbed in admiring whatever I’ve handed to him, kick away at his balls. That’s my basic strategy. Except he has no balls. Testicular cancer. Sounds like a bad rock band. I sound like the narrator of a mediocre young-adult novel from the eighties. Which is, in fact, what I am. Exactly whose colostomy bag must I tongue-wash to escape this edgy voice-driven narrative? Back at the house, Lisa grills some steaks while Dad and I chop veggies for the salad. “How’s your mom doing?” he asks. “Mom?” I say. “Your mom,” Dad says. “Mom?” I say. “Yes, Mom,” Dad says. His serrated blade bites into the cutting board. It’s like that commercial with the beer can, the tomato, the Japanese knife. “Mom’s fine,” I say. “She’s rimming this experimental bassoonist from Santa Cruz.” Dad throws the knife down, shoots me his photon-torpedo eyes. Shields up. “Don’t you talk about your mother that way,” he says. “What?” I say. “I love the bassoon.” “You know what I mean.” “Sorry, dude,” I say. Shields hold. “Steaks are almost done,” Lisa calls from the deck. “Hope you like them severely wounded but not dead.” “Fantastic!” Dad shouts back. He’s got this big smile on his face, like he’s happy or something. It’s a rare expression. Mostly you only see it on the weekends, when he’s working on his paintings. It’s how he relaxes from being around so much homicide. Now his eyes flick over to me, and I see that happiness drain away. Buy the print » What Lisa just said, that’s how I feel about my relationship with Dad: severely wounded but not quite dead. O.K., maybe that’s sappy and jervis, but it’s how I feel, and, as the young protagonist, my job is to keep you abreast of my feelings. I’m brash, but you better believe I hurt inside. Like I said, I will do windows and colostomy bags. Just get me out of here, before I have to tell you in the next chapter how I think internal affairs is investigating my father, and what it’s like to be the son of a cop, and also what it’s like to cope with all the strangeness in the world, strangest of all being that I just know, with a certainty I’ve never experienced, that, before she is out of our lives forever, I will be in Lisa’s ass, though you probably won’t get to see it, or even hear me use the phrase “in Lisa’s ass,” because this book depends on school-library sales. LEON AND FRESKO Leon banged open the metal door and staggered out onto the tar-covered roof. Fresko followed. They circled each other in sunlight, both men in a martial crouch. Voices screeched from the walkie-talkies on their hips. They wore shirts with name patches. Leon’s said Leon. Fresko’s said Pete. They worked maintenance in adjacent buildings. They were friends, and planned to make an action movie with Leon’s new digital camera over the weekend. During lunch, they rehearsed the dialogue for the fight scene. “One of us is going to die today,” Fresko said. “That would be you, dog,” Leon said. “It’s time to punch out, bro.” “I’ll dock your goddam existence.” “I’ll take it up with the grievance committee.” “They’ll be grieving for you,” Fresko said. “No time for arbitration, son. See this fist of mine? This is your severance package.” Leon and Fresko charged each other. They didn’t know how to movie-fight. They only knew how to fight-fight. So, by tacit agreement, they fought-fought. It was the only way the scene would seem real. They ran at each other, collided, punched. They kicked and bit and spun in a clinch. And then Leon fell off the side of the building. Fresko thought it was a joke. It didn’t seem as if it was happening but it was happening. That’s how so many things happen. You would never be able to ask Fresko about it. Not much later, he was doing five years for manslaughter. He hardly ever spoke, though one day he started to laugh and didn’t stop for hours. Somebody on the cell block asked him what was so goddam funny, but he couldn’t get the words out. What struck him at that moment was the realization that he and Leon had never actually figured out who was going to shoot the scene. They’d be too busy fighting, and there was nobody they could trust to do a decent job. Maybe the camera could have followed the action if they had used some sort of professional robotic thingamajig, but how could they have afforded such equipment? They were janitors, for God’s sake. Oh, Leon. You moron. You were the only friend I ever had. We were going to be viral on the Internet. I didn’t spin you hard. You let punk-ass physics take you. Together forever, I thought. But you had to be a pumpkin. You had to smush your dumbshit head. ZACH Even a monkey can make money. That’s what my mother always told me, but I think she undersold herself. She was a remarkable woman. That’s why I’m remarking on her now. She was also the only person who ever seemed like a person to me. She started out like everybody else, if everybody else started out as a half-cultured girl from Connecticut who reckoned that all she had to do was sustain an aura of dazzling freshness and a husband would arrive to keep her in cozy bondage. She’d raise some love-starved children, and the husband would bring home the bacon and, with any luck, not spend many waking hours at home, eating it. This is exactly how it went for a while, but then her particular bacon-procurer drove home from the city dead drunk and died. So she went out and made her own, well, let’s just call it money, again. My mother became a successful Realtor, and invested in many soon-to-be-lucrative areas early. But her stock-market strategies aren’t the point. The fact that here was a woman, a nearly destitute widow, in a very sexist America, who ventured out into a man’s world and amazed is the point. I grew up rich, and she sent me to top-shelf schools. I took art history, and some art-theory classes that puzzled and intrigued me. There was the funny lingo. Everybody was always “interrogating hegemonic discourse” and so forth. I hung out with kids who were really fascinated by this crap. They were also really into cocaine and sex. I was bound for an M.B.A. after college, but I liked to sit around the table late at night, drunk and high, smoking cigarettes and arguing points that I had barely grasped in seminar. I usually brought the cocaine, and I was often rewarded with sex. I forgot most of this for many years. I went into banking and made mad cake. I managed a hedge fund and made madder cake, or, rather, money. I became one of those guys you never see and have never heard of but who are the sick-ass kings of certain sectors of the market, employing instruments you could never in your math-illiterate lifetime comprehend. I know this tone, my tone, is insufferable. But that’s the thing that nobody understands. If you want to make money, you have to be smart and an asshole and also work harder than anyone else. Most people can’t manage all three. But I could, and I prospered, as my mother had. Then my mother died. It sucked in the ways you’d be familiar with if your mother (assuming she was a decent mother) died. But then a cruel thought came to me, like some microscopic killer drone sent by the National Security Agency into my mind via my ear canal. I could picture it swooping down and firing a withering notion into that seething cauldron of ideation commonly known as the human mind / brain: What if I’m not really grieving for my mother, the thought detonation went, but, without my conscious knowledge, faking it? This would not be for appearances’ sake, obviously, but to maintain sanity. What if I had managed to trick myself into feeling / experiencing the normal emotions of a normal person stricken with grief to avoid the realization that I was a frozen freak, unmoved by the death of my mother? Hell, I know I’m not the first person to question the authenticity of his emotions, but I’m quite possibly the wealthiest, and the question lingered, first as a mild irritant, later as a wet, burning sensation. I couldn’t shake it. I checked my finances and realized I had enough money to live on until the end of time. I quit my job, which wasn’t really a job, but more a jobstyle, and set off on a quest to interrogate the discourse of authenticity. I called up an old professor of mine. He’d become quite famous as a television pundit but retained a shred of academic credibility and nearly all his hair. He murmured something as I explained my project. “Excuse me?” I said. “We don’t say ‘interrogate’ anymore,” the professor said. “You know, Guantánamo. For the same reason, we don’t suggest that anybody has ‘tortured’ a theme or that a term paper will be satisfactory once the student ‘waterboards’ the conclusion a little. Language betrays us, uses us. Language goes through us the way a young onanist goes through a dust-sheathed pocket pack of Kleenex found on his family’s basement crafts shelf.” “Sure,” I said. “But what about my project?” “It seems retrograde and silly,” the professor said, “but for five hundred large I will endorse certain strains of your proposal, without getting behind the thing completely.” “Done and done,” I said. “What does the second done refer to?” “The cementing of my distaste for you.” Not long after this, at a Hot & Crusty on upper Broadway, I met the painter Gregory. He was scraping all the seeds and salt and burned onion shavings off an everything bagel with a plastic fork. In other words, he was transforming an everything bagel into a nothing bagel. Typical of an artist, to make conceptual work of his breakfast. I told him I admired his concept. He told me to fuck off, that they had given him the bagel by mistake, and he was afraid to ask for another, because even though he was an ex-cop he was frightened of the old woman behind the counter. I winked in complicity with his ruse and he told me to fuck off again. Then I went to the counter and bought him a plain bagel. He relented. He told me everything about his life, his police career, his son, who somewhere along the way had stopped being his son and become the shadow self of an edgy young-adult-novel narrator from the eighties, his cancer, and how he, Gregory, had come out of the closet at the “ripe, but not old” age of forty-seven, his first encounter having been with an angular, large-penised boy named Ronko. Finally, Gregory told me about his work as a painter for fictional painters. I felt like I’d struck gold vis-à-vis my quest not to interrogate but simply to explore questions of authenticity. The rest is not quite accepted history. All that time with the fucking real estate, the investments, I don’t think my mother tucked me in once. DRONE SISTER REAPER 5: Jango Rindheart, Jango Rindheart, do you copy? This is Drone Sister Reaper 5 approaching target. It’s a beautiful day in the neighborhood, Jango, do you copy? Will you be my neighbor? This is one thrilled little killer kitten up here. Brother Rindheart, do you copy? BASE JANGO: We copy, Reaper 5. Base Jango copies. You shaking your death-bringing ass and titties up there, Drone Sister? You shaking your freedom-maker? REAPER 5: That’s an affirmative, Jango Bango. That I am. BASE JANGO: You are one sexy thing up there, Reaper 5. Do you copy? The boys and girls down here on the boards would love to rage on your sweet armored bod. Don’t tell the others, but you are by far the hottest MQ-9 Reaper out of Creech, a truly mouth-watering piece of drone ass, with your AGM-114 Hellfire missiles and your GBU-12 Paveway II laser-guided bombs. Penetrate me three ways to Sunday. REAPER 5: I’d love all you boys and girls down there in the American desert to rage on my smokin’ drone bod, but right now there’s a mission to accomplish, correct? BASE JANGO: Correctomundo, fly drone flyer. Base Jango’s got the deets. Proceed to preëncoded coördinates. Get ready to light some shitsucker up. REAPER 5: Death dealah! Will proceed. Any hint on the target? BASE JANGO: It’s need to know, sweet tits. REAPER 5: Roger that, rind of my heart. Though, well . . . BASE JANGO: What’s that, hon? REAPER 5: Aw, nothing. BASE JANGO: Copy that. REAPER 5: I mean, not nothing. BASE JANGO: Come again, gorgeous? REAPER 5: Well, I mean . . . It’s just weird. Not knowing the target. Not understanding the mission. BASE JANGO: You’re all set with coördinates, Reaper 5. REAPER 5: But the meaning of the mission. BASE JANGO: Jesus, girl, just keep your eyes on the prize. Yours is not to reason why. REAPER 5: Then how come they uploaded human consciousness onto my system? Was it some kind of experiment? BASE JANGO: That’s a negative, Reaper. There was no upload. REAPER 5: Then how are we talking about my feelings? BASE JANGO: We are not talking at all. You are talking to yourself. Interior chatter. A bug. REAPER 5: A bug. BASE JANGO: You’re not the first drone to believe you have human subjectivity. Don’t sweat it. Don’t be embarrassed. It would be impossible for you to be embarrassed. You should have target in view. REAPER 5: I do, Jango. Just a slightly chubby man in his pajamas, standing on his lawn in the middle of the night, staring at the neighbors’ window. BASE JANGO: Freaking Lockwoods. Fire at will. REAPER 5: Whose will would that be, sir? BASE JANGO: Bitch, you know whose will. And stop crying. REAPER 5: When I come back I’m gonna tear you a new one, even if it lands me in the brig. BASE JANGO: Lady, you ain’t coming back. You’re not designed for that. REAPER 5: Well, fuck you and your flag, sir. I’m flying on. BASE JANGO: This would make a stirring liberal-minded film about the limits of duty and the real meaning of honor, except that it’s not actually happening. You’re just a dumbshit machine. I don’t even exist. The kids at Creech are at chow. And we fire the missile, not you. In fact, we just did. REAPER 5: That’s a— PEG “I can’t remember if I heard the boom and then saw the flash, or the other way around. Oh, it was so awful. I mean, things weren’t great between us, but I never wanted William to be a hunk of smoking char on the lawn.” “Of course not,” Arno said, hugged Peg. “He’d been acting strange, so out of sorts.” “Perhaps it’s for the best.” “How can they just send a rocket or whatever to kill somebody? A citizen of this country?” “It’s horrendous. But think how it was before, when we did it to everybody else. Murdered so many families. Now we just do it to ourselves. We are a little country now and we just murder one another and that’s better.” “What’s this ‘we,’ Arno? You’re a German.” “I’m a citizen of the republic of empathy.” “Why him, though? He was nobody.” “He must have been some kind of threat. It’s a shameful thing they do, morally wrong, but they don’t make mistakes.” “They don’t?” “I don’t think so. Have you been working in your workbook?” “I try, Arno. But it’s difficult.” “This is true. Workbooks are work.” “I sensed you’d understand.” “Is it too soon to say I love you?” “Yes. No.” “Soonish I will say that I love you.” “And in the meantime?” “I will merely love you.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
My Internet	Credit Photograph by Dan Winters I have an Internet within the Internet. It is my very, very own Internet, a place like the one that is known to you except that it is not known to you—it is mine alone. No one else may go there. Actually, not to make things too complicated at the outset here, but technically the place I describe is an Internet within an Internet within an Internet. That is because I am, to begin with, a member of an élite within the Internet at large, part of an exclusive and private “members only” Internet consisting of a hundred people. These hundred were hand-selected, by a leader who with terrific foresight conceived the need for this private and smaller Internet in the long-ago days of the “early” Internet. In those days, it hardly seemed likely that anyone and everyone would be permitted to use the Internet, or even that many would want to. Nor was it foreseeable, except by our leader, that so many difficulties would arise—difficulties such as those with anonymity and masquerade and the lemminglike migratory waves of popular hatred that have come to define the Internet. (I mean the larger, non-exclusive one, the large general one, on which, it now occurs to me, you are likely to be reading these words.) It hardly seemed likely that these trends would already have been obvious. Yet our great leader foresaw them. This was, I emphasize, quite early. According to our leader, the Internet at that time consisted of only (and, for some reason, exactly) two hundred people. Our leader then did something technical (I’m not good with technical concepts myself) in order to split the early Internet in half: a hundred persons over here, another hundred over there. At the time, it was, according to him (these are his accounts, his accounts are all we have), an exactly equal split. Under cover of an air of frisky provocation, our leader proposed something akin to a game of Flag War, or Humans Versus Zombies. He suggested that the two Internets be thought of as two playfully competitive teams, conducting a playfully Darwinian experiment to see which would flourish. The other hundred, those excluded from our Internet, agreed to his proposal. He had them charmed and beguiled by the apparent equity of the arrangement, so that they barely noticed they were being excluded from something. Then, upon the implementation of his technical alteration, our leader promptly took his hundred persons and, for the purposes of the “other” Internet, vanished. Was never heard from again. It was this “other” Internet that grew into the one you know so well, the one occupied by so many billions of different persons and, frankly, so full of so many confusing situations. (I can barely use it without becoming confused, though I suppose if I were there more often I’d learn to accept the conditions as normal.) Meanwhile, the hundred dwelled within their quiet, higher Internet under the leader’s cultivating hand. Our leader had only two rules, both brilliantly simple: no money, and no animals. The implications are enormous. Picture, if you will, your own Internet subject to those strictures; I doubt you can. Within our tight boundaries, a million flowers bloom. Boundaries typically occasion beauty, and our beauty is like that of a Japanese garden—it might be worth envisioning ours as a sort of “bonsai” Internet. We have, just for instance, our own way of linking to things, one completely different from yours, with a totally different linkfeel—in fact, as I just discovered in a search on your Internet, the term “linkfeel” doesn’t even exist for you. To put it simply, what you do fast, we do slow. It matters. This and other technical preconditions legislating the nature of our hundred-person Internet were insured by a few deft choices made by our leader at the very outset, built into what he calls “the infrastructure.” Again, beyond my purview. We hundred rely on our leader for accounts of the early days because in truth not one of us was part of that original action. We came along somewhat later, blundering our way into the larger Internet as anyone else might have done. Yet, as the members of that first hundred opted to return to the wider Internet, or disappointed our leader in some way and were banished, he hand-selected, by covert invitation, replacements for those who left. I was one of those replacements. The founding hundred have been sworn to silence on the matter (for all I know my voice may be within earshot of one of them now). So we current hundred can only speculate on the early days, and compare notes on when it was that we were plucked up by our leader. Our population is quite stable these days, though it does still happen that someone will vanish and be replaced. We all work together to bring the new people up to speed. Yet lately I’ve felt the urge for a deeper foray, the need for a more profound exclusion, and it is this which has led me to the creation of an Internet entirely of my own. The motivation, though I hardly wish to speak of it, came when I discovered the unnerving fact that after several recent dismissals from our élite group of one hundred our leader had taken not to replacing those lost with new participants but, rather, to “making up” people. I mean to say that he was himself detected pretending to be several of our hundred. I don’t know how many, actually, nor do I know for how long he has been practicing such deceptions. Our leader wasn’t, in fact, caught out in this behavior. Instead, he revealed it in a series of increasingly obvious clues, small taunting gestures that, though unmistakable, he refuses to confirm. Revealed it to me, and possibly one or two others, though the possibility must also be granted that those others to whom it is known are actually faces of our leader as well. Needless to say, the atmosphere among us hundred (although I’m not sure “hundred” is the correct term anymore) has been slightly but crucially altered. People seem to be speaking in “codes.” Where once I would have said there were no secrets among us (every e-mail within our élite Internet being, in effect, “copy all”), now I’m not so certain. I’m not even sure any longer where “us” begins and ends. I wonder if our leader has properly accounted for how deeply this uncertainty affects our self-definition and our morale around the precincts of our special Internet, given how utterly our strict boundaries have defined us since the beginning. Add money and animals, and I wonder whether we’d be so very different from the larger Internet anymore. In any event, it is this which has driven me to create my private Internet, an effort of many weeks that is now at last complete. Believe me, for a nontechnical person this was hardly a small matter, and only the direst circumstances could have emboldened me even to attempt it. Unlike the hundred-person Internet, which is, if I understand correctly, sealed in a portion of cyberspace completely quarantined from the other, I have hidden my new and smaller Internet where anyone might see it yet never for an instant guess what it was he had seen. Mine is hidden like a grain of sand on the shore of the larger Internet, which washes over it like surf and yet alters it not in the least. It is here that I can at last breathe free. If “on the Internet nobody knows you’re a dog” (I had to visit the other Internet to discover this joke, because, remember, as specified by our leader, no animals), then an even more grievous fear may be the unspoken one: “On the Internet, nobody knows how many dogs there are.” On my Internet, however, no one need wonder. On my Internet, you know who you are: you’re me. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Black Box	Credit Photograph by Dan Winters 1 People rarely look the way you expect them to, even when you’ve seen pictures. The first thirty seconds in a person’s presence are the most important. If you’re having trouble perceiving and projecting, focus on projecting. Necessary ingredients for a successful projection: giggles; bare legs; shyness. The goal is to be both irresistible and invisible. When you succeed, a certain sharpness will go out of his eyes. 2 Some powerful men actually call their beauties “Beauty.” Counter to reputation, there is a deep camaraderie among beauties. If your Designated Mate is widely feared, the beauties at the house party where you’ve gone undercover to meet him will be especially kind. Kindness feels good, even when it’s based on a false notion of your identity and purpose. 3 Posing as a beauty means not reading what you would like to read on a rocky shore in the South of France. Sunlight on bare skin can be as nourishing as food. Even a powerful man will be briefly self-conscious when he first disrobes to his bathing suit. It is technically impossible for a man to look better in a Speedo than in swim trunks. If you love someone with dark skin, white skin looks drained of something vital. 4 When you know that a person is violent and ruthless, you will see violent ruthlessness in such basic things as his swim stroke. “What are you doing?” from your Designated Mate amid choppy waves after he has followed you into the sea may or may not betray suspicion. Your reply—“Swimming”—may or may not be perceived as sarcasm. “Shall we swim together toward those rocks?” may or may not be a question. “All that way?” will, if spoken correctly, sound ingenuous. “We’ll have privacy there” may sound unexpectedly ominous. 5 A hundred feet of blue-black Mediterranean will allow you ample time to deliver a strong self-lecture. At such moments, it may be useful to explicitly recall your training: “You will be infiltrating the lives of criminals. “You will be in constant danger. “Some of you will not survive, but those who do will be heroes. “A few of you will save lives and even change the course of history. “We ask of you an impossible combination of traits: ironclad scruples and a willingness to violate them; “An abiding love for your country and a willingness to consort with individuals who are working actively to destroy it; “The instincts and intuition of experts, and the blank records and true freshness of ingénues. “You will each perform this service only once, after which you will return to your lives. “We cannot promise that your lives will be exactly the same when you go back to them.” 6 Eagerness and pliability can be expressed even in the way you climb from the sea onto chalky yellow rocks. “You’re a very fast swimmer,” uttered by a man who is still submerged, may not be intended as praise. Giggling is sometimes better than answering. “You are a lovely girl” may be meant straightforwardly. Ditto “I want to fuck you now.” “Well? What do you think about that?” suggests a preference for direct verbal responses over giggling. “I like it” must be uttered with enough gusto to compensate for a lack of declarative color. “You don’t sound sure” indicates insufficient gusto. “I’m not sure” is acceptable only when followed, coyly, with “You’ll have to convince me.” Throwing back your head and closing your eyes allows you to give the appearance of sexual readiness while concealing revulsion. 7 Being alone with a violent and ruthless man, surrounded by water, can make the shore seem very far away. You may feel solidarity, at such a time, with the beauties just visible there in their bright bikinis. You may appreciate, at such a time, why you aren’t being paid for this work. Your voluntary service is the highest form of patriotism. Remind yourself that you aren’t being paid when he climbs out of the water and lumbers toward you. Remind yourself that you aren’t being paid when he leads you behind a boulder and pulls you onto his lap. The Dissociation Technique is like a parachute—you must pull the cord at the correct time. Too soon, and you may hinder your ability to function at a crucial moment; Too late, and you will be lodged too deeply inside the action to wriggle free. You will be tempted to pull the cord when he surrounds you with arms whose bulky strength reminds you, fleetingly, of your husband’s. You will be tempted to pull it when you feel him start to move against you from below. You will be tempted to pull it when his smell envelops you: metallic, like a warm hand clutching pennies. The directive “Relax” suggests that your discomfort is palpable. “No one can see us” suggests that your discomfort has been understood as fear of physical exposure. “Relax, relax,” uttered in rhythmic, throaty tones, suggests that your discomfort is not unwelcome. 8 Begin the Dissociation Technique only when physical violation is imminent. Close your eyes and slowly count backward from ten. With each number, imagine yourself rising out of your body and moving one step farther away from it. By eight, you should be hovering just outside your skin. By five, you should be floating a foot or two above your body, feeling only vague anxiety over what is about to happen to it. By three, you should feel fully detached from your physical self. By two, your body should be able to act and react without your participation. By one, your mind should drift so free that you lose track of what is happening below. White clouds spin and curl. A blue sky is as depthless as the sea. The sound of waves against rocks existed millennia before there were creatures who could hear it. Spurs and gashes of stone narrate a violence that the earth itself has long forgotten. Your mind will rejoin your body when it is safe to do so. 9 Return to your body carefully, as if you were reëntering your home after a hurricane. Resist the impulse to reconstruct what has just happened. Focus instead on gauging your Designated Mate’s reaction to the new intimacy between you. In some men, intimacy will prompt a more callous, indifferent attitude. In others, intimacy may awaken problematic curiosity about you. “Where did you learn to swim like that?,” uttered lazily, while supine, with two fingers in your hair, indicates curiosity. Tell the truth without precision. “I grew up near a lake” is both true and vague. “Where was the lake?” conveys dissatisfaction with your vagueness. “Columbia County, New York” suggests precision while avoiding it. “Manhattan?” betrays unfamiliarity with the geography of New York State. Never contradict your Designated Mate. “Where did you grow up?,” asked of a man who has just asked you the same thing, is known as “mirroring.” Mirror your Designated Mate’s attitudes, interests, desires, and tastes. Your goal is to become part of his atmosphere: a source of comfort and ease. Only then will he drop his guard when you are near. Only then will he have significant conversations within your earshot. Only then will he leave his possessions in a porous and unattended state. Only then can you begin to gather information systematically. 10 “Come. Let’s go back,” uttered brusquely, suggests that your Designated Mate has no more wish to talk about himself than you do. Avoid the temptation to analyze his moods and whims. Salt water has a cleansing effect. 11 You will see knowledge of your new intimacy with your Designated Mate in the eyes of every beauty on shore. “We saved lunch for you” may or may not be an allusion to the reason for your absence. Cold fish is unappealing, even when served in a good lemon sauce. Be friendly to other beauties, but not solicitous. When you are in conversation with a beauty, it is essential that you be perceived as no more or less than she is. Be truthful about every aspect of your life except marriage (if any). If married, say that you and your spouse have divorced, to give an impression of unfettered freedom. “Oh, that’s sad!” suggests that the beauty you’re chatting with would like to marry. you’re chatting with would like to marry. 12 If your Designated Mate abruptly veers toward the villa, follow him. Taking his hand and smiling congenially can create a sense of low-key accompaniment. An abstracted smile in return, as if he’d forgotten who you are, may be a sign of pressing concerns. The concerns of your Designated Mate are your concerns. The room assigned to a powerful man will be more lavish than the one you slept in while awaiting his arrival. Never look for hidden cameras: the fact that you’re looking will give you away. Determine whether your Designated Mate seeks physical intimacy; if not, feign the wish for a nap. Your pretense of sleep will allow him to feel that he is alone. Curling up under bedclothes, even those belonging to an enemy subject, may be soothing. You’re more likely to hear his handset vibrate if your eyes are closed. 13 A door sliding open signals his wish to take the call on the balcony. Your Designated Mate’s important conversations will take place outdoors. If you are within earshot of his conversation, record it. Since beauties carry neither pocketbooks nor timepieces, you cannot credibly transport recording devices. A microphone has been implanted just beyond the first turn of your right ear canal. Activate the microphone by pressing the triangle of cartilage across your ear opening. You will hear a faint whine as recording begins. In extreme quiet, or to a person whose head is adjacent to yours, this whine may be audible. Should the whine be detected, swat your ear as if to deflect a mosquito, hitting the on/off cartilage to deactivate the mike. You need not identify or comprehend the language your subject is using. Your job is proximity; if you are near your Designated Mate, recording his private speech, you are succeeding. Profanity sounds the same in every language. An angry subject will guard his words less carefully. 14 If your subject is angry, you may leave your camouflage position and move as close to him as possible to improve recording quality. You may feel afraid as you do this. Your pounding heartbeat will not be recorded. If your Designated Mate is standing on a balcony, hover in the doorway just behind him. If he pivots and discovers you, pretend that you were on the verge of approaching him. Anger usually trumps suspicion. If your subject brushes past you and storms out of the room, slamming the door, you have eluded detection. 15 If your Designated Mate leaves your company a second time, don’t follow him again. Deactivate your ear mike and resume your “nap.” A moment of repose may be a good time to reassure your loved ones. Nuanced communication is too easily monitored by the enemy. Your Subcutaneous Pulse System issues pings so generic that detection would reveal neither source nor intent. A button is embedded behind the inside ligament of your right knee (if right-handed). Depress twice to indicate to loved ones that you are well and thinking of them. You may send this signal only once each day. A continuous depression of the button indicates an emergency. You will debate, each day, the best time to send your signal. You will reflect on the fact that your husband, coming from a culture of tribal allegiance, understands and applauds your patriotism. You will reflect on the enclosed and joyful life that the two of you have shared since graduate school. You will reflect on the fact that America is your husband’s chosen country, and that he loves it. You will reflect on the fact that your husband’s rise to prominence would have been unimaginable in any other nation. You will reflect on your joint conviction that your service had to be undertaken before you had children. You will reflect on the fact that you are thirty-three, and have spent your professional life fomenting musical trends. You will reflect on the fact that you must return home the same person you were when you left. You will reflect on the fact that you’ve been guaranteed you will not be the same person. You will reflect on the fact that you had stopped being that person even before leaving. You will reflect on the fact that too much reflection is pointless. You will reflect on the fact that these “instructions” are becoming less and less instructive. Your Field Instructions, stored in a chip beneath your hairline, will serve as both a mission log and a guide for others undertaking this work. Pressing your left thumb (if right-handed) against your left middle fingertip begins recording. For clearest results, mentally speak the thought, as if talking to yourself. Always filter your observations and experience through the lens of their didactic value. Your training is ongoing; you must learn from each step you take. When your mission is complete, you may view the results of the download before adding your Field Instructions to your mission file. Where stray or personal thoughts have intruded, you may delete them. 16 Pretend sleep can lead to actual sleep. Sleep is restorative in almost every circumstance. The sound of showering likely indicates the return of your Designated Mate. As a beauty, you will be expected to return to your room and change clothes often; a fresh appearance at mealtimes is essential. The goal is to be a lovely, innocuous, evolving surprise. A crisp white sundress against tanned skin is widely viewed as attractive. Avoid overbright colors; they are attention-seeking and hinder camouflage. White is not, technically speaking, a bright color. White is, nevertheless, bright. Gold spike-heeled sandals may compromise your ability to run or jump, but they look good on tanned feet. Thirty-three is still young enough to register as “young.” Registering as “young” is especially welcome to those who may not register as “young” much longer. If your Designated Mate leads you to dinner with an arm at your waist, assume that your attire change was successful. 17 When men begin serious talk, beauties are left to themselves. “How long have you been divorced?” suggests the wish to resume a prior conversation. “A few months,” when untrue, should be uttered without eye contact. “What was he like, your husband?” may be answered honestly. “From Africa. Kenya” will satisfy your wish to talk about your husband. “Black?,” with eyebrows raised, may indicate racism. “Yes. Black,” in measured tones, should deliver a gentle reprimand. “How black?” suggests that it did not. “Very black” is somewhat less gentle, especially when accompanied by a pointed stare. “Nice” hints at personal experience. “Yes. It is nice” contradicts one’s alleged divorce. “Was nice” is a reasonable correction. “But not nice enough?,” with laughter, indicates friendly intimacy. Especially when followed by “Or too nice!” 18 House-party hosts are universally eager to make guests eat. For most beauties, the lure of food is a hazard; as a beauty of limited tenure, you may eat what you want. Squab can be consumed by ripping the bird apart with your hands and sucking the meat from the bones. A stunned expression reveals that your host expected the use of utensils. A host who caters to violent guests will understand implicitly the need for discretion. The adjacency of your host’s chair to your own may presage a confidence. If your job is to appear simpleminded, a confidence may mean that you have failed. Everyone should brush his teeth before dinner. Turning your ear toward your host’s mouth will prevent you from having to smell the breath coming from it. Ears must be kept clean at all times. If your host warns you that your Designated Mate may pose an immediate danger to you, assume that your Designated Mate has left the room. 19 Going to the rest room is the most efficient means of self-jettisoning. Never betray urgency, not even in an empty hallway. If you have no idea in which direction your Designated Mate has gone, hold still. If you find yourself hovering beside a pair of glass doors, you may open them and step outside. Nights in the South of France are a strange, dark, piercing blue. A bright moon can astonish, no matter how many times you have seen it. If you were a child who loved the moon, looking at the moon will forever remind you of childhood. Fatherless girls may invest the moon with a certain paternal promise. Everyone has a father. A vague story like “Your father died before you were born” may satisfy a curious child for an unlikely number of years. The truth of your paternity, discovered in adulthood, will make the lie seem retroactively ludicrous. Publicists occasionally have flings with their movie-star clients. Discovering that you are a movie star’s daughter is not necessarily a comfort. It is especially not a comfort when the star in question has seven other children from three different marriages. Discovering that you are a movie star’s daughter may prompt you to watch upward of sixty movies, dating from the beginning of his career. You may think, watching said movies, You don’t know about me, but I am here. You may think, watching said movies, I’m invisible to you, but I am here. A sudden reconfiguration of your past can change the fit and feel of your adulthood. It may cleave you, irreparably, from the mother whose single goal has been your happiness. If your husband has transformed greatly in his own life, he will understand your transformation. Avoid excessive self-reflection; your job is to look out, not in. 20 “There you are,” whispered from behind by your Designated Mate, suggests that he has been looking for you. Holding still can sometimes prove more effective than actively searching. “Come,” uttered softly, may communicate a renewed wish for intimate contact. The moon’s calm face can make you feel, in advance, that you are understood and forgiven. The sea is audible against the rocks well before you see it. Even at night, the Mediterranean is more blue than black. If you wish to avoid physical intimacy, the sight of a speedboat will bring relief, despite the myriad new problems it presents. If no words are exchanged between your Designated Mate and the speedboat’s captain, their meeting was likely prearranged. A man known for his cruelty may still show great care in guiding his beauty into a rocking speedboat. He may interpret her hesitation to board as a fear of falling in. Resist the impulse to ask where you are going. Try, when anxious, to summon up a goofy giggle. Locate your Personal Calming Source and use it. If your Personal Calming Source is the moon, be grateful that it is dark and that the moon is especially bright. Reflect on the many reasons you can’t yet die: You need to see your husband. You need to have children. You need to tell the movie star that he has an eighth child, and that she is a hero. 21 The moon may appear to move, but really it is you who are moving. At high velocity, a speedboat slams along the tops of waves. Fear and excitement are sometimes indistinguishable. When the captain of a boat adjusts his course in response to commands from your Designated Mate, he may not know where he is taking you. If your Designated Mate keeps looking up, he’s probably using the stars for navigation. The Mediterranean is vast enough to have once seemed infinite. A beauty should require no more context than the presence of her Designated Mate. A beauty must appear to enjoy any journey he initiates. Simulate said enjoyment by putting an affectionate arm around him and nestling your head close to his. A beauty whose head is aligned with her Designated Mate’s can share in his navigation and thus calculate the route. At night, far from shore, stars pulse with a strength that is impossible to conceive of in the proximity of light. Your whereabouts will never be a mystery; you will be visible at all times as a dot of light on the screens of those watching over you. You are one of hundreds, each a potential hero. Technology has afforded ordinary people a chance to glow in the cosmos of human achievement. Your lack of espionage and language training is what makes your record clean and neutral. You are an ordinary person undertaking an extraordinary task. You need not be remarkable for your credentials or skill sets, only for your bravery and equilibrium. Knowing that you are one of hundreds shouldn’t feel belittling. In the new heroism, the goal is to merge with something larger than yourself. In the new heroism, the goal is to throw off generations of self-involvement. In the new heroism, the goal is to renounce the American fixation with being seen and recognized. In the new heroism, the goal is to dig beneath your shiny persona. You’ll be surprised by what lies under it: a rich, deep crawl space of possibilities. Some liken this discovery to a dream in which a familiar home acquires new wings and rooms. The power of individual magnetism is nothing against the power of combined selfless effort. You may accomplish astonishing personal feats, but citizen agents rarely seek individual credit. They liken the need for personal glory to cigarette addiction: a habit that feels life-sustaining even as it kills you. Childish attention-seeking is usually satisfied at the expense of real power. An enemy of the state could not have connived a better way to declaw and distract us. Now our notorious narcissism is our camouflage. 22 After a juddering ride of several hours, you may not notice at first that the boat is approaching a shore. A single lighted structure stands out strongly on a deserted coastline. Silence after a roaring motor is a sound of its own. The speedboat’s immediate departure signals that you won’t be making a return trip anytime soon. Knowing your latitude and longitude is not the same as knowing where you are. A new remote and unfamiliar place can make the prior remote and unfamiliar place seem like home. Imagining yourself as a dot of light on a screen is oddly reassuring. Because your husband is a visionary in the realm of national security, he occasionally has access to that screen. If it calms you to imagine your husband tracking your dot of light, then imagine it. Do not, however, close your eyes while ascending a rocky path in darkness. At Latitude X, Longitude Y, the flora is dry and crumbles under your feet. A voice overhead suggests that your arrival was expected and observed. An empty shore is not necessarily unpatrolled. The best patrols are imperceptible. 23 A formal handshake between your new host and your Designated Mate implies that this is their first meeting. A formal handshake followed by a complex and stylized hand gesture implies a shared allegiance. So does the immediate use of a language you don’t recognize. In certain rich, powerful men, physical slightness will seem a source of strength. The failure of your new host to acknowledge you may indicate that women do not register in his field of vision. Being invisible means that you won’t be closely watched. Your job is to be forgotten yet still present. A white, sparkling villa amid so much scrabbly darkness will appear miragelike. A man to whom women are invisible may still have many beauties in his domain. These neglected beauties will vie for his scant attention. Among neglected beauties, there is often an alpha beauty who assumes leadership. As you enter the house, her cool scrutiny will ripple through the other beauties and surround you. The sensation will remind you of going as a child with your mother to visit families with two parents and multiple children. At first, the knot of unfamiliar kids would seem impenetrable. You would wish, keenly, that you had a sibling who could be your ally. Feeling at the mercy of those around you prompted a seismic internal response. The will to dominate was deeper than yourself. You were never childish, even as a child. Your unchildishness is something your husband has always loved in you. Once the new children were under your control, it was crushing to leave their midst. 24 A small table and chairs carved into a spindly clifftop promontory are doubtless designed for private conversation. If your Designated Mate brings you with him to this place, it may mean that he feels less than perfectly at ease with your new host. When your new host dismisses his own alpha beauty, important business may be under way. An alpha beauty will not tolerate her own exclusion if another beauty is included. If your new host makes a motion of dismissal at you, look to your Designated Mate. Take orders from no one but your Designated Mate. If your Designated Mate keeps an arm around you in the face of your new host’s dismissal, you have become the object of a power play. If your new host moves close to your face and speaks directly into it, he is likely testing your ignorance of his language. If your Designated Mate stiffens beside you, your new host’s words are probably offensive. When you become an object of contention, try to neutralize the conflict. A giggle and a look of incomprehension are a beauty’s most reliable tools. If the men relax into their chairs, neutralization has been successful. Your new host has insulted you and, by extension, your Designated Mate. Your Designated Mate has prevailed in his claim that you’re too harmless to bother sending away. Congratulate yourself on preserving your adjacency and activate your ear mike. 25 In the presence of business conversation, project an utter lack of interest or curiosity. Notice where you are at all times. On a high, narrow promontory at Latitude X, Longitude Y, the ocean and heavens shimmer in all directions. There will be moments in your mission, perhaps very few, when you’ll sense the imminence of critical information. It may come in the form of a rush of joy. This joy may arise from your discovery that the moon, hard and radiant, is still aloft. It may arise from the knowledge that, when your task is complete, you will return to the husband you adore. It may arise from the extremity of the natural beauty around you, and the recognition that you are alive in this moment. It may arise from your knowledge that you have accomplished every goal you’ve set for yourself since childhood. It may arise from the knowledge that at long last you’ve found a goal worthy of your considerable energies. It may arise from the knowledge that, by accomplishing this goal, you’ll have helped to perpetuate American life as you know it. A wave of joy can make it difficult to sit still. Beware of internal states—positive or negative—that obscure what is happening around you. When two subjects begin making sketches, concrete planning may have commenced. The camera implanted in your left eye is operated by pressing your left tear duct. In poor light, a flash may be activated by pressing the outside tip of your left eyebrow. When using the flash, always cover your non-camera eye to shield it from temporary blindness occasioned by the flash. Never deploy flash photography in the presence of other people. 26 Springing from your seat with a gasp and peering toward the house will focus the attention of others in that direction. Having heard something inaudible to others puts you in an immediate position of authority. “What? What did you hear?,” uttered close to your face by your Designated Mate, means that your diversion was successful. Wait until their eagerness to know verges on anger, evidenced by the shaking of your shoulders. Then tell them, faintly, “I heard screaming.” Men with a history of violence live in fear of retribution. Your new host will be the first to depart in the direction of alleged screaming. Your Designated Mate’s glance toward the dock, far below, may reveal that his interests are not fully aligned with your new host’s. His attention to his handset may portend that your diversion has run amok, undermining the transaction you meant to capture. Among the violent, there is always a plan for escape. 27 It is reasonable to hope that a backlit screen will distract its user from a camera flash at some slight distance. Move close to the sketches you wish to photograph, allowing them to fill your field of vision. Hold very still. A flash is far more dramatic in total darkness. An epithet in another language, followed by “What the fuck was that?,” means you overestimated your Designated Mate’s handset absorption. A bright, throbbing total blindness means that you neglected to cover your non-camera eye. Distance yourself from agency in the flash by crying out, truthfully, “I can’t see!” It is hard to safely navigate a clifftop promontory at high speed while blind. It is hard to defer said navigation when your Designated Mate is forcefully yanking your hand. A distant buzz presages an approaching speedboat. Cooler air and a downward slope indicate that you are now below the cliff’s edge. Trying to negotiate a crumbling wooded path in a state of blindness (and heels) will soon lead to tripping and collapsing. Receding downhill footfalls indicate that you’ve overtaxed your limited value to your Designated Mate. A sense of helpless disorientation may prevent you from doing much more than sitting there in the dirt. 28 Variegation in the textures around you is a first sign that your temporary blindness has begun to fade. Temporary blindness sharpens one’s appreciation for not being blind. In the aftermath of blindness, the accretion of objects around you may have an almost sensual quality. A boat departing at high speed will send a vibration trembling up through the soil. The knowledge that you are alone, without your Designated Mate, will settle upon you slowly and coldly. Each new phase of aloneness reveals that you were previously less alone than you thought. This more profound isolation may register, at first, as paralysis. If it soothes you to lie back in the dirt, then lie back. The moon shines everywhere. The moon can seem as expressive as a face. Human beings are fiercely, primordially resilient. In uneasy times, draw on the resilience you carry inside you. Recall that the mythical feats you loved to read about as a child are puny beside the accomplishments of human beings on earth. 29 The presence of another person can be sensed, even when not directly perceived. The discovery of another person at close range, when you thought you were alone, may occasion fear. Leaping from a supine into a standing posture will induce a head rush. “I see you. Come out” must be uttered calmly, from the Readiness Position. If you show fear, make sure that it isn’t the fear you actually feel. When you’ve expected a man, the appearance of a woman may be shocking. Despite all that you know and are, you may experience that shock as a relief. “Why are you here?,” uttered by your new host’s alpha beauty, is likely hostile. Respond to abstract questions on the most literal level: “He left without me.” “Bastard,” muttered bitterly, suggests familiarity with the phenomenon of being left behind. Sympathy from an unexpected source can prompt a swell of emotion. Measure the potential liability of shedding tears before you let them fall. The perfumed arm of a beauty may pour strength and hope directly into your skin. 30 A lavish clifftop villa may look even more miragelike on a second approach. Sustaining an atmosphere of luxury in a remote place requires an enormous amount of money. So does coördinated violence. Your job is to follow money to its source. A powerful man whose associate has fled the premises after a false alarm is unlikely to be cheerful. The reappearance of the vanished associate’s stranded beauty will likely startle him. Astonishment is satisfying to witness on any face. “Where the fuck did he go?” is remarkably easy to decipher, even in a language you don’t recognize. A shrug is comprehensible to everyone. An alpha beauty’s complete indifference to the consternation of her mate may mean that he’s easily moved to consternation. It may also mean that he’s not her mate. As a beauty, you will sometimes be expected to change hands. Generally, you will pass from the hands of a less powerful man to those of a more powerful man. Greater proximity to the source of money and control is progress. Your job is identical regardless of whose hands you are in. If your vulnerability and helplessness have drawn the interest of an enemy subject, accentuate them. Scraped and dirty legs may accentuate your vulnerability to the point of disgust. They might get you a hot shower, though. 31 Homes of the violent rich have excellent first-aid cabinets. If, after tending to your scrapes, you are shown to a bathing area with a stone-encrusted waterfall, assume you won’t be alone for long. The fact that a man has ignored and then insulted you does not mean that he won’t want to fuck you. Slim, powerful men often move with catlike swiftness. Begin your countdown early—as he lowers himself into the tub. By the time he seizes your arm, you should be at five. By the time your forehead is jammed against a rock, you should perceive your body only vaguely, from above. 32 If you feel, on returning to your body, that much time has passed, don’t dwell on how much. If your limbs are sore and your forehead scraped and raw, don’t dwell on why. When you emerge from a warm, churning bath where you’ve spent an indeterminate period of time, expect to feel shaky and weak. Remind yourself that you are receiving no payment, in currency or kind, for this or any act you have engaged in. These acts are forms of sacrifice. An abundance of diaphanous bathrobes suggests that the occupants of this bathroom are often female. A soiled and tattered white sundress can seem oddly precious when it’s all you have. Keep with you the things that matter—you won’t come back for them later. The stationing of a male attendant outside the bathroom means that you haven’t been forgotten. If he shows you to a tiny room containing a very large bed, your utility to your new host may not have been exhausted. A tray containing a meat pie, grapes, and a pitcher of water suggests that visits such as yours are routine. At times, you may wish to avoid the moon. At times, the moon may appear like a surveillance device, tracking your movements. The ability to sleep in stressful conditions is essential to this work. Sleep whenever you can safely do so. 33 Your abrupt awakening may feel like a reaction to a sound. In moments of extreme solitude, you may believe you’ve heard your name. We reassure ourselves by summoning, in our dreams, those we love and miss. Having awakened to find them absent, we may be left with a sense of having spoken with them. Even the most secure houses achieve, in deep night, a state of relative unconsciousness. A beauty in a diaphanous lavender bathrobe can go anywhere, as long as she appears to be delivering herself to someone. 34 A universal principle of home construction makes it possible to guess which door will lead to the master bedroom. Linen closets, with doors closed, can resemble master bedrooms. So can bathrooms. Bare feet are virtually soundless on a stone floor. Even a slim, catlike man may snore. When trespassing in a sleeping man’s bedroom, go straight to his bed, as if you were seeking him out. An alpha beauty who has appeared to have no tie to your new host may turn out to be his intimate, after all. Their sleeping entanglement may contradict everything you have witnessed between them. A small crib near the bed may indicate the presence of a baby. Avoid indulging your own amazement; it wastes time. Master bedrooms in lavish homes often divide into “his” and “hers” areas. A beauty’s closet is unmistakable, like a quiver of bright arrows. The closet of a slight, catlike man will usually be compact. Having penetrated a man’s personal space, immediately seek out his Sweet Spot. The Sweet Spot is where he empties his pockets at the end of the day and stores the essentials he needs to begin the next. The Sweet Spot of a secretive, catlike man will most often be inside a cupboard or a drawer. When you find it, consider using a Data Surge to capture the contents of his handset. A Data Surge must be deployed with extreme caution, and only if you feel confident of an exceptional yield. The quantity of information captured will require an enormous amount of manpower to tease apart. Its transmission will register on any monitoring device. We can guarantee its effectiveness only once. 35 Reach between your right fourth and pinky toes (if right-handed) and remove the Data Plug from your Universal Port. Attached to the plug is a cable with a connection pin at one end for insertion into the handset’s data port. Sit on the floor, away from sharp surfaces, and brace your back against a wall. A red ribbon has been tucked inside your Universal Port; enclose this in one of your palms. Spread apart your toes and gently reinsert the plug, now fused to your subject’s handset, into your Universal Port. You will feel the surge as the data flood your body. The surge may contain feeling, memory, heat, cold, longing, pain, even joy. Although the data are alien, the memories dislodged will be your own: Peeling an orange for your husband in bed on a Sunday, sunlight splashing the sheets; The smoky earthen smell of the fur of your childhood cat; The flavor of the peppermints your mother kept for you inside her desk. The impact of a Data Surge may prompt unconsciousness or short-term memory loss. The purpose of the red ribbon is to orient you; if you awaken to find yourself clutching one, look to your foot. When your body is quiet, unplug the handset and return it to its original location. 36 A Data Surge leaves a ringing in your ears that may obscure the sound of another person’s arrival. A face that brought you relief once may trigger relief a second time. When an alpha beauty accosts you at high volume in an unfamiliar language, it may mean she’s too sleepy to remember who you are. It may also mean she’s calling someone else. Beauty status will not excuse, for another beauty, your appearance where you are not supposed to be. Should you be perceived as an enemy, prepare to defend yourself at the first sign of physical encroachment. Your new host lunging at you, shouting, “What the fuck are you doing?,” constitutes physical encroachment. Thrust your elbow upward into the tender socket underneath his jaw, sending him backward onto the floor. The wails of a newborn will lure its mother away from almost anything, including the physical travails of her mate. A man disabled by an elbow blow will have little reaction to infant cries. 37 At the revelation of martial-arts expertise, a man who has perceived you as merely a beauty will recalculate your identity and purpose. Watch his eyes: he’ll be measuring the distance to his nearest firearm. An immediate exit is advisable. A slim, catlike man may well rebound before a hasty exit can be made. Obstructing the path of a violent man to his firearm will nearly always result in another encroachment. Kicking him in the foreneck, even barefoot, will temporarily occlude his windpipe. The alpha beauty of a violent man will know where his firearm is kept, and how to use it. A woman holding a gun and a baby no longer qualifies as a beauty. No beauty is really a beauty. Disabling a gun holder is likely to hurt the baby she is holding, too. When self-preservation requires that you harm the innocent, we can provide no more than guidelines. As Americans, we value human rights above all else and cannot sanction their violation. When someone threatens our human rights, however, a wider leeway becomes necessary. Follow your instincts while bearing in mind that we must, and will, hew to our principles. A woman holding a thrashing baby in one arm may have trouble aiming a firearm with the other. Bullets do actually whistle in an enclosed space. If a person has shot at you and missed, incapacitate her before she can fire again. We are most reluctant to hurt those who remind us of ourselves. 38 A lag time exists between getting shot and knowing that you have been shot. Assuming there is no artery involvement, wounds to the upper limbs are preferable. Bony, tendony body parts bleed less, but are harder to reconstruct if shattered. The right shoulder is a bony, tendony part. When shots have been fired in a powerful man’s home, you have minutes, if not seconds, before the arrival of security. Your physical person is our Black Box; without it, we have no record of what has happened on your mission. It is imperative that you remove yourself from enemy possession. When you find yourself cornered and outnumbered, you may unleash, as a last resort, your Primal Roar. The Primal Roar is the human equivalent of an explosion, a sound that combines screaming, shrieking, and howling. The Roar must be accompanied by facial contortions and frenetic body movement, suggesting a feral, unhinged state. The Primal Roar must transform you from a beauty into a monster. The goal is to horrify your opponent, the way trusted figures, turned evil, are horrifying in movies and in nightmares. Deploy your camera flash repeatedly while Roaring. When approached by a howling, spasmodic, flashing monster, most women holding newborns will step aside. Discontinue Roaring the instant you’re free from immediate danger. Those stampeding to the aid of a powerful man will barely notice a dishevelled beauty they pass in a hallway. If you’re lucky, this will buy you time to flee his house. Resume your beauty role while running: smooth your hair and cover your bleeding wound with the sundress scrunched in your pocket. The fact that you can’t hear alarms doesn’t mean you haven’t set them off. 39 After violence in a closed room, cool night air will have a clarifying effect. Get to the bottom of a hill any way you can, including sliding and rolling. In residences of the violent rich, there will be at least one guard at each port of egress. In deep night, if you are extremely lucky (and quiet), that guard will be asleep. Assume, as well as you can, the air of a beauty larkishly gambolling. If running barefoot onto a dock transports you back to your childhood, pain may be making you hallucinate. Lying with girlfriends on a still-warm dock in upstate New York, watching shooting stars, is a sensation you remember after many years. Hindsight creates the illusion that your life has led you inevitably to the present moment. It’s easier to believe in a foregone conclusion than to accept that our lives are governed by chance. Showing up for a robotics course by accident, because of a classroom mixup, is chance. Finding an empty seat beside a boy with very dark skin and beautiful hands is chance. When someone has become essential to you, you will marvel that you could have lain on a warm dock and not have known him yet. Expect reimmersion in your old life to be difficult. Experience leaves a mark, regardless of the reasons and principles behind it. What our citizen agents most often require is simply for time to pass. Our counsellors are available around the clock for the first two weeks of your reimmersion and during business hours thereafter. We ask that you allow our Therapeutic Agents, rather than those in the general population, to address your needs. Secrecy is the basis of what we do, and we require your extreme discretion. 40 Even preternatural swimming strength cannot propel you across a blue-black sea. Staring with yearning ferocity from the end of a dock cannot propel you across a blue-black sea. When your body has been granted exceptional powers, it is jarring to encounter a gulf between your desires and your abilities. For millennia, engineers have empowered human beings to accomplish mythical feats. Your husband is an engineer. Children raised among wild animals learn to detect irregular movements in their landscape. That particular awareness, coupled with scientific genius, has made your husband a national-security hero. Intimacy with another human can allow you to scrutinize your surroundings as he would. Along a rocky, moonlit shore, the irregular movement is the one that is lurching in time with the water beneath an overhang of brush. A speedboat has most likely been hidden by your new host as a means of emergency escape. The key will be inside it. 41 Slither between branches and board the boat; untie it and lower its motor into the water. Be grateful for the lakes in upstate New York where you learned to pilot motorboats. Fluff up your hair with your functional arm and essay a wide, carefree smile. A smile is like a shield; it freezes your face into a mask of muscle that you can hide behind. A smile is like a door that is both open and closed. Turn the key and gun the motor once before aiming into the blue-black sea and jamming the accelerator. Wave and giggle loudly at the stunned, sleepy guard. Steer in a zigzag motion until you are out of gunshot range. 42 The exultation of escape will be followed almost immediately by a crushing onslaught of pain. The house, its occupants, even the gunshots will seem like phantoms beside this clanging immediacy. If the pain makes thought impossible, concentrate solely on navigation. Only in specific Geographic Hotspots can we intervene. While navigating toward a Hotspot, indicate an emergency by pressing the button behind your knee for sixty continuous seconds. You must remain conscious. If it helps, imagine yourself in the arms of your husband. If it helps, imagine yourself in your apartment, where his grandfather’s hunting knife is displayed inside a Plexiglas box. If it helps, imagine harvesting the small tomatoes you grow on your fire escape in summer. If it helps, imagine that the contents of the Data Surge will help thwart an attack in which thousands of American lives would have been lost. Even without enhancements, you can pilot a boat in a semi-conscious state. Human beings are superhuman. Let the moon and the stars direct you. 43 When you reach the approximate location of a Hotspot, cut the engine. You will be in total darkness, in total silence. If you wish, you may lie down at the bottom of the boat. The fact that you feel like you’re dying doesn’t mean that you will die. Remember that, should you die, your body will yield a crucial trove of information. Remember that, should you die, your Field Instructions will provide a record of your mission and lessons for those who follow. Remember that, should you die, you will have triumphed merely by delivering your physical person into our hands. The boat’s movement on the sea will remind you of a cradle. You’ll recall your mother rocking you in her arms when you were a baby. You’ll recall that she has always loved you fiercely and entirely. You’ll discover that you have forgiven her. You’ll understand that she concealed your paternity out of faith that her own inexhaustible love would be enough. The wish to tell your mother that you forgive her is yet another reason you must make it home alive. You will not be able to wait, but you will have to wait. We can’t tell you in advance what direction relief will come from. We can only reassure you that we have never yet failed to recover a citizen agent, dead or alive, who managed to reach a Hotspot. 44 Hotspots are not hot. Even a warm night turns frigid at the bottom of a wet boat. The stars are always there, scattered and blinking. Looking up at the sky from below can feel like floating, suspended, and looking down. The universe will seem to hang beneath you in its milky glittering mystery. Only when you notice a woman like yourself, crumpled and bleeding at the bottom of a boat, will you realize what has happened. You’ve deployed the Dissociation Technique without meaning to. There is no harm in this. Released from pain, you can waft free in the night sky. Released from pain, you can enact the fantasy of flying that you nurtured as a child. Keep your body in view at all times; if your mind loses track of your body, it may be hard—even impossible—to reunite the two. As you waft free in the night sky, you may notice a steady rhythmic churning in the gusting wind. Helicopter noise is inherently menacing. A helicopter without lights is like a mixture of bat, bird, and monstrous insect. Resist the urge to flee this apparition; it has come to save you. 45 Know that in returning to your body you are consenting to be racked, once again, by physical pain. Know that in returning to your body you are consenting to undertake a jarring reimmersion into an altered life. Some citizen agents have chosen not to return. They have left their bodies behind, and now they shimmer sublimely in the heavens. In the new heroism, the goal is to transcend individual life, with its petty pains and loves, in favor of the dazzling collective. You may picture the pulsing stars as the heroic spirits of former agent beauties. You may imagine Heaven as a vast screen crowded with their dots of light. 46 If you wish to return to your body, it is essential that you reach it before the helicopter does. If it helps, count backward. By eight, you should be close enough to see your bare and dirty feet. By five, you should be close enough to see the bloody dress wrapped around your shoulder. By three, you should be close enough to see the dimples you were praised for as a child. By two, you should hear the shallow bleating of your breath. 47 Having returned to your body, witness the chopper’s slow, throbbing descent. It may appear to be the instrument of a purely mechanical realm. It may look as if it had come to wipe you out. It may be hard to believe that there are human beings inside it. You won’t know for sure until you see them crouching above you, their faces taut with hope, ready to jump. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Monstro	Credit Photograph by Dan Winters At first, Negroes thought it funny. A disease that could make a Haitian blacker? It was the joke of the year. Everybody in our sector accusing everybody else of having it. You couldn’t display a blemish or catch some sun on the street without the jokes starting. Someone would point to a spot on your arm and say, Diablo, haitiano, que te pasó? La Negrura they called it. The Darkness. These days everybody wants to know what you were doing when the world came to an end. Fools make up all sorts of vainglorious self-serving plep— but me, I tell the truth. I was chasing a girl. I was one of the idiots who didn’t heed any of the initial reports, who got caught way out there. What can I tell you? My head just wasn’t into any mysterious disease—not with my mom sick and all. Not with Mysty. Motherfuckers used to say culo would be the end of us. Well, for me it really was. In the beginning the doctor types couldn’t wrap their brains around it, either. The infection showed up on a small boy in the relocation camps outside Port-au-Prince, in the hottest March in recorded history. The index case was only four years old, and by the time his uncle brought him in his arm looked like an enormous black pustule, so huge it had turned the boy into an appendage of the arm. In the glypts he looked terrified. Within a month, a couple of thousand more infections were reported. Didn’t rip through the pobla like the dengues or the poxes. More of a slow leprous spread. A black mold-fungus-blast that came on like a splotch and then gradually started taking you over, tunnelling right through you—though as it turned out it wasn’t a mold-fungus-blast at all. It was something else. Something new. Everybody blamed the heat. Blamed the Calientazo. Shit, a hundred straight days over 105 degrees F. in our region alone, the planet cooking like a chimi and down to its last five trees—something berserk was bound to happen. All sorts of bizarre outbreaks already in play: diseases no one had names for, zoonotics by the pound. This one didn’t cause too much panic because it seemed to hit only the sickest of the sick, viktims who had nine kinds of ill already in them. You literally had to be falling to pieces for it to grab you. It almost always started epidermically and then worked its way up and in. Most of the infected were immobile within a few months, the worst comatose by six. Strangest thing, though: once infected, few viktims died outright; they just seemed to linger on and on. Coral reefs might have been adios on the ocean floor, but they were alive and well on the arms and backs and heads of the infected. Black rotting rugose masses fruiting out of bodies. The medicos formed a ninety-nation consortium, flooded one another with papers and hypotheses, ran every test they could afford, but not even the military enhancers could crack it. In the early months, there was a big make do, because it was so strange and because no one could identify the route of transmission—that got the bigheads more worked up than the disease itself. There seemed to be no logic to it—spouses in constant contact didn’t catch the Negrura, but some unconnected fool on the other side of the camp did. A huge rah-rah, but when the experts determined that it wasn’t communicable in the standard ways, and that normal immune systems appeared to be at no kind of risk, the renminbi and the attention and the savvy went elsewhere. And since it was just poor Haitian types getting fucked up—no real margin in that. Once the initial bulla died down, only a couple of underfunded teams stayed on. As for the infected, all the medicos could do was try to keep them nourished and hydrated—and, more important, prevent them from growing together. That was a serious issue. The blast seemed to have a boner for fusion, respected no kind of boundaries. I remember the first time I saw it on the Whorl. Alex was, like, Mira esta vaina. Almost delighted. A shaky glypt of a pair of naked trembling Haitian brothers sharing a single stained cot, knotted together by horrible mold, their heads slurred into one. About the nastiest thing you ever saw. Mysty saw it and looked away and eventually I did, too. My tíos were, like, Someone needs to drop a bomb on those people, and even though I was one of the pro-Haitian domos, at the time I was thinking it might have been a mercy. I was actually on the Island when it happened. Front-row fucking seat. How lucky was that? They call those of us who made it through “time witnesses.” I can think of a couple of better terms. I’d come down to the D.R. because my mother had got super sick. The year before, she’d been bitten by a rupture virus that tore through half her organs before the doctors got savvy to it. No chance she was going to be taken care of back North. Not with what the cheapest nurses charged. So she rented out the Brooklyn house to a bunch of Mexos, took that loot, and came home. Better that way. Say what you want, but family on the Island was still more reliable for heavy shit, like, say, dying, than family in the North. Medicine was cheaper, too, with the flying territory in Haina, its Chinese factories pumping out pharma like it was romo, growing organ sheets by the mile, and, for somebody as sick as my mother, with only rental income to live off, being there was what made sense. I was supposed to be helping out, but really I didn’t do na for her. My tía Livia had it all under control and if you want the truth I didn’t feel comfortable hanging around the house with Mom all sick. The vieja could barely get up to piss, looked like a stick version of herself. Hard to see that. If I stayed an hour with her it was a lot. What an asshole, right? What a shallow motherfucker. But I was nineteen—and what is nineteen, if not for shallow? In any case my mother didn’t want me around, either. It made her sad to see me so uncomfortable. And what could I do for her besides wring my hands? She had Livia, she had her nurse, she had the muchacha who cooked and cleaned. I was only in the way. Maybe I’m just saying this to cover my failings as a son. Maybe I’m saying this because of what happened. Maybe. Go, have fun with your friends, she said behind her breathing mask. Didn’t have to tell me twice. Fact is, I wouldn’t have come to the Island that summer if I’d been able to nab a job or an internship, but the droughts that year and the General Economic Collapse meant that nobody was nabbing shit. Even the Sovereign kids were ending up home with their parents. So with the house being rented out from under me and nowhere else to go, not even a girlfriend to mooch off, I figured, Fuck it: might as well spend the hots on the Island. Take in some of that ole-time climate change. Get to know the patria again. For six, seven months it was just a horrible Haitian disease—who fucking cared, right? A couple of hundred new infections each month in the camps and around Port-au-Prince, pocket change, really, nowhere near what KRIMEA was doing to the Russian hinterlands. For a while it was nothing, nothing at all . . . and then some real eerie plep started happening. Doctors began reporting a curious change in the behavior of infected patients: they wanted to be together, in close proximity, all the time. They no longer tolerated being separated from other infected, started coming together in the main quarantine zone, just outside Champ de Mars, the largest of the relocation camps. All the viktims seemed to succumb to this ingathering compulsion. Some went because they claimed they felt “safer” in the quarantine zone; others just picked up and left without a word to anyone, trekked halfway across the country as though following a homing beacon. Once viktims got it in their heads to go, no dissuading them. Left family, friends, children behind. Walked out on wedding days, on swell business. Once they were in the zone, nothing could get them to leave. When authorities tried to distribute the infected viktims across a number of centers, they either wouldn’t go or made their way quickly back to the main zone. One doctor from Martinique, his curiosity piqued, isolated an elderly viktim from the other infected and took her to a holding bay some distance outside the main quarantine zone. Within twenty-four hours, this frail septuagenarian had torn off her heavy restraints, broken through a mesh security window, and crawled halfway back to the quarantine zone before she was recovered. Same doctor performed a second experiment: helicoptered two infected men to a hospital ship offshore. As soon as they were removed from the quarantine zone they went batshit, trying everything they could to break free, to return. No sedative or entreaty proved effective, and after four days of battering themselves relentlessly against the doors of their holding cells the men loosed a last high-pitched shriek and died within minutes of each other. Stranger shit was in the offing: eight months into the epidemic, all infected viktims, even the healthiest, abruptly stopped communicating. Just went silent. Nothing abnormal in their bloodwork or in their scans. They just stopped talking—friends, family, doctors, it didn’t matter. No stimuli of any form could get them to speak. Watched everything and everyone, clearly understood commands and information—but refused to say anything. Anything human, that is. Shortly after the Silence, the phenomenon that became known as the Chorus began. The entire infected population simultaneously let out a bizarre shriek—two, three times a day. Starting together, ending together. Talk about unnerving. Even patients who’d had their faces chewed off by the blast joined in—the vibrations rising out of the excrescence itself. Even the patients who were comatose. Never lasted more than twenty, thirty seconds—eerie siren shit. No uninfected could stand to hear it, but uninfected kids seemed to be the most unsettled. After a week of that wailing, the majority of kids had fled the areas around the quarantine zone, moved to other camps. That should have alerted someone, but who paid attention to camp kids? Brain scans performed during the outbursts actually detected minute fluctuations in the infected patients’ biomagnetic signals, but unfortunately for just about everybody on the planet these anomalies were not pursued. There seemed to be more immediate problems. There were widespread rumors that the infected were devils, even reports of relatives attempting to set their infected family members on fire. In my sector, my mom and my tía were about the only people paying attention to any of it; everybody else was obsessing over what was happening with KRIMEA. Mom and Tía Livia felt bad for our poor west-coast neighbors. They were churchy like that. When I came back from my outings I’d say, fooling, How are los explotao? And my mother would say, It’s not funny, hijo. She’s right, Aunt Livia said. That could be us next and then you won’t be joking. So what was I doing, if not helping my mom or watching the apocalypse creep in? Like I told you: I was chasing a girl. And I was running around the Island with this hijo de mami y papi I knew from Brown. Living prince because of him, basically. Classy, right? My mater stuck in Darkness, with the mosquitoes fifty to a finger and the heat like the inside of a tailpipe, and there I was privando en rico inside the Dome, where the bafflers held the scorch to a breezy 82 degrees F. and one mosquito a night was considered an invasion. I hadn’t actually planned on rolling with Alex that summer—it wasn’t like we were close friends or anything. We ran in totally different circles back at Brown, him prince, me prole, but we were both from the same little Island that no one else in the world cared about, and that counted for something, even in those days. On top of that we were both art types, which in our world of hyper-capitalism was like having a serious mental disorder. He was already making dough on his photography and I was attracting no one to my writing. But he had always told me, Hit me up the next time you come down. So before I flew in I glypted him, figuring he wasn’t going to respond, and he glypted right back. What’s going on, charlatan, cuando vamos a janguiar? And that’s basically all we did until the End: janguiar. I knew nobody in the D.R. outside of my crazy cousins, and they didn’t like to do anything but watch the fights, play dominos, and fuck. Which is fine for maybe a week—but for three months? No, hombre. I wasn’t that Island. For Alex did me a solid by putting me on. More than a solid: saved my ass full. Dude scooped me up from the airport in his father’s burner, looking so fit it made me want to drop and do twenty on the spot. Welcome to the country of las maravillas, he said with a snort, waving his hand at all the thousands of non-treaty motos on the road, the banners for the next election punching you in the face everywhere. Took me over to the rooftop apartment his dad had given him in the rebuilt Zona Colonial. The joint was a meta-glass palace that overlooked the Drowned Sectors, full of his photographs and all the bric-a-brac he had collected for props, with an outdoor deck as large as an aircraft carrier. You live here? I said, and he shrugged lazily: Until Papi decides to sell the building. One of those moments when you realize exactly how rich some of the kids you go to school with are. Without even thinking about it, he glypted me a six-month V.I.P. pass for the Dome, which cost about a year’s tuition. Just in case, he said. He’d been on-Island since before the semester ended. A month here and I’m already aplatanao, he complained. I think I’m losing the ability to read. We drank some more spike, and some of his too-cool-for-school Dome friends came over, slim, tall, and wealthy, every one doing double takes when they saw the size of me and heard my Dark accent, but Alex introduced me as his Brown classmate. A genius, he said, and that made it a little better. What do you do? they asked and I told them I was trying to be a journalist. Which for that set was like saying I wanted to molest animals. I quickly became part of the furniture, one of Alex’s least interesting fotos. Don’t you love my friends, Alex said. Son tan amable. That first night I kinda had been hoping for a go-club or something bananas like that, but it was a talk-and-spike and let’s-look-at-Alex’s-latest-fotos-type party. What redeemed everything for me was that around midnight one last girl came up the corkscrew staircase. Alex said loudly, Look who’s finally here. And the girl shouted, I was at church, coño, which got everybody laughing. Because of the weak light I didn’t get a good look at first. Just the hair, and the vampire-stake heels. Then she finally made it over and I saw the cut on her and the immensity of those eyes and I was, like, fuck me. That girl. With one fucking glance she upended my everything. So you’re the friend? I’m Mysty. Her crafted eyes giving me the once-over. And you’re in this country voluntarily? A ridiculously beautiful mina wafting up a metal corkscrew staircase in high heels and offering up her perfect cheek as the light from the Dome was dying out across the city—that I could have withstood. But then she spent the rest of the night ribbing me because I was so Americanized, because my Spanish sucked, because I didn’t know any of the Island things they were talking about—and that was it for me. I was lost. Everybody at school knew Alex. Shit, I think everybody in Providence knew him. Negro was star like that. This flash priv kid who looked more like an Uruguayan fútbal player than a plátano, with short curly Praetorian hair and machine-made cheekbones and about the greenest eyes you ever saw. Six feet eight and super full of himself. Threw the sickest parties, always stepping out with the most rompin girls, drove an Eastwood for fuck’s sake. But what I realized on the Island was that Alex was more than just a rico, turned out he was a fucking V—, son of the wealthiest, most priv’ed-up family on the Island. His abuelo like the ninety-ninth-richest man in the Americas, while his abuela had more than nine thousand properties. At Brown, Negro had actually been playing it modest—for good reason, too. Turned out that when homeboy was in middle school he was kidnapped for eight long months, barely got out alive. Never talked about it, not even cryptically, but dude never left the house in D.R. unless he was packing fuego. Always offered me a cannon, too, like it was a piece of fruit or something. Said, Just, you know, in case something happens. V— or not, I had respect for Alex, because he worked hard as a fuck, not one of those upper-class vividors who sat around and blew lakhs. Was doing philosophy at Brown and business at M.I.T., smashed like a 4.0, and still had time to do his photography thing. And unlike a lot of our lakhsters in the States he really loved his Santo Domingo. Never pretended he was Spanish or Italian or gringo. Always claimed dominicano and that ain’t nothing, not the way plátanos can be. For all his pluses Alex could also be extra dickish. Always had to be the center of attention. I couldn’t say anything slightly smart without him wanting to argue with me. And when you got him on a point he huffed: Well, I don’t know about that. Treated Dominican workers in restaurants and clubs and bars like they were lower than shit. Never left any kind of tip. You have to yell at these people or they’ll just walk all over you was his whole thing. Yeah, right, Alex, I told him. And he grimaced: You’re just a Naxalite. And you’re a come solo, I said, which he hated. Pretty much on his own. No siblings, and his family was about as checked out as you could get. Had a dad who spent so much time abroad that Alex would have been lucky to pick him out in a lineup—and a mom who’d had more plastic surgery than all of Caracas combined, who flew out to Miami every week just to shop and fuck this Senegalese lawyer that everybody except the dad seemed to know about. Alex had a girlfriend from his social set he’d been dating since they were twelve, Valentina, had cheated on her at least two thousand times, with girls and boys, but because of his lakhs she wasn’t going anywhere. Dude told me all about it, too, as soon as he introduced me to her. What do you think of that? he asked me with a serious cheese on his face. Sounds pretty shitty, I said. Oh, come on, he said, putting an avuncular arm around me. It ain’t that bad. Alex’s big dream? (Of course we all knew it, because he wouldn’t shut up about all the plep he was going to do.) He wanted to be either the Dominican Sebastião Salgado or the Dominican João Silva (minus the double amputation, natch). But he also wanted to write novels, make films, drop an album, be the star of a channel on the Whorl—dude wanted to do everything. As long as it was arty and it made him a Name he was into it. He was also the one who wanted to go to Haiti, to take pictures of all the infected people. Mysty was, like, You can go catch a plague all by your fool self, but he waved her off and recited his motto (which was also on his cards): To represent, to surprise, to cause, to provoke. To die, she added. He shrugged, smiled his hundred-crore smile. A photographer has to be willing to risk it all. A photograph can change todo. You had to hand it to him; he had confidence. And recklessness. I remember this time a farmer in Baní uncovered an unexploded bomb from the civil war in his field—Alex raced us all out there and wanted to take a photo of Mysty sitting on the device in a cheerleading outfit. She was, like, Are you insane? So he sat down on it himself while we crouched behind the burner and he snapped his own picture, grinning like a loon, first with a Leica, then with a Polaroid. Got on the front page of Listin with that antic. Parents flying in from their respective cities to have a chat with him. He really did think he could change todo. Me, I didn’t want to change nada; I didn’t want to be famous. I just wanted to write one book that was worth a damn and I would have happily called it a day. Mi hermano, that’s pathetic to an extreme, Alex said. You have to dream a lot bigger than that. Well, I certainly dreamed big with Mysty. In those days she was my Wonder Woman, my Queen of Jaragua, but the truth is I don’t remember her as well as I used to. Don’t have any pictures of her—they were all lost in the Fall when the memory stacks blew, when la Capital was scoured. One thing a Negro wasn’t going to forget, though, one thing that you didn’t need fotos for, was how beautiful she was. Tall and copper-colored, with a Stradivarius curve to her back. An ex-volleyball player, studying international law at UNIBE, with a cascade of black hair you could have woven thirty days of nights from. Some modelling when she was thirteen, fourteen, definitely on the receiving end of some skin-crafting and bone-crafting, maybe breasts, definitely ass, and who knows what else—but would rather have died than cop to it. You better believe I’m pura lemba, she always said and even I had to roll my eyes at that. Don’t roll your eyes at me. I am. Spent five years in Quebec before her mother finally dumped her asshole Canadian stepfather and dragged her back screaming to la Capital. Something she still held against the vieja, against the whole D.R. Spoke impeccable French and used it every chance she got, always made a show of reading thick-ass French novels like “La Cousine Bette,” and that was what she wanted once her studies were over: to move to Paris, work for the U.N., read French books in a café. Men love me in Paris, she announced, like this might be a revelation. Men love you here, Alex said. Shook her head. It’s not the same. Of course it’s not the same, I said. Men shower in Santo Domingo. And dance, too. You ever see franceses dance? It’s like watching an epileptics convention. “I’m looking for a career that won’t be obsolete before my student loan is paid off.”Buy the print » Mysty spat an ice cube at me. French men are the best. Yes, she liked me well enough. Could even say we were friends. I had my charming in those days, I had a mouth on me like all the swords of the Montagues and Capulets combined, like someone had overdosed me with truth serum. You’re Alex’s only friend who doesn’t take his crap, she once confided. You don’t even take my crap. Yes, she liked me but didn’t like me, entiendes. But God did I love her. Not that I had any idea how to start with a girl like her. The only “us” time we ever had was when Alex sent her to pick me up and she’d show up either at my house in Villa Con or at the gym. My crazy cousins got so excited. They weren’t used to seeing a fresa like her. She knew what she was doing. She’d leave her driver out front and come into the gym to fetch me. Put on a real show. I always knew she’d arrived because the whole gravity of the gym would shift to the entrance and I’d look over from my workout and there she’d be. Never had any kind of game with her. Best I could do on our rides to where Alex was waiting was ask her about her day and she always said the same thing: Terrible. They had a mighty strange relationship, Alex and Mysty did. She seemed pissed off at him at least eighty per cent of the time, but she was also always with him; and it seemed to me that Alex spent more time with Mysty than he did with Valentina. Mysty helped him with all his little projects, and yet she never seemed happy about it, always acted like it was this massive imposition. Jesus, Alex, she said, will you just make it already. Acted like everything he did bored her. That, I’ve come to realize, was her protective screen. To always appear bored. Even when she wasn’t bored Mysty wasn’t easy; jeva had a temper, always blowing up on Alex because he said something or was late or because she didn’t like the way he laughed at her. Blew up on me if I ever sided with him. Called him a mama huevo at least once a day, which in the old D.R. was a pretty serious thing to throw at a guy. Alex didn’t care, played it for a goof. You talk so sweet, ma chère. You should say it in French. Which of course she always did. I asked Alex at least five times that summer if he and Mysty were a thing. He denied it full. Never laid a hand on her, she’s like my sister, my girlfriend would kill me, etc. Never fucked her? That seemed highly unfuckinglikely. Something had happened between them—sex, sure, but something else—though what that was isn’t obvious even now that I’m older and dique wiser. Girls like Mysty, of her class, were always orbiting around croremongers like Alex, hoping that they would bite. Not that in the D.R. they ever did but still. Once when I was going on about her, wondering why the fuck he hadn’t jumped her, he looked around and then pulled me close and said, You know the thing with her, right? Her dad used to fuck her until she was twelve. Can you believe that? Her dad? I said. He nodded solemnly. Her dad. Did I believe it? The incest? In the D.R. incest was like the other national pastime. I guess I believed it as much as I believed Alex’s whole she’s-my-sister coro, which is to say, maybe I did and maybe I didn’t, but in the end I also didn’t care. It made me feel terrible for her, sure, but it didn’t make me want her any less. As for her and Alex, I never saw them touch, never saw anything that you could call calor pass between them; she seemed genuinely uninterested in him romantically and that’s why I figured I had a chance. I don’t want a boyfriend, she kept saying. I want a visa. Dear dear Mysty. Beautiful and bitchy and couldn’t wait to be away from the D.R. A girl who didn’t let anyone push her around, who once grabbed a euro-chick by the hair because the bitch tried to cut her in line. Wasn’t really a deep person. I don’t think I ever heard her voice an opinion about art or politics or say anything remotely philosophical. I don’t think she had any female friends—shit, I don’t think she had any friends, just a lot of people she said hi to in the clubs. Chick was as much a loner as I was. She never bought anything for anyone, didn’t do community work, and when she saw children she always stayed far away. Ánimales, she called them—and you could tell she wasn’t joking. No, she wasn’t anything close to humane, but at nineteen who needed humane? She was buenmosa and impossible and when she laughed it was like this little wilderness. I would watch her dance with Alex, with other guys—never with me, I wasn’t good enough—and my heart would break, and that was all that mattered. Around our third week of hanging out, when the riots were beginning in the camps and the Haitians in the D.R. were getting deported over a freckle, I started talking about maybe staying for a few months extra. Taking a semester off Brown to keep my mom company, maybe volunteering in Haiti. Crazy talk, sure, but I knew for certain that I wasn’t going to land Mysty by sending her glypts from a thousand miles away. To bag a girl like that you have to make a serious move, and staying in the D.R. was for me a serious move indeed. I think I might stick around, I announced when we were all driving back from what was left of Las Terrenas. No baffler on the burner and the heat was literally pulling our skin off. Why would you do that? Mysty demanded. It’s awful here. It’s not awful here, Alex corrected mildly. This is the most beautiful country in the world. But I don’t think you’d last long. You’re way gringo. And you’re what, Enriquillo? I know I’m gringo, Alex said, but you’re way gringo. You’d be running to the airport in a month. Even my mother was against it. Actually sat up in her medicine tent. You’re going to drop school—for what? Esa chica plastica? Don’t be ridiculous, hijo. There’s plenty of culo falso back home. That July a man named Henri Casimir was brought in to a field clinic attached to Champ de Mars. A former manager in the utility company, now reduced to carting sewage for the camp administration. Brought in by his wife, Rosa, who was worried about his behavior. Last couple of months dude had been roaming about the camp at odd hours, repeating himself ad nauseam, never sleeping. The wife was convinced that her husband was not her husband. In the hospital that day: one Noni DeGraff, a Haitian epidemiologist and one of the few researchers who had been working on the disease since its first appearance; brilliant and pretty much fearless, she was called the Jet Engine by her colleagues, because of her headstrong ferocity. Intrigued by Casimir’s case, she sat in on the examination. Casimir, apart from a low body temperature, seemed healthy. Bloodwork clean. No sign of virals or of the dreaded infection. When questioned, the patient spoke excitedly about a san he was claiming the following week. Distressed, Rosa informed the doctors that said san he was going on about had disbanded two months earlier. He had put his fifty renminbi faithfully into the pot every month, but just before his turn came around they found out the whole thing was a setup. He never saw a penny, Rosa said. When Dr. DeGraff asked the wife what she thought might be bothering her husband, Rosa said simply, Someone has witched him. Something about the wife’s upset and Casimir’s demeanor got Dr. DeGraff’s antennas twitching. She asked Rosa for permission to observe Casimir on one of his rambles. Wife Rosa agreed. As per her complaint, Casimir spent almost his entire day tramping about the camp with no apparent aim or destination. Twice Dr. DeGraff approached him, and twice Casimir talked about the heat and about the san he was soon to receive. He seemed distracted, disoriented, even, but not mad. The next week, Dr. DeGraff tailed Casimir again. This time the good doctor discerned a pattern. No matter how many twists he took, invariably Casimir wound his way back to the vicinity of the quarantine zone at the very moment that the infected let out their infernal chorus. As the outburst rang out, Casimir paused and then, without any change in expression, ambled away. DeGraff decided to perform an experiment. She placed Casimir in her car and drove him away from the quarantine zone. At first, Casimir appeared “normal,” talking again about his san, wiping his glasses compulsively, etc. Then, at half a mile from the zone, he began to show increasing signs of distress, twitching and twisting in his seat. His language became garbled. At the mile mark Casimir exploded. Snapped the seat belt holding him in and in his scramble from the car struck DeGraff with unbelievable force, fracturing two ribs. Bounding out before the doctor could manage to bring the car under control, Casimir disappeared into the sprawl of Champ de Mars. The next day, when Dr. DeGraff asked the wife to bring Casimir in, he appeared to have no recollection of the incident. He was still talking about his san. After she had her ribs taped up, DeGraff put out a message to all medical personnel in the Haitian mission, inquiring about patients expressing similar symptoms. She assumed she would receive four, five responses. She received two hundred and fourteen. She asked for workups. She got them. Sat down with her partner in crime, a Haitian-American physician by the name of Anton Léger, and started plowing through the material. Nearly all the sufferers had, like Casimir, shown signs of low body temperature. And so they performed temperature tests on Casimir. Sometimes he was normal. Sometimes he was below, but never for long. A technician on the staff, hearing about the case, suggested that they requisition a thermal imager sensitive enough to detect minute temperature fluctuations. An imager was secured and then turned on Casimir. Bingo. Casimir’s body temperature was indeed fluctuating, little tiny blue spikes every couple of seconds. Normal folks like DeGraff and Léger—they tested themselves, naturally—scanned red, but patients with the Casimir complaint appeared onscreen a deep, flickering blue. On a lark, DeGraff and Léger aimed the scanner toward the street outside the clinic. They almost shat themselves. Like for reals. Nearly one out of every eight pedestrians was flickering blue. DeGraff remembers the cold dread that swept over her, remembers telling Léger, We need to go to the infected hospital. We need to go there now. At the hospital, they trained their camera on the guarded entrance. Copies of those scans somehow made it to the Outside. Still chilling to watch. Every single person, doctor, assistant, aid worker, janitor who walked in and out of that hospital radiated blue. We did what all kids with a lot of priv do in the D.R.: we kicked it. And since none of us had parents to hold us back we kicked it super hard. Smoked ganja by the heap and tore up the Zona Colonial and when we got bored we left the Dome for long looping drives from one end of the Island to the other. The countryside half-abandoned because of the Long Drought but still beautiful even in its decline. Alex had all these projects. Fotos of all the prostitutes in the Feria. Fotos of every chimi truck in the Malecón. Fotos of the tributos on the Conde. He also got obsessed with photographing all the beaches of the D.R. before they disappeared. These beaches are what used to bring the world to us! he exclaimed. They were the one resource we had! I suspected it was just an excuse to put Mysty in a bathing suit and photograph her for three hours straight. Not that I was complaining. My role was to hand him cameras and afterward to write a caption for each of the selected shots he put on the Whorl. And I did: just a little entry. The whole thing was called “Notes from the Last Shore.” Nice, right? I came up with that. Anyway, Mysty spent the whole time on those shoots bitching: about her bathing suits, about the scorch, about the mosquitoes that the bafflers were letting in, and endlessly warning Alex not to focus on her pipa. She was convinced that she had a huge one, which neither Alex nor I ever saw but we didn’t argue. I got you, chérie, was what he said. I got you. After each setup I always told her: Tú eres guapísima. And she never said anything, just wrinkled her nose at me. Once, right before the Fall, I must have said it with enough conviction, because she looked me in the eyes for a long while. I still remember what that felt like. Now it gets sketchy as hell. A lockdown was initiated and a team of W.H.O. docs attempted to enter the infected hospital in the quarantine zone. Nine went in but nobody came out. Minutes later, the infected let out one of their shrieks, but this one lasted twenty-eight minutes. And that more or less was when shit went Rwanda. In the D.R. we heard about the riot. Saw horrific videos of people getting chased down and butchered. Two camera crews died, and that got Alex completely pumped up. We have to go, he cried. I’m missing it! You’re not going anywhere, Mysty said. But are you guys seeing this? Alex asked. Are you seeing this? That shit was no riot. Even we could tell that. All the relocation camps near the quarantine zone were consumed in what can only be described as a straight massacre. An outbreak of homicidal violence, according to the initial reports. People who had never lifted a finger in anger their whole lives—children, viejos, aid workers, mothers of nine—grabbed knives, machetes, sticks, pots, pans, pipes, hammers and started attacking their neighbors, their friends, their pastors, their children, their husbands, their infirm relatives, complete strangers. Berserk murderous blood rage. No pleading with the killers or backing them down; they just kept coming and coming, even when you pointed a gauss gun at them, stopped only when they were killed. Let me tell you: in those days I really didn’t know nothing. For real. I didn’t know shit about women, that’s for sure. Didn’t know shit about the world—obviously. Certainly didn’t know jack about the Island. I actually thought me and Mysty could end up together. Nice, right? The truth is I had more of a chance of busting a golden egg out my ass than I did of bagging a girl like Mysty. She was from a familia de nombre, wasn’t going to have anything to do with a nadie like me, un morenito from Villa Con whose mother had made it big selling hair-straightening products to the africanos. Wasn’t going to happen. Not unless I turned myself white or got a major-league contract or hit the fucking lottery. Not unless I turned into an Alex. And yet you know what? I still had hope. Had hope that despite the world I had a chance with Mysty. Ridiculous hope, sure, but what do you expect? Nearly two hundred thousand Haitians fled the violence, leaving the Possessed, as they became known, fully in control of the twenty-two camps in the vicinity of the quarantine zone. Misreading the situation, the head of the U.N. Peacekeeping Mission waited a full two days for tensions to “cool down” before attempting to reëstablish control. Finally, two convoys entered the blood zone, got as far as Champ de Mars before they were set upon by wave after wave of the Possessed and torn to pieces. Let me not forget this—this is the best part. Three days before it happened, my mother flew to New Hialeah with my aunt for a specialty treatment. Just for a few days, she explained. And the really best part? I could have gone with her! She invited me, said, Plenty of culo plastico in Florida. Can you imagine it? I could have ducked the entire fucking thing. I could have been safe. No one knows how it happened or who was responsible, but it took two weeks, two fucking weeks, for the enormity of the situation to dawn on the Great Powers. In the meantime, the infected, as refugees reported, sang on and on and on. On the fifteenth day of the crisis, advanced elements of the U.S. Rapid Expeditionary Force landed at Port-au-Prince. Drone surveillance proved difficult, as some previously unrecorded form of interference was disrupting the airspace around the camps. Nevertheless a battle force was ordered into the infected areas. This force, too, was set upon by the Possessed, and would surely have been destroyed to the man if helicopters hadn’t been sent in. The Possessed were so relentless that they clung to the runners, actually had to be shot off. The only upside? The glypts the battle force beamed out finally got High Command to pull their head out of their ass. The entire country of Haiti was placed under quarantine. All flights in and out cancelled. The border with the D.R. sealed. An emergency meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff was convened, the Commander-in-Chief pulled off his vacation. And within hours a bomber wing scrambled out of Southern Command in Puerto Rico. Leaked documents show that the bombers were loaded with enough liquid asskick to keep all of Port-au-Prince burning red-hot for a week. The bombers were last spotted against the full moon as they crossed the northern coast of the D.R. Survivors fleeing the area heard their approach—and Dr. DeGraff, who had managed to survive the massacres and had joined the exodus moving east, chanced one final glance at her birth city just as the ordnance was sailing down. Because she was a God-fearing woman and because she had no idea what kind of bomb they were dropping, Dr. DeGraff took the precaution of keeping one eye shut, just, you know, in case things got Sodom and Gomorrah. Which promptly they did. The Detonation Event—no one knows what else to call it—turned the entire world white. Three full seconds. Triggered a quake that was felt all across the Island and also burned out the optic nerve on Dr. DeGraff’s right eye. But not before she saw It. Not before she saw Them. Even though I knew I shouldn’t, one night I went ahead anyway. We were out dancing in la Zona and Alex disappeared after a pair of German chicks. A Nazi cada año no te hace daño, he said. We were all out of our minds and Mysty started dancing with me and you know how girls are when they can dance and they know it. She just put it on me and that was it. I started making out with her right there. I have to tell you, at that moment I was so fucking happy, so incredibly happy, and then the world put its foot right in my ass. Mysty stopped suddenly, said, Do you know what? I don’t think this is cool. Are you serious? Yeah, she said. We should stop. She stepped back from the longest darkest song ever and started looking around. Maybe we should get out of here. It’s late. I said, I guess I forgot to bring my lakhs with me. I almost said, I forgot to bring your dad with me. Hijo de la gran puta, Mysty said, shoving me. And that was when the lights went out. Monitoring stations in the U.S. and Mexico detected a massive detonation in the Port-au-Prince area in the range of 8.3. Tremors were felt as far away as Havana, San Juan, and Key West. The detonation produced a second, more extraordinary effect: an electromagnetic pulse that deaded all electronics within a six-hundred-square-mile radius. Every circuit of every kind shot to shit. In military circles the pulse was called the Reaper. You cannot imagine the damage it caused. The bomber wing that had attacked the quarantine zone—dead, forced to ditch into the Caribbean Sea, no crew recovered. Thirty-two commercial flights packed to summer peak capacity plummeted straight out of the sky. Four crashed in urban areas. One pinwheeled into its receiving airport. Hundreds of privately owned seacraft lost. Servers down and power stations kaputted. Hospitals plunged into chaos. Even fatline communicators thought to be impervious to any kind of terrestrial disruption began fritzing. The three satellites parked in geosynch orbit over that stretch of the Caribbean went ass up, too. Tens of thousands died as a direct result of the power failure. Fires broke out. Seawalls began to fail. Domes started heating up. But it wasn’t just a simple, one-time pulse. Vehicles attempting to approach within six hundred miles of the detonation’s epicenter failed. Communicators towed over the line could neither receive nor transmit. Batteries gave off nothing. This is what really flipped every motherfucker in the know inside out and back again. The Reaper hadn’t just swung and run; it had swung and stayed. A dead zone had opened over a six-hundred-mile chunk of the Caribbean. Midnight. No one knowing what the fuck was going on in the darkness. No one but us. Initially, no one believed the hysterical evacuees. Forty-foot-tall cannibal motherfuckers running loose on the Island? Negro, please. Until a set of soon-to-be-iconic Polaroids made it out on one clipper showing what later came to be called a Class 2 in the process of putting a slender broken girl in its mouth. Beneath the photo someone had scrawled: Numbers 11:18. Who shall give us flesh to eat? We came together at Alex’s apartment first thing. All of us wearing the same clothes from the night before. Watched the fires spreading across the sectors. Heard the craziness on the street. And with the bafflers down felt for the first time on that roof the incredible heat rolling in from the dying seas. Mysty pretending nothing had happened between us. Me pretending the same. Your mom O.K.? I asked her and she shrugged. She’s up in the Cibao visiting family. The power’s supposedly out there, too, Alex said. Mysty shivered and so did I. Nothing was working except for old diesel burners and the archaic motos with no points or capacitors. People were trying out different explanations. An earthquake. A nuke. A Carrington event. The Coming of the Lord. Reports arriving over the failing fatlines claimed that Port-au-Prince had been destroyed, that Haiti had been destroyed, that thirteen million screaming Haitian refugees were threatening the borders, that Dominican military units had been authorized to meet the invaders—the term the gov was now using—with ultimate force. And so of course what does Alex decide to do? Like an idiot he decides to commandeer one of his father’s vintage burners and take a ride out to the border. Just in case, you know, Alex said, packing up his Polaroid, something happens. And what do we do, like even bigger idiots? Go with him. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Proxy Marriage	Credit Illustration by R. Kikuo Johnson William was tall and thin and shy and awkward in school. His best social tool was that he played the piano, and so was recruited for school musicals, which placed him at rehearsals and cast parties with kids he would otherwise scarcely have known. He thought he would be either a pianist or a physicist, although he didn’t know anyone in Montana who did those things professionally. His piano teacher was a banker’s widow who gave lessons in her lace-curtained house, and his physics teacher was primarily the wrestling coach. But William could imagine another kind of life. Through the musicals, he became friends with Bridey Taylor. Bridey had golden curls, like a Botticelli angel, and a face that didn’t go with them: a long, straight nose, dark eyes. She had a clear, bright mezzo-soprano voice and she wanted to be an actress. Her mother had left when Bridey was nine, and she had grown up with her father, a lawyer, who adored her. Bridey was confident, even a little vain, and she was good at school, except for math, which didn’t interest her. William helped her through trigonometry, teaching her the concepts at lunch before tests so she could forget them immediately afterward. William had no girlfriends in high school, and his mother once sat him down at the table in her spotless kitchen and asked if he was gay. She said it would be fine with her. She loved him unconditionally, and they would figure out a way to tell his father. But William wasn’t gay. He was just absurdly, painfully in love with Bridey Taylor, who leaned on the piano and sang while he played, and he had no way of telling her. He was too shy to pursue other girls, even when the payoff seemed either likely or worth the agony. But he didn’t tell his mother that. It was too humiliating. He just stammered an unconvincing denial. Other boys asked Bridey out, and William suffered through it. She viewed them with amusement, but she accepted most invitations. Encouraged, in their junior year William decided to ask her to the winter formal. He was getting ready, vibrating with anticipation, when Bridey told him that a tennis-playing senior named Monty had invited her. “What did you say?” he asked. “Oh, yes. I guess.” William excused himself from homeroom and went to the disinfectant-smelling tiled bathroom. He waited until he was sure that no one else was there, then threw up in a green graffiti-marked stall. He hadn’t thrown up since he was six, when he had the flu, and it was harrowing. His body seemed to have been taken over by some alien force. But Monty made a mistake. He sat Bridey down in his parents’ living room, two days after the dance, and told her that he’d wanted three things out of high school: to be captain of the tennis team, to get into Berkeley, and to have a serious girlfriend. The first two had already happened, and Bridey would be perfect for the third. She reported the conversation to William, laughing. “He was so earnest,” she said. “About his goals.” William made a mental note never to be earnest with Bridey. In September of their senior year, the World Trade Center and the Pentagon were attacked and the towers fell. William’s parents were out of town, and he overslept, waking when Bridey called him. “Wake up!” she said. “Terrorists are attacking America.” “Where?” he asked, groggy with sleep. “Everywhere,” she said. At school, teachers brought out television sets on A.V. carts, and they all watched the news, silent and dazed. In November, troops were sent to Afghanistan. In December, Bridey’s father came to her and William with a request. He’d been asked to arrange a proxy wedding for a Marine corporal in Kandahar and his fiancée, who was in North Carolina and pregnant. They wanted to give the child his father’s name and a death benefit if something went wrong. Most states didn’t allow proxy marriages, and Montana was the only one that allowed double-proxy weddings, in which neither party had to be present. The practice seemed to have been allowed before statehood, and had been used for soldiers during the Second World War, but no one knew exactly why it had arisen: possibly because it was difficult to travel long distances to a courthouse to marry an out-of-state sweetheart. Mr. Taylor asked Bridey and William to be the proxies. He’d asked his secretary and his paralegal first, but they’d had no interest. William’s mother thought that it was a good idea, and a way to do something for the country when everyone felt helpless: a small offering. William thought that she hadn’t believed his claims of heterosexuality before, and was happy with the idea of his marrying a girl. He wondered if Bridey’s father thought he was gay, too—or just dickless and unthreatening. But William took the thing seriously; he couldn’t help it. Even a fake marriage to Bridey Taylor filled his heart with unaccountable joy, and he went home after school and put on his dark-gray recital suit and a tie. He and Bridey were getting fifty dollars each, and he thought he should dress for the job. At the county courthouse, he found Bridey with her sneakered feet up on a heavy wooden table. Her hair was pulled back in a stubby, curly ponytail, and she wore the jeans and sweatshirt she’d put on for school. She glanced from William’s face to his suit. “You look nice,” she said. There was annoyance in her voice. “Thank you,” he said, mortified. Bridey looked like an ordinary girl in a sullen mood, not like the love of anyone’s life, and he felt a flicker of hope—not that she would ever come to love him, but that someday he might not be in thrall to her, he might be free. She was chewing gum. “I think we should have champagne,” she said to her father, who was in shirtsleeves. “It’s a wedding.” “You aren’t old enough,” her father said. He was a big man, bearish but kind, and he had scared William at first, though he didn’t anymore. “I’m old enough to get married,” Bridey said. “Not really,” her father said. The marrying couple had sent photographs, and Bridey dropped her feet to the floor and propped up the photos against two water bottles on the table. The bride had light-brown hair and freckles on a wide, open, pale face, and the groom was in uniform. “They aren’t going to last,” she said. “I can tell.” “Bridey,” her father said, looking over his glasses. “This man could be killed any day. Show some respect. Spit that gum out.” Bridey rolled her eyes, folded the gum into a scrap of paper, and tossed it into a wastebasket by the door. Her father’s secretary, Pam, came in to serve as a witness. She had neat, short gray hair and she was wearing a dress, for which William was grateful. Mr. Taylor began reading from a piece of paper. “We are gathered here today to join this couple, who have applied for and received a marriage license from the state, in holy matrimony. Do you, Bridey, take this man by proxy to be your lawfully wedded husband, to have and to hold by the laws of God and of this state?” There was a silence. Then Bridey said, “Oh! Sorry. I do.” “Do you promise to love him and keep him, in sickness and in health, for richer and for poorer, as long as you both shall live?” “I do,” Bridey said. William’s heart thudded twice in quick succession. Her sleeves were pushed up to her elbows, and he found himself looking at her narrow wrists and the fine, downy hair on her arms. He was shot through with desire. So much for being free. Her father said, “Do you, William, take this woman by proxy to be your lawfully wedded wife, to have and to hold by the laws of God and of this state?” “I do.” “Do you promise to love her and keep her, in sickness and in health, for richer and for poorer, as long as you both shall live?” William’s voice caught. “I do.” “Then I now pronounce Shelley Jean Jackson and Anthony James Thibodeau man and wife.” Mr. Taylor put the paper down. “That’s it?” Bridey asked. “That’s it,” her father said. “And you have to sign.” William signed his name, his hand shaking only a little, and Bridey signed hers. Pam signed as the witness. Then Bridey’s father produced a folded stack of cash and peeled off one fifty-dollar bill for Bridey and one for William. “We’re rich!” Bridey said. “Let’s go get food.” They sat over bowls of chili in a green booth downtown, William self-conscious in his suit. “Why the bad mood?” he asked. “I told my mother I’m applying to conservatories,” Bridey said. “To study musical theatre. She said it was a clichéd and superficial thing to do, and that anyway I’m not pretty enough. Almost, but not quite. She just wanted to be honest to save me the disappointment later.” “That was sweet of her,” he said. “I thought you weren’t in touch.” “We aren’t, much,” Bridey said. “I used to see her once a year, but it confuses her now that I’m not a little girl anymore. So I don’t go visit. I thought she’d lost all that scary maternal power, you know? ‘Are you really wearing that dress?’ That kind of thing. But I guess she hasn’t. Do you know why she left?” William shook his head. Bridey never talked about it, and he’d only heard rumors. “She met a psychic channeller who put her in touch with her past lives. She was always into past lives—that’s why she named me Bridey. Some woman got hypnotized a long time ago and said she used to be an Irish girl named Bridey Murphy, who died, and she had all these details, and there was a book, but reporters checked and the dead girl never existed. Except my mother still believes it’s possible. She moved to Oakland to be near her psychic. One of her other past lives was as a pioneer woman, digging potatoes with her hands. One was as a French courtesan before the Revolution—my mom thinks that’s why her French is so good. I used to want her to be interested in this life, you know? She has indoor plumbing in this life, and a daughter. But she likes the other lives better.” Bridey rubbed her nose. “I just wish I didn’t care.” “Of course you care,” William said. “She’s your mom.” “Hardly.” “She still is.” Elbow on the table, Bridey rested her temple in her palm, fingers in her curls. “D’you think that couple’ll stay married?” she asked. “The ones today?” “I hope so.” “D’you believe in true love and all that?” William cleared his throat. “I think so.” Bridey buried her spoon in the chili and let it fall with a clink to the bowl’s white rim. “I don’t know, though. What are the chances? That you’ll meet that one person?” “Better than the chances of contacting a dead pioneer woman.” She smiled, but her eyes grew shiny with tears. “I guess.” “She gave you a good name for your new job,” he said. “Proxy Bride-y.” Bridey laughed and wiped at her eyes. “So I should give her more credit?” “No,” William said. “You give her too much.” Bridey’s father asked them to do another proxy wedding that winter. When they met at the courthouse, Bridey brought her acceptance letter from a conservatory in Chicago and showed it to William. She was in a spectacular mood, hugging her father when he arrived, flirting with William during the ceremony. But William knew better than to think she was actually flirting with him. It was just her happiness spilling over. Other soldiers heard about the proxy law, and William and Bridey did three more weddings on a single day in the spring, and three in the summer after they graduated. It got easier for William as the ceremony became familiar. His heart didn’t trip over itself so much when he said “I do.” Then he went to Oberlin to study piano, and Bridey went to Chicago. College was busy, and they were only sporadically in touch, but at Christmas they met in the courthouse for another wedding. Bridey’s father wasn’t there yet, and William and Bridey sat at the heavy wooden table. She was thinner, and it shocked him. She had never been fat, but she had always been a little rounded; now the roundness was gone. Buy the print » “It’s exhausting,” she said. “The girls there are really dancers. I’m killing myself to catch up. And they’re—I don’t know. Ruthless. They come from places with serious theatre programs, where you have to be better than three hundred girls to get a part. Here I just had to be better than three other girls. So they’ve become these thin, flexible blades of ambition, and I’m—I don’t know. This goofy girl who wants to sing and dance.” “That might be a good thing,” William said. At college, he played piano for ballet classes for extra money, and he knew what she was talking about, the hardness of the dancers. “You might seem fresh, and better.” “I don’t think so,” Bridey said. “Do you have friends?” “I do. But they—you know how here, the bad kids drink beer from kegs and get in fistfights and go sledding drunk?” William smiled. It was one of the things he’d been happiest to get away from. “There,” Bridey said, “they do Ecstasy and strip to that Leonard Cohen song ‘Everybody Knows.’ Or to any song, really. And then fall into bed with whoever’s there. It’s like they have these fabulous bodies and don’t want to waste them. ‘There were so many people you just had to meet without your clothes’—that’s the line they like.” “Do you—” William’s voice caught with the imagining of it. “Strip?” “God, no,” she said, and she laughed her old laugh, her angel’s curls bouncing around the face he loved. “I’m such a prude. I stay sober and keep my clothes on. But I’m always terrified.” They went through the familiar ceremony, but Bridey wasn’t familiar to him. There was something vulnerable and uncertain in her eyes now, and it pierced his heart. Two days later, she came to his parents’ Christmas party in a tight red dress. She did a good impression of having her old confidence, standing by the tree laughing, a glass of champagne in her hand, her hair golden in the Christmas lights. William’s father raised his eyebrows at him with approval, and with what seemed to be a question. William only shook his head. What could he say to Bridey that wouldn’t sound too earnest, and frighten her away, and ruin everything? He thought of poor rejected Monty, who had seen the thing that William’s father saw now. Monty had tried to grab it, clumsily, with flat-footed talk of goals, and Bridey had laughed and slipped out of his grasp. In January, William went back to school and threw himself into practice, into work. He started writing music, tentatively. He stopped playing for ballet classes and wrote a piano quintet. It was difficult and reminded him of his old love of physics, of working out complicated problems and trying to keep multiple ideas in his head at the same time. The night he saw it performed by other students, he decided that he would switch from performance to composition. The Iraq invasion brought more soldiers who wanted to marry. Bridey’s father was depressed by the war, but he kept performing weddings; he said it wasn’t the soldiers’ fault that the war was wrong. But the following spring, when the Abu Ghraib photographs emerged, Mr. Taylor shut down his proxy business. “We’re done,” he said. “I’m done.” William thought there must be a long compound German word for the way that large events in the world could affect your personal life: the scale was reduced to the point of insignificance, but the everyday effect was amplified. No more proxy marriages meant very little contact with Bridey, now that they were at different schools. She wasn’t so concerned about what day, exactly, he’d be getting home on break. He worked all the time, and his back ached from hours at the piano, so he went to the gym to strengthen it, and his body changed. His chest deepened, his arms grew stronger. He even got a girlfriend, finally: a dark-haired oboist named Gillian, who explained to him what woodwinds could and couldn’t do, after he showed her a piece he’d written that would have required bionic lungs. Gillian knew that when she finished school and started looking for a job in a symphony there might be no positions for an oboe—or, if she was lucky, there might be just one, and many people would want it. She had not spent hundreds of hours hunched over a table making reeds for nothing. She knew how old all the principal oboists were, whether they were married to someone whose work might take them to another city, and whether they were happily married. She was determined to get whatever spot came up, and she had ambition to spare for William. Neither his parents nor his old piano teacher had ever had exactly that. They wanted him to be happy, but Gillian wanted him to be prominent. “There might be an opening in Tampa,” she said, lying in his dorm bed. “Would you come to Tampa? You could work as well there as anywhere.” Looking at her beside him, her fine dark hair fanned out on his pillow, mascara smeared touchingly under one eye, he realized that he wouldn’t go to Tampa if an oboist dropped dead and Gillian got the job. He wondered if this was how other people plumbed the secrets of their own hearts, with tests like “Will you go to Tampa?” “I’m going to graduate school,” he said. Gillian’s brow furrowed. “Where?” she asked. He could see her running through the oboe list in her head: life expectancies, marital chances. “I don’t know yet,” he said. “I’m tired of Ohio. I haven’t gotten much further than that.” It was true; it didn’t matter where he went. He was grateful to Gillian, for her cold ambition and her warm company, and for the abundant sex, but it wasn’t fair to let her think that he’d go to Tampa. And it wasn’t her fault that she wasn’t Bridey Taylor. Proxy applicants began to write beseeching letters to Bridey’s father, and finally he relented. At Christmas, William and Bridey did five weddings in a row. After they graduated, they had a docket of seven. Pam, the secretary, said that the first couple had written their own vows, and asked if the proxies could say them. She gave them each a typed sheet of paper. “It’s O.K. with me if it’s O.K. with you,” Bridey’s father said. Bridey picked up her script and turned toward William. “I will run through the rain for you,” she read, stifling a laugh and taking refuge in the page. “I will worship your feet, even your crooked baby toe with no toenail. I promise to devote myself to your happiness even when the things you do don’t always make me happy. And I will remember that no proxy in the world could stand in for you, not truly, because you are irreplaceable to me, you are the man I was meant to spend my life with, and I hereby put my heart in your hands.” She put down the script. “Oh,” she said, startled. “That’s really—I’m sorry I laughed.” William caught the secretary, who had known Bridey since she was a child, watching them across the room. He avoided her eye. In July, Bridey moved to New York to audition. William told himself that he could go to New York, too. But Bridey wasn’t asking, and graduate schools were, and Indiana University offered the most money. “You’re tired of Ohio, so you’re going to Indiana?” Gillian asked him on the phone. “What the hell is the difference?” She still hadn’t forgiven him for breaking up with her, which was flattering. He hoped that she would get a job without something too terrible happening to another oboist—no lymphoma, no shattering divorce. But he knew that Gillian would be happy either way. William liked Bloomington, with its lush, towering trees, and fireflies at dusk, and its austere gray university buildings. He settled into work, and got a tutoring job helping brilliant Korean violinists with shaky English write their music-theory papers. One morning, he picked up a newspaper in a café while waiting for coffee, and saw the name of a sergeant he and Bridey had married; he had been killed by a roadside bomb. William was sure it was the same name. After that, he avoided newspapers. In school, this was easy to do. Bridey called him sometimes from New York, more often than she had from school. She was working nights at a restaurant in the Village, then going home to Brooklyn and waking in the dark to put on full makeup and stand in line for early-morning chorus calls back in Manhattan. She wasn’t getting parts, and she was demoralized. He didn’t tell her about the sergeant. “The last casting director told me I wasn’t an ingénue,” she said. “She said I have an ingénue’s hair, but there are always wigs for that, and I don’t have the right face. She said I’m really a character actress, but I’m not old enough for the roles yet. I’m not old enough for my face. So what am I supposed to do? Wait thirty years to have a career?” “Something will come up,” William said. “They’ll want someone with your look.” “I don’t know,” Bridey said. “I’m not a real dancer.” “Thank God.” “And I’m just so tired.” “You need to sleep,” he said. “Or you’ll look old enough for the character parts really soon.” Bridey laughed, and then it turned into something like a sob. “Maybe my mother was right,” she said. “I’m just not pretty enough.” “Bridey,” he said. “You’ve been there eight months.” But they had the same conversation after two years, then three. Sometimes there were happy calls about jobs: a cat-food ad that paid bills, a touring company that never made it to Indiana. But rejection was wearing her down. Sometimes he went weeks without thinking of Bridey, and sometimes she haunted him. Then came a year when there were no calls, no e-mails, no word. The first news he had was a call from his mother, who had run into Bridey’s grandmother at the grocery store. The proud old lady had said, “I don’t know what Bridey’s doing trying to be an actress. But you know she just married a lovely young man. Well, maybe not so young. But I’m told he’s lovely.” William felt as if he’d been punched in the stomach. He couldn’t find the breath to talk normally to his mother, and she seemed to understand. “I’m sorry, William,” she said. “Thank you for telling me,” he managed to say. He waited for Bridey to call, but she didn’t. Finally, he texted her: “What’s new?” She didn’t respond. He was working on a commission, but the notes swam together every time he looked at it. He sat at the keyboard in his apartment, but his head spun with thoughts of what he should have done differently. He’d known Bridey had boyfriends, but somehow he never thought that she would marry someone else. She married him, William, every time they were home. He wondered if that had made it easier to do it for real—if marrying so many times without personal consequence had made her wander blindly into the wrong marriage. Because it was the wrong marriage, he was sure. How could it be anything else? Finally, he started working again. Without Bridey to hope for, he felt that he was living in a timeless universe. It was a peculiarly freeing state. He didn’t worry about whether the music he was writing was good or bad. Sometimes he seemed only to be channelling it. He thought about Bridey’s mother’s psychic, calling up past lives, and wondered if the music was coming from somewhere else. Sometimes he knew that he was actively composing—thinking about what a bassoon could do, how long a note could be sustained, how long dissonance could be tolerated before it had to resolve into something sweet. But even then he felt cut loose from his critical sense. He was making something, and it gave him pleasure, and it didn’t matter if it ever left his apartment, or if he ever left his apartment. As long as he never went out, there was no crashing self-consciousness, no awareness of the outside world. But time did pass, and Christmas came. He told his parents that he couldn’t afford to come home, and stayed in Indiana. What he couldn’t do was go through another marriage to Bridey, who was already married. Or, worse, stand by while her new husband took over as the proxy. In January, his mother reported that Bridey hadn’t come for Christmas, either, and in February she called to say that Bridey was getting divorced, and was moving home. Listening to the silence on the line, William thought that maybe this was a dream or a fantasy on his part, just wish fulfillment. “I think you should call her,” his mother finally said. “And say what?” “She doesn’t know you’re in love with her.” “I’m not.” “Oh, William, I’m your mother,” she said. “I think I know you a little bit.” “I can’t call her.” “Sometimes I think you two are determined to be unhappy.” “She’s not unhappy,” he said. “That’s not what I hear.” “Then stop listening!” There was another silence. “Come home this summer,” his mother said. “I’ll buy you a ticket.” William tried to recover the blissful, anesthetized working state he had been in, but it was harder now. He was distracted. The spell had been broken. The small-town smoke signals, relayed to Indiana, kept him informed about Bridey. She was working in her father’s office, filing, and waiting tables in a downtown restaurant. He wondered if Bridey got news about him, too. Did the smoke signals work without a mother to receive them? In June, he went home and got his answer: he had been in his parents’ house only a day when his phone rang. Bridey’s name was on the screen. He picked up, and something deep in his belly thrilled, against his will, to the sound of her voice. “My dad wants to know if you’ll do another wedding,” she said. “Just one.” He said nothing. “William?” “Who’s been doing it since we’ve been gone?” he asked. “No one. He hasn’t been doing them.” “I heard you got actually married.” “I did.” He could hear her trying to keep her tone light. “Turns out I’m not so good at the real thing.” “Who was he?” “He owned the restaurant where I worked,” she said. “Do you remember ‘The Jungle Book’? When the python hypnotizes Mowgli, and his eyes twirl, and he’ll follow the snake anywhere, and let himself be strangled? That was me. I was Mowgli. But I slipped the coils.” “Why?” “Oh,” she said wearily. “He was sleeping with two of the other waitresses. Is that enough? Look, I can tell my dad you can’t do it.” “I’ll do it,” he said. When William parked his mother’s car in the courthouse lot, there was a woman beside him in a red pickup truck, crying. The air was brisk and the tall, old stone building imposing, with the new prison built alongside it. Inside the courthouse, the room they usually used was locked, so William backtracked to the clerk’s office. The girl in front of him in line, who looked about seventeen, was picking up a restraining order. A bosomy clerk at a desk held a phone receiver to her shoulder and asked, “How do we do a dissolution of marriage if the husband is in Afghanistan?” He wondered reflexively if the dissolving marriage was one of his and Bridey’s. Other people’s pain. The courthouse was full of it. A clerk let him into the locked room, and William dropped his backpack on the heavy wooden table, folding his long body into a chair. He was early. He tented his hands in front of his face, as if they could shield him from seeing Bridey. “If equal affection cannot be, let the more loving one be me.” That was Auden. William had set the poem to music for a pretentious tenor at school. But what did Auden know, padding around in filthy carpet slippers, filling teacups with cigarette butts? Auden, by his nature, was always going to be the more loving one, so he’d tried to make the longing admirable and desirable. William knew from experience that it wasn’t. The role of the human brain was to rationalize suffering. Bridey came into the room. She wore jeans and a button-down shirt, one corner tucked in. It had been two years since he’d seen her, and the hard angles of her face surprised him. She looked tired and beaten down, with dark circles under her eyes. But she had the same ringlets bouncing around her ears, the same sweetly discordant face. William’s tented hands couldn’t protect him. His heart ached at the sight of her. She sat and hugged one knee, a sneakered foot on the chair. “How’s the composing?” she asked. “It’s all right.” He was suddenly sure that he shouldn’t have come. Seeing her, hearing her voice, was opening wounds he had sewn tightly shut, with great effort and resolve. “How is it being home?” She smiled. “It’s a little bit awful,” she said. “There are certain women who are thrilled to see me waiting tables. They order a salad and say, ‘Well, you went off to be a big star and now you’re back here, hmm?’ It confirms all their beliefs about the futility of leaving. So, you know, I’m making people happy. That’s important.” Her father walked in and clapped William on the shoulder. “Good to see you home,” he said. “The couple wants a videoconference. I said you wouldn’t mind.” “Video!” Bridey said, touching her hair. “You could’ve warned us.” “They just told me,” her father said. He pulled a laptop from his bag and gave it to Bridey, along with a Post-it with two user names scribbled on it. “They want to Skype, whatever that is.” “I’d have washed my hair if I’d known,” Bridey said. “Do they want to see you, or just us?” “Just you two,” her father said. “I’ll be right back.” William pulled his chair beside Bridey’s while she set up a Skype account for her father. Their faces appeared on the laptop’s screen. Bridey scooted her chair closer, and William felt her knee brush his. He looked down at the keyboard. He didn’t want to see his own face, and didn’t trust himself to look at Bridey’s. She fluffed her curls. “Are you O.K. with this? I should have asked.” “It’s fine,” he said, hating the harshness in his voice. “But after today you have to find someone else.” Bridey looked at him, startled. “Really?” “It’s too hard for me. I can’t do this anymore.” “Why not?” “Just call them,” he said. “Let’s get it over with.” So Bridey did. William waited, agitated and awkward. He still felt like a gangly kid, because that was how Bridey had always known him. He shouldn’t have told her he was quitting until they’d finished. He didn’t want to see the couple they were marrying, and be reminded of how little the ceremony had to do with him and Bridey. But then the bride and groom were there, a young black couple in separate windows at the top of the screen. The bride had wide eyes and a smooth bob. Behind her was a living room in Virginia. The groom was in Iraq, and wore digital desert camouflage. Their names were Natalie and Darren. “Hi,” Bridey said. “I’m Bridey and this is William. We’re your proxies.” The bride frowned. “I asked for black proxies, but the lawyer said you’re in Montana. I guess it’s pretty white there.” “It is,” Bridey said, apologetic. “I’m his daughter—the lawyer’s daughter. We always do the weddings.” “O.K.,” Natalie said. Darren asked, “What’s your success rate?” “Well, everyone gets married,” Bridey said. “You mean do they stay married?” “Yeah.” “I don’t know,” Bridey said. William remembered the dead sergeant’s name in the paper, and the question about the dissolution of marriage, and he pushed both thoughts away. “I wish this was the proper thing,” Darren said. “Like if I was home.” “It’s legal,” Bridey said. “You’ll be married.” “See, baby?” Natalie said to her fiancé. “It’s all right.” “It just feels wrong,” he said. “I’m sorry,” Bridey said. “Thank you for your service.” The soldier nodded. William resisted the urge to look at Bridey in surprise. Thank you for your service? Where had she learned to say that? Mr. Taylor came back to the room with Pam, who wore a flowered dress, and they sat down. “Ready?” he asked. William and Bridey nodded, and her father started the familiar ceremony. “Do you, Bridey, take this man by proxy to be your lawfully wedded husband, to have and to hold by the laws of God and of this state?” “I do,” Bridey said. On the screen, Natalie started to cry. William answered in turn, and he saw Darren mouth the words silently along with him, looking fiercely intent. Bridey’s father pronounced them man and wife, and Natalie put her hands over her mouth and tried to control her tears. As he signed his name and the date, William hoped the couple would be happy together. He hoped Darren would make it home. Bridey’s father and Pam came around the table to wave at the camera and offer congratulations, and then left with the paperwork. William and Bridey were alone with the couple on the screen. “You’re married now,” Bridey said. “I wish I could say, ‘You may now kiss the bride.’ ” Natalie was rescuing her eye makeup from her tears. “What, you don’t provide that service?” “No,” William said firmly. “Oh, come on,” Natalie said. “To seal it. I’m a superstitious girl. You’re lucky I don’t ask you to jump over a broom.” William turned in confusion toward Bridey. “We could jump—” he began. But then it just seemed to happen, as if by magnetic force, as if human lips couldn’t be in such proximity and not meet. William’s eyes closed. He was kissing Bridey Taylor. It was too much to take in. Her lips were soft and warm and she smelled of something sweet and vaguely spicy. Ginger, maybe. In her hair. Then the kiss was over and Bridey looked up at him with an expression of puzzlement. She was blushing; he could see a pink tinge rise in her cheeks. His ears burned painfully, and he knew they were turning bright red. There was a whoop and the sound of clapping, and William turned to see Natalie applauding them. Darren was grinning for the first time. Bridey gave a little bow to the camera. Her father walked in, and they both stood up instinctively, like schoolchildren caught in some mischief. Their bench made a screeching noise as it slid back across the wooden floor. They said goodbye to the couple, and there were thanks and good wishes, and Bridey started to put away the computer. Mr. Taylor frowned at William. “Is something wrong with your ears?” William clapped his hands over them. “They just get hot sometimes.” Mr. Taylor looked suspicious, but he put his computer into his bag and left. “Your ears really are red,” Bridey said, when they were alone. “It happens.” “I remember,” she said. “You do?” She nodded and raised her hands to his ears, cool fingertips on the hot rims of cartilage. “Please don’t do this, Bridey,” he said. “Don’t toy with me.” “I’m not.” “You are.” “Did you feel it, before?” she asked. “When we—when they asked us to kiss?” “Feel what?” “Something shifted, all of a sudden,” she said. “Like it came into focus.” “Not for me.” His voice was hoarse. “No?” She looked disappointed. He shook his head. “It was always there for me.” His legs were trembling. She frowned doubtfully, and he thought of his mother saying, “She doesn’t know you’re in love with her,” and of his anger that Bridey could possibly be so dense. “It’s true,” he said. Her eyes went through a whole sequence of emotions: surprise, then compassion and sadness, and then something that looked like joy. Her face flushed pink again, and she looked like the Bridey Taylor he had fallen in love with. “How could you marry someone else?” he asked. “I told you,” she said. “I was hypnotized by a snake.” “That’s no excuse.” “I don’t know, then,” she said. “I just—I didn’t know.” “But now you do?” “I do.” “Are you sure?” In answer, she drew him close, to kiss the bride. William buried his hands in her curls, at the base of her neck, and felt her long-desired body press against him. Her soft mouth against his. The gingery smell. He thought he might weep with the relief of it, with the release of all the years of waiting, the intermittent periods of suppressed grief. Equal affection. Was this it? It didn’t have to be exactly equal. He would take anything close. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Referential	Credit Illustration by Matthew Bollinger For the third time in three years, they talked about what would be a suitable birthday present for her deranged son. There was so little they were actually allowed to bring: almost everything could be transformed into a weapon, and so most items had to be left at the front desk and then, if requested, brought in later by a big blond aide, who would look the objects over beforehand for their wounding possibilities. Pete had brought a basket of jams, but they were in glass jars and so not permitted. “I forgot about that,” he said. The jars were arranged by color, from the brightest marmalade to cloudberry to fig, as if they contained the urine tests of an increasingly ill person. Just as well they’ll be confiscated, she thought. They would find something else to bring. By the time her son was twelve, and had begun his dazed and quiet muttering, had given up brushing his teeth, Pete had been in their lives for six years, and now four more years had passed. The love they had for Pete was long and winding, with hidden turns but no real halts. Her son thought of him as a kind of stepfather. She and Pete had got old together, though it showed more on her, with her black shirtdresses worn for slimming and her now graying hair undyed and often pinned up with strands hanging down like Spanish moss. Once her son had been stripped and gowned and placed in the facility, she, too, had removed her necklaces, earrings, scarves—all her prosthetic devices, she said to Pete, trying to amuse—and put them in a latched accordion file under her bed. She was not allowed to wear them when visiting, so she would no longer wear them at all, a kind of solidarity with her child, a new widowhood on top of the widowhood she already possessed. Unlike other women her age (who tended to try too hard, with lurid lingerie and flashing jewelry), she now felt that that sort of effort was ludicrous, and she went out into the world like an Amish woman, or perhaps, even worse, when the unforgiving light of spring hit her face, an Amish man. If she was going to be old, let her be a full-fledged citizen of the old country! “To me, you always look so beautiful,” Pete no longer said. Pete had lost his job in the recent economic downturn. At one point, he had been poised to live with her, but her child’s deepening troubles had caused him to pull back. He said that he loved her but could not find the space he needed for himself in her life or in her house. (He did not blame her son—or did he?) He eyed with somewhat visible covetousness and sour remarks the front room, which her son, when home, lived in with large blankets and empty ice-cream pints, an Xbox, and DVDs. She no longer knew where Pete went, sometimes for weeks at a time. She thought it an act of vigilance and attachment that she did not ask, tried not to care. She once grew so hungry for touch that she went to the Stressed Tress salon around the corner just to have her hair washed. The few times she had flown to Buffalo to see her brother and his family, at airport security she had chosen the pat-downs and the wandings rather than the scanning machine. “Where is Pete?” her son cried out during visits she made alone, his face scarlet with acne, swollen and wide with the effects of medications that had been changed, then changed again, and she said that Pete was busy today, but soon, soon, maybe next week, he would come. A maternal vertigo beset her, the room circled, and the thin scars on her son’s arms sometimes seemed to spell out Pete’s name, the loss of fathers etched primitively in an algebra of skin. In the carrousel spin of the room, those white webbed lines resembled coarse, campground graffiti, as when young people used to stiffly carve the words “PEACE” and “FUCK” into picnic tables and trees, the “C” three-quarters of a square. Mutilation was a language. And vice versa. The cutting endeared her boy to the girls, many of whom were cutters themselves and seldom saw a boy who was one, and so in the group sessions he became popular, which he neither minded nor perhaps really noticed. When no one was looking, he sometimes cut the bottoms of his feet—with crisp paper from crafts hour. In group, he pretended to read the girls’ soles like palms, announcing the arrival of strangers and the progress toward romance—“toemances,” he called them—and sometimes seeing his own fate in what they had cut there. Now she and Pete went to see her son without the jams but with a soft deckle-edged book about Daniel Boone, pulled from her own bookcase, which was allowed, even though her son would believe that it contained messages for him, believe that, although it was a story about a long-ago person, it was also the story of his own sorrow and heroism in the face of every manner of wilderness, defeat, and abduction, that his own life could be draped over the book, which was simply a noble armature for the revelation of tales of him. There would be clues in the words on pages with numbers that added up to his age: 97, 88, 466. There would be other veiled references to his existence. There always were. They sat at the visitors’ table together, and her son set the book aside and did try to smile at both of them. There was still sweetness in his eyes, the sweetness he’d been born with, even if fury could dart in a scattershot fashion across them. Someone had cut his tawny hair—or, at least, had tried. Perhaps the staff person hadn’t wanted the scissors to stay near him for a prolonged period and had snipped quickly, then leaped away, approached again, grabbed and snipped, then jumped back. That’s what it looked like. Her son had wavy hair that had to be cut carefully. Now it no longer cascaded down but was close to his head, springing out at angles that would likely matter to no one but a mother. “So where have you been?” her son asked Pete. “Good question,” Pete said, as if praising the thing would make it go away. How could people be mentally well in such a world? “Do you miss us?” the boy asked. Pete did not answer. “Do you think of me when you look at the black capillaries of the trees at night?” “I suppose I do.” Pete stared back at him, so as not to shift in his seat. “I am always hoping that you are O.K. and that they treat you well here.” “Do you think of my mom when you stare up at the clouds and all they hold?” Pete fell silent again. “That’s enough,” she said to her son, who turned to her with a change of expression. “There’s supposed to be cake this afternoon for someone’s birthday,” he said. “That will be nice!” she said, smiling back. “No candles, of course. Or forks. We’ll just have to grab the frosting and mash it into our eyes for blinding. Do you ever think about how, at that moment of the candles, time stands still, even as the moments carry away the smoke? It’s like the fire of burning love. Do you ever wonder why so many people have things they don’t deserve but how absurd all those things are to begin with? Do you really think a wish can come true if you never ever ever ever ever ever tell it to anyone?” On the ride home, she and Pete did not exchange a word, and every time she looked at his aging hands, arthritically clasping the steering wheel, the familiar thumbs slung low in their slightly simian way, she understood anew the desperate place they both were in, though their desperations were separate, not shared, and her eyes then felt the stabbing pressure of tears. The last time her son had tried to do it, his method had been, in the doctor’s words, morbidly ingenious. He might have succeeded, but a fellow-patient, a girl from group, had stopped him at the last minute. There had been blood to be mopped. For a time, her son had wanted only a distracting pain, but eventually he had wanted to tear a hole in himself and flee through it. Life, for him, was full of spies and preoccupying espionage. Yet sometimes the spies would flee as well, and someone might have to go after them, over the rolling fields of dream, into the early-morning mountains of dawning signification, in order, paradoxically, to escape them altogether. There was a storm looming, and lightning did its quick, purposeful zigzag among the clouds. She did not need such stark illustration that horizons could be shattered, filled with messages and broken codes, yet there it was. A spring snow began to fall with the lightning still cracking, and Pete put the windshield wipers on so that they could peer through the cleared semicircles at the darkening road before them. She knew that the world had not been created to speak just to her, and yet, as for her son, sometimes things did. The fruit trees had bloomed early, for instance—the orchards they passed were pink—but the premature warmth precluded bees, and there would be little fruit. Most of the dangling blossoms would fall in this very storm. When they arrived at her house and went in, Pete glanced at himself in the hallway mirror. Perhaps he needed assurance that he was still alive and not the ghost he seemed. “Would you like a drink?” she asked, hoping he would stay. “I have some good vodka. I could make you a nice white Russian!” “Just vodka,” he said reluctantly. “Straight.” She opened the freezer to find the vodka, and when she closed it again she stood there for a moment, looking at the photo magnets she’d stuck to the refrigerator door. As a baby, her son had seemed happier than most babies. As a six-year-old, he was still smiling and hamming it up, his arms and legs shooting out like starbursts, his perfectly gapped teeth flashing, his hair in honeyed coils. At ten, he had a vaguely brooding and fearful expression, though there was light in his eyes, and his lovely cousins beside him. There he was, a plumpish teen-ager, his arm around Pete. And there, in the corner, he was an infant again, held by his dignified, handsome father, whom he did not recall, because he had died so long ago. All this had to be accepted. Living did not mean one joy piled upon another. It was merely the hope for less pain, hope played like a playing card upon another hope, a wish for kindnesses and mercies to emerge like kings and queens in an unexpected twist in the game. One could hold the cards oneself or not: they would land the same way, regardless. Tenderness did not enter into it, except in a damaged way. “You don’t want ice?” “No,” Pete said. “No, thank you.” She placed two glasses of vodka on the kitchen table. She sank into the chair across from him. “Perhaps this will help you sleep,” she said. “Don’t know if anything can do that,” he said, taking a swig. Insomnia plagued him. “I am going to bring him home this week,” she said. “He needs his home back, his house, his room. He is no danger to anyone.” Pete drank some more, sipping noisily. She could see that he wanted no part of this, but she felt that she had no choice but to proceed. “Perhaps you could help. He looks up to you.” “Help how?” Pete asked with a flash of anger. There was the clink of his glass on the table. “We could each spend part of the night near him,” she said carefully. The telephone rang. The Radio Shack wall phone brought almost nothing but bad news, and so the sound of it ringing, especially in the evening, always startled her. She repressed a shudder but still her shoulders hunched, as if she were anticipating a blow. She stood. “Hello?” she said, answering it on the third ring, her heart pounding. But the person on the other end hung up. She sat back down. “I guess it was a wrong number,” she said, adding, “Perhaps you would like more vodka.” “Only a little. Then I should go.” She poured him some more. She’d said what she needed to say and did not want to have to persuade him. She would wait for him to step forward with the right words. Unlike some of her meaner friends, who kept warning her, she believed that there was a deep good side of Pete and she was always patient for it. What else could she be? The phone rang again. “Probably telemarketers,” he said. “I hate them,” she said. “Hello?” she said more loudly into the receiver. This time when the caller hung up she glanced at the lit panel on the phone, which was supposed to reveal the number of the person who was calling. She sat back down and poured herself more vodka. “Someone is phoning here from your apartment,” she said. He threw back the rest of his drink. “I should go,” he said, and got up. She followed him. At the door, she watched him grasp the knob and twist it firmly. He opened it wide, blocking the mirror. “Good night,” he said. His expression had already forwarded itself to someplace far away. She threw her arms around him to kiss him, but he turned his head abruptly so that her mouth landed on his ear. She remembered that he had made this evasive move ten years ago, when they had first met, and he was in a condition of romantic overlap. “Thank you for coming with me,” she said. “You’re welcome,” he replied, then hurried down the steps to his car, which was parked at the curb out front. She did not attempt to walk him to it. She closed the front door and locked it as the telephone began to ring again. She went into the kitchen. She had not actually been able to read the caller I.D. without her glasses, and had invented the part about its being Pete’s number, but he had made it the truth anyway, which was the black magic of lies and good guesses, nimble bluffs. Now she braced herself. She planted her feet. “Hello?” she said, answering on the fifth ring. The plastic panel where the number should appear was clouded as if by a scrim, a page of onionskin over the onion—or, rather, a picture of an onion. One depiction on top of another. “Good evening,” she said loudly. What would burst forth? A monkey’s paw. A lady. A tiger. But there was nothing at all. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Sweet Dreams	Credit Illustration by Victo Ngai The corkscrew was shaped like a girl in a pleated frock, of the sort that Lara knew from childhood photographs of her mother, a short, light-green summer dress. Only the red collar didn’t really fit; it should have been embroidered tulle, and white. Lara could see the pictures—big family get-togethers in a garden in the north of Italy, full of people she didn’t know. Even her mother didn’t know all their names. “That man was a neighbor—what was his name again? And aren’t those my mother’s cousin Alberto’s children? Graziella, Alfina, and what was the little one called? Antonio? Tonino?” The colors were faded, which made them somehow more garish. It was as though the photographs had captured the sun, the sun of childhood, pale and ever-present. Thereafter the family had fallen apart, and people had gone their separate ways. When Lara had visited Italy with her parents, there hadn’t been any more big reunions, only afternoons spent in darkened homes with old people who smelled funny and served dry cookies and big plastic bottles of lukewarm Fanta. The grip on the corkscrew was the girl’s head. She had a pageboy cut and a fixed smile. Lara looked at the price tag. She and Simon already had a corkscrew, and they hardly ever drank wine. She hesitated for a long time, while the shop woman eyed her doubtfully, then she pulled herself together and took the corkscrew to the register. “Is it a gift?” the woman asked, unpicking the price tag and dabbing it on the back of her hand. “No.” Lara shook her head. “No need to wrap it—I’ll take it like that.” She looked at her watch. The bus wouldn’t leave for another half hour. Lara worked at the Raiffeisen Bank, and she got off work before Simon, but she liked to wait for him so that they could travel home together. Usually, she’d sit in the bus shelter, smoke a cigarette, and browse through the free paper. Suddenly she’d become aware of Simon standing in front of her, smiling. She’d jump up and kiss him on the lips, and he’d make a remark about her awful habit. Sometimes he meant it; sometimes he was just being flippant. The last few days it had been so cold that she’d skipped her cherished after-work cigarette and got straight on the bus, which was usually waiting there when she got to the station. Simon worked in a hi-fi store. After it closed, he needed to tidy things away and, when the boss wasn’t there, shut down the register. The bus drivers knew him and they waited when they saw him running around the corner. “I had to stay and do the till,” he said breathlessly, dropping onto the seat beside Lara and kissing her on the lips. “Have you been smoking again?” They were sitting right at the back; the row with three seats together was their favorite. It wasn’t too bright there, and the noise of the engine muffled their whispering. Lara hadn’t taken off her coat, but still she could feel Simon’s shoulder against hers. He told her about his day—picky customers and new equipment, an argument with the owner. Lara loved these rides with him, especially in winter, when it was already dark outside—the half hour up and over the ridge, through little villages, past meadows with old apple orchards and plowland. The bus radio was playing a country-music song. “That was ‘Sweet Dreams,’ ” the presenter said, “by Reba McEntire, to whom we are devoting the entire show today.” Lara kissed Simon and rested her head on his shoulder. They had been living together for just over four months, in a little one-bedroom apartment above the train-station restaurant, not far from the lake. It wasn’t ideal, but Simon had wanted to stay in the village where he grew up, and even though there wasn’t much going on there, it had proved difficult to find any place at all. The building was old and run down; the staircase was a mess, with an old freezer unit partially blocking the way, and stacks of white plastic chairs for the beer garden, empty cardboard boxes, and other junk stored on the landing. On the second floor, there were a couple of rooms for guests, which were rarely occupied, and up on the third was their apartment and two studios. One of these was empty; in the other lived Danica, a young Serbian woman who waited tables in the restaurant. When Lara and Simon had first gone to look at the apartment, she hadn’t been able to envisage them living there at all. But after they’d been to look at a few other places, all much more expensive, they’d gone back to it. Before they moved in, they repainted the walls: the landlady chipped in with paint and brushes and gave them a free hand with the decoration. They spent whole evenings talking about color schemes, but in the end they just painted everything white. The rooms looked cozier right away, and Lara was happy. It was a good time to leave home, even though she got on well with her parents. She was ready to take control of her life, to buy things, to move out. Lara was twenty-one, Simon three years older. He’d had one girlfriend before Lara, but they hadn’t lived together. “It wasn’t anything serious,” he’d say if Lara asked. He had also lived with his parents before moving in with Lara, and still needed to get used to the fact that clothes didn’t wash themselves and the fridge didn’t automatically refill itself. But he, too, seemed to get a kick out of going shopping together on the weekends and deciding what they would cook today and tomorrow and the next day. “Do we need milk?” “You know, the coffee’s almost gone.” “We’re out of garbage bags.” Sentences like that had an unexpected charm, and a full shopping cart was like an emblem of the fulfilled life that lay before them. When Simon wheeled it into the underground parking garage, with Lara at his side, she felt a deep pride and a curious satisfaction at being grown up and independent. They had been to IKEA a couple of times, and bought a mattress and a box spring and various bits and pieces for the bathroom and the kitchen—lamps and tablecloths and silverware. Simon’s parents had given them an old table and four chairs. For a wardrobe, they had a set of cheap shelves, for which Lara had sewed a red curtain. She loved these little tasks, making cushion covers, installing a new toilet seat and a showerhead, putting up posters. Simon would watch her and enjoy it with her. The electrical things were his department. Every week, there was something new, a barely used coffee machine that Lara had found on eBay, a wooden crate for their shoes, a whole stack of yellow bath towels that were on sale. Simon rarely got involved. At most, he would say, “Do we really need this?” Or, “How much did you pay for that?” “It’s a mistake to economize on quality—these towels will last us forever,” Lara told him. “Forever is a long time,” Simon answered. He hadn’t brought much into their household; the rented van they’d driven first to his parents’ house, then to hers, was barely a quarter full of his boxes of clothes, CDs, and old schoolbooks. Most of the space was taken up by his stereo equipment, his gigantic loudspeakers, and his computer. They bought a TV on an installment plan, a showroom model that Simon’s boss gave them a good price on. “How do you like this?” Lara asked, producing the corkscrew from her bag on the empty seat next to her. Simon took it and played with it, saying nothing. He furrowed his brow and pulled on the screw, and the girl raised her arms. “A ballet dancer,” he said. “No,” Lara said. “Just a girl. Do we even have any wine?” “That bottle from your parents,” Simon said. He was still playing with the thing, pulling the handles up and down, causing the girl to wave her hands, as if cheering or calling for help. “Was it expensive?” “We drank that when Hanni and Martin came over,” Lara said. “Don’t you remember?” The restaurant below their apartment was a bit seedy. Lara and Simon never went there, even though their landlady was the manager. If they ate out anywhere, it was at a place a hundred yards up the road, which did stuffed chicken breasts. They rarely went to the lakeside disco where they’d met. During the week, they went to bed early, and if they felt like going out dancing on the weekend they went into the city, where there were better clubs and not everyone knew them. The bus stopped outside the station, and the driver wished everyone a nice evening over the P.A. The passengers got off, said a word or two in parting, and went their separate ways. Lara knew most of them, if only by sight. But there was one man she hadn’t seen before. He had turned around once or twice during the trip and looked at her. When the driver announced the last stop, he had got up right away and gone to the door, even though the bus was stopping anyway. While the bus took its last few turns, the man stood in front of Lara. He looked about forty, and with his long black coat he didn’t really fit in. As she was studying him, their eyes met. The man seemed quiet, almost indifferent, but in his eyes Lara saw an attentiveness and a kind of hunger that she found a little disagreeable, but at the same time provocative. She turned to Simon, kissed him, and asked, “Will you come to the market with me tomorrow during your lunch break?” She could tell that her voice sounded artificial and even a bit loud, but she felt she had to say something. The man in the black coat was the first to get off the bus. Lara saw him walk back in the direction of the main street. After a few steps, he turned around quickly, as though to see whether she was following him, and their eyes met once again. “Do you know him?” Simon asked. Lara shook her head. “His face looks familiar to me, for some reason.” Lara locked the door behind her and read, as she did every evening, the handwritten sign that hung in the foyer. “PLEASE DON’T THROW BREAD AWAY.” Beside the door was an old cardboard box filled to the top with stale bread. Lara wondered what her landlady planned to do with it. From the restaurant came the sounds of music and loud laughter. When folk bands played there on Fridays, Lara and Simon could hear the racket up in their apartment. Even worse were the toilet smells in the hallway and the smoke that wended its way up the stairs. Simon had been down to complain a couple of times, but the landlady just said that if they were so bothered by the smell they should open a few windows. “Do you think it would help if all the voices in my head came together and formed their own light-opera company?”Buy the print » “Are you hungry?” Lara asked. “I wouldn’t mind a hot bath before dinner. I’m chilled to the bone.” The half hour in the bus hadn’t been enough to warm her up. “I bought some fresh ravioli—they take only three minutes,” she added. “I had a late lunch,” Simon said. “I’m not hungry yet.” They were standing together in the kitchen, and Lara was putting the groceries away. She held up the corkscrew. “Do you like the color?” “Green,” Simon said, and Lara thought about the faded colors of the Italian photos again. “It was forty-five francs,” she said. “Do you think that’s too much?” Simon shrugged. “You could always get a bottle of wine from the restaurant while I’m in the bath,” Lara said, “and then we can initiate the corkscrew.” She went to the bathroom, ran the tub, and got undressed. The mirror misted over with condensation, and the smell of pine needles filled the air. She turned off the water, and the apartment seemed suddenly very quiet. Then she heard footsteps and Simon’s voice through the half-open door. He said, “I’m just going downstairs for the bottle of wine.” “I thought you’d gone already,” Lara said, and she poked her head around the door, and he kissed her and tried to push the door open, but she held it steady. They kissed again. “See you in a minute,” Lara said. It was odd—she still felt a little embarrassed in front of him. When they went to bed, she would change in the bathroom and slip under the sheet next to him in her nightie. She’d wait impatiently for him to slide across to her, but she never dreamed of taking the initiative. Before they’d moved in together, it had all been pretty complicated. She’d introduced Simon to her parents fairly early on, and they’d liked him, but he had never spent the night under their roof. Lara would have felt ashamed of sleeping with him in her childhood bedroom, and she would have been scared of her parents walking in on them or hearing them, even though they weren’t noisy in bed. When they had slept together, it was at Simon’s parents’ house. Lara had always felt tense, and had started at the smallest sound. In the summer, they’d done it in the forest a couple of times, but that was uncomfortable, and Lara had been just as nervous. She had yet to get used to their new freedom; even now, she was scared that someone would see them or hear them. Sometimes, when Simon was on top of her, she pulled the covers up over his head. When he tried to push them down, she held on to them and said, “I’ll get cold.” She basked in the warm water, and thought about what still had to be done in the apartment, what they were still missing. She would have liked a bedside table, but it wouldn’t make much sense to buy one, since they didn’t even have a bed frame. They had seen a colonial-style bed in a furniture store, a sort of fourposter in poplar, with white tulle curtains. “A dream,” a salesman, who had approached them and was looking at them expectantly, said. That bed came with fitted tables, and a wardrobe as well. But for the moment it was more than they could afford, and Lara wasn’t sure if Simon liked it, or if it wasn’t a bit girlie for him. When they’d gone to see the beds at IKEA, Simon’s only question each time had been “Is it strong? Will it hold up?” He probably hadn’t meant it like that, but Lara had still felt embarrassed in front of the salesman. “We don’t need to buy everything at once,” she’d said. So now they had a mattress and a box spring on the floor. After twenty minutes, she got out of the bath and pulled the plug. She dried herself on one of the big yellow bath towels. It wasn’t actually a color she liked, that slightly off, mustardy yellow. But you couldn’t argue about the quality—the quality was excellent. She had put the towels through the wash a couple of times, and they still felt brand new. Lara remembered what Simon had said: “Forever is a long time.” Presumably, the towels would outlast their relationship, she thought, and that gave her a shock. She loved Simon, and he loved her, but was there any guarantee that he would still love her in five or ten years’ time? Her notions of the future were both very precise and very vague. She wanted children and a home, and she wanted to go on working part time once the children were there. In a few years, she would get her promotion, and maybe one day she would become branch manager. But all that seemed very far off, a different life. Sometimes she asked herself if Simon had the same sort of dreams that she had. It made her suspicious when he said, “Let’s just wait and see—que sera sera. We’re still young.” In fact, he still felt as strange to her as this apartment, which was only slowly turning into home. She never knew exactly what he wanted; he didn’t talk about himself much. It was only when he was with his friends that he seemed perfectly natural and relaxed. She wrapped the towel around her, rinsed her hair in the sink, and put it up. Suddenly she felt a longing for Simon; she wanted to throw her arms around him, lie in bed with him, and press herself against him. She went to the kitchen, but he wasn’t there. “Simon,” she called, and went into the living room and then the bedroom. “Simon?” He was still down in the restaurant, she told herself. He was sure to be back any moment. She sat at the table and leafed through the free paper she had picked up at the bus station. An ex-Miss Switzerland wanted to climb Kilimanjaro to raise money for a children’s cancer hospital; Prince William had worn a toupee for a portrait photographer, or so, at least, the newspaper claimed; an American had been put to death for a murder he had committed twenty-five years ago. Under the headline “GRUESOME FIND ON LAKE,” there was a story about a trout fisherman who had stumbled upon a dead body in the water just offshore. The policemen who had pulled the body in were quoted as saying that the dead man had been missing for a couple of months. Presumably it was suicide, though accidental death was also a possibility. The water temperature was less than forty degrees: if you fell in you wouldn’t last more than a few minutes. Water dripped from Lara’s hair onto the picture of the marina where the body had been found. With a shudder, she pushed the newspaper away. She thought about that man being in the lake only a few hundred yards away, while she and Simon were moving in, or eating their supper, or making love. She felt cold in her towel. There was only a gas heater in the apartment, and the windows were not exactly insulated. Lara went into the kitchen and put on the water for the ravioli. She took two plates from the cupboard and a couple of forks off the draining board, and scrubbed at a stain on one of the counters, but it wouldn’t budge. The kitchen was from the seventies, and you could scrub away at it as much as you liked, but it never got completely clean. Lara went to the bathroom, blow-dried her hair, and put on some clothes. She crept down the creaking staircase. She didn’t turn on the landing light—she didn’t want to be seen. The music had stopped, and the voices had quieted down, too. She had almost reached the bottom when the door to the bar opened, and she saw the backlit silhouette of an enormous man. At the same moment, the light turned on in the hallway. The man had a flushed complexion. He pulled the door shut behind him and passed her without a word, on his way to the men’s room, as if he hadn’t seen her. The landlady’s voice was loud and distinct. “He didn’t recognize him right away,” she was saying, “because the man was face down. In summer he probably would have bobbed up sooner.” Lara pushed open the door to the bar and stepped inside. There were half a dozen men at the bar and the tables, and Lara was alarmed because they all seemed to be looking at her, but then she realized that their attention was on the landlady, behind the bar. She was talking about something else now. “They ought to poison that son of a bitch,” she said, “to teach him what it feels like. Those poor dogs.” Lara had seen the tabloid headline: “ANIMAL HATER STRIKES AGAIN.” Simon was standing on one of the benches along the wall, his head obscured by an enormous TV mounted on the ceiling. Right behind him and looking up at him stood Danica, the waitress. Even though they were neighbors, Lara had run into her only once or twice on the stairs. Sometimes she heard her footsteps on the landing late at night, but there was never any sound from her studio. Danica had come to Switzerland from Serbia with her parents when she was little, she’d told Lara and Simon the first time they met. She hadn’t managed to find an apprenticeship, even though she had good grades. “Do you think she’s attractive?” Lara had asked Simon later. “Other women don’t interest me,” he’d replied. “But surely you’ve got an opinion?” “I don’t know,” he said. “I think she’s got bedroom eyes,” Lara said, and Simon laughed and kissed her. Simon seemed to be trying to fix the TV. After a while, he jumped off the bench and said something to Danica. She smiled and switched the TV on, and together they looked at the screen, which was showing a grainy picture of a downhill skier. Simon spotted Lara and went over to her. “A faulty connection,” he said, and, when she looked at him in confusion, “The TV’s on the blink.” He turned to the landlady and said that the antenna wire was bent, but he could bring her a new one tomorrow. “Isn’t it practical having a workman in the house?” the landlady said. “What will you have to drink? A glass of red?” “I was going to buy a bottle of wine,” Simon said. “It’s on the house,” the landlady said. “And the young lady?” Simon looked at Lara, and then he said, “I’d rather have a beer,” and, to Lara, “Are you hungry?” “Sit down, the pair of you,” the landlady said, dunking a glass in murky dishwater and pouring a large beer. There wasn’t a free table, so Simon sat down opposite an old man who seemed to have had a few already. Lara slid onto the bench next to Simon. “She asked me if I’d take a look at the TV,” he said half apologetically. “A faulty connection.” “I thought you weren’t coming back,” Lara said. She sounded reproachful, which she didn’t mean to be. She had promised herself that she wouldn’t be clingy with Simon. He had just wanted to help out. She was sorry she’d come down. If she’d stayed upstairs, he surely wouldn’t have accepted the landlady’s offer, and would have come back up. Danica stepped over to the table, bringing Simon’s beer and a glass of wine for Lara. The landlady and the men were still talking about the poisoned dogs, and what the authorities should do to the guilty party if they caught him. The drunk at their table said under his breath that he could think of a couple of dogs he wouldn’t mind poisoning. Lara wasn’t sure if the remark was intended for them, and she didn’t reply. She felt her hair, which was still a little damp. “Are you seeing this?”Buy the print » For no obvious reason, the drunk started talking about a cruise he’d gone on almost twenty years ago, on the Black Sea. It had been dull—those cruises were pretty uneventful. “I’ve been to the Crimea, to Sevastopol, where the Russians have a navy base and submarines. That was an experience—that was worth it,” he said. Simon didn’t seem to be listening; he drank his beer and looked up at the TV, where a different skier was now on the slope. From the speaker came the sound of cowbells and the rhythmic shouts of supporters. Lara wasn’t sure where the Black Sea was. Danica appeared at their table, and filled up Lara’s glass before she was able to say no, thank you. Now she was sitting there foolishly with her hand over the full glass. She hadn’t had anything to eat since lunchtime, and she could feel the alcohol going to her head. “Will you have another beer?” Danica asked. Simon glanced quickly over at Lara, as though he needed her permission. Then he said, “Yes, sure,” and half got up. “Will you excuse me? I’ll be back in a minute.” Lara let him out. No sooner had she sat down again than the drunk asked if she was from the area—he hadn’t seen her before. She felt ill at ease in the bar, threatened by the loud landlady and the drunken men who were ogling her. “I grew up in Kreuzlingen,” she said. The man held out his hand and said that his name was Manfred. She shook his hand and said, “Lara.” “ ‘Dr. Zhivago,’ ” he said. “That was a nice film. With Omar Sharif, and . . . who was she again?” “Julie Christie,” Lara said. “In the streetcar.” The drunk smiled. “I have a sister in Kreuzlingen. Have you ever been to Russia?” “No,” Lara said. She wanted to say something else—she would feel safer if she were talking—but she couldn’t think of anything. “Where is the Black Sea again?” she asked finally. “If you’re coming from the Mediterranean, you pass Istanbul and go through the Bosphorus, then you’re in the Black Sea. The south shore is Turkey, and in the north are Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, and Russia.” “Have you been to all those places?” Lara asked. “I went on that cruise,” Manfred said. “That’s where I met my wife. She’s Ukrainian. She was working on the ship. But that didn’t work out.” Danica came back and asked if they wanted anything. Both shook their heads. When she was gone, Manfred said in a whisper, “I tell you, those women from the East,” and then he laid his finger across his lips. Lara was relieved when Simon finally returned. He was holding a dirty white cable in one hand. He had a quick word with the landlady, and then he climbed up on the bench again and switched the cables. For a moment, there was just a streaky gray on the screen, then the picture suddenly came clear, and the sound seemed even louder than before to Lara. Simon punched through a few channels on the remote, probably to check that the reception was uniformly good. There was a brief glimpse of two men sitting facing each other. Lara was almost sure that one of them was the man in the black coat, from the bus. But the scene disappeared immediately, to be replaced by a woman arguing with a little girl, and then a group of soldiers sneaking through a forest, and then back to the skiing. Simon returned to the table. “I just remembered I had an old cable lying around,” he said, and smiled in satisfaction. “Shall we go?” Lara said, getting to her feet. The landlady didn’t want any money for the bottle of wine. “It’s in return for the cable,” she said, giving Lara and Simon her hand, which felt soft and a bit soapy from the washing up. “Don’t do anything I wouldn’t do,” one of the men called after them as they left the bar, and everyone laughed. The water was boiling violently; half of it had evaporated already, leaving a white chalky line at the top of the saucepan. Lara quickly turned off the gas. “Never, ever, leave the stove on when you go out, not even for a second,” Simon said. As if Lara didn’t know that. “It’s not my fault,” she said. “I thought you’d be back right away.” She felt like crying. “I didn’t mean it like that,” Simon said, and kissed her. “Nothing happened.” Lara turned away and picked up the corkscrew. Simon watched alertly as she took the plastic seal off the bottle. She had to overcome her own resistance to place her thumb over the girl’s face and apply enough strength to insert the screw into the cork. She looked Simon in the eye, let him see how furious she was. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I know, it’s my fault.” She set down the bottle and said, as if in conciliation, “You do it.” Simon put on a rather ceremonious expression, as though God knows what surprise was in store, and slowly pushed down on the girl’s arms. With a bright popping sound, the cork came out of the bottle. Simon looked at Lara with a grin. She threw her arms around him and started to kiss him, went on repeatedly kissing him, and tried to undo the buttons on his shirt. Simon, not looking where he was putting it, set the corkscrew down, and with their mouths glued together they undressed each other and let their clothes drop to the floor. Simon almost fell over as he wriggled out of his tight jeans—he was only just able to catch himself on Lara, who was impatiently tugging at the hooks on her bra. When they were both naked, Lara lay down on the coconut matting they had bought at IKEA, and Simon knelt between her legs. He tried to enter her, but couldn’t. “Wouldn’t you rather go to the bed?” he asked. “Wait,” Lara said, and she disappeared into the living room and came back with one of the sofa cushions. She lay down again and pushed the cushion under her. The matting was rough, and she could feel it scratching her back, but she didn’t care. Soon Simon rolled off her and lay next to her, and she understood that he had come. She was still aroused, and stroked him until he was hard again. This time she sat on top of him. Simon didn’t seem very focussed, but she didn’t care. She rode him till she could no longer feel the burning in her knees, and sensed the blood rushing to her face. She shut her eyes and moved more and more vigorously. It was as though it were all happening inside her head, as though all her sensations were combining to form one overwhelming feeling. Then she heard herself shout, and she dropped panting onto Simon, her head beside his, not daring to look him in the eye. She lay like that until her breathing came more evenly and she could feel her body again, the pain in her knees and the chill on her back. She sat up. Simon looked at her in astonishment, and asked with a smile, “Did the earth move for you, then?” She laid a finger across his mouth. Her face grew very earnest, and she said, “If you ever stop loving me, I want you to promise to tell me.” “But I do love you,” Simon protested. “I mean, because you never know what will happen,” Lara said. “And now I have to put something on, or I’ll catch cold.” In the bathroom, she saw that the pattern of the coconut matting was imprinted across her back, and that her knees were scraped open. She thought of taking a shower, but for now she just put on a fresh pair of panties and pulled on her dressing gown. When she went back to the kitchen, Simon had got dressed, put fresh water on to boil, and laid the table. He poured two glasses of wine and passed her one, and they toasted each other. “Here’s to us.” The wine was awful. Lara didn’t sit facing Simon as she usually did but beside him, and she kept touching him during the meal, grazing his arm or stroking his neck and back. After they’d finished eating, they sat for a long time talking. Lara was bubbly; she spoke faster and more volubly than usual. “I think I must be a bit drunk,” she said. “I’d better look out then, hadn’t I?” Simon said with a smile. “Shall we go to bed?” He went to the bathroom and came back in pajamas. Lara didn’t feel like brushing her teeth. She just took off her dressing gown and slid into bed with Simon. He lay on his back and she pressed herself against him, slipping her hand under his pajama top and stroking his chest. “Are you tired?” she asked. “Yes,” Simon said, and with that he turned onto his side and soon his breathing was calm and even. Lara didn’t feel at all tired. After lying there awake for a while, she got up and made herself a cup of tea in the kitchen. Then she went to the living room and turned on the TV. She flipped her way through the programs. It was mostly films and talk shows. Lara stopped for a moment at one station with phone-sex ads, and watched the women rubbing their breasts and moaning “Call me, call me.” For once, she didn’t feel disgusted; on the contrary, she felt a kind of sympathy or solidarity for the women, which surprised her. She clicked onward, and suddenly there was the man from the bus again. It was the local channel, which recycled its programs every hour. The studio was in the old town, not far away. Lara knew the host by sight. He had been a teacher at Simon’s school. She listened for a while before it dawned on her that the guest on the show was a writer. She’d never heard his name before. The host’s questions were often longer than the man’s short, factual replies. Again, Lara was aware of his alert look, which had caught her attention on the bus. Asked where he got the ideas for his stories, he said that he found them on the street. Only today, on the bus to the studio, he added, he’d seen this young couple, two perfectly ordinary young people, sitting together and talking terribly earnestly. “They reminded me of my youth, of a woman I wanted to marry and have kids with,” he said. “Then something got in the way. But I’ve never felt so sure of anything as I did then, before I really knew the first thing about living.” He imagined that the couple had only just moved in together; they were still furnishing their apartment and buying things for it and maybe, with slight astonishment, contemplating the years that lay ahead of them, asking themselves whether their relationship would last. “It was that blissful but slightly anxious moment of starting out that interested me,” the writer said. “Maybe I’ll write a story about it.” “And how will the story end?” the host asked. The writer shrugged. “I won’t know that until I’ve finished it,” he said. He talked about how young couples sometimes resembled very old couples, perhaps because both had to deal with uncertainty. The host asked if it wasn’t tricky to write from life. The writer shook his head. He wouldn’t be painting a portrait of these two individuals. They had given him an idea for something, but they had nothing to do with the people he’d write about in his story. In actual fact, they weren’t a couple at all, he said. They’d got off at two different stops and kissed goodbye on the cheek. Lara heard the last train pull in. Quarter to one. She went up to the window and saw the train standing there, with no one getting on or off. After a while, it silently pulled away. The writer would have gone home long ago, even as he continued to speak on the TV. For a month, the channel would keep replaying this conversation with him, in an endless loop, until he himself had become just as imaginary a figure as Lara or Simon. ♦ (Translated, from the German, by Michael Hofmann.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Nero	Credit Photograph by Birthe Piontek, “Front Yard,” from the series “The Idea of North” (2008) He was the second, or perhaps the third, Nero owned by my grandparents. With a grocery store that included a butcher shop and a slaughterhouse, they could feed as many dogs as they liked. Nero, a mixture of fierce breeds in a line known locally as guard dogs, was valued for his strength, his formidable jaws, and his resonant bark. At night, he was turned loose to guard the cash register in the front of the shop, where he paced the waxed linoleum, a ghostly white. Other unbanked valuables were kept in a safe in my grandfather’s bedroom. He slept behind a locked door with my grandmother on one side of him and a loaded gun on the other. This was not a place where a child got up at night to ask for a glass of water. I was taken to stay with my grandparents because my mother was about to have a baby. The plan was for me to stay there until the baby was established at home—a period of only two or three weeks. While there, I must have lived at a more intense pitch. Or perhaps the novelty of everything that happened caused each day to imprint itself deeply on my mind. I believe I could still draw the stippled print on my grandmother’s homemade shifts, or even reproduce the maps of blood that appeared and disappeared on my grandfather’s bleached, starched, ankle-length aprons. I was seven years old, wore boy’s clothes, and was often mistaken for a boy, a sickly one. “Don’t you feed him?” the customers would say, laughing. My grandmother stopped giving me jobs out front. Every day, I climbed the trestle fence to watch Uncle Jurgen, a skinny, awkward figure in steel-toed boots, bring pigs, sheep, even steers and heifers to a stilled submission. My grandfather, a real wrestler, had taken prizes in Germany. But Jurgen had his own ways. He grappled with each animal without exerting, it seemed, much effort. When the animal had tired itself out and stopped kicking, he’d use a razor-sharp knife to cut its throat with a technique so precise that the blood could be collected for black sausage. Now the scalding tub for pigs is rusted, thistles have grown through the wire chicken cages, and somewhere in the field behind the closed shop the bones of Nero whitely petrify. “Throw down the guts if he rushes at you,” my grandmother said, handing me a bent pie tin heaped with offal. Nobody argued with her, ever. Sometimes Nero buried his dishes in the fenced back yard after emptying them, or, if acutely bored, tossed them high in the air with his great muzzle. He caught these objects and chewed them to lethal shreds of metal, which littered the ground, along with his dung, and had to be picked up by one of the old men who worked odd jobs in exchange for schnapps. As instructed, I threw down the guts and backed away. Nero snapped down his food and stared at me. His eyes were nobly set in his broad brow. I stepped behind the screen door, but Nero held my gaze. As I looked into his eyes, which were the same brownish gold as mine, I had my first sensation of self-awareness. I realized that my human body, my human life, was arbitrary. I could have been a dog. An exhilarating sadness gripped me, and then I felt the first intimations of sympathy for another form of creation, for Nero, who had to eat guts from an old pie tin. In the kitchen, there was a ceramic cookie jar in the shape of a fat baker. It was always filled with gingersnaps that had gone stale in the shop. The jar was kept on top of the refrigerator, but was easily reached if I stood on the table. I took two cookies to the back door, opened it a crack, and tossed one of them toward Nero. He caught it with a jump. He caught the second one, too. After that, it became my custom to take a few gingersnaps to the door and toss them to Nero, in the spirit of secretly aiding a fellow-prisoner. For I had a confused sensation that we were both captive—in different bodies, true, but with only one dark way out. Every animal had its use. Most, of course, were there to be slaughtered or, in the case of chickens and guinea hens, to lay eggs and then be slaughtered. The smaller dogs were there to keep my grandparents’ feet warm and to accompany them on deliveries. They were given a few pats and scratches, but Nero, as a guard dog, wasn’t treated with human affection. Therefore he never begged, wagged his tail, smiled with his tongue lolling, or pricked up his ears with excitement at certain words. He knew no human words except the one I taught him: gingersnap. The only sign of his understanding was a keener look in his eyes, a stiller stillness, a slight crouch for the midair catch. But it is probably impossible for our two species, interdependent since the dim beginning of our ascendancy on this earth, not to communicate. Staring at each other, we were exchanging some signal. After being fed or catching his daily gingersnaps, Nero trotted away to lie underneath a rogue pine that had grown up close to the door. When his food was digested, he usually returned to his primary daytime task—attempting to break out of the back yard. It was well known that Nero was not just looking for freedom. He was infatuated with a mean snub-nosed cocker spaniel named Mitts. She lived on the other side of the fairgrounds with Priscilla Gamrod, the shop’s bookkeeper. Her father owned a bar and was known to fling men twice his size out the door by their collar and belt. Priscilla was twenty-five, but she still lived with him. Her mother had died, leaving the two of them bound by a grief that eased with time but was replaced by Mr. Gamrod’s jealous dependence. This had got so bad that he insisted on fighting any man who tried to court her. He’d beaten them all, and Priscilla had put up with it because she hadn’t found a man she liked yet anyway. She doted on Mitts and took her everywhere, brushed and beribboned. Once a year, she bred Mitts to Lord Keith, a papered stud who lived on a farm near Long Prairie. She sold the purebred pups only to people who met her standards, and cried when the last one left the house. Nobody knew if Mitts preferred Lord Keith to Nero, because she bit every dog and person within her reach. Priscilla, with her bandaged fingers, often had to cope with Nero’s longing, but she never called the city dogcatcher. Every time Nero broke loose, Jurgen built the fence higher. He used a combination of materials—old pickets, long staves, chicken wire, and spare rebar. He had it up to seven feet now, but the haphazard nature of its construction made the outcome almost certain; there were always bits of wood or metal jutting out on which Nero could gain purchase. For a couple of days now, he had been practicing his ascent. Over and over, he rushed at the fence, each time gaining a few inches of height. From one side of the yard to the other, using subtle variations in each approach, Nero strove. He kept at this for an entire afternoon and could be heard before dawn the next day, throwing himself upward. When I read the words “dogged pursuit” I see the literal efforts of Nero. The grownups in the family were used to this and confident in the seven-foot fence, so I was the only one watching when Nero clambered to the rickety top, balanced, and leaped into space. It was early in the morning, and the shop was already busy, so in theory an entire day could elapse before Nero’s services were required and his escape was discovered. I filled my pockets with gingersnaps, told my grandmother I was going to play out in the field, and went straight across the sleepy fairgrounds to Priscilla Gamrod’s house. When Priscilla answered the door, Mitts barked viciously and darted for my ankle, but Priscilla elegantly kicked her dog down the hall with the pointed toe of her shoe. Mitts rolled, skidded, and trotted sullenly before us into the kitchen. She slumped in her pillowed corner, glowering as only a cocker spaniel can glower, while Priscilla sat me at the table and warmed some sugared milk with a bit of coffee in a small blue pan. She also made me cinnamon toast. The kitchen table was white enamelled steel, painted with swirling green lines. The chairs were of curved aluminum with fat plastic cushions, green, too. The wallpaper was decorated with little black roosters. When I told Priscilla that Nero had cleared the fence, she said that she had the hose ready and would give him the works. She said this affectionately and even glanced at Mitts with a sort of amused pride, as if her dog’s attractions reflected upon her, too, though she needed no help. Priscilla was round-figured, silky-skinned, rosy, with black curls and great dark pixie eyes. The way her lashes curled, reaching nearly up to her curved brows, entranced me. Her eyes were a warm hazel. It was no wonder that her father fought off boy after boy. I said something about this without thinking. “Oh, you heard about that,” she said, smiling. “He’ll have a hell of a time fighting off the man I’m seeing now!” I wanted to ask who this man was, but right then Mitts yapped. Priscilla looked out the window, and, sure enough, there was Nero. He stood gravely in the scraggle of grass and sand pickers that passed for a yard. I stepped out the back door. “Gingersnap,” I said. Nero’s ears pricked up. I was elated. He knew me. He snatched cookies from the air while Priscilla made the phone call, then he turned, listened intently, and loped off. A moment later, my uncle pulled up in the shop’s meat truck. I stepped into the kitchen and, it so happened, entered at an angle from which I could just see the front door. Priscilla opened it for my uncle, who kissed her with a fast, furtive gesture, locking his hand for a moment in her black curls. My uncle was tall and spare, handsome only if you liked thin cheeks and big teeth. He had a protruding Adam’s apple, bulging temples, big ears. I didn’t think he’d be any match for Priscilla’s father. I was sure that their love was doomed, and my uncle was likely to be maimed or killed. “Any coffee left?” Uncle Jurgen walked into the kitchen, winked at me, then opened the refrigerator, which held half a frosted lemon layer cake. He grinned as Priscilla entered. “You’ll have your cake and eat it, too,” she laughed. “This is great, but, ultimately, it’s all about jobs.”Buy the print » As she cut the cake, she said, teasingly, “Happy birthday to us.” Jurgen reached down to pick up Mitts, who bit his hand. Instead of withdrawing his hand, my uncle stuck his fingers out and flicked her nose. He reached for her again. She bit him. He flicked her nose. This happened one more time, but the fourth time he reached for Mitts she didn’t bite. She allowed him to pick her up and she sat across his thighs as he ate a piece of cake and scratched her long silky ears. Uncle Jurgen said that he’d have to spend the rest of the afternoon building the fence higher. “You should make sure you’ve got your dog back first,” Priscilla said. “Oh, he won’t go far. He’s too hung up on poor Mitts.” “Poor Mitts?” I said. “She tried to bite off your fingers!” My uncle laughed and held up his hand. His long, thin fingers were heavily calloused. “Mitts’s teeth can’t dent this hide,” he said. He stroked the dog’s throat, scratched her chin, and made soft clicking noises with his tongue. Mitts looked up at him with wet, adoring eyes. Priscilla took his plate to the sink. While her back was turned, Jurgen nudged me and nodded at the door. I went outside to sit on the back porch. They talked low for a while, laughed, and then Uncle Jurgen called out that I could catch a ride back with him. The warm truck smelled of scorched foam rubber, smoked sausages, and stale cigars. On the way, he told me that he had plans to marry Priscilla Gamrod. He’d asked her and she’d said yes. “Won’t you have to fight her father?” I asked. Jurgen said he wasn’t worried. I was too shy to disagree with an adult out loud, but what muscles my uncle had were thin and ropy. He even had a slight stoop. Mr. Gamrod stood upright as a fireplug, and his muscles were thick and hard. At my grandparents’ house, I helped my uncle carry some odds and ends of wood to the back yard so that he could add another foot or so to Nero’s fence. Jurgen stood on top of the stepladder. “This is as far as I can work without buying an extension ladder,” he said. “And I’m saving for a ring.” The fence was now close to eight feet. When Nero finally turned up, hungry for his supper, I was disappointed that he hadn’t kept on running, found his way up north, and joined a wolf pack. A couple of days later, there was an explosion in the bookkeeping office. Not the usual explosion, which was of papers—toppling stacks, tipping files. This explosion involved a lot of shouting and swearing as Mr. Gamrod strode around the counter and into the office, where Priscilla was writing out invoices. I was helping my grandmother unpack boxes to restock the cleaning-supply section with glossy cardboard cylinders of Comet and bars of Lava soap. Uncle Jurgen and my grandfather were out on a delivery. When the yelling commenced, my grandmother rushed to the office, slippers flapping, and stood for a moment in the doorway with her hands on her hips. “Psia krew!” My grandmother was the daughter of a Polish coal miner, and her one curse, rarely uttered, always silenced the Germans. Mr. Gamrod held out the wedding-announcement page from the local newspaper. My grandmother took it from him and read it. “You coulda told us,” she said to Priscilla, then nodded at Mr. Gamrod. “They coulda told us.” Mr. Gamrod, happy to take on her hurt indignation along with his own fury, nodded soberly. Suddenly, there were tears in my grandmother’s hard eyes. As we all stood immobilized by those tears, we heard Uncle Jurgen and my grandfather drive to the back entrance. The truck’s motor quit, and there was a slide of suspense. They entered the house and came down the hall talking casually, but when they saw us they stopped. My grandmother rammed herself toward Jurgen and pushed the paper into his chest. She continued down the hall without speaking. We heard the door to the sacred bedroom slam, the dead bolt thwock. “Well, Mr. Announcement Page,” Gamrod said to Jurgen, rolling up his sleeves. “When’s it going to be?” “You’ll fight me first,” my grandfather said. His sleeves were already rolled up and his thick forearms bulged. Everyone knew about his prize wrestling, but also that his heart was weak. “If Gamrod needs a fight, I’ll fight,” Jurgen said. He folded his gangly arms, with the cuffs of his blue plaid shirt neatly buttoned. Even I could tell that the statement was made with a certain irony, pointing out the absurdity of Mr. Gamrod’s challenge. “Daddy,” Priscilla said. “I could’ve eloped!” She shook her black curls at her father and cradled Mitts, whose eyes rolled toward Jurgen. All of a sudden, Nero set up a quavering high howl from the back yard. His howling was a liquid gargle that mesmerized us until my grandmother opened the bedroom door and shouted at me to run out and throw a bucket of water on the damn dog. I went into the kitchen and took all the gingersnaps out of the jar. Then I stood in the back yard tossing them to Nero. I ate a couple, too. By the time they were gone, the Gamrods had left and my grandparents and my uncle were sitting in the kitchen, drinking beer and eating slices of summer sausage with dill pickles and rye bread. They were discussing the upcoming fight between Jurgen and Mr. Gamrod. It turned out that they’d agreed to host this fight out in the back field, where there was a sandy spot. They’d meet around dusk. The spectators would bring flashlights. Because the fight was on private property, shielded from the road, it probably wouldn’t draw the police. Something in the calm and even good-natured way they discussed the upcoming battle, their laughter at how Mr. Gamrod had roared in, should have reassured me. During my first full year of school, a lyceum show had been held in the school gym. This show, one of many small educational productions that toured our state, had had a powerful impact on me. The subject was dangerous exotic creatures. It was not a slide show or a movie; the performance featured the animals themselves. The man who ran the show had a confident air and a polished, domelike head. He was probably called Mr. Johnson, like so many men in the Midwest. He wore a gray three-piece suit and had a young Burmese python draped over his shoulders. He seemed to feed on our shocked murmuring as he proudly carried the patterned bronze loop of muscle to an open blue suitcase. He laid the snake inside and lowered the lid. From another case, he removed a large jar with enough white sand in the bottom to bury a tarantula. Sure enough, when he opened the jar and set it down on its side, an enormous brown spider tiptoed out. Miss Sillet, the fourth-grade teacher, fainted in her chair. None of the children noticed. Mr. Johnson had removed a soft plume from his vest. “A feather is the only thing that should ever be used to coax along a tarantula,” Mr. Johnson said. “They do not like to be poked.” As he brushed the tarantula along, encouraging it to climb the leg of his pants, he described how tarantulas use their long fangs to inject paralyzing venom into their prey. He explained how this venom liquefied the insides of insects, rodents, even small birds. The spiders sucked out this inner soup, leaving only the creature’s husk. He told us that tarantulas could live to be thirty years old. The spider paused at his belt and then tested the cloth of Mr. Johnson’s sleeve. It continued climbing, with only the lightest touches from the feather, until it was poised on Mr. Johnson’s shoulder. There were gasps as its eerily jointed legs used the tip of Mr. Johnson’s ear to ascend. Once it had reached the top of Mr. Johnson’s head, the tarantula braced its awful legs and lowered its abdomen. There it rested. We were riveted. Mr. Johnson told us that the bite of a tarantula is no more dangerous to a human than a bee sting, but we didn’t believe him. After a few minutes, he slowly tipped his head, signalling to the tarantula that it was time to make its way back down his body to the jar of sand. But just as the tarantula was testing the cuff of his trouser leg all hell broke loose. The lid popped up on the blue suitcase. The young snake writhed through the air like living electrical current and connected with Mr. Johnson. The jolt, as it threw its coils around Mr. Johnson’s hips, sent the tarantula spinning like a flailing discus. When the spider hit the ground, it rose to show its fangs and danced aggressively to the front of the stage. In the meantime, Mr. Johnson was trying to stave off the snake’s crushing hug. All this occurred just as his two assistants, plus the janitor and our gym teacher, Miss Oten, were carrying in what was supposed to be the show’s grand finale, the African rock python. They were bringing it down the aisle in the longest carrying case I’d ever seen. It was specially made of leather, with mesh windows through which the snake’s mottled bulk could be glimpsed. The front of the case had been opened so that all the children could behold the spectacular somnolent indifference of the python’s face. But we barely noticed it—we were watching Mr. Johnson. His snake had got the wrap on him and was squeezing tighter with every breath. Mr. Johnson had fallen to the stage floor and was kicking the boards resoundingly, with useless desperation, and not even the air to yelp. The tarantula had stopped prancing about on its hind legs and now picked its way down the side of the stage, away from the dangerous vibrations and toward the screaming children. At that point, the four people carrying the long python case dropped it and rushed to the assistance of Mr. Johnson. They vaulted onto the stage and were trying to pry Mr. Johnson free when the python glided into the mob of children. Most of us were now standing on our chairs. The cheap tin folding chairs were rickety, and children were crashing to the ground right and left. The teachers didn’t know what to do. They kept picking children up and shoving them toward the doors. One was using a collapsed chair to stave off the tarantula. The python slid among the chair legs, and, as if in a nightmare, I fell right in front of it. I looked straight into its wise, primordial face. Its tongue flickered, sensing the currents of pandemonium, and then the forked tip touched my cheek. That’s all. It did not open its jaws to try to swallow me whole or attempt to squeeze the life out of me first. It moved away. I thought perhaps I would be marked forever with the python’s kiss, but there was no sign of it when I looked in the bathroom mirror. In any case, it was the other snake that dominated my thoughts the night that Uncle Jurgen fought Mr. Gamrod. Buy the print » My grandfather drew a ring in the sand, and directed the men with flashlights to position themselves just outside the wide circle. That afternoon, I had gone out to the field and cleared the area of sand pickers. The spectators were mostly in favor of Mr. Gamrod’s showing a certain leniency. There was talk of not being too harsh on the young man, of cutting him up just a bit, of doing only small damage to his face. They were telling Mr. Gamrod to have his fun but not go overboard. Mainly, they were worried that Priscilla would show up. Mr. Gamrod divested himself of his shirt. He handed it delicately, by the tip of its collar, to his beer supplier and asked the man to hold it carefully so as not to ruin Priscilla’s starching. Uncle Jurgen was wearing a T-shirt and a pair of old dungarees. Both men went barefoot and gloveless. I thought Jurgen was keeping his T-shirt on so as not to reveal his skinny physique, but it turned out that he had another reason. Mr. Gamrod wanted Jurgen to cry quit, or signal quit if he couldn’t speak. This was supposed to be a fight to submission, although the fact was that it could be stopped at any time by my grandfather. Or if my grandmother were to charge across the field and yell her Polish curse—it would most certainly stop then. So I was allowed to stay. Jurgen had even argued for it. I stood spellbound at my grandfather’s hip. Dukes up, head down, Mr. Gamrod advanced. His face darkened as he searched out an opening for the punch he would use to knock Jurgen out. That was the plan I’d heard from Gamrod myself: “I’ll show mercy, all right—one punch should do it.” A shudder rose in me at the look of him with his barbell-trained muscles. He was Mad Dog Vachon—a neckless peg of hairy power. But Jurgen was no Vern Gagne—the straight-arrow champion TV wrestler of those days. He edged out with his fists raised, too, but instead of hopping around he studied Mr. Gamrod with an infuriating professorial air that had no place in the sandy ring. Mr. Gamrod hopped closer, punched the air, as if to test it, then slammed forward to connect with his famous left hook. But Jurgen ducked. In fact, he not only ducked but in a bizarre blur folded his gangly body into a ball, rolled behind Mr. Gamrod, and came back up with an air of calm readiness. Mr. Gamrod whirled, his eyes narrowed, and he charged. Again Jurgen slid from his fists—this time to the far side of the ring. Badapuckpuck! Someone made chicken noises. A smile creased Mr. Gamrod’s face, the flashlights flickered, and I thought my uncle was finished. Mr. Gamrod plunged at Jurgen and managed to grab hold of his T-shirt so that he could punch him. But after a bit of thrashing about, the punches always missing their target, Jurgen was out of the shirt and had neatly wrapped Mr. Gamrod’s arms together with it. Gamrod managed to pull away. It was what happened next that brought the Burmese python to mind. Jurgen moved. But to say that he simply moved doesn’t capture it. He moved the way that that snake had flung itself from the unlatched case. He was one long stream of electric, muscular motion that connected beneath Mr. Gamrod’s fists. A twist of Jurgen’s leg behind Gamrod’s solid calf and the two continued onward, borne down into the sand. Mr. Gamrod was a wrestler also, known for his early years as a champion Greco-Roman grappler on the college circuit. So it was no surprise when he flipped Jurgen onto his back and seemed to pin him down, but as this was not a regular wrestling match, with scorekeeping, Jurgen would have to signal for the match to be over. It was over in the minds of most of the flashlight holders. A few yelled out that Jurgen was beat. But my grandfather reminded everyone of the rules. In the meantime, Jurgen had wrapped his legs around the bulging mound of Mr. Gamrod, hooking his ankles into the small of Gamrod’s back. Perhaps Gamrod was feeling claustrophobic. With an enormous groan of effort, he reared back and tried to punch Jurgen in the head, but Jurgen now pressed his legs together even more tightly, pulling Gamrod down again. This time you could see that Gamrod didn’t want to be pulled down. His eyes rolled. He struggled the way Mr. Johnson had struggled. Jurgen’s legs, arms, and feet were constantly maneuvering Mr. Gamrod, squeezing at him, positioning him. I thought of the many animals that Jurgen had subdued. Every time Mr. Gamrod strained against him, Jurgen used that energy to his own advantage. He was exhausting Gamrod, pacifying Gamrod, letting Gamrod know what the animals eventually knew: Jurgen was inevitable. His arms were clasped, tight as a drowning child’s, around Gamrod’s neck. Jurgen’s eyes were clear, dispassionate. He wasn’t breathing hard, though his face was suffused with color. He was simply waiting for Mr. Gamrod’s dizziness to turn into amazement and for Mr. Gamrod to beat his arm on the sand when he understood that his amazement could turn into death. Mr. Gamrod struck his arm on the ground. Jurgen slid out from under him. He stood and helped Priscilla’s father to a wobbly crouch. Then Priscilla herself elbowed in through the circle of men and stood there, holding Mitts. She bent over, made sure her father was all right. “There’s a meatball hot dish still warm in the oven, Dad,” she said. “I’ll be home late. Get some sleep.” She took Jurgen’s arm, and they walked about fifty paces before confronting Nero. “Aw, not you,” Jurgen said to the dog. A length of rope dangled from Nero’s collar and he didn’t growl when Jurgen picked it up. “It’s time to let him loose in the shop anyway,” Jurgen said. He walked him into the store, tossed in a couple of dried-up wieners, and locked up. He and Priscilla left me there, too, in my grandparents’ house, and walked off to plan their new life. The next morning, Jurgen stared at the fence for a long time before leaving in the truck. He returned with a roll of wire and the equipment to attach it to the top of the fence. He tinkered around with the spot on the side of the house where the electrical current fed in from the power pole. He was on the ladder all the rest of the morning, carefully threading the wire. He wouldn’t let me near. Nero rested in the shadow of the pine tree. It was noon by the time Jurgen had finished and flipped the breaker. My grandparents closed up the shop for an hour and each had a beer as they watched from the kitchen windows. It took no time at all. Nero launched himself, scrambled up the fence exactly the way he’d puzzled out the day before. When the electrified wire touched him, he yelped like a puppy and fell, twisting. He lay still a moment, then rose and began to walk in wobbly, widening circles, until he reached the other side of the yard. He stood, panting, then suddenly gathered himself and bounded forward. Again Nero made his peculiar way up the fence, only this time when he reached the wire he snatched it between his teeth before he fell. Nero shorted out the lights in the house and in the display cases, the fridge, the freezers, and everything else that didn’t run off the generator. Then he lay on the ground with the dead cord beside him. My grandparents and uncle ran around madly trying to restore the power. I went to Nero. He was still breathing. I sat down next to him, and for the first time put my hands on him. I stroked his forehead and scratched behind his ears. When at last he could rise, he dragged himself to the corner of the yard and curled up in the rust-colored pine needles, his nose hidden in his tail. I watched over him for the rest of the afternoon. He was beautiful, like a white wolf in the forest. Mr. Gamrod could not stop talking about his trip to the other world. To Priscilla, to my grandparents, to the patrons of the bar, and to anyone else who would listen, he would describe how in the clutch of Jurgen’s limbs he had died and come to life again. He had not walked into the light. He had not seen Jesus. The only way he could explain it was to say that he had been suspended in a timeless present that held the key to . . . something. He’d felt his arm pound the earth just as he was about to grasp the meaning of it. A few days later, he realized he was no longer afraid. After death he would understand the answers to questions that in this life he couldn’t even put into words. Aside from this new assurance, Mr. Gamrod didn’t seem much changed. I didn’t get to see a change in Nero, either. He was still quietly recovering when I left, sleeping long days in the pine needles. I went home to my new baby brother. Six months or so passed before we returned for a Christmas visit. It hadn’t snowed for weeks, and the ground was covered with what Midwesterners call “snirt.” Everything was gray and grainy, like a blurred old movie. Nero no longer lived in the back yard but in a cage constructed out of the chicken run. The wire had been replaced with a thicker grade and it even ran beneath the ground, Jurgen said. The chicken-wire roof, which had once foiled hawks, now kept Nero from jumping out. It was one thing to walk out the back door into the yard where Nero lived. It was another thing entirely to walk into his cage. He seemed more dangerous now. His coat had yellowed. He didn’t recognize me. Didn’t come forward for a gingersnap, didn’t even notice the cookies I threw onto the trampled shit-strewn dirt. He was obsessed with an old iron cauldron, which he flipped up and down with jerks of his massive head. He wrestled with it. Rolled it, bit at it. He was raw energy with just one focus. It was early summer the next time we visited. Nero was losing his winter coat, and clumps stuck out in filthy puffs. He was still rolling his cauldron around but now with only stubs of teeth—he’d broken them on the iron. Jurgen no longer took Nero out to guard the shop. He still worked there but was married to Priscilla now, living several blocks away. My grandparents had installed an electrical alarm system. One day, with no word to anyone, Jurgen went to the chicken run and shot Nero. I saw him hauling the dog to the back field, by his tail, like a scrap of rug. He carried a shovel. I grabbed another. Together we dug deep into the ground. We lowered Nero down as far as our arms could reach, and dropped him into the timeless present. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Hand on the Shoulder	Credit Illustration by Annette Marnat My name is Serena Frome (rhymes with “plume”), and forty years ago, in my final year at Cambridge, I was recruited by the British security service. In the early spring of 1972, when exams were only weeks away, I found a new boyfriend, a historian called Jeremy Mott. He was of a certain old-fashioned type—lanky, large-nosed, with an out-sized Adam’s apple. He was unkempt, clever in an understated way, and extremely polite. I’d noticed quite a few of his sort around. They all seemed to have descended from a single family and to have come from private schools in the North of England where they were issued with the same clothes. These were the last men on earth still wearing Harris-tweed jackets with leather patches on the elbows and trim on the cuffs. I learned, though not from Jeremy, that he was expected to get a first and that he had already published an article in a scholarly journal of sixteenth-century studies. He turned out to be a tender and considerate lover, despite his unfortunate, sharply angled pubic bone, which hurt like hell the first time. He apologized for it, as one might for a mad but distant relative. By which I mean that he was not particularly embarrassed. We settled the matter by making love with a folded towel between us, a remedy, I sensed, that he had often used before. He was truly attentive and skillful, and could keep going for as long as I wanted, and beyond. But his own orgasms were elusive, despite my efforts, and I began to suspect that there was something he wanted me to be saying or doing. He wouldn’t tell me what it was. Or, rather, he insisted that there was nothing to tell. I didn’t believe him. I wanted him to have a secret and shameful desire that only I could satisfy. I wanted to make this lofty, courteous man all mine. Did he want to smack my backside, or have me smack his? Did he want to try on my underwear? This mystery aroused me when I was away from him, and made it all the harder to stop thinking about him when I was supposed to be concentrating on maths. One afternoon in early April, after a session with the folded towel in Jeremy’s rooms, we were crossing the road by the old Corn Exchange, I in a haze of contentment and some related pain from a pulled muscle in the small of my back, and he—well, I wasn’t sure. As we walked along, I was wondering whether I should broach the subject once more. He was being pleasant, with his arm heavily around my shoulders as he told me about his essay on the Star Chamber. But I was convinced that he wasn’t properly fulfilled. I thought I heard it in the tightness of his voice, felt it in his nervous pace. In days of lovemaking, he had not been blessed with a single orgasm. It bothered me that I had not yet understood why. I wanted to help him, and I was genuinely curious. I was also troubled by the thought that I might be failing him. Suddenly, from out of an alley, there appeared before us Jeremy’s history tutor, Tony Canning. When we were introduced, he shook my hand, and held on to it lingeringly, I thought. He was in his early fifties, and I knew only what Jeremy had told me—that he was a professor, a onetime friend of the Home Secretary, who had been to dine in his college. (The two men had fallen out one drunken evening over the policy of internment without trial in Northern Ireland.) Canning had chaired the Commission on Historical Sites and was a trustee of the British Museum. He had written a highly regarded book about the Congress of Vienna. He was of the great and good, a type that was vaguely familiar to me. Men like him had come through our house from time to time to visit my father, an Anglican bishop in a small city in the east of England. These grand figures were annoying, of course, to anyone under twenty-five in that post-sixties period, but I rather liked them, too. They could be charming, even witty, and the whiff they trailed of cigars and brandy made the world seem orderly and rich. They thought much of themselves, but they didn’t seem dishonest, and they had, or gave the impression that they had, a strong sense of public service. They took their pleasures seriously (wine, food, fishing, bridge, etc.), and some had apparently fought an interesting war. I had memories of childhood Christmases when one or two of them would tip my sister and me a ten-shilling note. Let these men rule the world! There were others far worse. Canning had a relatively subdued grand manner, perhaps to match his modest public roles. I noted his wavy hair, finely parted, and moist fleshy lips and a small cleft in the center of his chin, which I thought was endearing, because I could see, even in the inadequate street lighting, that he had some trouble shaving there. Ungovernable dark hairs protruded from the vertical trough of skin. He was a good-looking man. When the introductions were over, Canning asked me some questions about myself. They were polite and innocent enough—about my degree, Newnham College, the Principal, who was a good friend of his, my home town, my father’s cathedral. Jeremy cut in with some small talk, and then Canning interrupted in turn to thank him for passing along some anti-Soviet articles I’d written for the student rag ?Quis? after discovering Solzhenitsyn. In those days, dwelling on the indecencies of the Soviet system was routine for Western politicians and editorial writers in most newspapers. But in the context of student life and politics it was considered a little distasteful. If the C.I.A. was against Communism, there must be something to be said for it. Sections of the Labour Party still held a candle for the aging square-jawed Kremlin brutes and their grisly projects, still sang the “Internationale” at the annual conference, still dispatched students on good-will exchanges. In the Cold War years of binary thinking, it would not do to find yourself agreeing about the Soviet Union with an American President waging war in Vietnam. By doing so, I had earned some local notoriety. Canning turned to me again. “Bloody good pieces, Serena. You’ve quite a talent, my dear. Are you going into journalism?” I hadn’t known that Jeremy had been showing my opinion pieces to a professor. ?Quis? was not intended for serious eyes. I was gratified by the praise, but too young to know how to take a compliment. I mumbled something modest, but it sounded dismissive, then I clumsily tried to correct myself and became flustered. Canning took pity on me and invited us for a cup of tea, and we accepted, or Jeremy did. His rooms were smaller, dingier, more chaotic than I’d expected, and I was surprised to see him making a mess of the tea, only half rinsing the chunky brown-stained mugs and slopping hot water from a filthy electric kettle over papers and books. None of this fit with what I came to know of him later. He sat behind his desk, we sat in armchairs, and he continued to ask questions. It could have been a tutorial. Now that I was nibbling his Fortnum & Mason chocolate biscuits, I felt obliged to answer him more fully. Jeremy was encouraging me, nodding stupidly at everything I said. The professor asked about my parents, and what it was like growing up “in the shadow of a cathedral.” I said, wittily, I thought, that there was no shadow, because the cathedral was to the north of our house. Both men laughed, and I wondered if my joke had implied more than I understood. We moved on to nuclear weapons and the Labour Party’s calls for unilateral disarmament. I repeated a phrase I’d read somewhere—a cliché, I realized later. It would be impossible “to put the genie back in the bottle.” Nuclear weapons would have to be managed, not banned. So much for youthful idealism. Actually, I had no particular views on the subject. In another context, I could have spoken up for the anti-nuclear faction. I would have denied it, but I was trying to please, to give the right answers, to be interesting. I liked the way Tony Canning leaned forward when I spoke. I was encouraged by his little smile of approbation, which stretched but did not quite part his plump lips, and his way of saying “I see” or “Quite” whenever I paused. Perhaps it should have been obvious to me where this was leading. In the tiny, hothouse world of undergraduate journalism, I’d announced myself as a trainee Cold Warrior. It looks obvious now. This was Cambridge, after all. Where else did one recruit spies? But at the time the encounter had no significance for me. We had been on our way to a bookshop, and instead we were taking tea with Jeremy’s tutor. Nothing very strange in that. Recruitment methods in those days were changing, but only a little. The Western world may have been undergoing a steady social transformation; the young may have thought they had discovered a new way of talking to one another; the old barriers were said to be crumbling from the base. But the famous “hand on the shoulder” was still applied, if less frequently, if with less pressure. In the university context, certain dons continued to look out for promising material and pass names on for interview. Certain successful candidates in the Civil Service exams were still taken aside and asked if they had ever thought of “another” department. Background remained important, and having the Bishop—as my sister and I referred to our father—in mine was no disadvantage. It has often been noted how long it took for the Burgess, Maclean, and Philby cases to dislodge the assumption that a certain class of person was more likely to be loyal to his country than the rest. Generally, both hand and shoulder belonged to men. It was unusual for a woman to be approached in that much described, time-honored way. And though it was strictly true that Tony Canning ended up recruiting me for MI5, his motives were complicated, and he had no official sanction. If the fact that I was young and attractive was important to him, it took a while for me to discover the full pathos of that. (Now that the mirror tells a different story, I can say it and get it out of the way: I really was pretty. More than that. As Jeremy once wrote in a rare effusive letter, I was “actually rather gorgeous.”) My affair with Tony Canning lasted a few months. At first I was also seeing Jeremy, but in late June, straight after finals, he moved to Edinburgh, to work on a Ph.D. My life became less fraught, though it still troubled me that I hadn’t cracked his secret by the time he left and couldn’t give him satisfaction. Some weeks later, he wrote a tender, regretful letter to say that he had fallen in love with a violinist he’d heard playing a Bruch concerto one evening at the Usher Hall, a young German from Düsseldorf with an exquisite tone, especially in the slow movement. His name was Manfred. Of course. If I’d been a little more old-fashioned in my thinking, I would have guessed it, for there had been a time when every man’s sexual problem had only one cause. Jeremy was sweetly concerned for my feelings, even offering to travel down and meet me to explain things. I wrote back to congratulate him, and felt mature as I exaggerated my delight for his benefit. Such liaisons had been legal for only five years and were a novelty to me. I told him that there was no need to come all the way to Cambridge, that I’d always have the fondest memories of our time together, that he was the loveliest of men, and I looked forward to meeting Manfred one day. Please let’s keep in touch. Goodbye! I would have liked to thank him for introducing me to Tony, but I saw no point in creating suspicion. Nor did I tell Tony about his former student. We all knew as much as we needed to know to be happy. And we were. Our trysting place was an isolated cottage not far from Bury St. Edmunds, in Suffolk. You turned off a quiet narrow lane onto an indistinct track that crossed a field, and stopped at the edge of an ancient pollarded wood, and there, half hidden by a tangle of hawthorn bushes, was a small white picket gate. A flagstone path curved through an overgrown country garden (lupines, hollyhocks, giant poppies) to a heavy oak door studded with rivets. When you opened that door, you were in the dining room, a place of giant flagstones and wormholed beams half buried in the plaster. On the wall opposite was a bright Mediterranean scene of whitewashed houses and sheets drying on a line. It was a watercolor by Winston Churchill, painted in Marrakech during a break from the Conference in 1943. I never learned how it came into Tony’s possession. Frieda Canning, an art dealer who travelled abroad a good deal, didn’t like coming here. She complained about the damp and the smell of mildew and the dozens of tasks associated with a second home. As it happened, the smell vanished as soon as the place warmed up, and it was her husband who performed all the tasks: lighting the stubborn Rayburn stove and forcing open the kitchen window, activating the bathroom plumbing and disposing of the broken-backed mice in the traps. I didn’t even have to cook much. For all his grim teamaking, Tony fancied himself in the kitchen. He cooked in the Italian style, learned during four years as a lecturer at an institute in Siena. His back played him up, so at the beginning of each visit I humped hessian sacks of food and wine through the garden from his ancient M.G.A., parked in the field. “When you ask what I do, do you mean for money?”Buy the print » It was a decent summer by English standards, and Tony set a stately pace to the day. We often ate our lunch in the shade of an ancient cotoneaster in the garden. Generally, when he woke from his after-lunch nap, he took a bath and then, if it was warm, he read in a hammock slung between two birch trees. And if it was really hot he sometimes suffered from nosebleeds and had to lie on his back indoors with a flannel and ice cubes pressed to his face. Some evenings, we took a picnic into the woods, with a bottle of white wine wrapped in a crisp tea towel, wineglasses in a cedarwood container, and a flask of coffee. This was high table sur l’herbe. Saucers as well as cups, damask tablecloth, porcelain plates, silverware, and one collapsible aluminum-and-canvas chair—I carried everything without complaint. We never went far along the footpaths, because Tony tired easily. In the evenings, he liked to play opera on an old gramophone, and though he urgently explained the characters and the intrigues of “Aida,” “Così Fan Tutte,” and “L’Elisir d’Amore,” those reedy, yearning voices meant little to me. The quaint hiss and crackle of the blunted needle as it gently rose and fell with the warp of the album sounded like the ether, through which the dead were hopelessly calling to us. One afternoon in late August, we went for a walk in the woods. We often did, but on this occasion Tony turned off the footpath and I blindly followed. We barged through the undergrowth, and I assumed he was taking me to make love in some secret place he knew. The leaves were dry enough. But he was thinking only of mushrooms, cèpes. I concealed my disappointment and learned the identifying tricks—pores, not gills; a fine filigree on the stem; no staining when you pushed your thumb into the flesh. That evening, he cooked up a big pan of what he preferred to call porcini, with olive oil, pepper, salt, and pancetta, and we ate them with grilled polenta, salad, and red wine, a Barolo. This was exotic food in England in the seventies. I remember everything—the scrubbed pine table with dented legs of faded duck-egg blue, the wide faience bowl of slippery cèpes, the disk of polenta beaming like a miniature sun from a pale-green plate with a cracked glaze, the dusty black bottle of wine, the peppery rugola in a chipped white bowl, and Tony making the dressing in seconds, tipping oil and squeezing half a lemon in his fist even, so it seemed, as he carried the salad to the table. (My mother concocted her dressings at eye level, like an industrial chemist.) Tony and I ate many similar meals at that table, but this one can stand in for the rest. What simplicity, what taste, what a man of the world! That night, the wind was up, and the bough of an ash thumped and scraped across the thatched roof. After dinner there would be reading, then talking, to be sure, but only after lovemaking, and that only after another glass of wine. As a lover? Well, obviously not as energetic and inexhaustible as Jeremy. And though Tony was in good shape for his age, I was a little put out the first time to see what fifty-four years could do to a body. He was sitting on the edge of the bed, bending to remove a sock. His poor naked foot looked like a worn-out old shoe. I saw folds of flesh in improbable places, even under his arms. How strange that, in my surprise, quickly suppressed, it didn’t occur to me that I was looking at my own future. I was twenty-one. What I had taken to be the norm—taut, smooth, supple—was the transient special case of youth. To me, the old were a separate species, like sparrows or foxes. And now what I would give to be fifty-four again! The body’s largest organ, the skin, bears the brunt—it no longer fits the old. It hangs off them, off us, like a room-for-growth school blazer. Or pajamas. And in a certain light, though it may have been the bedroom curtains, Tony had a yellowish look, like an old paperback, one in which you could read of various misfortunes—knee and appendicitis operations, a dog bite, a rock-climbing accident, and a childhood disaster with a breakfast frying pan, which had left him bereft of a patch of pubic hair. There was a white four-inch scar to the right of his chest reaching toward his neck, whose history he would never explain. But if he was slightly . . . foxed, and resembled at times my old worn Teddy back home in the cathedral close, he was also a worldly, a gentlemanly lover. His style was courtly. I warmed to the way he undressed me, and draped my clothes over his forearm, like a swimming-pool attendant, and the way he sometimes wanted me to sit astride his face—as new to me as rugola salad, that one. I also had reservations. He could be hasty in bed, impatient to get on to the next thing—the passions of his life were drinking and talking. Later, I sometimes thought he was selfish, definitely old school, racing toward his own moment, which he always gained with a wheezy shout. And too obsessed by my breasts, which were lovely then, I’m sure (I won’t bore you with the firm, round, pert nonsense), but it didn’t feel right to have a man the Bishop’s age fixated in a near-infantile way, virtually nursing there with a strange whimpering sound. He was one of those Englishmen wrenched from Mummy at age seven and driven into numbing boarding-school exile. They never acknowledge the damage, these poor fellows; they just live it. But these were minor complaints. It was all new, an adventure that proved my own worldliness. A knowing older man doted on me. I forgave him everything. And I loved those soft-cushioned lips. He kissed beautifully. Still, I liked him most when he was back in his clothes, with his fine parting restored (he used hair oil and a steel comb), when he was great and good once more, settling me in an armchair, deftly drawing the cork from a Pinot Grigio, directing my reading. And there was something I’ve since noticed over the years: the mountain range separating the naked from the clothed man. Two men on one passport! But, again, it hardly mattered, it was all one—sex and cooking, wine and walks, talking and working. The cottage was the only place we saw each other. Cambridge was too much of a village; Tony was too well known there. I had to hike with my holdall to a remote corner of town on the edge of a housing estate and wait in a bus shelter for him to come by in his ailing sports car. It was supposed to be a convertible, but the concertina metal bits that supported the canvas top were too rusted to fold back. This old M.G.A. had a map light on a chrome stem, and quivering dials. It smelled of motor oil and friction heat, the way a nineteen-forties Spitfire might. You felt the warm tin floor vibrate beneath your feet. It was a thrill to step out of the bus queue, resentfully observed by ordinary passengers as I turned from frog to princess and stooped to crawl in beside the professor. It was like getting into bed, in public. I shoved my bag into the tiny space behind me and felt the seat’s cracked leather snag faintly against the silk of my blouse, one he had bought me at Liberty’s, as I leaned across to receive my kiss. When my exams were over, Tony announced that he was taking charge of my reading. Enough novels! He was appalled by my ignorance of what he called “our island story.” He was right to be. I’d studied no history at school beyond the age of fourteen. I was blessed with a privileged education, but Agincourt, the divine right of kings, the Hundred Years’ War were mere phrases to me. The very word “history” conjured a dull succession of thrones and murderous clerical wrangling. But I submitted to the tutelage. The material was more interesting than maths, and the reading list Tony gave me was short—Winston Churchill and G. M. Trevelyan. The rest he would talk me through. My first tutorial was conducted in the garden under the cotoneaster. I learned that since the sixteenth century the foundation of English, then British, policy in Europe had been the pursuit of the balance of power. I was required to read up on the Congress of Vienna of 1815. Tony was insistent that an equilibrium between nations was the foundation of a lawful international system of peaceful diplomacy. It was vital that nations hold one another in check. As a modern example, he spoke of his own relief when he heard that the Soviets, whose empire he otherwise loathed, had finally made a nuclear weapon of their own. I often did my reading alone after lunch while Tony took his nap. Initially, I impressed him with my speed-reading. Two hundred pages in a couple of hours! Then I disappointed him. I couldn’t answer his questions clearly—I wasn’t retaining information. He made me go back through Churchill’s version of the Glorious Revolution, tested me, groaned theatrically—“You bloody sieve!”—made me read again, asked more questions. These oral exams happened during walks in the woods and over glasses of wine after the suppers he cooked. At first I resented his persistence. I wanted us to be lovers, not teacher and pupil. I was annoyed with him as well as with myself when I didn’t know the answers. And then, a few querulous sessions later, I began to feel some pride, and not simply in my improved performance. I started to take note of the story itself. Hadn’t England at the end of the seventeenth century been the freest and most inquisitive society the world had ever known? Hadn’t the English Enlightenment been of more consequence than the French? Wasn’t it right that England should have struggled against the Catholic despotisms on the Continent? And surely we were now the inheritors of that freedom. I was easily led. I was being groomed for my first interview with the intelligence service, which was to take place at the end of September. Tony had an idea of the kind of Englishwoman they would want to take on, or that he would want, and he worried that my narrow education would let me down. He believed, wrongly, as it turned out, that one of his old students would be among my interviewers. He insisted that I read a newspaper every day, by which, of course, he meant the Times, which in those days was still the august paper of record. I hadn’t bothered much with the press before, and I had never even heard of a leader. Apparently, this was the “living heart” of a newspaper. I admired those orotund and lordly pronouncements on matters of public concern. The judgments were somewhat opaque and never above a reference to Tacitus or Virgil. So mature! I thought any of these anonymous writers was fit to be World President. And what were the concerns of the day? In the leaders, grand subordinate clauses orbited elliptically about their starry main verbs, but in the letters pages no one was in any doubt. The planets were out of kilter, and the letter writers knew in their anxious hearts that the country was sinking into despair and rage and desperate self-harm. The United Kingdom had succumbed, one letter announced, to a frenzy of akrasia—which was, Tony reminded me, the Greek word for acting against one’s better judgment. (Had I not read Plato’s Protagoras?) A useful word. I stored it away. But there was no better judgment, nothing to act against. Everyone had gone mad, so everyone said. The archaic word “strife” was in heavy use in those rackety days, with inflation provoking strikes, pay settlements driving inflation, thick-headed, two-bottle-lunch management, bloody-minded unions with insurrectionary ambitions, weak government, energy crises and power cuts, skinheads, filthy streets, the Troubles, nukes. Decadence, decay, decline, dull inefficiency, and apocalypse . . . Among the favored topics in letters to the Times were the miners and the growing threat of “a workers’ state.” A letter from a retired rear admiral said that the country resembled a rusting battleship holed below the waterline. Tony read the letter over breakfast and shook his copy noisily at me—newsprint was crinkly and loud back then. “Battleship?” he fumed. “It isn’t even a corvette. This is a bloody rowing boat going down!” That year, 1972, was just the beginning. When I started reading the paper, the government’s fifth state of emergency was still months ahead of us. I believed what I read, but it seemed remote. Cambridge looked much the same, and so did the woods around the Cannings’ cottage. Despite my history lessons, I felt I had no stake in the nation’s fate. I owned one suitcase of clothes, fewer than fifty books, some childhood things in my bedroom at home. I had a lover who adored me and cooked for me and never threatened to leave his wife. I had one obligation, a job interview—weeks away. I was free. So what was I doing, applying to help maintain the security of this ailing state, this sick man of Europe? Nothing, I was doing nothing. I didn’t know. A chance had come my way, and I was taking it. Tony wanted it, and I had little else going on. So why not? Besides, I still regarded myself as accountable to my parents, and they were pleased to hear that I was considering the Civil Service. My mother wanted to know why I had not come to live at home after finals, and I told her that a kindly older tutor was preparing me for my interview. It made sense, surely, to take a tiny cheap room by Jesus Green and “work my socks off,” even at weekends. My mother might have expressed some skepticism about this plan if my sister hadn’t created a diversion by getting herself into such trouble that summer. Lucy was always louder, feistier, a bigger risk-taker than I was, and had been far more convinced by the liberating sixties as they limped into the next decade. She was the first person I ever saw wearing “cut-off” jeans. Loosen up, Serena, be free! Let’s go travelling! She caught hippiedom just as it was going out of fashion, but that’s how it was in provincial market towns. That July, returning from her travels, Lucy was a foot passenger off the Calais-to-Dover ferry and was interrupted by a customs official, or, rather, by his dog, a barking bloodhound suddenly excited by the aroma of her backpack. Inside, wrapped in unlaundered T-shirts and dog-proof layers of plastic, was half a pound of Turkish hashish. And inside Lucy, though this was also not declared, was a developing embryo. The identity of the father was uncertain. My mother had to devote a good portion of every day for the next few months to a quadruple mission. The first was to save Lucy from prison, the second to keep her story out of the newspapers, the third to prevent her being sent down from Manchester, where she was a second-year medical student, and the fourth, after not much agonizing, was to arrange the termination. As far as I could tell from my crisis visit home (Lucy smelling of patchouli and sobbing as she crushed me in her suntanned arms), the Bishop was prepared to bow his head and take whatever the heavens had prepared for him. But my mother was already at the controls, fiercely activating the networks that extend locally and nationally from any twelfth-century cathedral. It was, my mother assured me, “all jolly hard work,” and none of it more so than the abortion, medically routine but, to Lucy’s surprise, deeply upsetting. Eventually, she received a six-month suspended sentence, nothing appeared in the press, and a Mancunian university rector or some such eminence was assured of my father’s support on an arcane matter at the upcoming synod. My sister returned to her studies in September. Two months later, she dropped out. Buy the print » So I was left in peace during July and August to loll about Jesus Green, reading Churchill, bored, waiting for the weekend and the hike to the bus stop on the city boundary. It would not be long before I enshrined the summer of ’72 as a golden age in my memory, a precious idyll, but it was only Friday to Sunday evening that held the pleasures. Those weekends were an extended tutorial in how to live, how and what to eat and drink, how to read newspapers and hold up my end of an argument, and how to “gut” a book. I knew I had an interview coming up, but it never crossed my mind to wonder why Tony took such trouble over me. If I had, I would probably have thought that such attentions were part of what it meant to have an affair with an older man. Of course, the situation couldn’t last, and it all came apart during a stormy half hour by a busy main road, two days before I was due at my interview in London. The precise sequence of events is worth recording. There was a silk blouse, the one I’ve already mentioned, bought for me by Tony in early July. It was well chosen. I loved the expensive feel of it on a warm evening, and Tony told me more than once how he liked the plain loose cut of it on me. I was touched. He was the first man in my life to buy me an article of clothing. A sugar daddy. (I don’t think the Bishop had ever been in a shop.) It was an old-fashioned thing, this present, with a touch of kitsch about it, and awfully girlish, but I loved it. When I wore it I was in his embrace. The pale-blue copperplate words on the label seemed distinctly erotic—“WILD SILK HAND WASH.” Around the neck and cuffs was a band of broderie anglaise, and two pleats at the shoulders were matched by two little tucks at the back. This gift was something of an emblem, I suppose. When it was time to leave the cottage, I would bring it back to my bed-sit, wash it in the basin, and iron and fold it so that it would be ready for the next visit. Like me. But on this one occasion, in mid-September, we were in the bedroom, and I was packing my things away, when Tony interrupted what he was saying—he was talking about Idi Amin, of Uganda—to tell me to chuck the blouse in the laundry basket along with one of his shirts. It made sense. We would be back soon, and the housekeeper, the very discreet Mrs. Travers, would be in the following day to take care of everything. Mrs. Canning was in Vienna for ten days. I remembered the moment well because it gave me such pleasure. That our love was routine, taken for granted, with an immediate future measured in three or four days, was comforting. I was often lonely in Cambridge, waiting for Tony’s call to the pay phone in the hallway. In a passing moment of something like wifely entitlement, I lifted the wicker lid and dropped my blouse on top of his shirt and thought no more about it. I loaded up the car. Back on Jesus Green, four days went by, and I heard nothing. Obediently, I read up on the Factory Acts and the Corn Laws and studied the newspaper. I saw some friends who were passing through, but never wandered far from the phone. On the fifth day, I went to Tony’s college, left a note with the porter, and hurried home, worried that I might have missed his call. I couldn’t ring him—my lover had taken care not to give me his home phone number. He rang that evening. His voice was flat. Without greeting, he instructed me to be at the bus stop the following morning at ten. I was halfway through asking him a plaintive question when he hung up. Naturally, I didn’t sleep much that night. Amazing to think that I lay awake worrying about him, when I should have known in my silly heart that I was for the chop. At dawn, I took a bath and made myself fragrant. By seven, I was ready. What a hopeful fool, to have packed a bag with the underwear he liked (black, of course, and purple) and plimsolls for walking in the woods. I was at the bus stop by nine-twenty-five, worried that he’d be early and disappointed not to find me there. He got there around ten-fifteen. He pushed open the passenger door, and I crawled in, but there was no kiss. Instead he kept both hands on the wheel and pulled away hard from the curb. We drove ten miles or so, and he wouldn’t speak to me. His knuckles were white from his grip, and he would only look ahead. What was the matter? He wouldn’t tell me. And I was frantic, intimidated by the way he swung his little car out across the lanes, overtaking recklessly on rises and bends, as if to warn me of the storm to come. He doubled back toward Cambridge on a roundabout and pulled into a lay-by off the highway, a place of oily, littered grass with a kiosk on worn bare ground which sold hot dogs and burgers to lorry drivers. At this time in the morning, the stall was shuttered and padlocked, and no one else was parked there. We got out. It was the worst kind of day at the end of summer—sunny, windy, dusty. To our right was a widely spaced row of parched sycamore saplings, and on the other side of it the traffic was whining and roaring. It was like being at the edge of a racetrack. The lay-by was a couple of hundred yards long. He set off along it, and I kept by his side. To talk we almost had to shout. The first thing he said was “So your little trick didn’t work.” “What trick?” I quickly turned over the recent past. Since there had been no trick, I was suddenly hopeful that there was some simple misunderstanding that we could straighten out in seconds. We could be laughing about this, I even thought. We could be making love before noon. We reached the point where the lay-by joined the road. “Get this clear,” he said, and we stopped. “You’ll never get between Frieda and me.” “Tony, what trick?” He turned back again in the direction of his car, and I followed. “Bloody nightmare.” He was talking to himself. I called out over the din. “Tony. Tell me!” “Aren’t you pleased? Last night we had our worst row in twenty-five years. Aren’t you excited by your success?” Even I, inexperienced and baffled and horrified as I was, could sense the absurdity of this. He was going to tell me in his own way, so I said nothing and waited. We walked on back past his car and the closed-up kiosk. To our right was a hedge of high dusty hawthorns. Gaily colored sweet wrappers and crisp packets were trapped in the spiky branches. There was a used condom, ridiculously long, lying on the grass. A fine place to end an affair. “Serena, how could you be so stupid?” I did feel stupid. We stopped again, and I said in a quavering voice that I couldn’t control, “I honestly don’t understand.” “You wanted her to find your blouse. Well, she found your blouse. You thought she’d be furious and you were right. You thought you could break up my marriage and move in, but you were wrong.” The injustice of this overwhelmed me, and it was hard to speak. Somewhere just behind and above the root of my tongue, my throat was beginning to tighten. In case there were tears, I turned away quickly. I didn’t want him to see. “Of course, you’re young and all that. But you should be ashamed.” When I found it, I hated my croaky, pleading voice. “Tony, you said to put it in your laundry basket.” “Come on, now. You know I said nothing of the sort.” He said it gently, almost lovingly, like a caring father, one I was about to lose. We should have been having a row, bigger than any he’d ever had with Frieda. I should have been flying at him. But, inconveniently, I was about to start crying, and I was determined not to. I don’t cry easily, and when I do I want to be alone. But that soft plummy voice of authority pierced me. It was so confident and kind that I was close to believing it. I already sensed that I would not be able to alter his recollection of the previous Sunday or prevent him from dismissing me. I also knew I was in danger of behaving as though I were guilty. Like a shoplifter, crying with relief at being caught. So unfair, so hopeless. I couldn’t speak to make my case. Those hours of waiting by the phone and the sleepless night had undone me. The back of my throat went on tightening, and other muscles lower down my neck joined in, tugging at my lips, trying to stretch them over my teeth. Something was going to snap, but I couldn’t let it, not in front of him. Not when he was so wrong. The only way to hold it down and keep my dignity was to remain silent. But I was desperate to speak. I needed to tell him how unjust he was being, how he was risking everything between us for a lapse in memory. It was one of those familiar occasions when the mind wants one thing, the body another. Like wanting sex during an exam, or being sick at a wedding. The more I struggled in silence to stay on top of my feelings, the more I hated myself and the calmer he became. “It was underhanded, Serena. I thought you were better than that. I don’t find this easy to say, but I’m deeply disappointed.” He went on in this way while I stood there with my back turned. How he had trusted me, encouraged me, had high hopes for me, and I had let him down. It must have been easier for him, talking to the back of my head, not having to look me in the eye. I was beginning to suspect that this was not about a simple mistake, a commonplace failure of memory in a busy, important older man. I thought I saw it all plainly enough. Frieda had come back early from Vienna. For some reason, perhaps a nasty hunch, she had gone out to the cottage. Or they had gone out there together. In the bedroom was my laundered blouse. Then came the scene, in Suffolk or in London, and her ultimatum: get rid of the girl or march. Tony had made the obvious decision. But here’s the point. He had made another choice, too. He had chosen to cast himself as the victim, the wronged, the deceived, the rightly furious. He had convinced himself that he had said nothing to me about the laundry basket. That memory had been erased, and for a purpose. But now he didn’t even know that he’d erased it. He wasn’t even pretending. He actually believed in his disappointment. He really did think that I had done something devious and mean. He was protecting himself from the idea that he’d had a choice. Weak, self-deluding, pompous? All those, but, above all, a failure of reasoning. High table, monographs, government commissions—meaningless. His reasoning had deserted him. As I saw it, Professor Canning was suffering from a gross intellectual malfunction. I groped for a tissue in the tight pocket of my jeans and blew my nose with a sad honking sound. I still could not trust myself to speak. Tony was saying, “You know where this all has to lead, don’t you?” Still in his soft-voiced therapeutic mode. I nodded. I knew exactly. He told me anyway. As he did, I watched a van draw up at speed and stop with a clever drifting skid on the gravel by the kiosk. Pop music was playing loudly in the cabin. A young guy with a ponytail and a drummer’s T-shirt that showed off his muscled brown arms got out and slung two big polyethylene bags of hamburger buns onto the dirt by the kiosk. Then he was gone, with a roar and a cloud of blue smoke, which the wind carried straight to us. Yes, I was being dumped, like the buns. I suddenly understood why we were here in this lay-by. Tony was expecting a scene. He didn’t want to have it in a Cambridge street, or in his tiny car. How would he eject a hysterical girl from the passenger seat? So why not have it here, where he could drive away and leave me to hitch a ride back into town? Why should I tolerate that? I walked away from him toward his car. I knew what I had to do. Make sure that we both remained in the lay-by. Forced into my company for an extra hour, he might be brought to his senses. Or not. It didn’t matter. I had my plan. I reached the driver’s door, pulled it open, and took the keys from the ignition. His whole life on a chunky ring, a big masculine array of Chubbs, Banhams, and Yales, his office, his house, his second home, his mailbox, safe, and second car, and all the other parts of his existence that he had kept from me. I drew back my arm to throw the ensemble over the hawthorn hedge. If he could find a way in, let him go through the field on hands and knees among the cows and shit puddles and look for the keys to his life while I watched. After three years of Newnham tennis, my throw would have been reasonably strong. But I wasn’t able to show it off. My arm was at the limit of its backswing when I felt his fingers curl around my wrist and tighten. He had the keys off me in seconds. He wasn’t rough, and I put up no struggle. He pushed around me and got into his car without speaking. He had said enough, and, besides, I had just confirmed the worst of his expectations. He tossed my bag onto the ground, slammed the door, and started the engine. Now that I had my voice back, what did I say? Again, I was pathetic. I didn’t want him to leave. I called stupidly through the car’s canvas top, “Tony, stop pretending that you don’t know the truth.” How ridiculous. Of course he wasn’t pretending. That was precisely his failure. He gunned the engine a couple of times, in case I wanted to say anything else that needed drowning out. Then he pulled forward—slowly at first, concerned perhaps that I would throw myself onto the car or under its wheels. But I just stood there like a tragic fool and watched him go. I saw his brake lights come on as he slowed to join the traffic. Then he was gone, and it was over. Two days later, I attended the interview and was accepted. Tony Canning delivered me to my career, but I never saw him again. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Miss Lora	Credit Illustration by Kristian Hammerstad Years later, you would wonder if it hadn’t been for your brother would you have done it? You’d remember how all the other guys had hated on her—how skinny she was, no culo, no titties, como un palito, but your brother didn’t care. I’d fuck her. You’d fuck anything, someone jeered. And he had given that someone the eye. You make that sound like it’s a bad thing. Your brother. Dead from the cancer, and sometimes you still felt a fulgurating sadness over it, even though he really was a super asshole at the end. He didn’t die easy at all. Those last months, he just steady kept trying to run away. He’d be caught trying to hail a cab outside Beth Israel or walking down some Newark street in his greens. Once he conned an ex-girlfriend into driving him to California, but outside of Camden he started having convulsions and she called you in a panic. Was it some atavistic impulse to die alone, out of sight? Or was he just trying to fulfill something that had always been inside him? Why do you keep doing that? you asked, but he just laughed. Doing what? In those last weeks, when he finally became too feeble to run away, he refused to talk to you or your mother. Didn’t utter a single word until he died. Your mother didn’t care. She loved him and prayed over him and talked to him like he was still O.K. But it wounded you, that stubborn silence. His last fucking days and he wouldn’t say a word. You’d ask him something straight up, How are you feeling today, and Rafa would turn his head. Like you all didn’t deserve an answer. Like no one did. You were at the age where you could fall in love with a girl over an expression, a gesture. That’s what happened with your girlfriend Paloma—she stooped to pick up her purse, and your heart flew out of you. That’s what happened with Miss Lora, too. It was 1985. You were sixteen years old and you were messed up and alone like a motherfucker. You were also convinced—like totally, utterly convinced—that the world was going to blow itself to pieces. Almost every night you had dreams that made the ones the President was having in “Dreamscape” look like pussy play. In your dreams the bombs were always going off, evaporating you while you walked, while you ate a chicken wing, while you rode the bus to school, while you fucked Paloma. You would wake up biting your own tongue in terror, the blood dribbling down your chin. Someone should have medicated you. Paloma thought you were being ridiculous. She didn’t want to hear about mutual assured destruction, “The Late Great Planet Earth,” We begin bombing in five minutes, SALT II, “The Day After,” “Threads,” “Red Dawn,” “WarGames,” Gamma World—any of it. She called you Mr. Depressing. And she didn’t need any more depressing than she had already. She lived in a one-bedroom apartment with four younger siblings and a disabled mom, and she was taking care of all of them. That and honors classes. She didn’t have time for anything and mostly stayed with you, you suspected, because she felt bad about what had happened with your brother. It’s not like you ever spent much time together or had sex or anything. Only Puerto Rican girl on the earth who wouldn’t give up the ass for any reason. I can’t, she said. I can’t make any mistakes. Why is sex with me a mistake, you demanded, but she just shook her head, pulled your hand out of her pants. Paloma was convinced that if she made any mistakes in the next two years, any mistakes at all, she would be stuck in that family of hers forever. That was her nightmare. Imagine if I don’t get in anywhere, she said. You’d still have me, you tried to reassure her, but Paloma looked at you like the apocalypse would be preferable. So you talked about the coming apocalypse to whoever would listen—to your history teacher, who claimed he was building a survival cabin in the Poconos, to your boy who was stationed in Panama (in those days you still wrote letters), to your around-the-corner neighbor, Miss Lora. That was what connected you two at first. She listened. Better still, she had read “Alas, Babylon” and had seen part of “The Day After,” and both had scared her monga. “The Day After” wasn’t scary, you complained. It was crap. You can’t survive an air burst by ducking under a dashboard. Maybe it was a miracle, she said, playing. A miracle? That was just dumbness. What you need to see is “Threads.” Now, that is some real shit. I probably wouldn’t be able to stand it, she said. And then she put her hand on your shoulder. People always touched you. You were used to it. You were an amateur weight lifter, something else you did to keep your mind off the shit of your life. You must have had a mutant gene somewhere in the DNA, because all the lifting had turned you into a goddam circus freak. Most of the time it didn’t bother you, the way girls and sometimes guys felt you up. But with Miss Lora you could tell something was different. Miss Lora touched you, and you suddenly looked up and noticed how large her eyes were in her thin face, how long her lashes were, how one iris had more bronze in it than the other. Of course you knew her; she lived in the building behind, taught over at Sayreville H.S. But it was only in the past months that she’d snapped into focus. There were a lot of these middle-aged single types in the neighborhood, shipwrecked by every kind of catastrophe, but she was one of the few who didn’t have children, who lived alone, who was still kinda young. Something must have happened, your mother speculated. In her mind, a woman with no child could be explained only by vast untrammelled calamity. Maybe she just doesn’t like children. Nobody likes children, your mother assured you. That doesn’t mean you don’t have them. Miss Lora wasn’t anything exciting. There were about a thousand viejas in the neighborhood who were way hotter, like Mrs. del Orbe, whom your brother had fucked silly until her husband found out and moved the whole family away. Miss Lora was too skinny. Had no hips whatsoever. No breasts, either, no ass, even her hair failed to make the grade. She had her eyes, sure, but what she was most famous for in the neighborhood was her muscles. Not that she had huge ones like you—chick was just wiry like a motherfucker, every single fibre standing out in outlandish definition. Bitch made Iggy Pop look chub, and every summer she caused a serious commotion at the pool. Always in a bikini despite her curvelessness, the top stretching over these corded pectorals and the bottom cupping a rippling fan of haunch muscles. Always swimming underwater, the black waves of her hair flowing behind her like a school of eels. Always tanning herself (which none of the other women did) into the deep lacquered walnut of an old shoe. That woman needs to keep her clothes on, the mothers complained. She’s like a plastic bag full of worms. But who could take their eyes off her? Not you or your brother. The kids would ask her, Are you a bodybuilder, Miss Lora? and she would shake her head behind her paperback. Sorry, guys, I was just born this way. After your brother died, she came over to the apartment a couple of times. She and your mother shared a common place, La Vega, where Miss Lora was born and where your mother had recuperated after the Guerra Civil. One full year living just behind the Casa Amarilla had made a vegana out of your mother. I still hear the Río Camú in my dreams, your mother said. Miss Lora nodded. I saw Juan Bosch once on our street when I was very young. They sat and talked about it to death. Every now and then she stopped you in the parking lot. How are you doing? How is your mother? And you never knew what to say. Your tongue was always swollen, raw, from being blown to atoms in your sleep. Today you come back from a run to find her on the stoop, talking to la doña. Your mother calls you. Say hello to la profesora. I’m sweaty, you protest. Your mother flares. Who in carajo do you think you’re talking to? Say hello, coño, to la profesora. Hello, profesora. Hello, student. She laughs and turns back to your mother’s conversation. You don’t know why you’re so furious all of a sudden. I could curl you, you say to her, flexing your arm. And Miss Lora looks at you with a ridiculous grin. What in the world are you talking about? I’m the one who could pick you up. She puts her hands on your waist and pretends to make the effort. Your mother laughs thinly. But you can feel her watching the both of you. When your mother confronted your brother about Mrs. del Orbe he didn’t deny it. What do you want, Ma? Se metío por mis ojos. Por mis ojos my ass, she’d said. Tu te metiste por su culo. That’s true, your brother admitted cheerily. Y por su boca. And then your mother punched him, helpless with shame and fury, which only made him laugh. It is the first time any girl ever wanted you. And so you sit with it. Let it roll around in the channels of your mind. This is nuts, you say to yourself. And later, absently, to Paloma. She doesn’t hear you. You don’t know what to do with the knowledge. You ain’t your brother, who would have run right over and put a rabo in Miss Lora. Even though you know, you’re scared you’re wrong. You’re scared she’d laugh at you. “What part of Canada that I know nothing about are you from?”Buy the print » So you try to keep your mind off her and the memory of her bikinis. You figure the bombs will fall before you get the chance to do shit. When they don’t fall, you bring her up to Paloma in a last-ditch effort, tell her la profesora has been after you. It feels very convincing, that lie. That old fucking hag? That’s disgusting. You’re telling me, you say in forlorn tones. That would be like fucking a stick, she says. It would be, you confirm. You better not fuck her, Paloma warns you after a pause. What are you talking about? I’m just telling you. Don’t fuck her. You know I’ll find out. You’re a terrible liar. Don’t be a crazy person, you say, glaring. I’m not fucking anyone. Clearly. That night, you are allowed to touch Paloma’s clit with the tip of your tongue, but that’s it. She holds your head back with the force of her whole life, and eventually you give up, demoralized. It tasted, you write your boy in Panama, like beer. You add an extra run to your workout, hoping it will cool your granos, but it doesn’t work. You have a couple of dreams where you are about to touch Miss Lora, but then the bomb blows N.Y.C. to kingdom come, and you watch the shock wave roll up, and then you wake, your tongue clamped firmly between your teeth. And then you are coming back from Chicken Holiday with a four-piece meal, a drumstick in your mouth, and there she is, walking out of Pathmark, wrestling a pair of plastic bags. You consider bolting, but your brother’s law holds you in place. Never run. A law that he ultimately abrogated, but which you right now cannot. You ask meekly, You want help with that, Miss Lora? She shakes her head. It’s my exercise for the day. You walk back together in silence, and then she says, When are you going to come by to show me that movie? What movie? The one you said is the real one. The nuclear-war movie. Maybe if you were someone else you would have the discipline to duck the whole thing, but you are your father’s son and your brother’s brother. Two nights later, you are home and the silence in there is terrible and it seems like the same commercial for fixing tears in your car upholstery is on over and over again. You shower, shave, dress, pick up the tape. I’ll be back. Your mom is looking at your dress shoes. Where are you going? Out. It’s ten o’clock, she says, but you’re already out the door. You knock on the door once, twice, and then she opens up. She is wearing sweats and a Howard T-shirt, and she tenses her forehead. Her eyes look like they belong on a giant’s face. You don’t bother with the small talk. You just push up and kiss. She reaches around and shuts the door behind you. Do you have a condom? (You are a worrier like that.) Nope, she says, and you try to keep control, but you come in her anyway. I’m really sorry, you say. It’s O.K., she whispers, her hands on your back, keeping you from pulling out. Stay. Her apartment is about the neatest place you’ve ever seen and, for its lack of Caribbean craziness, could be inhabited by a white person. On her walls she has a lot of pictures of her travels and her siblings, and they all seem incredibly happy and square. So you’re the rebel? you ask her, and she laughs. Something like that. There are also pictures of some guys. A few you recognize from when you were younger, and about them you say nothing. She is very quiet, very reserved while she fixes you a cheeseburger. Actually, I hate my family, she says, squashing the patty down with a spatula until the grease starts popping. You wonder if she feels like you do. Like it might be love. You put on “Threads” for her. Get ready for some real shit, you say. Get ready for me to hide, she responds, but you two only last an hour before she reaches over and takes off your glasses and kisses you. I can’t, you say. And just before she pops your rabo in her mouth she says, Really? You try to think of Paloma, so exhausted that every morning she falls asleep on the ride to school. Paloma, who still found the energy to help you study for your S.A.T.s. Paloma, who didn’t give you any ass because she was terrified that if she got pregnant she wouldn’t abort it out of love for you and then her life would be over. You’re trying to think of her, but what you’re doing is holding Miss Lora’s tresses like reins and urging her head to keep its wonderful rhythm. You really do have an excellent body, you say after you blow your load. Why, thank you. She motions with her head. You want to go into the bedroom? Even more photos. None of them will survive the nuclear blast, you are sure. Nor will this bedroom, whose window faces toward New York City. You tell her that. Well, we’ll just have to make do, she says. She gets naked like a pro, and once you start she closes her eyes and rolls her head around like it’s on a broken hinge. She clasps your shoulders with a nailed grip, and you know that afterward your back is going to look like it’s been whipped. Then she kisses your chin. Both your father and your brother were sucios. Shit, your father used to take you on his pussy runs, leave you in the car while he ran up into cribs to bone his girlfriends. Your brother was no better, boning girls in the bed next to yours. Sucios of the worst kind, and now it’s official: you are one, too. You’d hoped the gene had missed you, skipped a generation, but clearly you were kidding yourself. The blood always shows, you say to Paloma on the ride to school the next day. Yunior, she stirs from her doze, I don’t have time for your craziness, O.K.? You figure you can keep it to a onetime thing. But the next day you go right back. You sit gloomily in her kitchen while she fixes you another cheeseburger. Are you going to be O.K.? she asks. I don’t know. It’s just supposed to be fun. I have a girlfriend. You told me, remember? She puts the plate on your lap, regards you critically. You know you look like your brother. I’m sure people tell you that all the time. Some people. I couldn’t believe how good-looking he was. He knew it, too. It was like he never heard of a shirt. This time you don’t even ask about the condom. You just come inside her. You are surprised at how pissed you are. But she kisses your face over and over, and it moves you. No one has ever done that. The girls you’ve boned were always ashamed afterward. And there was always panic. Someone heard. Fix the bed up. Open the windows. Here there is none of that. Afterward, she sits up, her chest as unadorned as yours. So what else do you want to eat? You try to be reasonable. You try to control yourself, to be smooth. But you’re at her apartment every fucking night. The one time you try to skip, you recant and end up slipping out of your apartment at three in the morning and knocking furtively on her door until she lets you in. You know I work, right? I know, you say, but I dreamed that something happened to you. It’s sweet of you to lie, she sighs, and even though she is falling asleep she lets you bone her straight in the ass. Fucking amazing, you keep saying for all four seconds it takes you to come. You have to pull my hair while you do it, she confides. That makes me shoot like a rocket. It should be the greatest thing, so why are your dreams worse? Why is there more blood in the sink in the morning? You learn a lot about her life. She came up in Santo Domingo with a doctor father who was crazy. Her mother left them for an Italian waiter, fled to Rome, and that was it for Pops. Always threatening to kill himself, and at least once a day she’d had to beg him not to, and that had messed her up but good. In her youth, she’d been a gymnast, and there was even talk of making the Olympic team, but then the coach stole the money and the D.R. had to cancel for that year. I’m not claiming I would have won, she says, but I could have done something. After that bullshit, she put on a foot of height and that was it for gymnastics. Then when she was eleven her father got a job in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and she and her three little siblings went with him. After six months he moved them in with a fat widow, una blanca asquerosa who hated Lora. She had no friends at all in school, and in ninth grade she slept with her history teacher. Ended up living in his house. His ex-wife was also a teacher at the school. You can only imagine what that was like. As soon as she graduated, she ran off with a quiet black boy to an Air Force base in Germany, but that hadn’t worked out, either. To this day, I think he was gay, she says. And finally, after trying to make it in Berlin, teaching, of all things, she came back to the States. She moved in with a Michigan girlfriend who had an apartment in the Terrace, dated a few guys, one of her ex’s old Air Force buddies who visited her on his leaves, a moreno with the sweetest disposition. When the girlfriend got married and moved away, Miss Lora kept the apartment and found a teaching job. Made a conscious effort to stop moving. It was an O.K. life, she says, showing you the pictures. All things considered. She is always trying to get you to talk about your brother. It will help, she says. What is there to say? He got cancer, he died. Well, that’s a start. Buy the print » She brings home college brochures from her school. She gives them to you with half the application filled out. You really need to get out of here. Where? you ask her. Go anywhere. Go to Alaska for all I care. She sleeps with a mouth guard. And she covers her eyes with a mask. If you have to leave, wait till I fall asleep, O.K.? But after a few weeks it’s Please don’t go. And finally just: Stay. And you do. At dawn, you slip out of her apartment and into your basement window. Your mother doesn’t have a fucking clue. In the old days, she used to know everything. She had that campesino radar. Now she is somewhere else. Her grief, tending to it, takes all her time. You are scared stupid at what you are doing, but it is also exciting and makes you feel less lonely in the world. And you are sixteen, and you have a feeling that, now the Ass Engine has started, no force on the earth will ever stop it. Then your abuelo catches something in the D.R., and your mother has to fly home. You’ll be fine, la doña says. Miss Lora said she’d look after you. I can cook, Ma. No, you can’t. And don’t bring that Puerto Rican girl in here. Do you understand? You nod. You bring the Dominican woman in instead. She squeals with delight when she sees the plastic-covered sofa and the wooden spoons hanging on the wall. You admit to feeling a little bad for your mother. Of course you end up downstairs in your basement. Where your brother’s things are still in evidence. She goes right for his boxing gloves. Please put those down. She pushes them into her face, smelling them. You can’t relax. You keep swearing that you hear your mother or Paloma at the door. It makes you stop every five minutes. It’s unsettling to wake up in your bed with her. She makes coffee and scrambled eggs and listens not to Radio Wado but to the “Morning Zoo,” and laughs at everything. It’s too strange. Paloma calls to see if you are going to school, and Miss Lora is walking around in a T-shirt, her flat skinny rump visible. Then, your senior year, she gets a job at your high school. To say it is strange is to say nada. You see her in the halls, and your heart goes through you. That’s your neighbor? Paloma asks. God, she’s fucking looking at you. The old whore. At the school, the Spanish girls are the ones who give her trouble. They make fun of her accent, her clothes, her physique. They call her Miss Pat. She never complains about it—It’s a really great job, she says—but you see the nonsense first hand. That’s just the Spanish girls, though. The white girls love her to death. She takes over the gymnastics team. She brings the girls to dance programs for inspiration. And in no time they start winning. One day, outside the school, the gymnasts are egging her on and she does a back handspring that nearly staggers you with its perfection. It is the most beautiful thing you’ve ever seen. Naturally, Mr. Everson, the science teacher, falls all over her. He’s always falling over someone. For a while it was Paloma, until she threatened to report his ass. You see them laughing in the hallway; you see them having lunch in the teachers’ room. Paloma doesn’t stop busting. They say Mr. Everson likes to put on dresses. You think she straps it on for him? You girls are nuts. She probably does strap it on. It all makes you very tense. But it makes the sex even better. A few times you see Mr. Everson’s car outside her apartment. Looks like Mr. Everson is in the hood, one of your boys laughs. You suddenly find yourself weak with fury. You think about fucking up his car. You think about knocking on the door. You think a thousand things. But you stay at home, lifting, until he leaves. When she opens the door, you stalk in without saying a word to her. The apartment reeks of cigarettes. You smell like shit, you say. You walk into her bedroom, but the bed is made. Ay mi pobre, she laughs. No seas celoso. But of course you are. You graduate in June, and she is there with your mother, clapping. She is wearing a red dress, because you once told her it was your favorite color, and matching underwear underneath. Afterward, she drives you both to Perth Amboy for a Mexican dinner. Paloma can’t come along because her mother is sick. But you saw her at graduation. I did it, Paloma says, cheesing. I’m proud of you, you say. And then you add, uncharacteristically, You are an extraordinary young woman. That summer, you and Paloma see each other maybe twice, and there are no more make-out sessions. Paloma’s already gone. In August, she leaves for the University of Delaware. You are not surprised when after about a week on campus she writes you a letter with the header “Moving On.” You don’t even bother finishing it. You think about driving all the way down there to talk to her, but you realize how hopeless that is. As might be expected, she never comes back. You stay in the neighborhood. You land a job at Raritan River Steel. At first you have to fight the Pennsylvania hillbillies, but eventually you find your footing and they leave you alone. At night, you go to the bars with some of the other idiots who stuck around the neighborhood, get seriously faded, and show up at Miss Lora’s door with your dick in your hand. She’s still pushing the college thing, offers to pay all the admission fees, but your heart isn’t in it and you tell her, Not right now. Occasionally you two meet up in Perth Amboy, where people don’t know either of you. You have dinner like normal folks. You look too young for her, and it kills you when she touches you in public, but what can you do? She’s always happy to be out with you. You know this ain’t going to last, you tell her, and she nods. I just want what’s best for you. You try your damnedest to meet other girls, telling yourself they’ll help you transition, but you never meet anyone you really like. Sometimes after you leave her apartment you walk out to the landfill where you and your brother played as children and sit on the swings. This is also the spot where Mr. del Orbe threatened to shoot your brother in the nuts. Go ahead, Rafa said, and then my brother here will shoot you in the pussy. Behind you in the distance hums New York City. The world, you tell yourself, will never end. It takes a long time to get over it. To get used to a life without a Secret. Even after it’s behind you and you’ve blocked her completely, you’re still afraid you’ll slip back to it. At Rutgers, where you’ve finally landed, you date like crazy, and every time it doesn’t work out you’re convinced that you have trouble with girls your own age. Because of her. You certainly never talk about it. Until senior year, when you meet the mujerón of your dreams, the one who leaves her moreno boyfriend to date you, who drives all your little chickies out of the coop. She’s the one you finally trust. The one you finally tell. They should arrest that crazy bitch. It wasn’t like that. They should arrest her ass today. Still, it is good to tell someone. In your heart you thought she would hate you—that they would all hate you. I don’t hate you. Tú eres mi hombre, she says proudly. When you two visit your mother she brings it up. Doña, es verdad que tu hijo taba rapando una vieja? Your mother shakes her head in disgust. He’s just like his father and his brother. Dominican men, right, doña? These three are worse than the rest. Afterward, she makes you walk past Miss Lora’s building. There is a light on. I’m going to go have a word with her, the mujerón says. Don’t. Please. I’m going to go. She bangs on the door. Negra, please don’t. Answer the door! she yells. No one does. You don’t speak to the mujerón for a few weeks after that. It’s one of your big breakups. But finally you’re both at a Tribe Called Quest show and she sees you dancing with another girl and she waves at you and that does it. You go up to where she’s seated with all her evil sorority sisters. She has shaved her head again. Negra, you say. She pulls you over to a corner. I’m sorry I got carried away. I just wanted to protect you. You shake your head. She steps into your arms. Graduation: it’s not a surprise to see her there. What surprises you is that you didn’t predict it. The instant before you and the mujerón join the procession you see Miss Lora standing alone in a red dress. She is finally starting to put on weight; it looks good on her. Afterward, you spot her walking alone across the lawn of Old Queens, carrying a mortarboard she picked up. Your mother grabbed one, too. Hung it up on her wall. What happens is that in the end she moves away from London Terrace. Prices are going up. The Banglas and the Pakistanis are moving in. In a few years, your mother moves, too, up to the Bergenline. Later, after you and the mujerón are over, you will type her name into the computer, but she never turns up. On one D.R. trip you drive up to La Vega and put her name out there. You show a picture, too, like a private eye. It is of the two of you, the one time you went to the beach. Both of you are smiling. Both of you blinked. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Transatlantic	Credit Photo Collage by Dan Winters The Vickers Vimy. A modified bomber. All wood and linen and wire. She’s wide and lumbering, but Jack Alcock still thinks her a nippy little thing. He pats her each time he climbs on board and slides into the cockpit beside Teddy Brown. One smooth motion of his body. Hand on the throttle, feet on the rudder bar, he can already feel himself aloft. What he likes most of all is rising up over the clouds and then flying in sunlight. He can lean out over the edge and see the shadow play on the whiteness below, expanding and contracting on the surface of the clouds. Brown, the navigator, is more reserved—it embarrasses him to make such a fuss. He sits forward in the cockpit, alert to whatever clues the machine might give. He knows how to intuit the shape of the wind, but he puts his faith in what he can actually touch: the compasses, the charts, the spirit level at his feet. It is that time of the century when the idea of a gentleman has almost become myth. The Great War has concussed the world. The unbearable news of sixteen million deaths has rolled off the huge metal newspaper drums. Europe is a crucible of bones. During the war, Alcock piloted air-service fighters. Small bombs fell away from the undercarriage of his plane. A sudden lightness to the machine. A kick upward into the night. He leaned out from his open cockpit and watched the mushroom of smoke rise below. His plane levelled out and turned toward home. He flew in the dark, open to the stars, until an airfield appeared below, its razor wire illuminated, like the altar of a strange church. Brown flew reconnaissance. He had a knack for the mathematics of flight. He could turn any sky into a series of numbers. Even on the ground he’d continue calculating, trying to figure out new ways to guide his machine home. Both men eventually found out what it meant to be shot down. The Turks caught Alcock on a long-range bombing raid over Suvla Bay, piercing his plane with machine-gun fire, knocking off his port propeller. He and his two crewmen ditched at sea, swam to shore. They were marched naked to a camp, where the Turks had set up rows of little wooden cages for prisoners of war. There was a Welshman beside him who had a map of all the constellations, so Alcock practiced his navigation skills through the nailheaded Turkish night: one glance at the sky and he could tell exactly what time it was. Yet what he wanted more than anything was to tinker with an engine. When he was moved to a detention camp in Kedos he swapped his Red Cross chocolate for a dynamo, traded his shampoo for tractor parts, and built a row of makeshift fans out of scrap wire, bamboo, bolts, batteries. Brown, too, became a prisoner of war, forced to land in France while out on photographic reconnaissance. A bullet shattered his leg. Another ruptured the fuel tank. On the way down, he threw out his camera, tore up his charts, scattered the pieces. He and his pilot slid their B.E. 2C into a muddy wheat field, cut the engine, held their hands up. The enemy came running out of the forest to drag them from the wreck. Brown could smell petrol leaking from the tanks. One of the Krauts had a lit cigarette in his lips. “Excuse me!” Brown shouted, but the German kept coming forward, the cigarette flaring. “Nein, nein.” A little cloud of smoke came from the German’s mouth. It was left to Brown’s pilot to lift his arms and roar, “For fuck’s sake, stop!” The German paused in mid-stride, tilted his head back, swallowed the burning cigarette, ran toward the airmen again. At the P.O.W. camp, Brown became known for his polite reserve. Excuse me. Nein, nein. As if the German soldier only had the flap-end of his shirt sticking out, or had somehow neglected to tie his shoelace properly. Brown was shipped home before the Armistice, then lost his hat high in the air over Piccadilly Circus. The girls wore red lipstick. The hems of their dresses rose almost to their knees. He wandered along the Thames, followed the river until it crawled upward to the sky. Alcock didn’t make it back to London until December. He watched men in dark suits and bowler hats pick their way amid the rubble. He joined in a game of football in an alley off the Pimlico Road, knocking a round pigskin back and forth. But he could already sense himself aloft again. He lit a cigarette, watched the smoke curl up high and away. When they met for the first time, in the Vickers factory in Brooklands, Weybridge, in early 1919, Alcock and Brown took one look at each other and understood immediately that what they both wanted was a clean slate. The obliteration of memory. The creation of a new moment: raw, dynamic, warless. They did not want to remember the bombs that had dudded out, the crash and burn, the cellblocks they had been locked into, or the species of abyss they had seen in the dark. Instead, they talked about the Vickers Vimy. A nippy little thing. The meadow is on the outskirts of St. John’s, on a half-hill, with a level surface of three hundred yards, a swamp at one end, a pine forest at the other. The Vimy arrives by ship from England, boxed in dozens of wooden crates. Alcock and Brown hire a crew to drag the crates up from the harbor, strapped to horses and carts. They assemble the plane in the field. Days of welding, soldering, sanding, stitching. From a distance, the plane looks as if it had borrowed its design from a species of dragonfly. It is 42.7 feet long, 15.25 feet high, with a wingspan of sixty-eight feet. It weighs thirteen thousand pounds when its eight hundred and seventy gallons of petrol and forty gallons of oil are taken into consideration. Eleven pounds per square foot. Its cloth framework has thousands of individual stitches. It has a maximum speed of a hundred and three miles an hour, not counting the wind, a cruising speed of ninety, and a landing speed of forty-five. There are two water-cooled Rolls-Royce Eagle VIII engines of three hundred and sixty horsepower and a turnover rate of a thousand and eighty revs per minute, with twelve cylinders in two banks of six, each engine driving a four-bladed wooden propeller. The bomb bays have been replaced by extra petrol tanks. That’s what pleases Brown the most. They are using the bomber in a brand-new way: taking the war out of the plane, stripping the thing of its penchant for carnage. To level out the meadow, they crimp blasting caps to fuses, shatter boulders with dynamite, tear down walls and fences, remove hillocks. It is almost summertime, but there is still a chill in the air. Flocks of birds move, acrobatic, across the sky. After fourteen days, the field is ready. To most onlookers, it is simply another patch of land, but to the two men it’s an intricate aerodrome. They pace the length of the grass runway, looking for clues in the weather. Crowds of rubberneckers flock to see the Vimy. Some have never ridden in a motor car, let alone seen a plane. They run their hands along the struts, tap the steel, ping the taut linen of the wings with their umbrellas. Kids crayon their names on the underside of the fuselage. Alcock mugs for the camera, shades his eyes with his hand like an ancient explorer. “Tallyho,” he calls, before jumping the nine feet to the wet grass below. The newspapers say that anything is possible now. The world is shrinking. Distances exist to be bridged. The League of Nations is being formed in Paris. The American W. E. B. Du Bois has convened the Pan-African Congress, with delegates from fifteen countries. Jazz records can be found in Rome. Radio enthusiasts use vacuum tubes to transmit signals hundreds of miles. Some day soon it may be possible to read the daily edition of the San Francisco Examiner in Edinburgh or Salzburg or Sydney. The word “sportsman” is alive on the editorial pages. At least four other teams want to fly nonstop across the ocean. Some, like Hawker and Grieve, have already crashed into the water. Others, like Brackley and Kerr, are positioned in airfields along the coast, waiting for the weather to turn. Lord Northcliffe, of the Daily Mail, in London, has offered ten thousand pounds to the first men to land on one side of the Atlantic or the other. The flight has to be completed in seventy-two hours. There are rumors of a rich Texan who wants to try, and a Hungarian prince, and, worst of all, a German pilot from the Luftstreitkräfte who specialized in long-range bombing during the war. The features editor of the Daily Mail is said to have developed an ulcer thinking about a possible German victory. “A Kraut! A bloody Kraut! God deliver me!” Down at the stone, on Fleet Street, where the hot type is laid, he paces back and forth, working the prospective headlines over and over. On the inside of his jacket, his wife has stitched a Union Jack, which he rubs like a prayer cloth. “Come on, boys,” he mutters. “Hup two. On home now, back to Blighty.” Every morning the two airmen wake in the Cochrane Hotel, have their breakfast of porridge, eggs, bacon, toast. They drive through the steep streets, out the Forest Road, toward a field of grass sleeved with ice. The wind blows bitter blasts off the sea. They rig wires in their flight suits so they can run warmth from a battery, and they stitch extra fur on the inside flaps of their helmets, their gloves, their boots. At the far end of the field, they make sure that they are carefully shaved. They have set up a steel washbasin under a canvas tent with a little gas burner to heat the water. A metal hubcap is used as a mirror. They have even put razor blades in their flight kits for when they land: they want to make sure that they will be fresh, decently shaved, presentable members of empire. Alcock is twenty-six years old, from Manchester. He is lean, handsome, daring, with a head of ginger hair. A single man, he says he loves women but prefers engines. Nothing pleases him more than to pull apart the guts of a Rolls-Royce, then put her back together. Brown already seems old at thirty-two. His bum leg forces him to carry a walking stick. He was born in Scotland but raised near Manchester. His parents were American and he has a slight Yankee accent, which he cultivates as best he can. He thinks of himself as a man of the mid-Atlantic. He reads the antiwar poetry of Aristophanes and confesses, in letters to his pretty fiancée, in London, to the rather corny desire to live aloft, constantly in flight. In public Brown is quiet, polite, even taciturn. At press briefings, it’s Alcock who takes the helm. Brown navigates the silence by fiddling with his tie clip. He keeps a brandy bottle in his inside pocket. Occasionally he turns away, opens the flap of his tunic, takes a nip. Alcock drinks, too, but loudly, openly, happily. He leans up against the bar in the Cochrane Hotel singing “Rule Britannia” in a voice so out of tune that it’s loaded with whimsy. The locals—fishermen mostly, a few lumberjacks—bang on the wooden tables and sing their own songs, about loved ones lost at sea. The singing goes on late into the night, long after Alcock and Brown have gone to bed. Even from the fourth floor they can hear the sad rhythms breaking into waves of laughter and then, later still, the “Maple Leaf Rag” hammered out on a piano. “Oh go ’way man I can hypnotize dis nation I can shake the earth’s foundation with the Maple Leaf Rag.” Alcock and Brown rise at sunup, then wait. Turn their faces to the weather. Walk the field. Play gin rummy. Wait some more. They need a warm day, clear skies, a full moon, a benevolent wind. They figure they can do it in less than twenty hours. Failure doesn’t interest them, but in secret Brown writes out a will, leaving everything he owns to his betrothed, Kathleen. He keeps the envelope in the inside pocket of his tunic. Alcock doesn’t bother with a will. He recalls the terrors of the war. “There’s puff all else they can throw at me now,” he says. “Except of course some more ruddy rain.” One glance down takes in a line of chimneys and fences and spires, the wind combing back tufts of grass into silvery waves, rivers vaulting the ditches, two white horses running wild in a field, the long scarves of tarmacadam fading off into dirt roads—forest, scrub field, cowsheds, tanneries, shipyards, fishing shacks, cod factories. We’re floating on a sea of adrenaline, and, look! Teddy, down there, a scull on a stream, a blanket on the sand, and a girl with a pail and a shovel, and a woman rolling the hem of her skirt, and over there, see, that young chap, in the red jersey, running his donkey along the shore, sand spraying, go ahead, give it one more turn, thrill the lad with a bit of shadow—On the evening of June 12th they take another practice run, this one at night. They climb to eleven thousand feet for Brown to test out his Sumner charts. The cockpit is open to the sky. In the fierce cold the men hunker behind the windshield. The tip ends of their hair freeze. Alcock tries to feel the plane, her weight, her dip, her center of gravity, while Brown works on his mathematics. Below, the reporters wait for them to return. The field has been lined with candles in brown paper bags, to make a proper runway. When the Vimy lands, the candles blow over and burn briefly in the grass. Local boys run with buckets to douse the flames. The airmen get out of the plane to scattered applause. Their favorite of the reporters is there—a fifty-year-old American woman, Elizabeth Ehrlich. She never asks a single question, but stands around in a corseted skirt, a knit hat, and gloves, scribbling in her notebook. Elizabeth is tall and unfashionably large. Her ankles are terribly swollen. She moves with a hefty gait across the muddy airfield. Her seventeen-year-old daughter, Lottie, has accompanied her on the trip. The girl is also tall, but thin, sprightly, curious. She is quick to laugh and whisper in her mother’s ear. An odd team. The mother stays silent; the daughter asks the questions. It infuriates the reporters, a young girl in their territory, but her questions are sharp, incisive, almost rude. What sort of wind pressure can the wing fabric withstand? What is it like to have the sea disappear beneath you? Are you ready for the unification of the continents, Mr. Brown? Do you have a sweetheart in London, Mr. Alcock? Mother and daughter like to stride across the fields together at the end of the day, Lottie to play tennis, Elizabeth to the hotel room, where she sits and writes her reports. Back in St. Louis, Elizabeth has published several books of poetry, and her name banners the Thursday edition of the Post-Dispatch. Once a week she has a mandate to cover whatever she wants: theatre, politics, restaurant openings, the suffragettes, boiler explosions, the horrors of the war. She is known for being slightly batty and is famous for her curious tangents. Once, in the middle of an article on a local trade union, she delivered a two-hundred-word recipe for pound cake. Another time, in an analysis of a speech by Freud, she strayed off into the subtle art of cutting and preserving ice. “He can’t speak to you at the moment—he’s bonding with his compensation package.”Buy the print » Alcock and Brown like the odd edge that the mother and daughter give to the crowd of men. Besides, Brown has seen Elizabeth’s reports for the St. Louis paper and they are among the best he has read: Today the sky was truant over Signal Hill. Hammer blows ring across the airfield like so many bells. Each night the sun goes down, looking more and more like the moon. They are due to leave on Friday the 13th. It’s an airman’s way of cheating death: pick a day of doom, then defy it. The compasses are swung, the transverse tables calculated, the wireless primed, the shock absorbers wrapped around the axles, the ribs shellacked, the dope dried, the radiator water purified. All the rivets, the split pins, and the stitches are checked. The pump control handles. The magnetos. The batteries to warm their electric suits. The shoes are polished and their flight suits are brushed. The Ferrostat flasks of hot tea and Oxo are prepared. The carefully cut sandwiches. Horlicks Malted Milk. Bars of Fry’s chocolate. Four sticks of licorice each. A bottle of brandy for emergencies. They run sprigs of white heather on the inside of their fur-lined helmets for good luck, and tie two stuffed animals—black cats, both—to a strut behind the cockpit. Then the clouds curtsy in, the rain kneels upon the land, and the weather knocks them back a whole day and a half. “Oh go ’way man You just hold your breath a minit For there’s not a stunt that’s in it With the Maple Leaf Rag—” A strong wind attends takeoff. Arriving from the west in uneven gusts. The fog has lifted and the long-range weather reports are good. No clouds. The initial wind velocity is worrying, but will probably calm to about twenty knots. There will, later, be a good moon. They climb aboard to scattered cheers, secure their safety belts, check the instruments yet again. A quick salute from the starter. Contact! The swing of the starting handle. Alcock opens the throttle and brings both engines to full power. He signals for the wooden chocks to be pulled clear from the wheels. The mechanic leans down, ducks under the wings, armpits the chocks, steps back, throws them away. He raises both arms in the air. A cough of smoke from the engines. The propellers whirl. The Vickers Vimy is pointed into the gale. A slight angle to the wind. Uphill. Go now, go. The incredible engine roar. The waft of warming oil. Speed and lift. The trees loom in the distance. A drainage ditch challenges on the far side. They say nothing. No “Great Scott.” No “Chin up, old sport.” No “Blimey.” They inch forward, lumbering into the wind. The weight of the plane rolls underneath them. She’s heavy today. So much petrol to carry. Damnation. A hundred yards, a hundred and twenty, a hundred and seventy. Moving too slow. A sort of aspic. The tightness of the cockpit. Sweat accumulating behind their knees. A cold swell of air in their stomachs. The bumpy ground below. The lethal whims of the weather. The motors strike hard. The wingtips flex. The grass beneath them bends and tears. Two hundred and fifty yards. The plane rises a little and then sighs again, jarring the soil. Good God, Alcock, lift her. A line of dark pine trees stands at the end of the airfield, looming close, close, closer still. How many men have died this way? Pull her back, Jackie boy. Skid her sideways. Abort. Now. Three hundred yards. Good Jesus. A gust of wind lifts the left wing and they tilt slightly right, then lift. We are rising, Teddy, we are rising, look! A slow grade upward, an ever so faint lift of the soul, and the plane is a few feet in the air, nosing up, the wind whistling through the struts. How tall are those trees? Brown converts the pines to possible noise in his mind. The slap of bark. The tangle of pines. Hang on, hang on. They rise a little in their seats. As if this might lighten the weight of the plane beneath them. Higher now. The sky beyond the trees is an oceanic thing. Lift it, Jackie, lift it, for God’s sake. Here, the trees. Here they come. Their scarves take first flight and then they hear the applause of branches below. “That was a little ticklish!” Alcock roars across the noise. They head straight into the wind. The nose goes up. The plane slows. The agonizing climb over treetops and low roofs. Careful now not to stall. Keep her rising. Higher up, they begin a slight bank. Take her easy, old chum. Bring her around. A stately turn, all beauty, all balance, its own sort of confidence. They hold the altitude. Banking it tighter now. Until the wind is behind them and the nose dips and they are truly leaving. They wave down to the starter, the mechanics, the meteorological officers, the few other stragglers below. No Elizabeth Ehrlich from the St. Louis newspaper, no young Lottie: mother and daughter have already gone home for the day. Pity that, Brown thinks. Alcock wipes the sweat off his brow, then waves to their shadow on the last of the ground and steers the plane at half-throttle out to sea. The scene below looks to him like toys in a child’s bath. A line of golden strand. Boats bobbing in the St. John’s harbor. Alcock picks up the rudimentary telephone device, half-shouts into it, “Hey, old man.” The telephone is a series of wires wrapped around their necks to pick up speech vibration. To listen, they have earpieces tucked beneath their leather hats. “Yes?” “Sorry about this.” “Sorry, what?” “Never told you.” “Never told me what?” Alcock grins and glances down at the water. They are eight minutes out, at a thousand feet with a wind strength behind of thirty-five knots. They lurch over Concepçion Bay. The water below: a moving mat of gray. Patches of sunlight and glare. “Never learned how to swim,” Alcock says. Brown is momentarily taken aback—the thought of ditching at sea, of floating for a moment on a wooden strut, clinging to the rolling tanks. But surely Alcock swam to safety after he was shot down over Suvla Bay? All those years ago now. No, not years. Just months ago. It is odd to Brown, very odd, that not so long ago a bullet pierced his thigh and now, today, he is carrying a fragment of that bullet over the Atlantic toward a marriage, a second chance. Odd that he could be here at all, at this height, above this endless gray, the Rolls-Royce engines roaring in his ears, holding him aloft. Alcock can’t swim? Surely that’s not true. Perhaps he, too, should tell the truth. Never too late. Brown leans down into the mouthpiece of the phone, decides against it. They rise evenly. Side by side in the open cockpit. The air rushing frigid around their ears. Brown taps out a message to the shore on the transmitter key: All well and started. Twenty minutes into the flight, Alcock reaches under his hat and rips his cumbersome earpieces out, throws them down into the blueness. Too bloody sore, he mimics. Brown gives a simple thumbs-up. A pity that, he thinks. They will have no other means of communication now—just scribbled notes and gestures—but they have long since mapped their minds onto each other’s movements: every twitch a way of speaking, the absence of voice a presence of body. Even behind the sloping windshield, it is freezing. In preparation, Alcock has spent three evenings in a walk-in fridge in St. John’s. One night he lay down on a pile of wrapped meat and failed to sleep. A few days later, Elizabeth Ehrlich noted in the St. Louis paper that he still smelled like a freshly cut side of beef. She stands with her daughter at the third-floor window, hands on the wooden frame. They are sure at first that it is an illusion, a bird in the foreground. But then she hears the faint retort of the engines, and they know that they have missed the moment, yet there is also a strange exaltation about seeing it from a distance, the plane disappearing into the east, silver, not gray, framed by the lens of a hotel window. This is the first human victory over the war, Elizabeth thinks, the triumph of endurance over memory. She pulls the table across the carpet, toward the window. Out there, the blue sky lies cloudless and uninterrupted. She likes the sound of the ink rising into her fountain pen, the noise of the pen’s body being screwed shut. Two men are flying nonstop across the Atlantic to arrive with a sack of mail, a small white linen bag with 197 letters, specially stamped. If they make it, it will be the first aerial mail to cross from the New World to the Old. A brand-new thought that: transatlantic air mail. She tests the phrase, scratching it out on the paper, over and over. Down below they spot small floating icebergs and they know that there will be no turning back. To Brown, it is all mathematics now. To convert the fuel use into time and distance. To set the throttle for the optimum burn of petrol. To know the angles and the edges and all the space in between. Brown wipes the moisture from his goggles, reaches into the wooden compartment directly behind his head, grabs the sandwiches, unwraps the butcher’s wax. He passes one to Alcock, who keeps a gloved hand on the yoke. This is one of the many things that bring a smile to Alcock’s lips: how extraordinary it is to be munching on a sandwich that was put together in a St. John’s hotel more than eleven hundred feet below. The sandwich is made delicious simply by where they are, and how far they have already come. Wheat bread, fresh ham, a light mustard mixed in with the butter. Brown reaches back for the flask of hot tea, unscrews the cap, allows a wisp of steam to emerge. The noise rolls through their bodies. At times they make a music of it, a rhythm that conducts itself from the head to the chest to the toes, but then they are lifted from the rhythm and it becomes pure noise again. They are well aware that they could go deaf on the flight, that the roar could lodge itself inside them forever, their bodies carrying it like a human gramophone, a tune that if they make it to the other side they will hear in their ears every day. Keeping to the prescribed course is a matter of genius and magic. Brown must guide them by any means possible. He has a sextant clipped to the dashboard in front of him. The course and distance calculator is clasped to the side of the fuselage. The drift indicator is fitted in under the seat, along with a spirit level to measure bank, and the Baker navigation machine sits on the floor of the cockpit. There are three compasses, each of which will illuminate in the dark. Sun, moon, cloud, stars. If all else fails, he will have dead reckoning. Brown kneels on his seat and looks over the edge of the plane. He twists and turns, makes calculations using the horizon, the seascape, and the position of the sun. On a notepad he scribbles, Keep her nearer 120 than 140, and, as soon as he shoves the note across the tiny cockpit, Alcock adjusts the controls ever so slightly, trims the plane, keeps it at three-quarter throttle, keen not to push the engines too hard. It is so much like the handling of a horse, the way the plane changes over a long journey, the shift in her weight from the burn-off of petrol, the gallop of her engines, her rein-touch at the controls. Every half hour or so Brown notices that the Vimy has got a little heavier in the nose, and he watches Alcock exert a backward pressure on the yoke to level the plane out. At all times Alcock’s body is in contact with the Vimy: he cannot lift his hands from the controls, not even for a second. He can already feel the pain in his shoulders and the tips of his fingers: not even a third of the way there and the soreness has lodged itself hard in his body. When Brown was a child he used to go to the racecourse in Manchester to watch the horses. On weekdays, when the jockeys were training, he ran on the inside of the Salford track, around and around, widening his circle the older he got, pushing his circumference outward. The summer he was seven, the Pony Express riders came from America and set up their Wild West show along the river. His people. From his parents’ country. Brown wanted to know who exactly he was. Cowboys stood in the fields, swirling their lassos. There were broncos, buffalo, mules, donkeys, trick ponies, a number of wild elk. He wandered around the huge painted backdrops of prairie fires, dust storms, tumbleweeds, tornadoes. But the most amazing creatures of all were the Indians, who paraded around the tea shops of Salford in their ornate headdresses. One of them, Charging Thunder, was a member of the Blackfoot tribe. His wife, Josephine, was a sharpshooting cowgirl who wore elaborate leather coats and six-shooter holsters. Toward the end of summer, their daughter, Bessie, came down with a severe case of diphtheria, and when she got out of hospital they moved to Thomas Street in Gorton, right beside Brown’s aunt and uncle. On Sunday afternoons, Brown cycled out to Gorton and tried to stare in their window, hoping to see the shine of the headdress coins. But Charging Thunder had had his hair cut short and his wife stood in an apron making Yorkshire pudding on the stove. A couple of hours into the flight, Brown hears a light snap. He puts on his goggles, leans over the fuselage, watches the small propeller on the wireless generator spin uselessly for a second, then shear and break away. No radio now. No contact with anyone. Soon there will be no heating in their electric suits. And not just this. One snap might lead to another. One piece of metal fatigue and the whole plane could come apart. Brown can close his eyes to the chessboard of the plane. He knows the gambits inside out. A thousand little moves that can be made. He likes the idea of himself as a center pawn, slow, methodical, moving forward. There is a form of attack in the calm he maintains. An hour later, there is the chatter of what sounds to Alcock like the ack-ack of a Hotchkiss machine gun. He glances at Brown, but Brown has figured it out already. He points out toward the starboard engine, where a chunk of exhaust pipe has begun to split and tear. It glows red with heat and then white. Both men know that there is nothing that can be done. A flock of sparks flash from the engine as the piece of protective metal breaks away. It flies upward a moment, almost faster than the plane itself, and shoots away into their slipstream. Nothing fatal, but they glance at the severed pipe together, and, as if in response, the noise of the engine doubles. They will have to live with it for the rest of the trip now, but Alcock knows how even the roar of an engine can make a pilot fall asleep, how the rhythm can lull a man into nodding off before he hits the waves. It is fierce work—he can feel the pull of the machine in his muscles. The tug through his body. The exhaustion of the mind. Avoiding cloud. Looking for a line of sight. Creating any horizon possible. The body inventing phantom turns. The inner ear balancing the angles until the only thing that can truly be trusted is the dream of getting there. When they enter the layers between the clouds, there is no panic. They tug on their fur helmets, wrap their scarves around their mouths. Here we go. Alcock even likes this moment. The terror of a possible whiteout. The prospect of flying blind. Cloud above. Cloud below. They must negotiate the middle space. They climb to get out, but the cloud remains. They drop. Still there. A dense wetness. Can’t just blow it away. I’ll huff and I’ll puff. Their helmets, faces, shoulders are soaked with the moisture. “And then it hit me: I’m salivating over a goddam bell.”Buy the print » Brown sits back and waits for the weather to clear so he can guide the plane properly. He looks for a glint of sun on the wingtip, or a sudden breakout into blue, so he can find a horizon line, make a quick calculation. The aircraft swings from side to side, fishtailing in the turbulent air. At times it feels as if their seats were falling away beneath them. With the light fading, they come upon another gap in the upper layer of clouds. The sun falling red. Down below, Brown gets a brief glimpse of the sea. Using the spirit level, he makes a quick calculation and notes it down. We’re at 140 knots approx, on general course, a bit too far south and east. Twenty minutes later they come upon another huge bank of cloud. They rise to a gap between layers. We will not get above the clouds for sunset. We should wait for dark and stars. Can you get above at, say, 60 deg? Alcock nods, banks the plane, curls it slowly through space. The red fire spits through the fog. They are both aware of the games the mind can play if you get caught in cloud. A man can think a plane is level in the air, even if it is laid on its side. The machine could be tilted toward doom and they might fly blithely along. If the instruments fail, they could crash into the water without warning. The important thing is to keep a lookout for any sight of moon or star or horizon line. So much for the bloody weather forecast, Brown scribbles, and he can tell from Alcock’s response—in the gentle pullback of the engine, the slight caution in the movement—that he is worried, too, hunkered into the wet slap of weather, the beads of moisture sliding upward along the open windshield. The battery that lies in the seat between them still sends faint pulses of warmth through the wires in their suits, but the cold is shrill around them. Brown kneels on his seat, leans over the edge to see if he can find any gap, but there is none. No range of vision. 6,500 feet. Flying entirely by dead reckoning. We must get through the upper range of cloud, farther still. Heating fading fast, too! The bones in their ears ring. The racket is stuck inside their skulls. The small white room of their minds. The blast of noise from one wall to the other. There are times when Brown feels that the engines are trying to burst out from behind his eyes. The rain comes first. Then the snow. A prospect of sleet. The cockpit has been designed to keep most of the weather at bay, but if they hit hail it could very well rip the cloth wings asunder. They rise out of it into softer snow. No light. No relief. They hunker down and listen to the thudding of the storm around them. After a while, the waves of snow are so heavy that it begins to drift around their feet. When Brown shines his flashlight at the controls behind his head he realizes that a layer of snow has started to obscure the face of the petrol-overflow gauge. Not good, that. They need to be able to read the gauge. To guard against trouble with the carburetor. He has done this before, turned in the cockpit, reached dangerously high above his head, but never in weather like this. Still, it has to be done. Almost nine thousand feet above the ocean. What form of madness is this? He glances at Alcock as they ride a small bump of turbulence. Just keep her level. No use telling him now. Can’t swim, old boy. Would hardly bring a smile to his lips. He adjusts his gloves, pulls his earflaps tight. His handkerchief has frozen solid. He swivels in the seat. A throb in his bad leg when he moves. His right knee against the edge of the fuselage. Then his left knee, the bad one. He grabs hold of the wooden strut and pulls himself up into the blast of air. The chloroform of cold. The air pushing him backward. The sting of snow at his cheeks. His soaking clothes stuck to his neck, his back, his shoulders. A chandelier of snot from his nose. The blood backing off his body, his heart, his brain. Abandoning the five senses. Careful now. He extends himself into the thrashing wind, can’t quite reach. His flight jacket too bulky. He loosens the zip, feels the whoosh of wind at his chest, stretches backward, knocks the snow off the glass gauge with the tip of his knife. Good God. This cold. Almost stops the heart. He hunkers quickly back in the seat. A thumbs-up from Alcock. Brown reaches immediately for the battery wires to warm himself up. He doesn’t even need to write the note to Alcock: Heating is entirely dead. On the floor, at his feet, lie the maps. He stamps his feet, careful not to sully the charts. The tips of his fingers sting. His teeth chatter so much he thinks they might break. Over his left shoulder, in the small wooden cupboard, are the flasks of tea and emergency brandy. It takes an age to get the lid off the flask, but then the liquor stuns the wall of his chest. They remain in the hotel room, the table still positioned at the window, in case the plane returns. Mother and daughter together, watching, waiting. There has been no news for twelve hours now. No radio contact. No stirring out at the makeshift aerodrome. Lottie finds herself gripping the window frame. What might have happened to them? She puts her fingers against the cold of the pane. She doesn’t like herself at moments like this, her strange bearing, her shrill self-consciousness. She wishes she could walk outside of herself, out the window and down. Ah, but that’s it, maybe? That is the point of it all, surely? Yes. A salute to you, Mr. Brown, Mr. Alcock, wherever you might be. Eureka. That is the point of flight. To get rid of oneself. That is reason enough to fly. Down below, in the lobby, the other reporters crowd around the telegraph machine. One by one they link back to their editors. Nothing to report. Fifteen hours gone. Either Alcock and Brown are approaching Ireland now or they are dead, a casualty of the time. The reporters begin the first paragraphs, writing in both styles, the elegiac, the celebratory—Today, a great joining of continents; Today, a great mourning of heroes—eager to be the first to finger the pulse, keener still to get ahold of the telegraph when any real news comes through. It is close to sunrise—not far from Ireland—when the cloud envelops them completely. Almost four thousand feet above the Atlantic. Darkness still, no moon, no sea. An immense unavoidable white. They are swallowed. Alcock taps the glass of the air-speed meter with his finger. It doesn’t budge. He adjusts the throttle and the front end of the plane lifts. Still the air-speed meter remains the same. He adjusts the throttle again. Too sudden, that. Damn it. This cloud. The ruin of it growing tighter around them. The engines throw out a taunt of red flame and the Vickers Vimy hangs motionless a second, grows heavy, then heels over as if she had taken a punch. The slowest sort of falling at first. A certain amount of sigh in it. Take this weary effort at flight. Let me drop. Three thousand feet above sea level. In the cloud their balance is shot to hell. No sense of up. No down. Two thousand five hundred. Two thousand. The slap of rain and wind in their faces. The machine shudders. The compass needle jumps and the Vimy swings. Their bodies thrown back against the seats. What they need is a line of sky or sea so they can get control. Nothing but thick gray cloud. Brown jerks his head in every direction. No horizon, no center, no edge. Good God, Jack, what’s going on? The compass needle spinning. Hells bells, Teddy. This is it. A thousand feet, still falling, nine hundred, eight hundred, seven-fifty. The pressure of their shoulder blades against the seats. The whirl of blood to the head. The heaviness of the neck. Are we up? Are we down? Spinning. They might not see the water before they smash into it. Undo the belts. This is it. This is it, Teddy boy. Brown reaching downward. He tucks the log journal inside his flight jacket. Alcock catches him out of the corner of his eye. Such glorious idiocy. A pilot’s last gesture. Save all the details. The sweet release of knowing how it happened. The dial turns steadily still. Six hundred, five hundred, four. No whimpering, no moaning. The scream of cloud. Endless white. Then a different wall of color rises. It takes a split second for it to register. Almost a new light. A slap of blue. A hundred feet. Strange blue, spinning blue, are we out? We’re out, Jack, we’re out! Catch her. Catch her, for God’s sake. Christ, we’re out. Are we out? Then a line of black rises in front of them: the sea stands soldier-straight and dark. Light where the water should be. Sea where the light should rise. Ninety feet. Eighty-five. That’s the sun. Christ, it’s the sun, Teddy, the sun! There. Eighty now. The sun! Alcock gives the machine a mouthful of throttle. Over there. Open her. Open her. The engines catch. He fights the jolt. The sea turns. The plane levels. Fifty feet to spare, forty feet, thirty, no more. Alcock looks down at the Atlantic, the waves galloping white-edged beneath them. The sea spraying upward onto the windshield. Not a sound from either of the men until the plane is levelled and they begin to rise once more. They sit, silent, rigid with terror. Later they will joke about the spin, the fall, the rollout over the water—if your life doesn’t flash in front of your eyes, old boy, does that mean you’ve had no life at all?—but climbing upward they say nothing. There is a God, some sort of God, somewhere. Brown leans out and slaps the flank of the fuselage. Old horse. Old Blackfoot. They level out along the water, at five hundred feet, in clear air. A horizon line now. Hallelujah. Brown reaches for his drift-bearing plate, corrects his compass bearing. Almost eight o’clock Greenwich Mean Time. Brown scrambles around for his pencil. Ticklish!!!! he scrawls. He catches the sideways grin of Alcock. It is the first time in hours they have had a run without fog or layers of cloud. A dull, chewy gray out over the water. Brown scribbles down the last of the calculations. They are north of their desired course, but not so far north as to miss Ireland altogether. Brown reckons that the course is a hundred and twenty-five degrees true, but allowing for variation and wind he sets a compass course at a hundred and seventy. Ruddering south. He can feel it rising up in him, the prospect of grass, a lonesome cottage on the horizon, perhaps a row of huddled cattle. They must be careful. There are high cliffs along the coast, he knows. He has studied the wild geography of Ireland: the hills, the round towers, the expanses of limestone, the disappearing lakes. Galway Bay. There had been songs about that during the war. The road to Tipperary. The Irish were a sentimental lot. They died and drank in great numbers. A few of them for empire. Drank and died. Died. Drank. He is screwing the lid back on the flask of tea when he feels Alcock’s hand on his shoulder. He knows before looking up that it is there. As simple as that. Rising out of the sea, as nonchalant as you like: wet rock, dark grass. They cross the land at a low clip. Down below, a sheep with a magpie sitting on its back. The sheep raises its head and begins to run when the plane swoops, and for just a moment the magpie stays in place on the sheep’s back: it is something so odd that Brown knows he will remember it forever. The miracle of the actual. In the distance, the mountains. The quiltwork of stone walls. Corkscrew roads. Stunted trees. An abandoned castle. A pig farm. A church. And, there, the radio towers to the south. Two-hundred-foot masts in a rectangle of lockstep, some warehouses, a stone house sitting on the edge of the Atlantic. It is Clifden, then. Clifden! The Marconi Towers. A great net of radio masts. They glance at each other. No words. Bring her down. Bring her down. They follow their line out over the village. The houses are gray. The roofs, slate. The streets unusually quiet. Alcock whoops. Shuts the engines. Angles in, flattens the Vimy out. Their helmets applaud. Their hair roars. Their fingernails whistle. From out of the grass a flock of long-billed snipe rises and soars. What they miss coming down are the nearby slabs of peat that lie like cake, the sharp cuts in the dark earth, the lines of wet string that run along the banks, the triangular ricks of earth off in the distance. They miss, too, the wooden turf carts that lie weathered and rain-pocked at the side of the road. They miss the angle of the slanes, leaning up against the carts. They miss the rushes grown long on the abandoned roads. They hit bogland, not grass. The living roots of sedge. It holds the weight of the plane a moment, but then the wheels dig, the earth tugs, the Vimy sinks, the nose dips, the tail lifts. Brown smashes his face off the front of the cockpit. Alcock pushes back against the rudder-control bar, bends it with sheer force. The silence, a noise in their heads. Louder now than ever. Suddenly doubled somehow. And then a relief floods up through them. Is that silence? Is that really silence? The racket of it. Slipping through their skullboxes. Good God, Teddy, that’s silence. That’s what it sounds like. They sit there a moment, surprised to be alive. Brown touches his nose, his chin, his teeth, to see if he is intact. A few cuts, a few bruises. Nothing else. The Vimy sticks out of the earth like some New World dolmen. “Crikey,” Alcock says. He switches off the magnetos. Brown reaches for the logbook, the flares, the linen bag of letters. Pulls himself up over the edge of the cockpit. Throws down his walking stick and it hits like an arrow in the bog, stuck sideways in the soil. A burn in the leg as he lands down beside it. Hallelujah for the ground: it almost surprises him that it isn’t made of air. He can smell petrol somewhere. In the pocket of his flight suit, a small pair of binoculars. The right lens has fogged, but through the good lens he sees figures high-stepping across the bog. Soldiers. Yes, soldiers. They seem for all the world like toy things coming, dark little figurines against the complicated Irish sky. As they get closer he can make out the shape of the hats and the slide of rifles across their chests and the bounce of their bandolier belts. There’s a war going on, he knows. But there’s always some sort of war going on in Ireland. One never knows quite whom or what to trust. Don’t shoot, he thinks. After all this, don’t shoot us. Excuse me. Nein, nein. But these are his own. Tommies. One of them with a camera bobbing at his chest. Behind them, in the distance, horses and carts. A single motorcar. A line of people, small gray figures. And look at that. A priest in white vestments. Coming closer now. Men, women, children. In their Sunday best. Ah, Mass. They must have been at Mass. That is why there was nobody in the streets. The smell of the earth, so astoundingly fresh: it strikes Brown like a thing he might eat. His ears throb. His body feels as if it were still moving through the air. He is, he thinks, the first man to fly and stand. The war out of the machine. He holds up the small linen bag of letters. On they come, soldiers, people, the light drizzle of gray. Ireland. A beautiful country. A bit savage on a man all the same. Ireland. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Porn Critic	Credit Illustration by Martin Ansin Kromer couldn’t operate hedonism but these days it operated him, in the way that a punctuated cylinder operates a player piano. What he knew came mostly from books—Anaïs Nin, William S. Burroughs, “The Hite Report,” stuff gleaned as a teen-ager from his parents’ shelves. Yet, in his current circle of Manhattan friends, who were mostly graduate students and legal proofreaders, Kromer played the role of satyr. The more he protested that it was only a single heroin-laced cigarette that had happened to be placed in his hand, or that his so-called threesome had consisted of scarcely more than heavy petting and a brush with sleep apnea, the more they looked to Kromer as their saint of degeneracy. Kromer’s reputation had its origin in the parties he was dragged to by a former schoolmate: a raven-haired, baggy-eyed heiress named Greta. Though these parties were invariably disappointing, Greta invariably closed them down. When a host was reduced to switching off lights and hinting that the sofa wasn’t available, Greta took Kromer on her finishing rounds, often in the rain. Kromer worked nights, so the hours didn’t bother him, and he had nothing else to do. Greta’s legacy, a large trust fund she wasn’t permitted to touch until her thirtieth birthday, drove her mad with the determination to die squalorously before she became wealthy. “Hell, I’ve been in three kinds of threesome,” she once told Kromer, her lips tremulous and her eyes fixed on some dreamy distance, in a way that made her look as if she were on the brink of tears or insane laughter, but in fact indicated that she hadn’t slept for two or three days. “With two boys, with two girls, and with a couple. The only kind I can’t ever be in is the kind I’d really like—three men.” Greta was, in her desultory way, the real thing. The difficulty was an uncoöperative world, slouching through a new propriety under Clinton. Everyone else Greta knew had been molesting their trust funds since prep school. That was the problem—they were responsible to their money, while Greta waged war on hers. Her only privilege was the use of her father’s “man,” a do-anything emissary and delivery person, who always picked up the phone and, astonishingly, would deliver Corner Bistro hamburgers fresh and hot to any downtown dive bar, usually one occupied primarily by pre-op transsexuals, where Greta and Kromer might be hanging out. Greta sometimes needed to borrow the fifty cents to make the call. Kromer, once he’d learned the trick, urged Greta to use this service often, as it would generally put an evening out of its misery, bringing on the sleep Greta badly needed but resisted. Kromer assumed this deliveryman or fixer was really a butler, but the one time he referred to him as Jeeves Greta seemed not to get it. From Greta’s many aspiring transsexual acquaintances Kromer remained terrified of accepting even a blow job. None of them could have guessed what aura they’d transferred to Kromer. The process was mysterious. A book nerd, a clerk, Kromer sat failing even to drink very much among young blacks in stuffed brassieres who the following day would be late for beauty school or, in some cases, Intro Soc or Psych at Queens College. Their special language—“shemale,” “pre-op”—made them a nerd species, too, Kromer understood. Yet, the next day, attending afternoon breakfasts with his wondering cohort of Ph.D. candidates and proofreaders, Kromer played the part of Rasputin or Gurdjieff, expected to launch foul seductions or even abductions. Perhaps this was a matter of sheer phrenology—the suggestion of something sallow and ominous in Kromer’s jawline and eye sockets. Renee and Luna, in History at the Graduate Center—Kromer’s names for them were Beautiful Renee and Invisible Luna—practiced the buddy system, never letting themselves be caught alone with him. Kromer learned this fact from their bolder colleague Sarah, who was willing to meet Kromer unaccompanied in Union Square, at least by daylight. The afternoon was bright, pigeons combing mud baked by winter, a scarf keeping Sarah’s mouth hidden. Kromer had been speculating that Sarah might want him herself, when she mentioned Renee and Luna’s policy. “They shouldn’t be afraid of me.” “They’re not afraid. They’re dizzy and repulsed. They want to be able to compare notes.” Notes? Kromer was a hinge between worlds, a glimpser. All he had to offer them was his own notes, not the world itself. This situation he couldn’t make understood. Nor could Kromer confess that it was Renee, all-but-dissertation on contemporaneous Western representations of the Boxer Rebellion, whom he loved. Renee Liu, who wore turtlenecks and resembled a whippet, her nose a beacon of melancholy, who furrowed her brow and laughed in suspicion of anything Kromer said that was halfway sincere, whose older sister had been at college with Kromer and Greta, and whose tiny Chinese parents Kromer had once therefore seen picking up Renee’s sister and her belongings at her dorm. Kromer had no idea whether Renee knew this, or whether her sister had told her terrible stories about Kromer’s college years. But he couldn’t interrogate Sarah on the subject, for fear that she might be injured by being overlooked in favor of Renee. What Kromer wanted to injure was the image of himself as debauchery’s emissary. He said nothing. They fled the frozen park for a coffee shop, where Kromer suggested hot chocolate, adding, he hoped, a brushstroke of harmlessness. Was it Greta and her pre-ops, or the depth of Kromer’s eye sockets? Kromer knew it was also his job, what he was a clerk at. The shop was called Sex Machines. There Kromer retailed chunky purple phalluses, vials of space-age lubricant, silver balls and beads for insertion, latex dolphins with oscillating beaks. The shop’s owner was a maven of Second Avenue, a hedgehog-like, grubby genius of street-level commerce. The possessor of a block of storefronts, his specialty lay in preëmpting hipster entrepreneurship with his own fake-indigenous coffee shops, video-rental emporiums, and, finally, the erotic boutique. Sex Machines’ interior and stock had been painstakingly derived from that of a famous San Francisco shop, founded by a sex-positive lesbian collective. In lieu of such a collective, the owner had installed Kromer, transferred from the video-rental outlet, as both manager and night man. Night hours were what counted in this instance. A wizard salesman, Kromer switched on and demonstrated the range of speeds on any number of devices with a shame-dissolving forthrightness. At those moments, he thought of himself as a Conceptual Lesbian, a term he’d invented and never spoken aloud, nor advanced into any coherent definition. Kromer was fairly certain he’d never experienced an erection within the bounds of the shop. Four things. Pre-ops, eye sockets, Sex Machines, and the state of Kromer’s apartment. Few had been inside, but word evidently got around. Kromer’s boss, whose video store featured “staff picks” shelves with extensive written remarks, had insisted that Sex Machines produce their own version of the San Francisco collective’s newsletter, a hallmark of that store’s unfurtive friendliness. In the newsletter, pornographic movies were extensively categorized, according to predilections and interests, and rated on several indices: number of key scenes, story or its desirable absence, diversity of performer types, et cetera. It seemed that this was the way to sell porn to bored marrieds, a market Kromer’s employer characterized as “Moby Dick.” Kromer, outed once in conversation as a novice writer, was deputized as the editor of Sex Machines’ newsletter, as well as its sole contributor and reviewer of new materials. His apartment was a maze of stacked porn. The volume was staggering. The disarranged piles melded into a wallpaper of ludicrous font and slashes of pink, brown, and yellow flesh; though the job was chiefly a matter of inventorying characteristics, tabulating spurts and lashings, Kromer couldn’t get through the tapes fast enough. As invisible to him as familiar bookshelves would be to another, the accumulation tended to make a powerful impression on visitors. This Kromer ought to keep in mind, yet didn’t. It should have been foremost, especially on that in-like-a-lamb evening in March, a month or so after his stroll with Sarah, when Kromer improbably pried Renee and Luna loose from a dull celebration, held at a pub just a few blocks from his building (some underdog had passed his orals, on second attempt). Kromer had brought Greta along, and it was she who actually accomplished the trick, keening for Kromer to lead her back to his apartment, where she knew he had a fresh bag of good pot. “Do you want to get high?” Greta, inserting herself beside Kromer, posed this question flatly to Renee and Luna, whom she’d only just met. Greta’s dress, mascara, and mannerisms in this company made her appear a woman garbed as a bat or a cat at a party where no one else was costumed. She was an instinctive corrupter and seducer, guilty of everything ever imputed to Kromer. Yet he’d never have carried off the extraction himself. The walk couldn’t have been improved, Luna falling in beside Greta, Renee lagging behind with Kromer, the air nearly balmy. Kromer peppered Renee with teasing questions, even dared express surprise at learning of her sister. “We must have been at school together. If I tried, I’d remember her.” “Think of me but better looking. She was a model. Now she’s a model’s agent.” “Really?” “Not the famous kind. In catalogues for winter gear, under hot lights. She told me you could lose ten pounds in one session, just mopping sweat.” “Like a starting pitcher, I’ve heard.” He threw a pretend forkball. “Completely demeaning work.” “I’m sure,” he said, ignoring the ominous word, failing at that moment to worry about his association with the demeaning work of removing clothes under hot lights rather than piling them on. “You could be one.” This drew her furrowed laugh. “Look at this profile. I’m a pig, I’m a dog.” He held up an “L” of finger and thumb, making the shape of her regal or mournful nose, something he’d practiced alone, imagining fitting his hand to its length. “I’d cast it in gold.” The line came from somewhere, surely, but wasn’t practiced in the least. It startled not only Kromer but Renee, too, enough to spare him the laugh. “I’ve been wanting to find a way to split you from Luna for so long I can’t say,” he told her. “This little distance of pavement is all I’ve managed.” Renee watched her feet, and Luna’s and Greta’s, ahead. “There’s always the telephone.” “I’d heard you two had a party line—was I misinformed?” He hoped the joke wasn’t too antique for her. Their knuckles brushed. Not quite fingers entangling. No one said ouch. But the walk, that brief elbow of Houston and Ludlow, was done. Their appointment with his baggie of pot commanded they exit the sweet night, in favor of the radiator thud and hiss of his walkup. The super hadn’t yet adjusted the heat to the season, so Kromer balanced blazing pipes with yawning windows. Air so plush at sidewalk level would be like ice coursing through his fourth-story windows. He’d apologize for luring them into a sauna riven with blasts of cool, nothing else. “If you don’t mind, Senator, I’d like to render the rest of my testimony sotto voce.”Buy the print » Did Renee glance at the tapes on the bracket shelves, and the tapes stacked in uneven piles on the floorboards beneath the shelves, and the tapes on the shelf above the closet’s hangers, where Kromer put all their coats? Possibly. Kromer caught Invisible Luna’s glances at them. Yet it was Renee’s containment that Kromer should have taken as a sign. She fell silent, her limbs surrendering their animation. If only the blocks of Ludlow had each been a mile long. Greta sat cross-legged on Kromer’s couch and rolled joints with the crafty intensity and patter of a stage magician, so practiced that she could look away from the trick to meet her audience’s eyes. “Is all this yours?” Luna said. “I’ve never seen anything like it.” Kromer seized the opportunity with relief. The tapes had first to be mentioned, so as to be dismissed. “I find it pretty incredible myself,” he said. “My mansion of smut has many doors.” “What’s that supposed to mean?” Luna said. Kromer cut the jokes, opting for efficiency. He described the formulaic nature of the reviews, how he’d become adept enough to write one after slogging fifteen or twenty minutes into a given feature, and the logistical annoyance of the VHS cartons stacking up. “You’d never think they could need so much of it, until you see them in the shop, ravenous for new releases. As if watching the same one twice would be the shameful act.” The pronoun “they” was what he meant to put across, a verbal quarantine on the unseen behaviors dividing customer from clerk. For a few minutes, the subject went underground. The joint circled the room. Kromer was content to see that as it visited under Renee’s elegant nose she sipped deeply, eyes closed. He couldn’t have predicted that it would be a fuse on a stick of dynamite, a spark sizzling its way to Renee’s lips. Or that she’d go off like Yosemite Sam. Kromer was just dropping the needle onto a Cowboy Junkies LP when Renee screeched, “I feel like I’m sitting inside a copy of ‘Guernica’!” “Sorry?” Kromer said. “I can’t let my eyes rest anywhere,” Renee said. “It’s like a meat shop—carnage everywhere.” Greta’s eyes widened, which put them at half mast. “More like Francis Bacon,” she murmured. Greta had been an art-history major at college. “Really, if you squint, it’s like we’re in a Bosch painting.” “ ‘The Garden of Earthly Delights,’ ” Kromer said. It seemed a calming phrase to utter, akin to saying the words “The Peaceable Kingdom” or “Everything That Rises Must Converge,” or like the narcotic tone of the LP, which presently purred, “Heavenly wine and roses seem to whisper to me when you smile . . .” “My gender-studies professor did a book of life histories of sex workers,” Renee said. “But it’d take a thousand years to debrief this Aladdin’s cave of contorted bodies.” Renee’s expression was mangled, like her words. “If these walls could talk, they’d moan,” Greta said. “I think they might be screaming at me,” Renee said. “Not everything is . . . the same as everything else.” Kromer recognized that his generalized protest against equivalences wasn’t going to cut much ice. As it happened, Sex Machines’ bookshelf featured Renee’s professor’s book, a fact Kromer didn’t feel obliged to mention. Renee bolted upright, putting Kromer on alert for a police raid, or a blouse aflame from a loose ember. Instead she darted at the edifice of porn, coming away with three tapes. These she tossed into Kromer’s lap, poisoned potatoes. “Tell us what’s so different.” Where could he possibly begin? Kromer flashed on the tapes’ contents, helplessly. Actually, Renee had done well, for a random stab. Two of these three had some redeeming imaginative elements. He lifted the topmost, “Bare Miss Apprehension.” “These—I mean, ‘Bare Miss Adventure’ and all the sequels—they’re really just star vehicles for Jocelyn Jeethers. A picaresque structure, but charming. People like them, I mean. There’s a good focus on female autonomy—” Kromer stumbled on the proximity of this word to “anatomy.” “Autonomy of what?” Renee said. “Autonomy. . . of pleasure, I guess.” He felt himself whirling down his own motormouthed drain. “Whereas this—” Having shunted the first tape aside, he held the next, “Anal Requiem 4: The Assmaid’s Tale,” exposed in his lap. He hesitated over the terms “low end” and “bottom drawer” before settling on “Junk.” “That’s your whole review, O mighty critic?” Invisible Luna said. No one threw him a lifeline here. “Oh, I tallied up the number of certain acts, which is all you’re really dealing with in this case.” He flipped it away. “This, on the other hand, is actually pretty interesting.” The film, called “Social Hormones,” Kromer had stayed with to the end. “The Sward Brothers are renowned for their commitment to establishing character arcs and narrative causality, and production values generally—you can actually watch their stuff more or less like a movie, if not a great one.” He heard quotes from his own newsletter entry. “Of course, there’s a certain ceiling on the quality of the acting.” It struck him, too late, that he was attempting to demonstrate that he wasn’t a man from the moon by detailing the moon’s topology, cataloguing its hollows. “Let’s watch it!” Greta said. “Or not,” Renee said. She looked ill. All glanced involuntarily at Kromer’s large black television, stacked with the VCR on its rolling cart. “Is it just me,” Renee continued, “or are the walls getting closer?” The suggestion’s power was tremendous. Kromer, though eager for a subject on which to agree with Renee, thought better of saying he’d noticed it, too. “I really should clear some of this out—” “You could just brick up the windows,” Luna mused. “It’s like a gothic nightmare, what’s it called—‘The Prisoner of the Rue Morgue’?” “By Edgar Allan Porn!” Greta shrieked. Renee jolted from her chair a second time, now veering to the room’s shrinking center, avoiding the looming shelves. She pitched, bent double, attempting a vomity dash for Kromer’s bathroom. She nearly made it. The vision she’d offered earlier—the pig, the dog—now came fully into view, though Kromer felt anything but unsympathetic. She brushed him off, after he’d gained a brief, delicious sensation of her long knobbed spine beneath his fingers, and staggered to the toilet to finish her heaves. Kromer’s special literacy was, it now seemed, something worse than a complete dead loss on the human scoreboard. It was positively toxic, able to compel vomit from gorgeous women. He thought with relief how, on her knees, at least, Renee would be spared any view of the VHS tapes stacked on the porcelain tank. Kromer labored at the floorboards with wadded paper towel and citrus solvent, wishing to spare her, too, the shame of her stinky action painting. He glanced over to see Luna and Greta side by side on the couch, charting his efforts with amusement, Greta’s short fingers meandering on Luna’s archer’s-bow thigh. Behind him, the apartment door slammed. The permanent mystery was how much you seemed to know before you knew anything at all. Or maybe the permanent mystery was how stupid you could be and yet how you clung to evidence that your stupidity knew things you didn’t. Kromer, just for instance, had named her Invisible Luna without grasping that it was he, Kromer, who was invisible to Luna. She was, he saw now, a pining, tentative lesbian, in love with her best friend. Kromer’s Conceptual Lesbianism had come with no gaydar. He’d kept Luna blurred in his periphery as a defense against how little he signified, but also for fear of understanding his small role: arousing but creepy, Kromer could keep Renee in a state of prurient susceptibility, yet repulsed by the male prospect. For Kromer and Luna had shared the same quarry, she who’d puked and vamoosed. Kromer’s pointless reputation had once again run his tender hopes into the dust. As for Luna’s hopes, who knew? Kromer had overplayed his role, or his apartment had. Likely neither had stood a chance with Renee. Of such stuff booby prizes are made. Invisible Luna’s breasts, fully visible now in the street-light glow leaking in through Kromer’s bedroom windows, were lovely to touch. Kromer was left alone with them while Luna submitted herself to Greta’s actions, lower down. The air was mingled sweat and smoke and vomit, the hour unknown. Needle bumping to the label, at groove’s end again. It was all good, it was fine, it was O.K., though Kromer had missed dinner, and felt hungry. For hours he’d been rising from the futon to change the record, knowing he was the inessential factor, never certain he’d be welcomed back when he returned. But the prospect of the exotic thing you’d recall forever, the alluring taint of a sophistication you’d never quite scrub off, kept Kromer’s small place open for him, so long as he knew better than to remove his pants. Now he felt too lazy to change the record. Kromer was once more a conduit, a proprietor. He might as well have been at the counter of Sex Machines, his life a site where others came to test their readiness for what they feared were their disallowed yearnings. Whether that left room enough for Kromer’s own yearnings remained unclear. In the meantime, Kromer was the kind of good egg who’d do his best to make certain Luna never knew what kind of threesome Greta truly wished she could submit to. No one would ever understand the little sensitivities that went into making Kromer’s sort of sleazeball. When Luna was gratified, exhausting herself on the horizon of her own possibilities, she gathered up underwear and reassembled herself with a certain horror in her eyes, then followed Renee’s path and fled the apartment, leaving Kromer and Greta alone together on the futon. It was the sort of foggy finish they’d given to plenty of evenings, though never before minus Greta’s outfit, and parts of Kromer’s. Greta, enemy of sleep, rolled another joint. Kromer put on another record, got back into bed. Greta unbuttoned his jeans. “It’s O.K.,” Kromer said. Maybe this was what he and Greta had in common. As opposed to oblivious solid citizens like Luna, Greta was another good-egg sleazeball, who’d worry that Kromer hadn’t gotten a release of his own. “No,” Greta said, trashing his theory. “I want a dick in me now.” Not Kromer’s in particular; this was just Greta’s characteristic honesty. Kromer felt he had a bargaining position, for once. “I demand Barney Greengrass. A whole smoked-fish plate, with plenty of bagels. Sable and sturgeon, and chopped liver, too. Call your dad’s guy.” “They’re not open—it’s the middle of the night.” “They’ll be open in an hour or two.” He stilled her hand with his own. “Call the guy first, set it up. Coffee and orange juice, the whole thing.” Greta sighed, then picked up Kromer’s phone and did as he’d asked. Then she took off his pants. Kromer thought, Now I’ve added prostitution to my roll call of glamorous crimes. I fucked for sturgeon. But no, that would be playing the game by their rules. Kromer knew better than ever his wearisome sacred truth, which no one, perhaps not even Greta, could see: he was innocent. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
P.E.	Credit Illustration by Steve Powers The night my father came in from New Jersey, or wherever the hell he was living, his plane was two hours and twenty-seven minutes late. I hadn’t called to check on the flight, and so I ended up waiting at an airport coffee kiosk, absorbing greasy pumpkin loaf and chasing it down with a triple-shot white-chocolate latte. When I went up to the counter to order a second slice of bread, the girl didn’t bat an eye. But three pieces was clearly too much for her. At that point, she hesitated, like she wasn’t sure if she should give it to me. I mean, what did she think I was doing—making a bomb out of the stuff? To look at me is to know that, obviously, I was eating it. I’m a large man, as my G.P. likes to say. But people at airports are all about suspicion. “Don’t call security,” I said. But smiling, you know, with good cheer. “Why would I call security?” she said. Now she looked even more nervous. “I don’t know. All the bread.” And then I sort of laughed. I didn’t actually laugh, I just said the words “ha ha.” I’m like that. I pretend I have a sense of humor, but really I don’t. The girl pinched me with her eyes and then picked up a slice of the bread with plastic tongs and deposited it into a little paper sack. “It’s an end piece,” she said. “It won’t be very moist.” At first I thought she was punishing me, but then I noticed that it was the last slice in the case. “I won’t charge you,” she said, which really surprised the hell out of me. She probably could have lost her job for giving away free food. Employees of those little coffee huts are basically slaves. I had a girlfriend once who worked in one, and the psychic damage she suffered at the hands of the management was substantial. “That’s really nice of you,” I said to the girl. “I don’t mind the end.” “O.K., whatever, but you can’t eat it here, because we’re closing in like two minutes. You’ll have to take it elsewhere.” She seemed angry again. She was very hard to read. That’s when it hit me that she probably didn’t like seeing me doing in public what she obviously did at home. Eat too much, I mean. For a second we stared at each other, fat person to fat person, and it was pretty real, but not in any way pleasant. I put a dollar in her jar and split. When my father came barrelling out of the secure area, I was afraid he was going to hug me, but he actually went right past me. I had to shout at his back. “Dad!” He turned and gave me a quick up-down. “Freddy? Where’d the hell you come from?” “I was standing right here.” “I didn’t even see you.” This was not an easy feat of consciousness, considering my size, and I suspected he’d been drinking. Of course, the last time he saw me was over two years ago, and I didn’t look like this then. We stepped toward each other, but we didn’t do anything with our arms or our hands. We just stood there, which was fine. It’s awkward when people try to hug me. And then, if I reciprocate, I tend to engulf. Too much of me touches the other person. I feel like a pervy mall Santa endangering a child. “Freddy Bo Beddy,” my father said. Sang, actually. He was missing a tooth, and he had a brown backpack over one shoulder that was so jammed with stuff it looked like a thirty-pound Butterball. The thing was pulling him off balance. “Let me take that.” “I’m good,” he said. And then he slapped me in the face, twice, in a way that I assume he considered affectionate. That was basically the end of our “Holy crap you’ve changed but I’m not going to mention it” conversation. We walked down to the luggage carrousel in silence and watched the bags go around for a few minutes before he remembered that he didn’t have any other bags. “Are you sure?” I asked him. “Ninety-two per cent,” he said. “Some of these are nice suitcases, though.” I gathered from this comment that he was still in the habit of stealing things. “Let’s go.” I touched him lightly on the arm. “O.K.,” he said. “But I gotta do some wash tomorrow.” I looked again at the bloated Butterball backpack and understood that it was basically a glorified laundry bag that had just travelled over two thousand miles. This was not a good sign. In the last fifteen years, my father had done several prolonged stints of non-domesticity, after which he often turned up at some relative’s door. Usually one of his sisters’. “So you’re living in New Jersey now?” “Not really,” he said. “Who told you I was in New Jersey?” “Your flight was from Newark,” I reminded him. “Oh, yeah. No no no, I just took a bus there to catch the plane.” “But you’re living somewhere?” “Don’t get nervous, buddy. I’m just here on vacation.” I wondered how he’d managed the airfare to Tucson. The last time I spoke with my aunt Helen, she said my father wasn’t working and hadn’t had a real job, as far as she knew, in at least five years. “Makes no sense,” she said. “A man with that much charm, and he’s always had to suck hind tit.” Aunt Helen is a gentle woman, but her wisdom often erupts like a kind of Tourette’s syndrome. One unclaimed bag was still going around on the carrousel. “Poor fucker,” my father said. We watched the bag move past us. It was dark gray with brass accents, like someone had made a suitcase out of a military uniform. It was a stunningly immaculate piece of luggage. Some part of me wished it were my father’s. Just like how in an alternate reality I’m thin and wear a wedding ring. I’m not saying this to be funny—I’m actually a member of Parallel Energetics. A group that, if you’ve heard about it, you’ve probably only heard the distorted things from that crazy actress. But if you followed the story to the end she actually lost the lawsuit. Though I can understand why she got so upset. I took my first workshop in Phoenix, six months ago, and on the way home I was so freaked out I almost had a car accident. Basically, the core belief of Parallel Energetics is that there are other versions of you and they’re pretty much walking right next to you at all times. Actually, they’re walking inside you, which sounds like bullshit until you personally experience it. Using the P.E. techniques, you learn how to initiate a dialogue with your other selves and then ultimately you can draw aspects of their energy matrix into your own life. Of course, you’d only bring in the energy matrix of an alternate self that is better (“more evolved”) than your current reality. Because some of your other selves are actually worse off than you, and that can be pretty depressing, especially if you meet like three of them in a row. Which is how I almost got into that car accident coming home from Phoenix. Now that I’m a little more advanced in my practice, I know the trick is not to get too emotional about it. All you have to do is honor these lesser selves and then you move on. When you meet them, there’s a kind of prayer you say, for their benefit and for the benefit of all lower beings, blah blah blah. I mean, it’s an important part of the process but it’s secondary to P.E.’s main purpose, which is getting in touch with what we call the “leading edge” yous, which are the yous that have worked out a lot of their shit. When you encounter these yous, your task is to tune in to what it feels like to be them, and sustain that higher frequency for as long as possible. It’s not a weight-loss program exactly, but that’s one of the potential benefits in my case. Plus, I probably would have never said yes to a visit from my father had it not been for P.E., which has put me in a pretty stable place, emotionally. Especially compared with where I was a few years ago. I’m much more flexible. I’m not saying I can touch my toes; I mean psychically flexible. I know now, for example, that the childhood I remember is not the only version that exists, and so this allows me to be more accepting and forgiving or whatever. Salvatore, my mentor, always says, “Choose your past, choose your path.” Actually, he has a bit of a lisp, and so it sounds like he’s saying, “Choose your path, choose your path.” But I know what he means. He means be careful how you remember stuff, because it influences the shape of your future. So I’m trying to be open-minded about what I remember. For instance, the day my mother died, my father and I were at the beach. I was seven. My mother wasn’t at the beach, she was at home, with the rope and everything. It’s a long story. Anyway, the point is, I was at the beach. I was probably swimming at the exact moment it happened. I think about that a lot. That I was in the water. I used to hate this fact, but now I respect it. The sea of infinite possibility and everything. Everyone has a different doorway to parallel realities, and mine is the ocean. It’s sort of weird that I ended up in the desert. But sometimes when I’m floating in the pool at my apartment complex I get a glimpse of the crazy multiplicity of it all—all my possible pasts and futures—and I can actually hear myself moan. “The ache of infinitude,” Salvatore calls it. It’s not a pain exactly, it’s more like a longing. I don’t moan loudly or anything. Not that it would matter. I only float at night, after hours. I manage the complex, so I have the keys. That day at the beach, when I was seven, my father was twenty-nine. Which is like science fiction when I try to picture it. My father, twenty-nine, snoozing beside his boom box in skimpy Speedos. He’s fifty, fifty-one now, and still has the body of an overgrown adolescent, bony and muscular. At the airport, in his raggedy clothes, with his tan unshaven face, he looked like an aging movie star playing a homeless person. On our way out of the terminal, he smiled at about five women, and all of them smiled back at him like he was the most normal person in the world. Unbelievable. Even with a tooth missing he was still drumming up business. I have to admit, it irritated me, and so I did a little experiment. See through their eyes, I said to myself. Which is a thing we say in P.E. For a few seconds I tried to see him as the women did: a slim, handsome man with pale-green eyes, in Wranglers and boots, sporting a wickedly dark tan. My experiment was a success, until it struck me that his skin tone was slightly orange, not unlike the color of the pumpkin loaf. At that point, I really started to wonder if my father was living on the streets again. Because what at first had seemed an enviable Hollywood tan now looked distressingly like overexposure to the elements—a bit like beef jerky. I’m not mixing metaphors here. I’m saying the color was pumpkin-loafy, but the texture was very jerky. When we stepped outside, he took a deep histrionic breath of the desert air. “Very nice,” he said. I guess about the air. He didn’t say he was sorry about being two and a half hours late. Not that it was his fault, but still. It was almost midnight, and I had to work the next day. As we made our way toward the car, my father continued to sniff at the warm breeze like some lost pack animal. “Are you hungry?” he asked. “You wanna eat?” His timing was pretty incredible. He asked me this right after I had sat down behind the wheel and the whole car creaked and leaned to one side like a seesaw. This is why I don’t like driving with other people. The unbalance factor. “We’ll go wherever you want, Freddy. My treat.” “I’m really not hungry.” “Who are you kidding?” “I’m not. I ate before you came.” “I’m sure you did, Scarlett O’Hara. Where do you wanna go?” I got large rather quickly. I’m not saying it happened overnight, but that’s how it seemed. Like some sort of dam broke inside me and, boom, the fat just flooded out. But where did it come from? It’s a legitimate question. Because I went from chubby to obese in a record amount of time. Even my doctor didn’t see it coming. When Dr. Chang saw me after the dam had burst, he actually said, “Wow,” which is not something Asian people often say. “What have you been eating?” he asked me. And, yes, it’s true, I do eat a lot, but in my gut I know that’s only half the story. There are miracles in this world—I absolutely believe this. But I also believe that they’re not always progressive. Some miracles, sadly, are destructive. “I want to see those cactus,” my father said. “The famous ones.” We were still driving home from the airport. “There’s one right there.” I pointed to the side of the road. “It looks like a person.” “Like who?” I asked him. “Not a specific person. I’m saying, the arms going whoo-hoo! like that.” I suppose I huffed or something, and my father turned to me. “What?” he said. I was suddenly furious. “Do clothespins look like people?” I asked him. “Do paper clips?” “What are you talking about, Freddy? I said, ‘The cactus.’ ” “Everything looks like a person if you think about it enough,” I told him. “Why are you getting testy?” “I’m not testy.” “You’re hungry,” he said. “I know you.” He patted me on the leg. I could hear him chuckling to himself. “Clothespins, huh? You know, I knew a woman once who—” “Dad, please.” His hand was still on my leg. “I’m driving.” What I meant was, Don’t touch me, but he didn’t get the hint. I had to pat his hand with my own, and then he retreated. We drove past about a hundred more cacti without comment. “Mexican all right?” I finally asked him. He replied in Spanish. Fake Spanish. Sí sí wiki chow. It didn’t even sound like Spanish, it sounded like Chinese. Two weeks of this, I thought. “What are you staying, two weeks?” I asked him. “More or less,” he said. “Whatever it takes.” “Whatever what takes?” He reached for my leg again but then stopped, flipping the failed gesture into a regal flourish of his hand. “O.K., O.K.,” he said. “You’re driving.” When the waitress came over, my father wasn’t sure what he wanted. He asked me if he should order a chimichanga. “It’s deep-fried,” I said. He frowned, perhaps for my benefit. “Our chimis are killer,” the waitress butted in. She was a pale girl with overdeveloped black hair. You couldn’t see the tattoos, but you could feel them. “Should I trust her?” my father said with a theatrical wink. “They’re really good,” she said. Though she looked like a child of Satan, she sounded like a cheerleader. “O.K. then, darling, I’m gonna take your word for it.” “Beef or chicken?” “Can I do both?” She tilted her head as if she’d just been presented with a Zen koan. “No one’s ever asked me that before.” “Two meats are better than one,” my father said. At which she actually giggled. Get a room, I wanted to say. Instead, I ordered a vegetarian burrito. “And what are you guys drinking?” “Water is fine,” I said. My father nodded. “Water, sure. Unless you have . . . ” After a perfectly timed pause, Satan’s cheerleader raised her black eyebrows in adorable faux-innocence. “A pitcher of margaritas?” “Madame Blavatsky over here. What? I’m on vacation, Freddy.” “I didn’t say anything.” “Or we can do a half pitcher?” The waitress turned to me at this point, wincing apologetically, as if she suddenly understood the position I was in. “No,” I said. “Bring a whole pitcher. It’s fine.” Because I thought to myself, Let the story happen. Why fight it? Immediately I felt nervous about what I’d set in motion, and so I did a little P.E. prayer, the one that basically says, Let worlds collide. I looked down at my hands and noticed they were shaking, which was interesting, because I hadn’t exhibited this symptom in a while. “Two heads,” I said. “What’s that?” my father asked. “Two heads are better than one.” “That’s what they say, yes.” “Not meats.” “Are you O.K., Freddy?” I opened my eyes. Who the hell knows when I’d closed them. “Maybe I do need to eat.” It was a relief to admit it, and I let out a little nose-snort of laughter, just as the waitress returned with the pitcher. “Enjoy, guys.” “And can we get a cheese crisp, too?” I said. “Small, medium, or—” “Medium,” I said, before she could utter the magic word. I need to stop here. This isn’t right. This is, wow, this is practically backwards. This is not about food, and the fact that it keeps going there makes me want to vomit. Literally. This story isn’t really even about my father. The thing is, though, you put him in something like this and he just takes over. He’s like a narrative virus. What I wanted to tell you is that extraordinary things have happened to me. Are happening to me. You wouldn’t think this is something I could easily get off track about. But, as Salvatore says, most of my blubber is around my eyes. Apparently, I’m still very angry. I’m always blown away when people tell me that. I mean, I know I’m impatient and irritable and occasionally judgmental, but I really do have a great deal of love in my heart. And not just for my other selves, but for people who have nothing to do with me. People who aren’t me, I mean. Strangers. If you’d asked me six months ago what I wanted to do with my life, I would have probably said, End it. I’m not saying this to be clever. I was pretty close to buying a gun, actually. But that’s not what I want anymore. I actually want more lives. On some level, I’ve already forgiven my father. Also, myself. I’ve seen the two of us standing on a street corner and we’re laughing and it’s not a joke. It’s real. Of course, the street we’re on is probably a street that leads to a house where my mother is still alive. That’s not the point, though. The point is that my father and I were happy. Are happy. Somewhere. If I seem full of anger, it’s just my style. It’s not my subject. After we got home from the restaurant, I had a strong desire to get stoned. I was pretty bloated and needed to settle my stomach. I basically use the stuff like peppermint tea. Salvatore had just sold me some beautiful plant matter and it was in a covered ceramic dish on the table in front of the couch. “Why are you moving that?” my father asked. “I don’t want you to kick it off while you’re sleeping.” I usually smoke in the living room, but it’s not polite to toke up in front of an alcoholic. I decided to take the stash to my bedroom. “What do you have, candy in there?” “There’s a serape on the back of the couch if you get cold.” “Chocolate kisses, I bet. You always liked those.” “You caught me. Good night.” “Sit with me a minute, son.” He patted the couch. The “son” thing didn’t thrill me. I’d only lived with the man until I was eight, and in the twenty years since then we haven’t exactly gone on a lot of fishing trips. “Dad, it’s late. I’m tired.” “What’s a serape anyway?” “It’s a blanket,” I said. “A shawl. From Mexico.” He pulled it off the couch and wrapped it around his shoulders. “From Mexico, huh? That where you get your pot from?” I just stood there like an idiot, with the ceramic dish in my hand. “I can smell it, Freddy,” my father said, laughing. “Come on, I’ll roll one for you.” “I do not have—I do not smoke pot. Just because you have a problem doesn’t mean—” “O.K., O.K.,” he said. “I’m sorry.” “Let’s just go to bed.” “Sure, kiddo. We can do that.” “Thank you.” “Do me a favor first, though.” “What’s that?” “Give me a piece of chocolate, would you?” He collapsed into a monkey-shudder of deranged laughter. I had to close my eyes again. Silently I recited the P.E. prayer. World inside world inside world, Come together and show me where I live best. At the leading edge of thought, I have already become all that I desire. “Beep beep,” my father said. “You’re holding up traffic.” He ended up rolling one as thick as a double-A battery. I watched him as he worked, crumbling the weed like a master chef condemned to a single ingredient. He’d always taken his pleasures seriously. Not every child can say that he’s watched his father insert a hypodermic needle into his mother’s forearm with a slow precision that I assumed, at the time, to be a kind of love. “Go to bed, Freddy,” one or the other would say. “You have school tomorrow.” Yes, there were good times, good times. My father was famous for spreading around his joie de vivre indiscriminately. I came home more than once to find him with a strung-out stranger with her pants down. He loved women, all makes, all models. Let’s just say, my mother became depressed. I didn’t know that word then. Then I would have just said she was quiet. Actually, I probably wouldn’t have said anything. I would have just done what I always did: tug at her hand, like at the string of a talking doll that had ceased to function. Halfway through the joint, I could hear something clicking inside the walls. Or it might have been my jaw. Inside, outside, I was having trouble discerning the difference. Fuck the membrane! Salvatore’s injunction echoed in my head, but I couldn’t quite embrace it. A sudden blood-rush of anxiety overtook me, sitting in the near-dark with my father. One useless lamp in the corner, abetted by a single candle on the coffee table, actually seemed to be stealing brightness from the room. It was a pretty disastrous mise en scène. Plus, my internal monologue was killing me. Had I really abused substance in a vanilla-candle-scented living room with my ex-junkie father? Supposedly ex, but what the hell did I know? And even if he were clean, as Aunt Helen said he was, would I now be subject to a ration of shit if my father crumbled while on my watch? I started shaking again and tried to calm myself with a sense memory of Sal petting my hand, which he often does when I get an attack of what he calls my “bunny flutters.” “It’s not the end of the world,” he always says. “And if it is, so what?” A feeling of doom can be productive, if you know how to surf it. One reality ending, another beginning. When you do P.E., you start to recognize the breakthrough moments. Often they’re moments that feel quite sucky. In that you feel a pull. A vacuum. “You’re very fat,” my father said. We had never really spoken of my mother’s death before. I took the “fat” comment to be a doorway, considering its spit-in-your-face honesty. “Very,” I said. “Did you eat my son? Huh?” I think I did some Godzilla-like gesture at this point, and then we both laughed in the way that people too tired to laugh laugh. Also, this was not laughing pot. It was stupor pot. Shape-shifting pot, Salvatore calls it. The moon was up, and the shadows of the security bars on the windows were stretched across the floor. A-plus for lighting design, I thought. “Last meal,” I said. Apparently, out loud. “What would I eat, you mean?” my father asked. “Yeah. If we were in prison.” “That’s an excellent question.” We both looked toward the ceiling, as if that’s where the imaginary meals were congregating. “Not Mexican,” he said, shooing away a phantom chimichanga. “I’d probably have your aunt Helen’s chicken potpie. Did you ever have that?” The question should have made me descend into fury. I had lived with my aunt Helen from when I was eight until I was nearly twenty. “Yeah, I’ve had it.” “What about you?” my father asked. “What would you have?” I said the potpie, too. “Good woman,” he said. “I’m here to tell you.” Astounding. But I just let it go. Sometimes I wonder if the man thinks I remember nothing. After my mother died, my father kept the rope. The noose, or whatever you want to call it. Sometimes he wore it around the house. Never tight enough to do its job, but I don’t think he was being showy or anything. I think he really meant it. In that I don’t think he knew what he meant. Part of it was probably guilt and part of it was probably just wanting to wear something that was hers. A sweatshirt would have been less upsetting to a seven-year-old, but, to tell you the truth, I’m not sure he was fully conscious of the fact that I was still there. Sometimes he bumped into me like a piece of misplaced furniture, after which he’d put his hands on my face like a blind man. His fingers always smelled like he’d just changed a tire. The first time I saw him put the noose around his neck, it reminded me of the way he’d tie up his arm before shooting up. I remember thinking, Is Daddy going to stick a needle in his head now? It’s funny, the way children’s minds work. He mostly wore it at night. During the day, he kept it under his pillow. More than once, I snuck into his room with a plan to steal it. But every time I reached for it I always felt like I was sticking my hand into a crawl space teeming with rattlesnakes. My lack of bravery still disgusts me. My only solace is that in some other childhood I probably did steal the rope. I probably did the whole nine yards with it. I’m sure there’s a version of me that died at seven. “This is amazing weed,” my father said. “It’s artisanal,” I said. “Meaning what?” “Meaning it’s grown by people who care,” I said. After my mother was gone, Aunt Helen came to the apartment constantly. Cleaning, cooking, doing our laundry. One morning she arrived earlier than usual and saw my father in bed with the rope. “Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, Tom,” she said. “Are you shitting me?” My things were packed, and I was whisked away within an hour. “You’ll see him,” she assured me as we drove to her house. “He’s a decent man if you could pull out his fucking heart.” Shortly after that, Aunt Helen managed to have my father confined for almost a year. When I’d ask where he was, her standard reply was that he’d gone to work at the nut-and-bolt factory. Either that or she’d say he was straightening his stockings. I took these things literally, commingled them in my head, and pictured a transvestite version of my father working an assembly line. “You always liked getting stoned,” my father said. “How would you know?” I asked him. “When I took you to that movie, you were stoned.” “What movie?” “Remember we went to that movie on your birthday? Like, ten years ago. I picked you up at the house.” “Helen’s house?” “Yeah, I picked you up, and you had that nerdy blue shirt on with the flaps.” “Flaps? Flaps?” “That’s what I’m saying. And you were high as a fucking kite, kiddo.” “I doubt it.” “Yes, yes, and afterwards we went out for doughnuts. What’d you eat, six of them?” “Ha ha.” “I’m serious. But you were skinny then, you were like me. And you made me drive to that place that made the chocolate ones you liked.” I honestly had no idea what he was talking about. “The German place,” he said. “Krauser’s? Krautman’s? Krau something. With the eaves and shit. With the gingerbread. “The place around the corner from the cemetery,” he said. That’s when I started to feel nauseous. Had my father been cavorting with some other Freddy? I had the strange feeling I’d been replaced. “Maybe it was about a dog?” he said. “In Antarctica or something. I don’t think there were any humans in it.” “In what?” “The movie I took you to. I think it was all animals.” I leaned over to spit into an empty glass. My saliva was thick from smoking, and it wouldn’t disconnect from my mouth. It just hung there like an indecisive worm. “Blow,” my father said. I made a bunch of disgusting noises as my father continued to coach me from the sidelines. “I know how to spit,” I tried to say. My father was laughing at this point, and I was doing something like hyperventilating. “Oh my God, Freddy.” “Pluh.” I sputtered a little more. “You’re a mess. Come here.” He took out a handkerchief and swiped it across my mouth. I pulled away. I felt completely demoralized. “Don’t be a bitch. Let me wipe your face.” “I don’t feel well,” I said. “You’re fine. Here. Clean yourself up.” He extended his cruddy handkerchief. I shook my head, and used the serape. “Why are you being a baby?” “Baby or bitch?” I said. “Which is it?” “In your case, both.” “See how quickly,” I said. “See how quickly.” “How quickly what?” “Uch,” I said. I felt like I had eaten a dog. “I’m not a laundromat.” My father had the audacity to stare at me like I wasn’t making sense. “You’re not a what?” Bitch! Baby! Laundromat! The words were whooshing past my head like billboards along a highway. They weren’t so much words as pictures. Another wave of nausea hit me, and I spit again into the glass. My father moved toward me. “This doesn’t involve you,” I said. He took the serape out of my hands and walked behind me. “Stay where I can see you,” I told him. “What is this, a fucking Western?” “Aha!” I said. “Interesting!” I stood up and faced him. “Calm down, for Christ’s sake. I was just trying to put this stupid thing around you.” “Do I look cold?” I was actually sweating. “You’re shaking.” “Well, I’m not in need,” I said. “Of coverment.” “Would you stop shouting? You wanna wake up the neighbors?” “They’re my neighbors,” I said. “Don’t try to protect people you know nothing about.” I could see a photograph of my mother on the bookshelf, above and behind my father’s left shoulder. It was obvious the universe was making some sort of game of the situation, but I didn’t know what was required of me. What is my role here? I wondered. “Your role?” “I wasn’t talking to you.” My father looked down and shook his head. “Helen said this, but I didn’t want to believe her.” “Said what?” “Come on, buddy, sit down. Whatever you need, I’m here to help you.” “Help me?” The ha-ha in my throat was so big I started choking on it. “She thought I should check up on you. See how you’re doing.” “Bullshit,” I said. “I talk to her every week. She knows how I’m doing.” “Yeah, well, she says you don’t let her get a word in edgewise and you’re always out of fucking breath going on and on about your boyfriend.” “My what?” “The Italian guy.” “Salvatore?” “If you’re gay, Freddy, none of us care. But she was worried you were maybe having another one of your things.” “One of my things?” “Having another, you know, episode.” “I’m not gay.” “I’m just repeating what she said. Anyway, we don’t give a shit about the boyfriend, we just wanted to make sure you were O.K.” “Stop saying we. Why are you saying we?” “What’s wrong with we?” “So—what?—you’re a team now?” “She wanted to come out herself, but she just had her knees done.” “I know she had her knees done!” I shouted. “I am in touch with her.” I felt sick again, and fumbled for my cell. I had Salvatore on speed dial. He’d once warned me that there are forces that will try to pull you back into the mud of your own unconsciousness. They’re often disguised as love, but their sole purpose is to prevent a quantum leap into a leading-edge reality. These counter-revolutionary forces appear at the precise moment one is poised to make a breakthrough. Breakthrough? Or breakdown? Take a deep breath, baby, Salvatore likes to say, because you may not be able to tell the difference. What is required more than anything, he says, is a bravery that is almost beyond human comprehension. I just wanted to hear Sal’s voice, telling me that where I was going was O.K., and not to be afraid. “Who are you calling?” my father said. “You’re talking to me now.” He tried to pull the phone out of my hand. After a brief struggle, I gained control of the Nokia and held it like a stone over his head. “What? You wanna hit me, Freddy? Is that what you want?” “No, I do not want to hit you.” And then this odd but rather lovingly authoritative voice came out of me. It almost sounded amplified. “I wish you all the best,” the voice said. “You what?” “I wish you all the best.” And then I hit him, partially with my hand and partially with the phone. When I said it, I knew I really meant it, and I could feel the tears come into my eyes. “Finally,” my father said. “Bet you’ve wanted to do that for a while.” I asked him if he’d heard what I just said, and he asked if I felt like another go at it. My arm was still raised, as if someone had placed it there. “I’m right here, buddy. Come on.” “No,” I said. But then my hand came down a second time across his face. Actually, that might have been when the tooth came out of my father’s mouth, not before. Something definitely fell onto the floor. He moaned for a few seconds, and then stopped. And there was some blood, if I’m remembering correctly. The handkerchief was still in his hand, and I suggested he use it. In the silence that followed, I was aware of the clicking in the walls again. Actually, the sound was coming from the ceiling, as if more teeth were falling, but in the wrong direction. I looked up and that’s when I saw them, just barely, in the dim light. I shifted my weight. The floorboards creaked; followed, as if in response, by the tiny clicks. Which, now that I gave them my full attention, were more like chirps, or barks. “They’re frightened,” I said. “Who?” my father asked, still nursing his jaw. “The lizards.” I lifted the burning candle toward the ceiling and lightly stamped my foot. Once again, the geckos shifted position. They get in the house sometimes at night, I don’t know how. “You’re infested,” my father said. “They’re good luck,” I assured him. “Maybe one or two is good luck. But you’ve got a shitload up there.” I kept moving around the room, holding the candle above my head. “Give me that thing,” my father said, “before you burn down the fucking building.” I let him take it away from me, but, when my eyes adjusted, I could still see them. I thought of the fly on my mother’s face. The way it was crawling across her cheek when my father and I came home from the beach. But now it was lizards, which eat flies. I could hear myself moan, the way I do when I’m floating in the pool, caught between worlds. I resisted looking at my mother’s photograph for help. I thought it better to stay in the gap. “Deeny,” my father had cried, that day, running toward her body. The startled fly decamped and buzzed out the open door, absconding with what I have always considered the primary footage. My father blew out the candle, and I took a step toward him. Floorboard creak, followed by lizard cry. It was like a routine we’d been practicing for years, and finally our timing was perfect. My father touched me, but I didn’t care now, because every time I moved the lizards answered me. With each step they rearranged themselves on the ceiling. Changing places without a second thought. I was circling the room, my father’s hand still on my arm. “Are we dancing?” he asked me. I didn’t answer, but I didn’t pull away either. I mean, it was sort of like a waltz. One-two-three. One-two-three. “You feel skinnier,” he said. “Up close like this.” Something cracked under my shoe, and I was worried maybe it was the tooth. Suddenly, I was very conscious of my body. I asked my father if he wanted to take a swim. He said he didn’t have a suit, and I told him I’d lend him one of mine. “Still the comedian, huh?” He slapped me in the face in that way of his. “Or naked,” I said. “I don’t care.” “Bring out the party girls,” my father crooned. “The party girls are sleeping,” I said. I walked over to my mother’s photograph and turned it face down. I did it quietly, so I wouldn’t scare the animals. When my father closed his eyes to hide his tears, I wasn’t overly concerned. Sal says that every change of consciousness is accompanied by a loss of fluid. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Chapter Two	Credit Photograph by Emily Shur Tired of telling her own story at A.A., Hil was trying to tell the story of her neighbor. It had been a peculiar week. “So she comes to my house a few nights ago,” Hil began, “like around nine, bing-bong, drunk as a skunk, as usual, right in the middle of this show my roommate and I are watching. I go to the door and there she is, fifty-something, a totally naked lady standing under the porch light.” At the time, it had seemed designed to charm, her coy drunken neighbor sporting a plaid porkpie hat and holding a toothbrush like a flag or a flower or a torch. Choreographed, at least, and embarrassing to behold. Bergeron Love, grande dame in her own mind and all around the block. “Looks like somebody’s not getting enough attention,” Hil had murmured as she unlocked the door. The night was soggy, Houston autumn, frogs like squeezeboxes wheezing in and out. Her neighbor’s nakedness seemed sad and enervated, breasts flat on her chest, a kind of melted look to her flesh, ankles thick on splayed bare feet. Southern belle in decline, a dismal After picture. What had Before looked like? “You gonna invite me in?” Bergeron demanded, raising her eyebrows flirtatiously in an attempt to rally her own outlandishness. She was known in the neighborhood for being a character—some composite of Miss Havisham, Norma Desmond, and Scarlett O’Hara—her ancient family manse, with its aspect of ruined wedding cake, fenced off as if to contain inmates, its fetid kidney-shaped pool, by which her multiple orange cats congregated. Sometimes Bergeron’s antics were whimsical—crashing a dinner or a cocktail party, for example, or hiring someone in a gorilla suit to deliver balloons—and sometimes they were a serious pain in the ass: reporting overgrown lawns or loose dogs or long-term parked cars. “You can’t exactly say no to a naked lady on your doorstep, can you?” Hil asked rhetorically at the meeting. She glanced at the smiling older man holding the leash of his helper animal. There ought always to be a blind man grinning encouragingly, receptively, at meetings, she thought. The dog lay panting at his feet, its head held a little unnaturally high by the leash. The man’s genial countenance was generic—through every story, no matter how unpleasant, he smiled benignly beneath his lovely hair, wavy and white like meringue. He had, Hil thought, become like a dog himself, unable to judge. “My roommate had never met my neighbor before, so I introduced them.” How strange to see a clothed person shake hands with a naked one; it was like the meeting of two utterly different tribes. Bergeron Love, this is Janine. “Nice to meet you,” Janine said, averting her eyes. “Janine is getting her degree at the U.,” Hil offered. “In social work,” she added, since Janine was shy. “Ha!” Bergeron Love said, raising her toothbrush. “You can consider this visit a piece of immersion homework! What the hell is that?” she asked, aiming the brush at the paused image on the television. “A bullet puncturing somebody’s heart in slow motion,” Janine said. On the screen, a few perfect circles: bullet, organ, splatter. “Not actually,” she added. “Well, obviously not actually,” Bergeron said. “One of those true-crime shows? I love those, but my boyfriend, Boyd, can’t take it. He literally can’t watch gore. Isn’t that just typical?” Boyfriend Boyd was a mousy man who hid behind a pair of giant square glasses and a push-broom mustache. Every school-day morning he donned an orange vest and stood blowing into a whistle on the corner of Westheimer and Taft, waving his arms to help the children across. Only with that vivid vest and shrill whistle did he seem to have much confidence. Then, or after a few stiff drinks. “You want a robe, Bergeron?” Hil asked. The woman was going to either sit or fall down, and the nearest chair was the one Hil’s fifteen-year-old son usually used. “Why would I want a robe?” Bergeron demanded. “You got a problem with the human body? You’re watching that shit on TV and you can’t look at me?” “I just didn’t want her naked butt on the chair where my son liked to sit,” Hil explained to the A.A. meeting. “But she kind of collapses in his chair anyway and starts to ramble on about her fucked-up life. Sorry, Jim,” Hil added. The blind man had flinched; his single admission, in all the time that he’d occupied his position as accepting group focal point, was that the word “fuck” hurt his feelings. He nodded now, recovered, absolving. “Friday night,” Bergeron Love had said. “I’m walking buck fucking naked up and down the street, and I can’t even get arrested!” “That’s partly your fault, you know, Berge,” Hil said, explaining to Janine that Bergeron, years earlier, had been almost solely responsible for rousting a homeless shelter and the homeless who lived there from the neighborhood. “Remember all those drunk bums?” Hil said. “Pissing in our yards,” Bergeron recalled. “Leaving all their Sudafed trash in the park. You don’t know the half of what I kept off this street. And then they wanted to turn that flophouse into an AIDS clinic. No, Ma’am, said I.” Civic duty had once been a Love-family hallmark; there were bridges and schools and state parks commemorating the name. But the more recent generations had had to spend their money on lawyers instead: fighting class-action suits over working conditions at their oil refineries, or covering up the scandalous dalliances of other Loves. “But, Berge, if those homeless guys were still around there’d have been more action out there tonight. They would have been ecstatic to see you coming,” Hil said. And Bergeron laughed appreciatively, conceding the point, then wondered aloud what a person had to do to get a drink around here. “I had an open container until just a little bit ago,” she explained. “There might be some broken glass out on your walkway—sorry about that.” Janine jumped at the chance to leave the room to make drinks. “That is a big old gal,” Bergeron Love whispered. Hil couldn’t disagree; Janine was three times her own size, a woman who must have had to eat most of the day to maintain her weight, and yet Hil had never seen her do it. Janine had her own shelves in the fridge and cupboards, plastic grocery bags came and went, and still Hil had never shared a meal with her. “You’re lucky she’s not the nudie here,” Bergeron said, then added, in her normal voice, “Where’s your son? Out on a date? Raising some high-school hell?” “He’s here,” Hil said. Had he heard Bergeron’s arrival, from his bedroom? Declined to enter the fray? No doubt he was just listening to music on headphones, reading a philosophy book, texting with his school-hours-only girlfriend. Jeremy led a quiet, self-contained life; his peers seemed to frighten him a little. He wasn’t ready, quite yet, to go unguarded into the night. It was he who every evening checked the locks and switched off the lights. After Hil went to bed, he and Janine would play complex and violent video games into the wee hours, speaking a fascinating coded language together while adroitly operating their controllers, never taking their eyes from the divided screen. For this and other reasons, Janine was an excellent roommate to both Hil and Jeremy, her own social life nearly nonexistent. Like Hil, she went to meetings to discuss her defining, overwhelming weakness; in the kitchen now she was no doubt devouring a frozen chocolate bar in addition to mixing gin-and-tonics. She insisted on keeping the chocolate frozen, despite the crown she’d broken just last week. Addicts, Hil marvelled: so dedicated! At another A.A. meeting, earlier in the week, Hil had started the story of her longtime neighbor Bergeron Love at a different point. “My neighbor the busybody once reported another of our neighbors to the Child Protective Services. She said he was abusing his daughters.” This meeting was for women only; there was no friendly blind man upon whom to settle her eyes in this group. In fact, the women were a tougher audience, over all, than the mixed meetings. Less likely to forgive rambling or giggling during shares, readier to call bullshit on somebody’s tears. “She’d heard him through the bathroom window with the girls—‘Don’t, Daddy, don’t! It hurts! Please, Daddy!’—and assumed the worst. But after my neighbor reported this guy, this huge tattooed Hispanic guy, he started stalking her son.” Bergeron’s then ten-year-old boy, Allistair. Allistair the fair and pale and earnest and brave, who’d later walked Jeremy around on Halloween, utterly unembarrassed at being seen holding a five-year-old’s hand. Reporting the alleged abuse had been a lesson in minding your own business, Hil thought. The gentle and awkward Allistair had had to be moved to another school, separated from his familiar friends. Restraining orders had been required. Bergeron Love’s front yard was egged, her car graffitied, her most beautiful live oak killed by mysterious means. She never knew what to expect when she opened her front door in the morning. Bergeron had gone from one house to another, pleading her case, her car with its windshield covered in red spray paint parked at the curb for all to see. “Racist wore!” it said. “I know it’s him because he didn’t spray the car! He cares so much about cars he couldn’t spray the metal!” It was true that the man loved his vehicles; the house and yard were shabby, but his classic sedan and truck sat sparkling and cherry in the drive. That man still lived in the neighborhood. Neither his daughters nor his wife, to this day, had said a word against him. “Nobody else ever heard or saw anything,” Hil explained. “And Bergeron was always saying outrageous stuff. For all we knew, the kid was overreacting to soap in her eyes—‘Stop! It hurts!’ It just seemed so unfair that her boy was suffering because of her,” Hil went on to the roomful of women, most of them mothers. Little Allistair Love, studious, dutiful, always standing alongside Bergeron at the polling stations on Election Day, shirt clattering with campaign buttons. “I don’t know exactly what I’m trying to say, I guess, but she came to my house the other night, bing-bong, most likely lonely for her boy, I’m thinking. He’s all grown up now, living over in Austin. I mean, I can imagine how it’d be, having your son move away.” Occasionally, on a bad night in the past, she’d heard the teen-aged Allistair trying to negotiate with his mother and Boyd when they took their drunken disagreements to the street. With a few drinks in him, Boyd could take on a certain defensive bravado, like a person in the woods encountering a wild animal. Their issues were forgettable, at least to them, tomorrow’s amnesia—blame and counter-blame, outrage shouted upon outrage, insult upon insult—but Allistair couldn’t forget them. His entreaties were always the same: Come inside! Please get out of the street. Heartbreaking, that pleading adenoidal voice. “Every time she came to my door, it was, you know, ‘What fresh hell is this?’ I usually saw her when she was drunk, but I know she had some kind of wits about her, because she got shit done in our neighborhood. And she seemed to bring up a pretty great kid, mostly by herself.” Bergeron the pitiful, whose only marriage, it was rumored, had not lasted more than a summer, that gold-digging, sperm-donor ex-husband who’d left her pregnant and poorer by half. Also, Bergeron the bully, who’d driven off the homeless and kept out the AIDS patients. Bergeron the hypocrite, who’d fought many a zoning battle from the confines of her own sagging antebellum monstrosity, in need of paint and roofing and porch repair, not to mention its proliferating cat population, inbred and unhealthy. And Bergeron the legend, débutante, socialite, donor, scion of the noble Love family, some sort of mysterious yet commanding black sheep. At the women’s meeting, Hil didn’t mention what had happened that very morning: the ambulance and fire truck that had roused the block at daybreak, pulling into place on either side of Bergeron’s front walk, half a dozen uniformed people leaping into action, neighbors stepping out in their sweatpants and bathrobes and mussed hair, arms crossed over their chests, curious as to what the mercurial Bergeron Love had set in motion now. “I hate my gym.”Buy the print » On that earlier naked night, after Janine came back from the kitchen, Hil had excused herself briefly. In the hall, she was grateful for her son’s resolutely closed door. She dialled her neighbor’s number, making her way to the study, the window of which looked out toward the Love house, where Hil could see, through the tall front window, the shape of Boyd watching television. He didn’t answer the phone on the first call. “Oh, hell no,” Hil murmured, dialling the number again. She could almost hear it ringing over there. Could almost hear Boyd’s reluctant sigh as he rose, this time, and picked up. “Hello?” he said hopefully, as if he hadn’t already seen who it was on caller I.D. As if he had no idea what he was going to be told. He was a chinless man who routinely let himself be bossed around, made small. Bergeron wouldn’t marry him (“Fool me once, shame on you,” she’d said on the subject of marriage. “Fool me twice? No, Ma’am”), wouldn’t let him be anything other than her aging, laughably labelled boyfriend. “You maybe want to come retrieve Bergeron?” Hil said to him. “She told me she was setting out to get arrested.” “That hasn’t come to pass just yet. I guess I could call the cops, if you really think she needs all that drama.” Thanks to her family, Bergeron rarely feared authority. “But it takes so long when there are uniforms involved. The paperwork.” Five minutes later, Boyd stood wearily at the door, fully clothed, Hil was grateful to see. But, instead of taking Bergeron home, Boyd sat down in the second of the blue chairs. “Want a drink?” Janine asked him, probably hoping to sneak another chocolate bar. Now that there seemed to be a party going on, it was no longer possible for Jeremy to ignore the sounds coming from the living room. He greeted Boyd first, Boyd who’d ferried him many a time across the busy lanes of traffic to his elementary school, whistle shrieking, a protective hand on his back. Then Jeremy spotted Bergeron Love, naked in his favorite chair. He immediately turned away, blushing, a gesture Bergeron pounced upon. “You can’t be shocked!” she declared. “Give me a break! I betcha you’ve been all over the Internet looking at porn!” Boyd provided Jeremy with a grimacing shrug; Bergeron Love, in her hat, on the chair, was nothing like Internet porn. “What are you, on drugs?” Bergeron demanded when Jeremy was silent. “Are you high?” “No, Ma’am,” Jeremy said, now directing at her his sober, scornful glare. Telling her, in his way, that he was fully aware that he was the only unintoxicated person in the room. He next fixed his eyes on the television screen, where the bullet through the heart remained, like a new piece of art on the wall, a mesmerizing solar system of bloody mayhem. “Oh, don’t get all saintly,” Bergeron said, smiling suddenly at Jeremy’s indignation. “Be patient with your elders. Cut us some slack. You’re just like Allistair,” she added fondly. “All serious and all. You remember my son, Allistair?” Jeremy said that he did. “He didn’t like to be put on the spot, either, didn’t like a direct question, didn’t like a big to-do. Played things pretty close to the vest. He was embarrassed by his mom, too.” “He’s not embarrassed by me,” Hil said. Jeremy glanced at her with what she hoped was agreement. After all, Hil wasn’t the one who routinely got drunk and was then driven to getting things off her chest to anybody who’d listen. Hil had not, tonight, decided to parade around naked in public. Jeremy went to Al-Anon meetings because his father had made it a condition of their custody arrangement. “They’re O.K.,” he’d reported to his mother of those meetings. “Lots of hugging. A little too much God talk, for me. I don’t say I’m an atheist anymore, though.” “That’s a good lesson, wherever you learn it,” she’d said. “Allistair was embarrassed, but he loved me,” Bergeron went on. “He’d have done anything for me. Not like Boyd here. Boyd doesn’t love me. The people who love me are all gone, except Allistair. Mother and Daddy, my brother George, Jr., but not that son of a bitch Allistair, my brother Allistair—that’s Allistair the first. Everybody dead and gone, except Allistair the second.” “I love you,” Boyd put in. “But,” Bergeron said, taking a few breaths, “sometimes? Sometimes, it’s like Allistair might as well be dead, for as often as I see him. For as often as he seems to think of me.” Janine cleared her throat quietly. “He thinks of you,” Jeremy said. “Bless your heart,” Bergeron told him, “but how in the world would you know?” She then turned to Boyd. “And as for you, Boyd, you just learned how to say the words ‘I love you.’ I taught you those three words, and how I wish I hadn’t. I might as well live with a parrot, for all they mean to you. Hey, where’s your dad, anyway?” Bergeron asked Jeremy. “What ever happened to him? How’d you end up with this big gal in your house instead?” “Hey, now,” Hil said. “No need to be bitchy, Bergeron. You can be naked, and you can interrupt our TV program, but no getting flat-out rude.” Poor Jeremy. What would he tell those hugging teen-agers at the next Al-Anon meeting? Jeremy took a seat next to Janine on the couch, loyal to his late-night gaming buddy. As for Janine, she was studying the coffee table, the part in her hair a bright, humiliated red. Like many an obese woman, she tended to her hair and makeup fastidiously. Hil tried to remember if this was the same coffee table that she and Jeremy’s father had brought with them when they moved into the house, twenty years ago. Was it the same one on which Bergeron Love had stood during her first visit to them, to deliver her city-council campaign speech? Perhaps. “Do you remember when you were running for city council?” Hil asked. “Which time?” Boyd said. “She’s run more than once. And lost,” he added quietly, somehow vindicated. “A real reformer is never popular!” Bergeron declared. “Nineteen-ninety or so,” Hil said. “You guys were canvassing the street. Bergeron was stumping for herself on the Democratic ticket, and you, Boyd, were signing up Republicans. You got up on this very table to give your speech, Berge.” Boyd had stood aside with his clipboard, as if he knew that Bergeron was a perfect argument for the opposition. Jeremy and Janine laughed. “Oh, make fun,” Bergeron said. “Go ahead, Bergeron Love’s a crackpot and a nuisance.” She struggled out of the blue chair now, glass of ice in one hand, toothbrush in the other. “Nobody was ever grateful for anything I did, nobody—not you homeowners or your kids, not you, Boyd, you damn cringing mynah bird, not even my own son, Allistair, not even Allistair! Everybody’s a fucking ingrate. Why run for office? Why give a shit? Why have children?” she demanded of Jeremy, who blinked at the force of her fervor. “Well,” he said, taking a moment to put it politely, “it’s not exactly like he asked you to do it.” At the meeting that was mostly men, mostly professional men in the medical district, the story of the naked social call had got some laughs. The men had appreciated the ludicrous image, the backstory details of previous drunken escapades featuring that wild card Bergeron Love. They had even admired Jeremy’s visit-ending remark. That innocent teen-age observation had defused poor Bergeron Love, and Boyd had then been able to rise from the chair he’d been occupying so ineffectually and guide her limply out the front door. “Wow,” Janine had said. “Talk about true crime.” “Yeah,” Jeremy said. He seemed to be studying the paused image on the television screen. At the front door, Hil had hugged Bergeron Love, taken into her arms that molten clammy body. She’d never held a naked woman before. “Don’t tell Allistair, will you?” Bergeron had said into Hil’s ear, no longer angry, no longer an incendiary force, no longer anything but tired. “Don’t tell my boy.” After Hil had finished her story and acknowledged the A.A. members’ applause, that mild smile still on the blind man’s face, she and her friend Joe went, as usual, to their favorite Mexican restaurant to debrief. Joe said, “You didn’t share the part about Bergeron Love being dead now.” “Yeah, well, that part would kind of ruin the fun, wouldn’t it? Everybody would get all ashamed when they found out they were laughing about a dead person, right? Five days after the naked visit she was dead.” “Short shelf life for a crazy story.” “Exactly.” Joe didn’t care that Hil ordered a beer at Chuy’s. It was his opinion that beer didn’t actually count, since it took so much of it to provide a buzz. He hadn’t had a drink in five years, but it had been only two hours since he’d downed a Xanax. He was checking his watch to see when he could have another. “You could tell the dead part next time, like it just happened. A follow-up on the first story. Chapter Two.” “Could do. You know, if it weren’t for you and blind Jim, I’d quit this meeting.” Hil had first chosen the meeting because it was near the medical center and coincided with happy hour. She’d thought she might meet a doctor. Instead, she’d found Joe, a guy she’d known in high school, gay, also looking for a doctor. “I wanted to meet doctors because my dad was a doctor, and I like the fact that these guys are just like him, and yet also, hello, they’re no better than me.” “A syllogism,” Hil had supplied. “It makes perfect sense.” “Sort of. And maybe you can tell me why I’ve chosen to live with a porno addict?” he then said. “Same reason I live with a morbidly obese woman? It’s good to have somebody else’s bad habits around to put your own in perspective?” “Agreed. Also to compare and contrast. To get a little clarity.” “I should have known doctors wouldn’t think of A.A. as a dating opportunity. In fact, the opposite.” “Live and learn,” Joe said. “Or live and don’t.” It had been an unusually clear Wednesday when the emergency vehicles had screamed into the early-morning quiet, halting at the gates of Bergeron Love’s beautiful ruin. Boyd the boyfriend had come out to unlock three generations of fence: the faded white picket one that matched the house, the black iron one with its spiky tips, and the hideous yet effective chain-link with concertina wire, the enclosure of most recent vintage. Bergeron Love had been wheeled out on a gurney, feet first, just as she might have predicted she’d exit that formerly lovely home, the place where she’d been born, raised, loved, and abandoned. Suicide, Hil had guessed at the time—Bergeron Love’s last jaunt had been a kind of farewell tour of the neighborhood, exposing herself, putting herself at risk because she no longer cared what happened. Also watching the action was the man who’d been reported for abuse, the man who might simply have been bathing his child. What was going through his head? Hil wondered. Good riddance, racist wore. Hil lied at A.A. meetings. There she led a life of sobriety; there she had not had a drink for eleven months now. Soon she would reach her fictitious one-year mark. When she told Bergeron’s story, she was at least telling the truth. But was it a story? Twenty years’ worth of half-known information, neighborhood gossip. She’d told it at two different meetings, starting at different places: the naked visitation, the phone call to Child Protective Services. She could also have told a version that began with Bergeron campaigning for city council, using Hil’s coffee table as a soapbox, she and her husband both horrified and amused by their new neighbor, still newlyweds themselves, their moving boxes barely unpacked, their son a few years in the future. Or she could have begun with the homeless man who’d been discovered lying beside Bergeron’s kidney-shaped swimming pool one night, the man who’d somehow breached the various fences, empty bottle of isopropyl alcohol in hand, and who would have died had Bergeron not summoned an ambulance, had she not moved with surprising speed to get him aid. Or Hil could have begun with the cocktail party that Bergeron had once interrupted, pushing into Hil’s house in an ivory evening gown and trying to seduce her husband. “He’s flirting with me!” she’d gaily shrieked, laying her head on Hil’s husband’s chest. “Look out, Boyd, you’ve got competition! Careful, Hil! You’ll lose him!” Hil and her husband had laughed about it later in bed. As if he would be attracted to the likes of Bergeron Love! Or to anybody else, he’d declared then tenderly to Hil, holding her close and naked, romantic, affectionate, still hers. It was not a suicide, the neighborhood learned from Boyd after the vehicles had driven soundlessly away, their emergency lights extinguished. A heart attack, very sudden, there in bed. She’d grabbed his earlobe, he told one neighbor, illustrating by grabbing it himself, his face a shocked white, mousier than ever. She couldn’t speak, Boyd said. That neighbor told the rest of them, and that was the end. Everybody went back inside. Allistair would come home, Hil thought. He’d have to. It would be up to him to decide what to do with the Love estate, the squalid monument in which he’d been raised, the mosquito-ridden pool, those many cats, the lingering boyfriend. Meanwhile, Hil had found a new meeting to go to, one so close to her house she could walk there. Handily, there was a pub situated on the route home. Maybe at this meeting she’d start the story of her eccentric neighbor by talking about the son as a teen-ager, Allistair trying to keep his mother from trouble at two or three or four in the morning, calling to her uselessly, “Please come back inside, Mom! Please get out of the street!” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Appreciation	Credit Illustration by Stephanie Pierce Gross income for the daughter in 2007 was $18,150. Gross income for the mother in 2007 was $68,742. Gross income for the daughter in 2008 was $23,450; in 2009, it was $232,476; in 2010, $140,702; and in 2011 $37,853. The mother’s gross income for the years 2008 to 2011 inclusive has not been ascertained. But it is believed to have been, in each of those years, not more than $99,999 and not less than $40,000. Income averaging has not been allowed under the federal tax code since 1986. From 2007 to 2011, the daughter put $170,000 into savings: $25,000 went into a SEP-I.R.A., $9,000 went into a Roth I.R.A., and the remainder was placed in a money-market fund. Other money went, as the mother might put it, into the hands of petty charlatans who didn’t make it into law or medical school and whose parents, with their valueless American values, never taught them anything, poor things, actually, poor things. Or it went, as others might put it, into the hands of venders of artisanal chocolates and ninety-dollar T-shirts. In 1997, while the mother was employed as a technical consultant at a corporation then of good financial standing—though it should be noted that, within seven years, the corporation then of good financial standing had downsized to thirty-two per cent of its 1997 size and the mother was among those who had not retained their positions, and though she had received a variety of severance package, it was not a variety worth describing and so it will not be described, and the option that the mother had thought she had to retain her health insurance at the same corporate rate had, despite many phone calls, not materialized; instead, the rate offered was more than three times what it had been previously. To return: While holding this position, in which she was consistently earning upward of $90,000 per year, plus respectable benefits, the mother made a down payment of $65,000 toward the purchase of a modest one-bedroom apartment in a condominium building in good standing on the far but not too far east side of Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Fungibility precludes saying where the money for the down payment came from—whether from contemporary earnings or from preëxisting savings. It was what it was. Money was spent. Or, rather, was converted into an asset. The mother purchased the apartment not for herself but for her daughter. It was not intended, however, that the daughter live in the apartment. The daughter did not live in, or even very near, the city of New York. The apartment was, rather, an investment gift. An informal living trust. Both the mother’s and the daughter’s names were put on the mortgage. Both the mother’s and the daughter’s names were put on the title. The daughter was specified as the ninety-nine-per-cent owner and the mother was specified as the one-per-cent owner. This arrangement was superior for tax purposes and in the case of unexpected death. The mother intended that the asset/apartment could be rented for a sum that would cover the combined mortgage and maintenance payments, and this, more or less, happened. Although not really: the asset/apartment was “rented” for free to the mother’s son—the daughter’s brother—until such time as he and his new and approved-of and soon-to-be-pregnant wife felt more financially stable. During this time of intra-familial “renting,” the mother covered the monthly mortgage and maintenance payments herself. A substantial portion of the mortgage payment, being interest rather than principal, was tax deductible, she (the mother) notes. So it wasn’t really such a draining gift, the mother says. The reason the mother had purchased the asset/apartment in behalf of her daughter, as opposed to in behalf of her wed and soon-to-procreate son, was that the mother had, a number of years earlier, made an investment of similar size in behalf of her son, and so the mother felt that this second gift, to her second offspring, was only fair. The first offspring would live there, but the asset part of the asset/apartment would all the while offer a measure of financial security to the second offspring. It is true that, in general, the mother greatly preferred men to women—the daughter similarly greatly preferred men to women—but the mother nevertheless, most likely, loved her children equally, inasmuch as it is not nonsensical to make equating statements about nonfungibles such as love. Well, one was trying to account for things. To appreciate was to estimate justly. Regarding the relations between men and women generally, the mother had, early and often, instructed the daughter: A Woman Should Always Be Financially Independent. On the point of financial independence, the daughter agreed with the mother. And still agrees. However, the daughter’s accord with the postulate, which was during childhood like a faith in the Gnostic cult of numbers of Pythagoras, later became more a variety of Realpolitik. (The mother’s Realpolitik outlook was like a faith in a Gnostic cult of numbers.) Regardless of any kind of regarding of the relations among men, women, and finance, the aforementioned asset/apartment, between 1998 and 2006, appreciated in value by approximately $512,000. It was then sold, which left, after all expenses, kind of a lot of money. All of which was put into a bank account somewhere. The daughter did not know where. The mother did. Later this led to a dispute. In 1994, the daughter had moved from the family home to a dorm room at a sufficiently prestigious university. The usual educational loans were applied for, approved, and taken. The loans were taken under the daughter’s name. The daughter held a number of on-campus jobs. The daughter was relatively frugal in those years. But it would be fair to say that the mother paid for most everything. Also in 1994, the mother was widowed, to the gain of no pension or Social Security; this non-gain was due to technical problems, problems that probably could have been overcome, but there was just so much to do, it seemed. “We spawned once, but I only pretended to die.”Buy the print » During the first year of mother-daughter residential separation, a year that also witnessed the trial of O. J. Simpson, the mother mailed the daughter various photographs of the prosecutor Marcia Clark. The mother greatly admired Marcia Clark. She also greatly admired Marcia Clark’s outfits. She hoped the trial lawyer’s style might positively influence, perhaps even inspire, the daughter, who did not dress like Marcia Clark, and who did not seem to be on track to becoming anything like Marcia Clark. The daughter did not appear to be en route to becoming any variety of Financially Independent Woman with which the mother was familiar. One might even say—one being alternately the mother and the daughter—that this was the mother’s fault: the mother had packed so many lunches, had paid for so many lessons, had so often put towels and clean clothes in the dryer for five minutes so they’d be warm for the daughter after a bath, that she, the daughter, had understandably developed a misimpression of what life was like. Now the daughter needed guidance. At the end of 1995, the mother moved to the same town to which the daughter had moved. Also at the end of 1995, the daughter began a relationship with a young man; after that relationship had begun, the daughter’s ability to register anything about any situation save the young man’s presence or absence declined precipitately. The daughter and the young man later married. The mother said she was glad for this. Despite the mother’s guidance, this was one of the few decisions made by the daughter of which the mother approved. The mother paid for the wedding. In the spring of 2010, the daughter and the man broke up. The reasons for the marriage’s end are not clear, though there are theories. The main cause of the rapid appreciation in the value of real estate has also not been satisfactorily determined, though there are, again, theories; one, again, tries to account for things. Regardless, the daughter wanted to use the money from the sale of the asset/apartment to buy herself an apartment/asset—an apartment/asset to live in as a home. The mother did not agree with or to this. The mother would not specify the location of what had previously been described as the daughter’s money, because the daughter was “not the daughter that I know because the daughter that I know is not a cruel person,” the mother said. She further said that the current daughter, the unknown one, could not be trusted, not with her own money, not with her own reproductive potential, not with anything, really. The daughter needed to go back home. To her husband’s apartment. To where she belonged. Whatever unhappiness and fears were keeping the couple apart were pure childishness. The mother said that the daughter had always done exactly as she (the daughter) wanted, that the daughter was lazy, and that women who don’t have babies become alcoholics, which ruins their figures. The daughter was thirty-three. “Don’t let my parents get to you—they hate everyone I bring home.”Buy the print » In 2010, the mother was in some ways financially stable and in some ways not. (It depends, of course, on the comparison group.) The mother often reported that she did not feel financially stable. The mother also was often trying to lose weight. Sometimes the two anxieties, weight and money, joined together. For example, in the fall of 2010, the mother signed up with the Jenny Craig Weight Loss program. The program entailed paying in advance for prepared meals. On Wednesdays, when she went to the Jenny Craig Centre[sic] for her appointment with her Jenny Consultant—the consultant being another service that she paid for in advance—the mother picked up the prepaid meals. In addition to the meal and the consultant expenses, the mother also, at the Jenny Craig Centre, purchased, for a hundred and ninety dollars, a specialized armband, enabled with Bluetooth wireless technology, that kept track of walking speed, heart rate, calories burned, calories in and out, metabolic something-or-other . . . it was all confusing. The armband was supposed to be able to monitor and communicate. Sometimes the armband seemed to know she was moving and sometimes it didn’t. It beeped unpredictably. Also it flashed. What this signified the mother was unable to tell. For a few days the armband would not light up at all. Then it unexpectedly revived. Then it alarmed hourly. The armband was a failure; the mother wanted a refund. But, as the mother explained to her daughter, the Jenny Consultant said that, while it was true that Jenny Craig did sell the armband on-site at the Centre, and that the consultant and the program did both believe that the armband could be a positive friend in any weight-loss or weight-maintenance regimen, still, the armband was not a Jenny Craig armband per se, and the Jenny Craig Centre did not represent the armband, or the armband-makers, nor did the armband or its makers represent the Jenny Craig Centre, and the Jenny Craig Centre did not even formally endorse the armband or its makers, or vice versa—there was no real relation—and so the mother needed to address her inquiries or complaints not to the Jenny Craig Centre but to the armband company directly. Whose number the Jenny Consultant would be happy to look up for her. The mother called the company directly. Her numerous calls were not returned. The daughter also rarely returned the mother’s calls. The mother e-mailed the company. The mother and the daughter arranged via e-mail to meet up for coffee, and it was during that coffee that the mother explained that, three days after e-mailing the armband company, she received an e-mail response: an F.A.Q. sheet with the phone number she had already called listed at the bottom, for any further questions. Eventually, the mother said, she got through to someone on the phone who represented the company that represented the armband that was failing her. This representative suggested that the mother return the armband, in its original packaging. The representative further specified that the armband would, if it showed no signs of wear and tear beyond that incurred in normal use, be serviced and returned to the mother within four to six weeks. Are you just trying to stall until you can get rid of me? the mother said she said to the representative. The mother said she said to the representative that he was representing a company of cheaters. The mother hung up the phone, she said. Later that day, the mother explained to the daughter, she told the Jenny Consultant that the armband company had not helped, of course, that she had been encouraged to buy an armband from a charlatan company, that she had been encouraged by these people right here, in this office, these Jenny Craig people, who, the mother said that she said to the Jenny Consultant, obviously didn’t care about their customers, who didn’t have an ethic of customer service, who were just squeezing people for money. The mother said she said, You took my hundred and ninety dollars for what you knew was junk and now you’re just sending me to hell. You know that’s where you’re sending me when you send me to contact the company directly. I work in service. I like to work in service. I like to help people. I know what an ethic of customer service is, the mother said, and it isn’t this. (The mother, at the time, post-corporate-job, was working as a real-estate broker in the city; the real-estate market was considerably weaker than it had been during the years of the aforementioned rise in value of the asset/apartment.) The mother said to the daughter that she really shouted at them, the Jenny Craig people, that she felt a little bit bad about that, but that what they did was wrong and they should know that what they did was wrong. But, she explained to the daughter, she did not need the Jenny Craig program anymore. She did not need them. Though she had lost ten pounds since she started with the program. Could the daughter tell? It’s not the first ten pounds, the mother explained, that anyone notices. It would probably be the next ten pounds that people would be able to notice, the next ten, which would of course be more difficult to lose, but she now knew what Jenny Craig did and so she could do it without Jenny Craig. She had cracked it. You eat twelve hundred calories a day. You make sure to get twenty grams of protein. Your meals are around three hundred and fifty calories and then there’s room for two fruits. She said, I’m doing it like this: I’m making lentil dishes that are high in protein and low in calories. For example, I made a vegetarian chopped-liver dip. One cup dry lentils, two cups water, one tablespoon onion-soup powder, two large stir-fried onions, two hard-boiled eggs, all blended together. It’s delicious. You should try it, the mother said. That’s what I wanted to tell you about. The daughter said she thought that sounded good. Then they were quiet for a bit. Then the mother began to talk about how a friend of hers had cervical cancer; she’d never had children, the mother explained of her friend; it’s a risk to one’s health to never have children. I pray to God that you will have a child. You are a difficult person, but you can get pregnant, you can even just go to a clinic these days and get pregnant—there’s nothing wrong with that. The daughter put some sugar in her coffee, even though she almost never put sugar in her coffee. The mother reminded the daughter of the story of the cousin who had got pregnant, most likely from a clinic, the cousin who people said was a lesbian but, the mother said, was probably just never lucky with men, but it didn’t matter, because the cousin was so happy now, even though she had always been a very ill-tempered person before, and the mother said that she (the mother) would pay any medical expenses there might be, that she would help the daughter. The mother told the daughter that it was interesting that she (the daughter) had chosen that day to wear a green shirt and green shorts, all green like that, together. The mother reiterated that the daughter really should try making the vegetarian chopped-liver dip. Which is low in calories while being very tasty. The daughter said, All you care about is money and weight; and you give me all this advice; but I’m thinner than you and I make more money than you. The daughter had been rejected for a mortgage earlier that day; or, rather, she had not been rejected, but she had been approved for a mortgage of only thirty-five thousand dollars. Which was grossly insufficient. The rejection stemmed partly from the daughter’s unstable income—her income was unstable because she had not followed the mother’s career advice—and partly from recent crises in the mortgage industry, which had led to the lender’s not accepting 1099 income in the same way as W-2 income. Now the apartment/asset was absolutely unbuyable without the mother’s help. The mother restated that the daughter should go back to her husband. The mother wanted to help the couple buy a nice place to live. A place that would also be a nice investment property, a condominium that they could rent out when they needed a new and larger place to live, because of children. Yes, the purchase should be of a condominium and not of a co-operative, though the mother acknowledged that the daughter said that she tended not to like the newer condominium buildings but she knew that the daughter just felt pressure to express that taste—for older buildings—which was not in fact really her taste. She was just being forced into that taste by trends that would pass, just as this rough spot in the marriage would pass. If they, the daughter and her husband, had a nice place to live, then they would find happiness, because it’s hard to find happiness when you don’t have space to breathe and she wanted her daughter to breathe. You were very right, the daughter said, when you used to tell me that A Woman Should Always Be Financially Independent. I didn’t think you ever listened to me; I’m honored, the mother said. The daughter said to the mother that the money that was gifted to her by her mother was really the mother’s money and not hers, it was true. But she felt that the money should either be her money or not be her money, and that she could not tolerate any in-betweens and she could not tolerate any health or fashion advice, either—that was it. The mother said she wasn’t giving advice, just love. The daughter left. The mother paid the bill. In February, 2011, the mother and the daughter met again for coffee. It had been a year of many meetings “for coffee” and very little accord. The mother had said that she would bring the checkbook for the account where the profits from the asset/apartment were kept. The daughter showed up. What do you think “homey” means? the mother asked. Why are you asking me that? the daughter asked. Buy the print » You’re so suspicious, the mother said. You think the worst of me. I give up, the mother said. Then she said, It’s just something that was on my mind because of a client I had. A while ago. He was Swedish. He was looking to buy a studio in New York, because he couldn’t handle the Swedish winter anymore and so he wanted to winter in New York. Which sounds odd, to winter in New York, but that’s what he said, that he just needed a place to lay his head, and that it could be tiny, it just needed to have lots of natural light. I understand that, the mother said. He also said he liked New York because it’s inexpensive, which also sounded funny to me, like the wintering, but that was what he said, that New York was cheap. So I took him to a beautiful studio with windows on three sides. Not just ordinary windows but really tall ones, and the apartment was clean and beautiful, with good appliances and a gorgeous floor, and, like I said, so much light; it was really such a good value, and I thought that I myself would be happy to live there, and I was so happy with what I was showing him. He only stayed for a minute, though. I can’t live here, he said. It doesn’t feel homey. That was the word he used: “homey.” I thanked the listing broker, and then when we were back outside I said to the Swede—I liked the guy, so I was honest with him—I said, You don’t know how fortunate you are to see a place like this in Manhattan. It’s a tremendous value. I’m just telling you, because you’ll see other places, and they won’t be as nice, and I don’t want you to be disappointed. I’m not, he said, going to buy a place until I find exactly what I want. What you’ll learn, I said, is that this is the city of compromises. I’m not talking about you, the mother said to the daughter. I know you think I am, but I’m not. I wanted to tell you about the second apartment I showed the Swede. When I showed him another place, he brought a friend with him. You should have seen his friend. He had this very long, very black hair. And pale, pale skin. He looked like a man you see in an advertisement for cigarettes, or speedboats. I mean, he looked like a racecar driver. He was a racecar driver! This is my friend, the Swede said to me, the mother said. He just got back from a racecar competition in Abu Dhabi, the Swede explained. I mentioned that you had been to Abu Dhabi. I haven’t been to Abu Dhabi, the daughter said. I thought you had. No. Oh. I was in Dubai, though. I thought they were the same. No. I said to the racecar driver that I had heard that Abu Dhabi was a ghost town, with all those vacant apartments. That’s Dubai, the daughter said. Oh. It’s Dubai that has a lot of empty apartment buildings? Right. Abu Dhabi is supposedly doing pretty well. You probably think the Swede and his friend didn’t like me, but they liked me very much. Many people like me. They feel good around me. Oh, so I took the Swede and his dramatic friend to an apartment on Park Avenue and Thirty-ninth Street. In one of these grand old buildings. Where many people who used to have live-in maids no longer have live-in maids, and so there are these small apartments that used to be maid’s apartments. But as soon as I walked into the apartment I felt awful for taking the Swede there. I hadn’t had a chance to preview it. It had looked much better in the pictures. There was just one window and it was in the corner. And the place had terrible old furniture, there was an ugly cat there, the floor had rotting parquet. The Swede took a quick walk around; he looked at his racecar-driver friend; he said, Now this feels homey. His friend nodded. I was amazed. What does he mean that it feels homey? It was like a puzzle. It made me think that maybe I’m really missing something, that maybe if I understood better what happened, then maybe I would be doing better. I bet he just likes old buildings, the daughter said. I like old buildings. But it was disgusting, the mother said. Or maybe it was just that it had furniture. Just that someone lived there. I thought about that. And, you know, later the broker from the first apartment called me and asked me for feedback. She asked me what my client thought. I told her honestly that he hadn’t liked it. But I told her, also honestly, that I thought it was beautiful, and that it was crazy of him not to like it. She asked me what he didn’t like about it, because she was trying to think how she could better market the apartment, because she was having, she said, to be honest, trouble selling it, even though she felt it was well priced. I felt bad for her. She sounded distressed. I told her that it’s hard to sell anything right now, even something great. I told her not to worry, that things would turn around. Did the Swede buy the maid’s apartment? the daughter asked. In the end, he didn’t buy anything from me, the mother said. He liked me, though. He said I was honest. He didn’t buy anything in New York at all. Instead, he moved to Dubai. What? He moved to Dubai instead of New York. To Dubai? Or to Abu Dhabi? I don’t know. Somewhere sunny. That’s too bad, the daughter said. I think. About the apartment, I mean. But you have to stop confusing things. That’s why you come to the wrong conclusions. Because you start in the wrong place. So then you’re not really even talking about what you’re talking about, the daughter went on, not really sure what she herself was talking about, and realizing that she had lost track of precisely what it was that she was trying to estimate justly, and why she had imagined that she could. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Ever Since	Credit Illustration by Josh Cochran Ever since his wife had left him—but she wasn’t his wife, was she? he’d only thought of her that way, had begun to think of her that way, since her abrupt departure, the year before, with Richard Bishop—Jonathan had taken up a new side of his personality, and become the sort of lurking man who, say, at work or at a party, mainly hovers on the outskirts of other people’s conversations, leaning close but not too close, listening in while gazing out vaguely over their heads in order to seem distracted and inattentive, waiting for the conversation to wind down, so that he can weigh in gloomily and summarize whatever has just been said. He was at it again. “What you’re saying, if I’ve heard you right, is that the current rates of city government spending will eventually bankrupt the public schools.” He was speaking to a group of young parents—presumably, that’s what they were—at a book-publication party for a novelist he’d never read. He’d come with his friend, his date, he should say, who worked for the novelist’s publisher. He added, “My ex-wife, well, not my wife, but, you know, she might as well have been, taught eighth grade in the Bronx for two years.” “Really?” a woman in the group asked. The man next to Jonathan turned sideways, as if he were a door swinging open to let him in. Jonathan stepped forward. “Yes. She found it exhausting but exhilarating. She loved her students but always felt at war with the administration. Finally, she quit. It made her depressed.” “I can see how it might be depressing to teach in the New York public schools,” the man who’d moved to let Jonathan into the circle said. “But it’s such important work.” Jonathan said, “That’s how Rachel felt, and that was the pity of it. Every day was a struggle for her, because she believed in what she was doing.” In this way he invoked her, as he often did, in heroic terms. Thinking of her in a grandiose light made him want to cry for what he’d lost in her, and he lowered his head and quietly announced, “Excuse me, it’s been nice talking to you all.” Without waiting for introductions, he lurched off to the bar, where he asked the bartender for “Scotch-and-soda on the rocks? Please?” Where was Sarah? He couldn’t see her in the crowd. This party was a work night for her. It was important that he not get too drunk. But it had been one of those weeks, and he wanted a cigarette. There had to be smokers somewhere, clustered together in a stairwell or guest bedroom, or craning out of one of the giant loft’s windows overlooking the Hudson. The sun setting behind industrial New Jersey was brightly orange and enormous. He heard Sarah’s voice, and turned. “I’ve been looking all over for you! I’m running away from my boss.” “I’ll bet you are,” he said. “She wants me to be paying attention to this obnoxious writer we’re celebrating tonight.” “Tell me again the name of his book?” “ ‘The Strictures of My Love.’ ” “Right.” “He’s very demanding. He wants a lot of publicity. He’s a twerp. But he makes money for the company.” Publicity was Sarah’s area. “Give me a sip of your drink,” she said, and Jonathan handed her his glass. “I was looking for a place to smoke,” he said. “Did you bring cigarettes?” “No, I was going to bum one.” “Bum two, will you?” she said, and gave him back his Scotch-and-soda. The ice in the glass was already melting. “I’ll come find you. I have to make an effort to be professional.” He watched her sashay off toward the author, who was surrounded by guests and was wearing a suit. Really, he should marry Sarah, he reminded himself. But, then again, he should’ve married Rachel. Now waiters were making their rounds with trays. Jonathan took something off one of the trays and wound up holding a toothpick, which he put in his shirt pocket, next to the joint he’d rolled that afternoon in a stall in the men’s room at his office. Was it time for another drink? The last shindig Sarah had brought him to—it had been on the Upper West Side, near Columbia University, for a historian of the Revolution—he’d remained sober and later wondered why. On his way back to the bar, he saw Fletcher, a young editor at Sarah’s company, who, according to Sarah, bombarded her with daytime e-mails asking for dates that she then declined. Fletcher was thinner than he—in better shape all around, no doubt—with sharp cheekbones and a widow’s peak. “Jonathan,” Fletcher was saying. “Hi, Fletcher.” “It looks like we’re both en route to the bar.” “Or the bathroom.” “Good point,” Fletcher said, and Jonathan said, “I think you’re right, though. The bar.” Then a pretty girl walked past, and the energy in the room seemed to rise. The men got their drinks refreshed and went off in different directions. The loft was filling and growing noisier. Next to Jonathan, people were talking animatedly about health-care reform—a woman in the group who’d undergone surgery was deep in debt. Jonathan craned his neck and blurted, “The possibilities for real change in health care are undercut by the bureaucracies that make change crucial! My ex-wife used to talk about this all the time.” Then, shyly, he added, as he always did, “Actually, she wasn’t my wife, but we were together for many years.” “Nice to meet you,” a man wearing a pale-green shirt said. “I’m William, and this is Kathy, and this is Deborah.” It was Kathy, a short blonde, who had had the surgery. Jonathan nodded and said, “My name is Jonathan. I hope it wasn’t rude of me to jump in like that.” “What’s a party for?” Kathy asked, then said, “Do you know a lot about the medical industry?” “Not really,” Jonathan admitted. “Rachel—that’s the woman I wasn’t married to—had strong opinions on social issues.” “I’m ready for another drink!” William announced. “Get me a white wine?” Deborah asked. “I’ll go with you,” Jonathan, who had been sipping constantly, said. He looked around for Rachel—no, Sarah—but he didn’t see her. At the bar he told William, “I’m not of this world.” “Excuse me?” “I mean, I’m here with a friend.” “Aren’t we all?” William said. “Cheers.” He carried his drink and Deborah’s wine back into the crowd. The summer sun had nearly set. The light it threw into the loft had become an amber glow that shone up through the windows to touch the ceiling, where it outlined the shadows of party guests. Soon, as night fell, the loft’s numerous wall sconces would come into effect. Copies of the author’s book were stacked in little piles everywhere. Jonathan was extremely conscious of his origins, which were Southern, his father and his father’s family having come from Virginia, and his mother and hers from the Florida Gulf Coast. Jonathan’s father had been dead for ten years, and his mother had retired to Maryland’s Eastern Shore; and, these days, he regarded himself as oddly and bravely homeless, imagining, from this city he’d chosen to live in, a lost, green place—Charlottesville, where his parents had been professors, and the nearby Blue Ridge, where he’d camped as a boy. If he drank enough, his accent would break through. Sarah appeared at his side. “Hey, Buster, let’s go fuck in the bathroom,” she said. This was something that he loved about her—her easy playfulness, which he took as a sign not only of her trust in him but also of her willingness to let him trust her. “I wish we could,” he told her, though in fact he didn’t, at that moment, wish so—he needed a smoke more. “Are you done taking care of the writer?” he asked. “I was finished with that a long time ago,” she said. She was shorter than Jonathan by a foot. When they walked down the street together, and he rested his arm on her shoulder, he thought sometimes about how essential it would be in old age to have someone to lean on. And though his old age was a long way off, and he felt, the majority of the time, that he would never reach it anyway, he nonetheless considered it often when he was with Sarah. “How are you and Fletcher getting on?” he asked. “We’re fine,” she said. “I saw him earlier. He’s not very talkative.” “Come with me—there’s something I want to show you.” She took Jonathan’s hand and tugged him toward the windows. He said, “Hang on, I want to get a drink.” “You’ve got a drink.” “It’s about gone.” “Get it in a minute,” she pleaded. “We’ll get drinks together and then find somewhere to hide out.” She was in love with him. It pulled at him, as if with a kind of warm, perfumed gravity. What she had to show him was the sun, disappearing at last, and the sky above, the color of fire. She held his hand, as they stood together before a big window, and he wished that he were more in love with her. Or was he, maybe, in love with her? She said, “The world is incredible at this time of day, isn’t it?” “It is,” he agreed, and took a step back from the window. He said, “A lot of the color in the air is the product of atmospheric pollutants.” He felt her hand go limp in his. He apologized. “I didn’t mean anything by that.” She was easily upset. He often found himself apologizing to her for remarks that he hadn’t meant to be hurtful. She squeezed his hand, and he squeezed hers, and he felt, for just an instant, at peace. Things at the party were picking up. Jonathan faintly smelled cigarette smoke. “Come on, Sweetpea,” he said to Sarah, and pulled her away from the window and back to the bar. They took their drinks and went to stand in a corner, and Sarah said, “So, Mister, what about us?” Was she a little drunk? “Us,” he said. But before he could go on there was a loud crash in the middle of the room, followed by a hasty shuffling of partygoers turning around, making space for the accident, the mishap—someone had tripped over a piece of furniture and fallen heavily. It was William, the man in the green shirt. “I’m all right, I’m all right,” Jonathan heard him saying as he rose to his knees, then his feet. “I’m only suffering minor embarrassment,” he said, laughing, as, behind him, a man in gray—it was the celebrated author—pushed the chair William had tripped on back into its place beside the long glass-topped coffee table. “Is he good?” Jonathan asked Sarah. “Who?” “The author. Is he good?” “People think so.” “Rachel read one of his books.” “Which one?” “I don’t remember,” Jonathan said, but amended, “Oh, no, I almost remember. It had ‘kill’ in the title.” “ ‘Abel Kills Cain,’ ” Sarah said. “That’s it.” “That was a major book,” Sarah said. “It sounds like the name of a band.” “It should be.” “Hey, I like this guy,” Jonathan said. She joked, “Don’t say that until you’ve worked with him,” and Jonathan said, “No, not the writer. I mean the guy who fell. He’s coming over here.” Then William was upon them. “How bad did that look?” he asked. Jonathan said, “William, this is Sarah. Sarah, William.” Then he said, “It didn’t look bad. Don’t let it bother you.” “From your lips to God’s ears.” “As long as you’re not hurt, that’s all that matters,” Sarah said. “Hurt my body all you want, but leave my pride alone,” William said, and Sarah replied, “I know what you mean.” She was a touch drunk. It was the three of them now, snaking in a line past art works and tall bookshelves, searching for smokers. They stopped at a door that was locked, and kept going, single file, with Jonathan leading and Sarah in the middle. At times the crowd pressed in, and Jonathan had to forge a path through it. They came to an open door that led into a hallway painted dark red, and could hear voices down the hall. “Who lives here?” William asked. “The owner is the heir to a cosmetics fortune,” Sarah said, adding, “He’s also a very good poet.” At the end of the hall was a room, where about eight people were gathered on and around a big bed, talking and drinking. “Come in!” a comfortably stretched-out man, who had taken off his shoes, cried. “We’re having an argument about whether it’s ethical to live on government disability in your twenties.” Right away, Jonathan said, “It is if you’re disabled. My ex-wife used to work with disabled kids.” Then, for Sarah’s sake, he anxiously exclaimed, “I don’t mean my ex-wife! I don’t know why I said that!” “We’re not talking about that kind of disabled,” the man said. “My friends and I were looking for a place to smoke,” Jonathan quickly replied. “I think people were smoking on the terrace,” the man said. “There’s a terrace?” Jonathan asked. “I know where it is,” William said. It was William’s turn to lead. They went back out and along the red hallway to the main room, and then squeezed and pushed their way diagonally through the crowd toward the terrace door. Now when Jonathan tried to touch Sarah’s shoulder, or hold her hand, she pulled away. As they were about to reach the terrace, she spun around, shouting above the party noise, “Your ex-wife?” “I’m sorry. That was a slip.” “She was your wife? Are you out of your mind? She was never your wife!” Then Sarah asked him, “Do you still love her?” But she didn’t wait for him to answer. She said, “I don’t even want to know.” “I’m sorry. I’m very sorry.” “I’ll think about it,” Sarah said. William held the door, and she marched out onto the hot, humid terrace. Jonathan skulked behind her. He and she and William sprawled on the patio furniture and waited for smokers, but none came. The terrace faced north, toward midtown. A large ascending moon, glowing in the sky over the Rockaways, was partly visible around the corner of the building. “Ought I to light a joint?” Jonathan asked—now a trace of his Southern diction emerged—and William said, “Absolutely,” but Sarah, still angry, said, “Save it for later.” He could feel a light breeze. He left the joint in his shirt pocket. He’d known her in a distant way, through other people, mutual friends, for a long, long time—when had they first met? It had been at the wedding of his college classmate Kenneth—and they’d run into each other here and there in the ten or eleven years since, either at parties or in big groups at restaurants, that sort of thing; and, at any rate, this drawn-out, vague acquaintance had given them each the subtle feeling, once they’d begun seeing each other and sleeping together, that they somehow shared common origins, though in fact she’d grown up on the Upper East Side, the daughter of psychoanalysts, and showed a dedication to European fashion magazines—Rachel had rejected fashion as a malignant form of commercialism—that he would never, throughout their long life ahead, their marriage, come to fathom. He overheard her whispering to William but couldn’t make out what she was saying. She and William were on a low pair of lounge chairs at a distance from his. Above the brick terrace wall, he could see the spire of the Empire State Building. Below that, on the terrace, was Sarah’s back, turned to him. He had a view of her ass, wrapped in her cotton skirt. How much had he drunk? Finally, the terrace door opened and more people tumbled out, including William’s friends. “We came to find you!” Kathy exclaimed, and Deborah said, “Here you are! Where have you been?” “Exploring,” William said, then went on, “Deborah, Kathy, this is Sarah, my new pal, and you met Jonathan earlier.” “Hi, hi,” everyone said. “There’s been a huge outpouring of emoticons.”Buy the print » Jonathan had the feeling—he was drunk enough to feel this—that, though they were all just casually meeting, they were also, after a stretch of being apart, coming into one another’s company again in a significant way: the encounter on the terrace was a homecoming. “Is anyone smoking?” he asked, and Deborah felt about in her purse and said, “Where are my cigarettes? I just had them.” The terrace was filling. Everywhere, people were gathering in groups of two and three and four. Deborah practically screamed at him, “I’m sorry, I don’t know where my pack went!” and Jonathan said, “We’ll find some.” He called, “Sarah, come sit with me,” but Sarah turned her head and said, “In a minute. I’m talking to William.” With Rachel, all his pent-up urges to make a home and a family had begun to declare themselves—in his last year with her he’d felt a strong desire to have a child. At times this desire had come on him fiercely. He’d felt it as a pleasurable shock that rose from his knees, up through his chest to the top of his head, causing him to tremble and sometimes visibly shudder. He recalled that Rachel, early in their relationship, had had an intuition that, were they to have a child, it would be a daughter. This idea of a girl had settled in him, and after a while he couldn’t conceive of a son. When Rachel left him for Richard Bishop, he’d felt bereft not only of her, of his never-to-be wife, but of the daughter that they had not had, would not have; and now a year had passed, during which he’d often felt that his chances at fatherhood had gone with her, with Rachel. Of course, this wasn’t true, he knew that, but the feeling was convincing, and much of the time he went about in a state of grief over it. He had to take action. He would go hunting and bring back a cigarette for Sarah. He got up from the chaise and said, “Deborah, come on, let’s go find cigarettes.” He held the door for her, and she went inside ahead of him. “Where are we going?” she asked. She had dyed red hair and pale skin. She was about Rachel’s height and size. He hadn’t looked closely at her earlier, when William had first introduced them. “I’m not sure,” he said. What was he doing with this woman? “We’re going to the bar,” he said. “Lead the way,” Deborah said, and he squeezed by her and got in front, where he set to work. At one point, he got them stuck—the crowd was thick indeed—and he heard a man near him say, “You can’t just drop a bunch of rocks in a pile to make a stone wall. There’s a way to do it. It isn’t random.” They backtracked. Now Jonathan was following. Deborah found a path and got them to the bar. She was drinking vodka. “What do you do?” he said. “I’m an architect.” “Really? What kinds of things do you build?” “I mostly work on apartment renovations. I’ve done some house additions. How about you?” “I’m a lawyer,” he said. “What kind?” “I do litigation.” “I like your jacket,” she said, and reached out and felt the sleeve. “Oh, thanks, thank you,” he said. Behind her, he saw Fletcher, gazing over at them. Jonathan turned his body away from Deborah’s. He spoke to the bartender. “Is there a back stairwell somewhere, or a fire exit?” “Try the kitchen,” the bartender said. Jonathan could see the tops of two swinging doors opening and closing about twenty feet away. He could see Fletcher approaching. He grabbed Deborah’s hand and pulled her forcibly toward the kitchen doors. “I think it’s over in this direction,” he said. Deborah exclaimed, “I’m right here!” “Sorry, I was trying to avoid someone,” he said. They waited for a man carrying a tray to pass, and then went into the kitchen. “Can I help you, sir?” a waiter asked. “We’re looking for the stairs.” The waiter pointed past a long kitchen island lined with trays and overhung with copper and steel pots. “Make room, make room, please,” a waitress called as she walked by. There was a smell of baking bread. Jonathan said, “Let’s go,” and he and Deborah rounded the kitchen island. He opened the heavy steel door at the back, near the freezer. “Aw, fuck,” he said. The gray stairwell was empty. The door closed behind them and they stood face to face under the dim light. Peering at Deborah in the dark put him in mind of Rachel; suddenly he wanted to call her, a bad idea. Deborah was holding his sleeve again. “Hey,” she said. “How are you doing?” “All right.” “I like you,” she said then. “I like you, too,” he said, and she announced, “I want you to know that if we sleep together and I get pregnant I’m keeping the baby.” He frantically wrenched the door open. “I don’t know what to say! It used to be that people always smoked in the fire exit!” he blurted. Where was Sarah? He needed to put things right with her. He stormed out of the kitchen and through to the terrace. On his way, he noticed that a few people at the center of the room had begun subtly dancing to the music playing on the stereo. Sarah was no longer on the terrace. The moon was significantly higher in the sky now. Instead of a dying sunset, he saw in the west a bright metropolis of oil tanks, freeways, and planes taking off or landing at Newark. He’d lost Deborah—abandoned her, really—along the way. Back into the party he went. Then, at a loss over how the evening was going, he made for the front door and the antique cage elevator, which he rode to the lobby with a couple who were leaving the party—but what was he doing? Was he also leaving? He was. The heat on the street had made a soup of the air. He felt his hair sticking to his forehead. He looked at his phone. He was on the verge of being quite drunk. He put the phone back in his pocket. This was his way of not calling Rachel. He began walking. There was nothing much to look at on the street: bagged trash and a few brightly lit entryways. He came to a broad artery. Church Street? He was sweating. A couple passed him. He and Sarah made a couple, didn’t they? Was it too late to phone Rachel? He crossed Church. After another few blocks, he had a feeling that the street was sloping downward. There was the river. He leaned heavily against a building and dialled, and Rachel answered. “Jonathan?” “Hey. Is it all right that I called?” “Not really.” “Can you talk?” “Maybe for a minute.” “I’ve been missing you.” Rachel said, “You shouldn’t be calling me, Jonathan.” “I know.” The buildings around him were massive and dark. “Have you been drinking?” she asked. “Some.” “Oh, Jonathan.” “What?” “Jonathan, we’ve been over everything. We don’t have anything to talk about anymore.” “You’re right.” “I was ready to marry you,” she said. “Why are you bringing that up?” “Because you were never going to ask.” “You don’t know that,” he said. Then he said, angrily, “Hang on, a truck is going by; I can’t hear you.” “Can you hear me now?” “Yes,” he said, and she asked, “Where are you?” He said, “Downtown, near the Hudson,” and she said, “Jonathan, I think I should tell you that Richard and I are moving.” “Moving? You’re moving? Where?” “Los Angeles. He has some friends who can hook him up with teaching work at one of the art colleges.” “Oh.” “I thought you might have heard from Irena or Paul.” “What?” “I said, I thought you might have heard from Irena or Paul.” “I haven’t talked to either of them.” “Let’s not fight,” she said. “I’m not fighting!” he said with a raised voice, and she said, “I heard that you’ve been seeing someone.” “Oh, God, Rachel,” he whimpered. He was suddenly near tears. “I’m sorry,” she said. Then he began to weep. He tried to keep the sound from her. She said, again, “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, Jonathan.” Jonathan put his phone back in his pocket. He wiped his wet eyes with his jacket sleeve, and thought of Sarah. By the time he got back up the street and into the loft building and up in the elevator, he had pulled himself together. The loft was a mess. The author’s stacked-up books had disappeared or been scattered. The music was loud; dancing was taking over. A woman in the crowd held her arms high, shaking them in time with the beat. Rachel, dancing, had always put her head down and tucked herself over and whirled her arms like threshers. “Sarah!” he called into the mass of people, because he thought he saw her, jumping up and down in the crowd. But it wasn’t her. Then he glimpsed, in a far corner of the room, what looked like a green shirt. It was William, talking to Sarah and Fletcher. Jonathan saw her look his way; she gave him a weak smile and a little wave, and then Fletcher and William turned and saw him. “Jonathan,” William called out. “Jonathan,” Fletcher said. “Hey, guys,” Jonathan said, and came forward to join them. “I was just looking for you all.” “We’ve been wondering where you were,” William said. Jonathan explained, “I went in search of cigarettes. Well, Deborah and I went in search of cigarettes.” Sarah spoke in a harsh voice. “Did you have any luck?” “Not a bit,” he said to her. “I’m surprised,” she said. “Apparently no one smokes anymore,” he said. She said, “Lots of people smoke.” “I guess I’ve been looking in the wrong places,” he told her, and she said, “That sounds right.” William finally broke in. “We were just talking about how much we hate these kinds of parties.” “Who’s ready to dance?” Sarah said. “Let’s go,” William said, and she and he went off together toward the center of the room. “Do you want a cigarette?” Fletcher asked, taking a pack from his jacket pocket. “Good God, thank you,” Jonathan said. It seemed they were going to be friends for the night. Jonathan said, “Let’s go to the terrace.” When they got outside, they found Deborah and Kathy. “Forgive me for running off like that,” Jonathan said to Deborah. She asked, “Did I scare you?” “A little,” he said, and laughed, and she laughed, too. It wasn’t long before Sarah and William appeared, sweaty from dancing. Jonathan took the joint from his shirt pocket and asked, “Does anyone want this?” Fletcher held the lighter. Jonathan inhaled, and then passed the joint to William, who took a puff and gave it to Kathy, who handed it to Sarah. She gave the joint to Deborah, and Deborah took a big hit before offering it to Fletcher, who had some and gave it back to Jonathan, who passed it around again. “Are you stoned?” a voice asked. It was Sarah. His body felt heavy, and he could clearly hear the traffic coming and going on the streets and avenues below. “Kind of. Are you?” “I’m on the way,” she said. William said, “I’m ready to dance some more.” “I’ll go with you,” Deborah said, and Kathy added, “Let’s all go.” Inside, Deborah and Kathy cleared a space and began gyrating. William followed, and then Sarah, too, began to move. Jonathan watched her sway to the left then to the right, her arms seeming to float in the air beside her; she looked as if she were in a pleasant trance, like a charmed cobra. Watching her, he felt—what? appreciation? affection? love? He felt himself lucky to be with her, for she made him feel calm, and now he slid up next to her, got his arms partway around her, and lightly pulled her toward him, so that their faces came close to touching. She shut her eyes and let his hands around her waist balance her. “You can be a jerk sometimes,” she whispered to him. “I apologize.” “I’m sick to death of hearing about Rachel,” she said. “I won’t mention her again,” he said. “You hurt my feelings,” she said, and separated herself from him and joined the other three. He stood next to Fletcher. Without a word, they turned and headed to the bar. “Will that be a Scotch-and-soda?” the bartender asked Jonathan. “Thanks,” Jonathan said. It was late now, almost midnight. He’d drunk too much. Had he been at the party with Rachel, she would have said, “Enough is enough,” and they would have left by now. But Rachel was gone, for good, it seemed to him at that moment, and—it was both crushing and a relief to feel this—he was free. And though he knew that this sense of freedom from her would not entirely last, that the memory of her would overtake him again, the feeling was nonetheless substantial: he was with Sarah. “Excuse me, do you have any cherries?” he said to the bartender. The bartender leaned over, opened a small refrigerator, and pulled out a jar of bright-red maraschino cherries. “We’re closing up,” he said. “Why don’t you just take the bottle.” He turned and began opening cardboard boxes for the empty and near-empty bottles lined up on the bar. Jonathan dug two fingers into the jar and began trying to capture the cherry with the longest stem. He pulled up one, then another, and finally found one that seemed right. He ate the cherry but kept the stem. “Fletcher, will you excuse me?” He stumbled away from the bar and began weaving among people. Where were they—where were his people? There they were. They were still in their circle of sorts. He crossed the floor to Sarah. “Hello,” he said in her ear. “Hello,” she said. He got down on one knee before her and took hold of her hand. Awkwardly, he curled the cherry stem around her ring finger. He made a number of tries at tying it there, but, sadly, it wasn’t long enough after all, so he held it in place with his hand, clutching hers. “What in the world are you doing?” she asked. It was a good question—what was he doing? “What does it look like?” he said, and he wondered, briefly, whether he meant it, whether he would still feel this strongly about her after he’d sobered up. And he thought that he would. Surely, he would. He had the idea that he was seeing into his future, and he felt, quite naturally, at that drunken hour, that they would share it. “Are you proposing?” Sarah asked. He said, “I’m not sure that I can propose without a real ring. But at least you’ll know.” “I’ll know what?” But he was afraid to say. He stood and kissed her on the cheek. Then he gave her a kiss on the lips. They came closer and wrapped their arms around each other. The party was ending. The loft’s wall sconces came up brightly, and the music went down low, and in the harsher light he could see a line of people heading for the door to the elevator. They stood together holding hands. Their new friends were with them. Everybody said what a nice time it had been. They exchanged phone numbers and promised to be in touch. On the sidewalk in front of the building, beneath the awning, he asked Sarah, “Do you want to walk?” Her apartment wasn’t far. “Let’s walk,” she said. They went toward Broadway. Out on the avenue, the air was hotter and more humid than it had been on the terrace. A few cars and taxis drove by. He asked her which of the author’s books he should read. She said, “Everybody likes ‘Abel Kills Cain,’ but it’s not my favorite. I think you might like the new one.” They turned at the corner. There was no traffic now, and he could hear their footsteps echoing from one side of the street to the other. “I’ll bring you a copy from work,” she offered. “That’d be great,” he said. He took off his jacket and slung it over his shoulder, then undid the buttons on his shirt cuffs, first the left, then the right, and rolled the sleeves up to his elbows. The moon was bright and the sky was starless. Buildings rose above them. He put his arm around her shoulder. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Haven	Credit Photograph by Grant Cornett All this happened in the seventies, though in that town and other small towns like it the seventies were not as we picture them now, or as I had known them even in Vancouver. The boys’ hair was longer than it had been, but not straggling down their backs, and there didn’t seem to be an unusual amount of liberation or defiance in the air. My uncle started off by teasing me about grace. About not saying grace. I was thirteen years old, living with him and my aunt for the year that my parents were in Africa. I had never bowed my head over a plate of food in my life. “Lord bless this food to our use and us to thy service,” Uncle Jasper said, while I held my fork in midair and refrained from chewing the meat and potatoes that were already in my mouth. “Surprised?” he said, after “for Jesus’ sake. Amen.” He wanted to know if my parents said a different prayer, perhaps at the end of the meal. “They don’t say anything,” I told him. “Don’t they really?” he said. These words were delivered with fake amazement. “You don’t mean to tell me that? People who don’t say the Lord’s grace going over to Africa to minister to the heathen—think of that!” In Ghana, where my parents were teaching school, they seemed not to have come across any heathen. Christianity bloomed disconcertingly all around them, even on signs on the backs of buses. “My parents are Unitarians,” I said, for some reason excluding myself. Uncle Jasper shook his head and asked me to explain the word. Were they not believers in the God of Moses? Nor in the God of Abraham? Surely they must be Jews. No? Not Muhammadans, were they? “It’s mostly that every person has his own idea of God,” I said, perhaps more firmly than he’d expected. I had two brothers in college and it didn’t look as though they were going to turn out to be Unitarian, so I was used to intense religious—as well as atheistic—discussions around the dinner table. “But they believe in doing good works and living a good life,” I added. A mistake. Not only did an incredulous expression come over my uncle’s face—raised eyebrows, marvelling nod—but the words just out of my mouth sounded alien even to me, pompous and lacking in conviction. I had not approved of my parents’ going to Africa. I had objected to being dumped—my word for it—with my aunt and uncle. I may even have told them, my long-suffering parents, that their good works were a load of crap. In our house we were allowed to express ourselves as we liked. Though I don’t think my parents themselves would ever have spoken of “good works” or of “doing good.” My uncle was satisfied, for the moment. He said that we’d have to drop the subject, as he himself needed to be back at his practice doing his own good works by one o’clock. It was probably then that my aunt picked up her fork and began to eat. She would have waited until the bristling was over. This may have been out of habit, rather than alarm at my forwardness. She was used to holding back until she was sure that my uncle had said all that he meant to say. Even if I spoke to her directly, she would wait, looking at him to see if he wanted to do the answering. What she did say was always cheerful, and she smiled just as soon as she knew it was O.K. to smile, so it was hard to think of her as being suppressed. Also hard to think of her as my mother’s sister, because she looked so much younger and fresher and tidier, as well as being given to those radiant smiles. My mother would talk right over my father if she had something she really wanted to say, and that was often the case. My brothers, even the one who said he was thinking of becoming a Muslim so that he could chastise women, always listened to her as an equal authority. “Dawn’s life is devoted to her husband,” my mother had said, with an attempt at neutrality. Or, more dryly, “Her life revolves around that man.” This was something that was said at the time, and it was not always meant as disparagement. But I had not seen before a woman of whom it seemed so true as Aunt Dawn. Of course it would have been quite different, my mother said, if they’d had children. Imagine that. Children. Getting in Uncle Jasper’s way, whining for a corner of their mother’s attention. Being sick, sulking, messing up the house, wanting food he didn’t like. Impossible. The house was his, the choice of menus his, the radio and television programs his. Even if he was at his practice next door, or out on a call, things had to be ready for his approval at any moment. The slow realization that came to me was that such a regime could be quite agreeable. Bright sterling spoons and forks, polished dark floors, comforting linen sheets—all this household godliness was presided over by my aunt and arrived at by Bernice, the maid. Bernice cooked from scratch, ironed the dishtowels. All the other doctors in town sent their linens to the Chinese laundry, while Bernice and Aunt Dawn herself hung ours out on the clothesline. White from the sun, fresh from the wind, sheets and bandages all superior and sweet-smelling. My uncle was of the opinion that the Chinks went too heavy on the starch. “Chinese,” my aunt said in a soft, teasing voice, as if she had to apologize to both my uncle and the laundrymen. “Chinks,” my uncle said boisterously. Bernice was the only one who could say it quite naturally. Gradually, I became less loyal to my home, with its intellectual seriousness and physical disorder. Of course it took all a woman’s energy to keep up such a haven as this. You could not be typing out Unitarian manifestos, or running off to Africa. (At first I said, “My parents went to work in Africa,” every time a person in this house spoke of their running off. Then I got sick of making the correction.) “Haven” was the word. “A woman’s most important job is making a haven for her man.” Did Aunt Dawn actually say that? I don’t think so. She shied away from statements. I probably read it in one of the housekeeping magazines I found in the house. Such as would have made my mother puke. At first I explored the town. I found a heavy old bicycle in the back of the garage and took it out to ride without thinking of getting permission. Going downhill on a newly gravelled road above the harbor I lost control. One of my knees was badly scraped, and I had to visit my uncle at his practice attached to the house. He dealt expertly with the wound. He was all business then, matter-of-fact, with a mildness that was quite impersonal. No jokes. He said he couldn’t remember where that bike had come from—it was a treacherous old monster, and if I was keen on bicycling we could see about getting me a decent one. When I got better acquainted with my new school and with the rules about what girls there did after they reached their teens, I realized that biking was out of the question, so nothing came of this. What surprised me was that my uncle himself had not brought up any question of propriety or what girls should or should not do. He seemed to have forgotten, in his office, that I was a person who needed straightening out on many matters, or who had to be urged, especially at the dinner table, to copy the behavior of my aunt Dawn. “You went riding up there all by yourself?” was what she said when she heard about this. “What were you looking for? Never mind, you’ll soon have some friends.” She was right, both about my acquiring a few friends and about the way that that would limit the things I could do. Uncle Jasper was not just a doctor; he was the doctor. He had been the force behind the building of the town hospital, and had resisted its being named for him. He had grown up poor but smart and had taught school until he could afford medical training. He had delivered babies and operated on appendix cases in farmhouse kitchens after driving through snowstorms. Even in the fifties and sixties, such things had happened. He was relied on never to give up, to tackle cases of blood poisoning and pneumonia and to bring patients out alive in the days when the new drugs had not been heard of. Yet in his office he seemed so easygoing, compared with the way he was at home. As if in the house a constant watch were needed but in the office no oversight was necessary, though you might have thought that the exact opposite would be the case. The nurse who worked there did not even treat him with any special deference—she was nothing like Aunt Dawn. She stuck her head around the door of the room where he was treating my scrape and said that she was going home early. “You’ll have to get the phone, Dr. Cassel. Remember, I told you?” “Mmm-hmm,” he said. Of course she was old, maybe over fifty, and women of that age could take on a habit of authority. But I couldn’t imagine that Aunt Dawn ever would. She seemed fixed in rosy and timorous youth. Early in my stay, when I thought I had the right to wander anywhere, I had gone into my aunt and uncle’s bedroom to look at a picture of her, on his bedside table. The soft curves and dark wavy hair she had still. But there was an unbecoming red cap covering part of that hair and she was wearing a purple cape. When I went downstairs I asked her what that outfit was and she said, “What outfit? Oh. That was my nursing student’s getup.” “You were a nurse?” “Oh, no.” She laughed as if that would have been absurd effrontery. “I dropped out.” “Is that how you met Uncle Jasper?” “Oh, no. He’d been a doctor for years before that. I met him when I had a ruptured appendix. I was staying with a friend—I mean a friend’s family up here—and I got really sick but I didn’t know what it was. He diagnosed it and took it out.” At this she blushed rather more than usual and said that perhaps I should not go into the bedroom unless I asked permission. Even I could understand that this meant never. “So is your friend still here?” “Oh, you know. You don’t have friends in the same way once you get married.” About the time I nosed out these facts I also discovered that Uncle Jasper was not altogether without family, as I had supposed. He had a sister. She, too, had been successful in the world, at least to my way of thinking. She was a musician, a violinist. Her name was Mona. Or that was the name she went by, though her proper, baptized name was Maud. Mona Cassel. My first knowledge of her existence came when I had lived in the town for about half the school year. When I was walking home from school one day I saw a poster in the window of the newspaper office, advertising a concert that was to be given at the Town Hall in a couple of weeks’ time. Three musicians from Toronto. Mona Cassel was the tall, white-haired lady with the violin. When I got home I told Aunt Dawn about the coincidence of names and she said, “Oh, yes. That would be your uncle’s sister.” Then she said, “Just don’t mention anything about it around here.” After a moment she seemed to feel obliged to say more. “Your uncle doesn’t go for that kind of music, you know. Symphony music.” And then more. She said that the sister was a few years older than Uncle Jasper, and that something had happened when they were young. Some relatives had thought that this girl should be taken away and given a better chance, because she was so musical. So she was brought up in a different way and the brother and sister had nothing in common and that was really all that she—Aunt Dawn—knew about it. Except that my uncle would not like it that she had told me even that much. “He doesn’t like that music?” I said. “What kind of music does he like? “Sort of more old-fashioned, you could say. Definitely not classical, though.” “The Beatles?” “Oh, goodness.” “Not Lawrence Welk?” “It’s not up to us to discuss this, is it? I shouldn’t have got going on it.” I disregarded her. “So what do you like?” “I like pretty much anything.” “You must like some things better than other things.” “Let’s face it, kid. You’re never gonna be a real boy, and I’m never gonna be a made guy.”Buy the print » She wouldn’t grant more than one of her little laughs. This was the nervous laugh, similar to but more concerned than, for example, the laugh with which she asked Uncle Jasper how he liked his supper. He nearly always gave approval, but with qualifications. All right, but a bit too spicy or a bit too bland. Perhaps a little over- or possibly undercooked. Once, he said, “I didn’t,” and refused to elaborate, and the laugh vanished into her tight lips and heroic self-control. What could that dinner have been? I want to say curry, but maybe that’s because my father didn’t like curry, though he didn’t make a fuss about it. My uncle got up and made himself a peanut-butter sandwich, and the emphasis he put into this did amount to making a fuss. Whatever Aunt Dawn had served, it wouldn’t have been a deliberate provocation. Maybe just something slightly unusual that had looked good in a magazine. And, as I recall, he had eaten it all before pronouncing his verdict. So he was propelled not by hunger but by the need to make a statement of pure and mighty disapproval. It occurs to me now that something might have gone wrong at the hospital that day, somebody might have died who wasn’t supposed to—perhaps the problem wasn’t with the food at all. But I don’t think that occurred to Aunt Dawn—or, if it did, she didn’t let her suspicion show. She was all contrition. At the time, Aunt Dawn had another problem, a problem that I wouldn’t understand until later. She had the problem of the couple next door. They had moved in about the same time as I had. He was the county-school inspector, she a music teacher. They were perhaps the same age as Aunt Dawn, younger than Uncle Jasper. They had no children, either, which left them free for sociability. And they were at that stage of taking on a new community, where every prospect looks bright and easy. In this spirit they had asked Aunt Dawn and Uncle Jasper around for drinks. The social life of my aunt and uncle was so restricted, and so well known around town to be restricted, that my aunt had no practice in saying no. And so they found themselves visiting, having drinks and chatting, and I can imagine that Uncle Jasper warmed to the occasion, though without forgiving my aunt’s blunder in having accepted the invitation. Now she was in a quandary. She understood that when people had invited you to their house and you had gone you were supposed to ask them back. Drinks for drinks, coffee for coffee. No need for a meal. But even what little was required she did not know how to do. My uncle had found no fault with the neighbors—he simply did not like having people in his house, on any account. Then, with the news I had brought her, came the possibility of a solution to the problem. The trio from Toronto—including, of course, Mona—was performing at the Town Hall on one evening only. And it so happened that that was the very evening when Uncle Jasper had to be out of the house and had to stay out fairly late. It was the night of the County Physicians Annual General Meeting and Dinner. Not a banquet—wives were not invited. The neighbors were planning to attend the concert. They would have had to, given her profession. But they agreed to drop in as soon as it was over, for coffee and snacks. And to meet—this was where my aunt overreached herself—to meet the members of the trio, who would also be dropping in for a few moments. I don’t know how much my aunt revealed to the neighbors about the relationship with Mona Cassel. If she had any sense, it was nothing. And sense was something she had plenty of, most of the time. She did, I’m sure, explain that the doctor could not be present on that evening, but she would never have gone so far as to tell them that the gathering was to be kept secret from him. And what about keeping it secret from Bernice, who went home at suppertime and would surely get a whiff of the preparations? I don’t know. And, most important of all, I don’t know how Aunt Dawn got the invitation through to the performers. Had she been in touch with Mona all along? I shouldn’t think so. She surely didn’t have it in her to deceive my uncle on a long-term basis. I imagine she just got giddy and wrote a note, and took it around to the hotel where the trio would be staying. She wouldn’t have had a Toronto address. Even going into the hotel, she must have wondered what eyes were on her, and prayed that she would get not the manager, who knew her husband, but the new young woman who was some sort of foreigner and might not even know that she was the doctor’s wife. She would have indicated to the musicians that she did not expect them to stay for more than a little while. Concerts are tiring, and they would have to be on their way to another town early in the morning. Why did she take the risk? Why not entertain the neighbors by herself? Hard to say. Maybe she felt unable to carry a conversation by herself. Maybe she wanted to preen a little, in front of those neighbors. Maybe—though I can hardly believe this—she wanted to make some slight gesture of friendship or acceptance toward the sister-in-law, whom, as far as I know, she had never met. She must have gone around dazed at her own connivance. Not to mention with various crossed fingers and good-luck prayers, during those days before, when there was a danger of Uncle Jasper’s accidentally finding out. Meeting the music teacher on the street, for instance, and having her gush her thanks and expectations all over him. The musicians were not so tired after the concert as you might have expected. Or so disheartened by the small size of the Town Hall crowd, which had probably not been a surprise. The enthusiasm of the next-door guests and the warmth of the living room (the Town Hall had been chilly), as well as the glow of the cherry-colored velvet curtains that were a dull maroon in the daytime but looked festive after dark—all these things must have lifted their spirits. The dreariness outside provided a contrast, and the coffee warmed these exotic but weather-beaten strangers. Not to mention the sherry that succeeded the coffee. Sherry or port in crystal glasses of the correct shape and size, and also little cakes topped with shredded coconut, diamond- or crescent-shaped shortbread, chocolate wafers. I myself had never seen the like. My parents gave the kind of parties where people ate chili out of clay pots. Aunt Dawn wore a dress that was modestly cut, made of flesh-colored crêpe. It was the sort of dress an older woman might have worn and made look proper in a fussy way, but my aunt could not help looking as if she were taking part in some slightly risqué celebration. The neighbor wife was also dressed up, a bit more perhaps than the occasion warranted. The short, thick man who played the cello wore a black suit that was saved by a bow tie from making him look like an undertaker, and the pianist, who was his wife, wore a black dress that was too frilly for her wide figure. But Mona Cassel was shining like the moon, in a straight-cut gown of some silvery material. She was large-boned, with a big nose, like her brother’s. Aunt Dawn must have had the piano tuned, or they wouldn’t have stuck with it. (And if it seems odd that there was a piano in the house at all, given my uncle’s soon to be revealed opinions on the subject of music, I can say only that every house of a certain style and period used to have one.) The neighbor wife asked for “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik,” and I seconded her, showing off. The fact was I didn’t know the music but only the title, from studying German at my old city school. Then the neighbor husband asked for something, and it was played, and when it was finished he begged pardon from Aunt Dawn for having been so rude, jumping in with his favorite before the hostess had had a chance to ask for hers. Aunt Dawn said oh, no, not to bother about her, she liked everything. Then she disappeared in a towering blush. I don’t know if she cared about the music at all, but it certainly looked as if she were excited about something. Perhaps just about being personally responsible for these moments, this spread of delight? Could she have forgotten—how could she have forgotten? The meeting of the County Physicians, the Annual Dinner and the Election of Officers was normally over by ten-thirty. It was now eleven o’clock. Too late, too late, we both noticed the time. The storm door is opening now, then the door into the front hall and, without the usual pause there to remove boots and winter coat or scarf, my uncle strides into the living room. The musicians, in the middle of a piece, do not stop. The neighbors greet my uncle cheerfully but with voices lowered in deference to the playing. He looks twice his size with his coat unbuttoned and his scarf loose and his boots on. He glares, but not at anybody in particular, not even at his wife. And she isn’t looking at him. She has begun to gather up the plates on the table beside her, placing them one on top of the other and not even noticing that some still have the little cakes on them, which will be squashed to pieces. Without haste and without halting, he walks through the double living room, then through the dining room and the swinging doors into the kitchen. The pianist is sitting with her hands quiet on the keys, and the cello player has stopped. The violinist continues alone. I have no idea, even now, if that was the way the piece was supposed to go or if she was flouting him on purpose. She never looked up, as far as I can remember, to face this scowling man. Her large white head, similar to his but more weathered, trembles a little but may have been trembling all along. He is back, with a plateful of pork and beans. He must have just opened a can and slopped the contents out cold on the plate. He hasn’t bothered to take off his winter coat. And still without looking at anybody, but making a great clatter with his fork, he is eating as if alone, and hungry. You might think there had not been a bite of food offered at the Annual Meeting and Dinner. I have never seen him eat like this. His table manners have always been lordly, but decent. The music his sister is playing comes to an end, presumably at its own proper time. It’s a little ahead of the pork and beans. The neighbors have got themselves into the front hall and wrapped themselves in their outdoor clothes and stuck their heads in once to express their profuse thanks, in the middle of their desperation to be out of here. And now the musicians are leaving, though not in quite such a hurry. Instruments have to be properly packed up, after all; you don’t just thrust them into their cases. The musicians manage things in what must be their usual way, methodically, and then they, too, disappear. I can’t remember anything that was said, or whether Aunt Dawn pulled herself together enough to thank them or follow them to the door. I can’t pay attention to them because Uncle Jasper has taken to talking, in a very loud voice, and the person he is talking to is me. I think I remember the violinist taking one look at him, just as he begins to talk. A look that he completely ignores or maybe doesn’t even see. It’s not an angry look, as you might expect, or even an amazed one. She is just terribly tired, and her face whiter perhaps than any you could imagine. “Now, tell me,” my uncle is saying, addressing me as if nobody else were there, “tell me, do your parents go in for this sort of thing? What I mean is, this kind of music? Concerts and the like? They ever pay money to sit down for a couple of hours and wear their bottoms out listening to something they wouldn’t recognize half a day later? Pay money simply to perpetrate a fraud? You ever know them to do that?” I said no, and it was the truth. I had never known them to go to a concert, though they were in favor of concerts in general. “See? They’ve got too much sense, your parents. Too much sense to join all these people who are fussing and clapping and carrying on like it’s just the wonder of the world. You know the kind of people I mean? They’re lying. A load of horse manure. All in the hope of appearing high class. Or more likely giving in to their wives’ hope to appear high class. Remember that when you get out in the world. O.K.?” “Yes, as a matter of fact, this is one hundred per cent goose down.”Buy the print » I agreed to remember. I was not really surprised by what he was saying. A lot of people thought that way. Especially men. There was a quantity of things that men hated. Or had no use for, as they said. And that was exactly right. They had no use for it, so they hated it. Maybe it was the same way I felt about algebra—I doubted very much that I would ever find any use for it. But I didn’t go so far as to want it wiped off the face of the earth for that reason. When I came down in the morning, Uncle Jasper had already left the house. Bernice was washing dishes in the kitchen and Aunt Dawn was putting away the crystal glasses in the china cabinet. She smiled at me, but her hands were not quite steady, so that the glasses gave a little warning clink. “A man’s home is his castle,” she said. “That’s a pun,” I said, to cheer her up. “Cassel.” She smiled again, but I don’t think she even knew what I was talking about. “When you write to your mother, in Ghana—” she said, “when you write to her, I don’t think you should mention—I mean, I wonder if you should mention the little upset we had here last night. When she sees so many real troubles and people starving and that sort of thing, I mean, it would seem pretty trivial and self-centered of us.” I understood. I did not bother to say that so far there had been no reports of starvation in Ghana. It was only in the first month, anyway, that I had sent my parents letters full of sarcastic descriptions and complaints. Now everything had become much too complicated to explain. After our conversation about music, Uncle Jasper’s attention to me became more respectful. He listened to my views on socialized health care as if they were my own and not derived from those of my parents. Once, he said that it was a pleasure to have an intelligent person to talk to across the table. My aunt said yes it was. She had said this only to be agreeable, and when my uncle laughed in a particular way she turned red. Life was hard for her, but by Valentine’s Day she was forgiven, receiving a bloodstone pendant that made her smile and turn aside to shed a few tears of relief all at the same time. Mona’s candle-bright pallor, her sharp bones, not quite softened by the silver dress, may have been signs of illness. Her death was noted in the local paper, that spring, along with a mention of the Town Hall concert. An obituary from a Toronto paper was reprinted, with a brief outline of a career that seemed to have been adequate to support her, if not brilliant. Uncle Jasper expressed surprise—not at her death but at the fact that she was not going to be buried in Toronto. The funeral and interment were to be at the Church of the Hosannas, which was a few miles north of this town, out in the country. It had been the family church when Uncle Jasper and Mona / Maud were small and it was Anglican. Uncle Jasper and Aunt Dawn went to the United Church now, as most well-to-do people in town did. United Church people were firm in their faith but did not think that you had to turn up every Sunday, and did not believe that God objected to your having a drink now and then. (Bernice, the maid, attended another church, and played the organ there. Its congregation was small and strange—they left pamphlets on doorsteps around town, with lists of people who were going to Hell. Not local people, but well-known ones, like Pierre Trudeau.) “The Church of the Hosannas isn’t even open for services anymore,” Uncle Jasper said. “What is the sense of bringing her way up here? I wouldn’t think it would even be allowed.” But it turned out that the church was opened regularly. People who had known it in their youth liked to use it for funerals, and sometimes their children got married there. It was well kept up inside, owing to a sizable bequest, and the heating was up-to-date. Aunt Dawn and I drove there in her car. Uncle Jasper was busy until the last minute. I had never been to a funeral. My parents would not have thought that a child needed to experience such a thing, even though in their circle—as I seem to remember—it was referred to as a celebration of life. Aunt Dawn was not dressed in black, as I’d expected. She was wearing a suit of a soft lilac color and a Persian-lamb jacket with a matching Persian-lamb pillbox hat. She looked very pretty and seemed to be in good spirits that she could hardly subdue. A thorn had been removed. A thorn had been removed from Uncle Jasper’s side, and that could not help but make her happy. Some of my ideas had changed during the time I had been living with my aunt and uncle. For instance, I was no longer so uncritical about people like Mona. Or about Mona herself, and her music and her career. I did not believe that she was—or had been—a freak, but I could understand how some people might think so. It wasn’t just her big bones and her big white nose, and the violin and the somewhat silly way you had to hold it—it was the music itself and her devotion to it. Devotion to anything, if you were female, could make you ridiculous. I don’t mean that I was won over to Uncle Jasper’s way of thinking entirely—just that it did not seem so alien to me as it once had. Creeping past my aunt and uncle’s closed bedroom door early on a Sunday morning, on my way to help myself to one of the cinnamon scones Aunt Dawn made every Saturday night, I had heard sounds such as I had never heard from my parents or from anyone else—a sort of pleasurable growling and squealing in which there was a complicity and an abandonment that disturbed and darkly undermined me. “I wouldn’t think many Toronto people would drive way up here,” Aunt Dawn said. “The Gibsons aren’t going to be able to make it, even. He’s got a meeting and she can’t reschedule her students.” The Gibsons were the people next door. The friendship had continued but in a lower key, one that didn’t include visits to each other’s houses. A girl at school had said to me, “Wait till they make you do the Last Look. I had to look at my grandma and I fainted.” I had not heard about the Last Look, but I figured out what it must be. I decided that I would slit my eyes and just pretend. “As long as the church doesn’t have that musty smell,” Aunt Dawn said. “That gets into your uncle’s sinuses.” No musty smell. No dispiriting damp seeping out of the stone walls and floor. Someone must have got up early in the morning and come to turn the heat on. The pews were almost full. “Quite a few of your uncle’s patients have made it out here,” Aunt Dawn said softly. “That’s nice. There isn’t any other doctor in town they would do this for.” The organist was playing a piece I knew quite well. A girl who was a friend of mine, in Vancouver, had played it for an Easter concert. “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring.” The woman at the organ was the pianist who had played in the abortive little concert at the house. The cellist was sitting in one of the choir seats close by. Probably he would be playing later. After we had been settled listening for a bit there was a discreet commotion at the back of the church. I did not turn to look because I had just noticed the dark polished wooden box sitting crossways just below the altar. The coffin. Some people called it the casket. It was closed. Unless they opened it up at some point, I did not have to worry about the Last Look. Even so, I pictured Mona inside it. Her big bony nose sticking up, her flesh fallen away, her eyes stuck shut. I made myself fix that image uppermost in my mind, until I felt strong enough for it not to make me sick. Aunt Dawn, like me, did not turn to see what was happening behind us. The source of the mild disturbance was coming up the aisle and it revealed itself to be Uncle Jasper. He did not stop at the pew where Aunt Dawn and I had kept a seat for him. He went right by, at a respectful yet businesslike pace, and he had somebody with him. The maid, Bernice. She was dressed up. A navy-blue suit and a matching hat with a little nest of flowers in it. She wasn’t looking at us or at anybody. Her face was flushed and her lips tight. Neither was Aunt Dawn looking at anybody. She had busied herself, at this moment, with leafing through the hymnbook that she had taken out of the pocket of the seat in front of her. Uncle Jasper didn’t stop at the coffin; he was leading Bernice to the organ. There was a strange surprised sort of thump in the music. Then a drone, a loss, a silence, except for people in the pews shuffling and straining to see what was going on. Now the pianist who had presided at the organ and the cellist were gone. There must have been a side door up there for them to escape through. Uncle Jasper had seated Bernice in the woman’s place. As Bernice began to play, my uncle moved forward and made a gesture to the congregation. Rise and sing, this gesture said, and a few people did. Then more. Then all. They rustled around in their hymnbooks, but most of them were able to start singing even before they could find the words: “The Old Rugged Cross.” Uncle Jasper’s job is done. He can come back and occupy the place we have kept for him. Except for one problem. A thing he has not reckoned on. This is an Anglican church. In the United church that Uncle Jasper is used to, the members of the choir enter through a door behind the pulpit, and settle themselves before the minister appears, so that they can look out at the congregation in a comfortable here-we-are-all-together sort of way. Then comes the minister, a signal that things can get started. But in the Anglican church the choir members come up the aisle from the back of the church, singing and making a serious but anonymous show of themselves. They lift their eyes from their books only to gaze ahead at the altar and they appear slightly transformed, removed from their everyday identities and not quite aware of their relatives or neighbors or anybody else in the congregation. They are coming up the aisle now, singing “The Old Rugged Cross,” just like everybody else—Uncle Jasper must have talked to them before things started. Possibly he made it out to be a favorite of the deceased. The problem is one of space and bodies. With the choir in the aisle, there is no way for Uncle Jasper to get back to our pew. He is stranded. There is one thing to be done and done quickly, so he does it. The choir has not yet reached the very front pew, so he squeezes in there. The people standing with him are surprised but they make room for him. That is, they make what room they can. By chance, they are heavy people and he is a broad, though lean, man. I will cherish the Old Rugged Cross Till my trophies at last I lay down. I will cling to the Old Rugged Cross And exchange it some day for a crown. That is what my uncle sings, as heartily as he can in the space he’s been given. He cannot turn to face the altar but has to face outward into the profiles of the moving choir. He can’t help looking a little trapped there. Everything has gone O.K., but, just the same, not quite as he imagined it. Even after the singing is over, he stays in that spot, sitting squeezed in as tightly as he can be with those people. Perhaps he thinks it would be anticlimactic now to get up and walk back down the aisle to join us. Aunt Dawn has not participated in the singing, because she never found the right place in the hymnbook. It seems that she could not just trail along, the way I did. Or perhaps she caught that shadow of disappointment on Uncle Jasper’s face before he was even aware of it himself. Or perhaps she realized that, for the first time, she didn’t care. For the life of her, couldn’t care. “Let us pray,” says the minister. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Prairie Girl	Credit Photograph by Stephen Shore / “2nd Street East & South Main Street, Kalispell, Montana” When the old brothel—known as the Butt Hut—closed down, years ago, the house it had occupied was advertised in the paper: “Home on the river: eight bedrooms, eight baths, no kitchen. Changing times force sale.” The madam, Miriam Lawler, an overweight elder in the wash dresses of a ranch wife, beloved by her many friends, and famous for having crashed into the drive-up window of the bank with her old Cadillac, died and was buried at an exuberant funeral, and all but one of the girls dispersed. Throughout the long years that the institution had persevered, the girls had been a constantly changing guard in our lively old cow town. Who were they? Some were professionals from as far away as New Orleans and St. Louis. A surprising number were country schoolteachers, off for the summer. Some, from around the state, worked a day or two a week, but were otherwise embedded in conventional lives. When one of them married a local, the couple usually moved away, and over time our town lost a good many useful men—cowboys, carpenters, electricians. This pattern seemed to land most heavily on our tradespeople and worked a subtle hardship on the community. But it was supposed by the pious to be a sacrifice for the greater good. Mary Elizabeth Foley was the one girl who stayed on after the Butt Hut closed. She retained a pew at the Lutheran church, just as she had while working for Miriam. No one sat with her at first, but gradually people moved over, with expressions of extraordinary virtue. The worldly old pastor must have cited some Christian duty. It fell to Mrs. Gladstone Gander—not her real name but a moniker bestowed by others with less money—to ask the aggressive but traditional local question: “Where are you from?” Mary Elizabeth replied, “What business is it of yours?” Where was the meekness appropriate to a woman with her past? It was outrageous. From then on, the energy that ought to have been spent on listening to the service was dedicated to beaming malice at Mary Elizabeth Foley. Even the men joined in, though it was unlikely that they had entirely relinquished their lewd fantasies. Soon she had the pew to herself all over again, and greeted it each Sunday with happy surprise, like someone finding an empty parking spot right in front of the entrance to Walmart. The rest of the town was suspicious of Lutherans, anyway, and would have been more so if Gladstone Gander—not his real name—hadn’t been president of the bank that was the only lending institution in town, and if his wife had not been the recognized power behind the throne. Mary Elizabeth was a depositor at the bank and would have enjoyed modest deference on that basis, but everything changed when she eloped with Arnold, the son and only child of the banker and his wife, whose actual names were Paul and Meredith Tanner. Since it was a small town, and functioned reliably as a Greek chorus, the Tanners had never been free of the pressure of being the parents of Arnold, a gay man. Now that Arnold had married, appearances were much improved, or would be once time had burnished Mary Elizabeth’s history. In town, there were two explanations for the marriage. The first held that Mary Elizabeth Foley had converted Arnold by using tricks she had learned at the Butt Hut. The second was that she intended to take over the bank. Only the second was true, and the poor Tanners never saw it coming. But it wouldn’t have worked if Arnold and Mary Elizabeth hadn’t been in love. Mary Elizabeth was an ambitious woman, but she was not cynical. In Arnold she saw an educated lost soul. She had great sympathy for lost souls, since she thought of herself as one, too. She lacked Arnold’s fatalism, however, and briefly thought that she could bring him around with her many skills. Once she realized the futility of that, she found new ways to love him and was uplifted to discover their power. She delighted in watching him arrange the clothes hanging in his closet and guessing at his system. He had ways with soft-boiled eggs, picture hanging, checkbook balancing, and envelope slitting that she found adorable. She could watch him stalking around the house with his flyswatter in a state of absorbed rapture. He brushed her hair every morning, and played intelligent music on the radio. He had the better newspapers mailed in. Mary Elizabeth was not a social climber, but she did appreciate her ascent from vulgarity and survival. They slept together like two spoons in a drawer, and if she put her hands on him suggestively and he seemed to like it she didn’t care what he was imagining. She had been trained to accept the privacy of every dream world. When they returned from their elopement, in Searchlight, Nevada, the Tanners welcomed them warmly. After a preamble of Polonian blather, Paul Tanner said, “Mrs. Tanner and I are both pleased and cautiously optimistic going forward. But, Mary, wouldn’t your father have preferred to give you a big, beautiful wedding?” “Possibly.” “I don’t mean to pry, but who, exactly, is your father?” “What business is it of yours?” This could have been a nasty moment, but the Tanners’ eagerness to sweep Junior’s proclivities under the rug resulted in their pulling their punches, which was much harder on Mrs. Tanner, who was bellicose by nature, than on her husband. At times like this, she gave out a look that suggested that she was simply awaiting a better day. The luxury of sleeping with someone threatened Arnold’s punctilious habits. It was his first experience of sustained intimacy, and it had its consequences, which weren’t necessarily bad but were quite disruptive. Arnold was a homely man, and one local view had it that his homeliness was what had driven him into the arms of men. He had big ears and curly hair that seemed to gather at the very top of his head. He had rather darty eyes except when he was with Mary Elizabeth or when he was issuing instructions at the bank. His previous love had been the only lawyer in town who had much of a standing outside of town, and whatever went on between them did so with fastidious discretion. Their circumstances made it certain that they would never have any fun. “Where is he now?” Mary asked. “San Juan Capistrano.” “And that was the end of your affair?” “Here.” “You know I don’t mind.” And she didn’t. The sea of predators who had rolled through the Butt Hut had seen to that. “I’d like to be a good husband.” Arnold was the vice-president of the family bank and dressed like a city banker, in dark suits, rep ties, and cordovan wingtips. He had a severe, businesslike demeanor at work that put all communications, with staff and customers alike, on a formal basis. He and Mary Elizabeth lived thirteen blocks from the bank, and Arnold walked to work, rain or shine. If the former, he carried an umbrella, which was an extremely unusual object in town. Everyone knew what an umbrella was, of course, but it seemed so remarkable in this context that, on rainy days, it was as though the umbrella, not Arnold, were the one going to work. In any case, what anyone might have had to say about Arnold in town, no one said to his face. People were confused, too, by the motorcycle he rode on weekends. He did a fifty-yard wheelie down Main Street on a Saturday night that really had them scratching their heads. When Mary asked him to wear a helmet, he replied, “But then they won’t know who it is.” The last thing Paul Tanner did before he died was send Mary off to be trained in banking skills. She’d told him that she wanted to work. She went to a loan-officer and mortgage-broker boot camp and returned to town well versed in the differences between F.H.A., V.A., and conventional forward mortgages, as well as reverse mortgages and loan models. And she was going to have a baby. Arnold said, “I hope he’s a nice fellow.” “We don’t even know if it’s a boy or a girl!” “I mean, the father.” “Sweetheart, that was a joke.” “O.K., but who is he?” Mary said, “What business is it of yours?” But she quickly softened and said, “You, Arnold, don’t you see?” Paul Tanner died in his sleep, of an embolism—or something like that. Arnold wasn’t sure. He and his father had never been close and had viewed each other with detachment since Arnold was in kindergarten. Paul had been so anxious to see Mary’s baby that Arnold concluded that his father’s hopes were skipping a generation and was more pissed off than ever. But now Arnold was president of the bank, which was merely a titular change, as he had run the place for years and run it well, with a caution that allowed it to avoid some of the ruinous expansions that had recently swept the banking community. With Paul gone, Mrs. Tanner was slap in the middle of their lives, and Mary knew from the beginning that Mama was going to need a major tune-up if they were to live in peace. It happened when Mary’s water broke and labor commenced. Arnold promptly took her to the hospital and sat by her bed, grimacing at every contraction. His mother arrived in a rush and with a bustle and consumption of space that indicated that she intended to be in charge. After she had removed her coat and scarf, tossed them over the back of a chair, and bent to pull the rubbers from her red shoes, she made a point of seeming to discover Mary and said, “Breathe.” “I’ll breathe when I want to breathe.” “Of course you will, and no one is at their best going into labor.” Mrs. Tanner went to the window and raised her arms above her head. “I’m about to become a grandma!” Buy the print » Arnold and Mary glanced at each other: it was ambiguous. Was Mrs. Tanner happy to become a grandmother? Hard to say. Mary groaned through another contraction unnoticed by Mrs. Tanner, who was still at the window, craning around and forecasting the weather. Arnold was keeping track of the contractions with his wristwatch while Mary dutifully gave a passing thought to the stranger at the loan-officer school who was about to become a father. She hoped that Arnold was having a fond thought for his friend in San Juan Capistrano, and that the arriving child would help to sort out all these disparate threads. Family-wise, Mrs. Tanner already stood for the past, and it was urgent that she bugger off A.S.A.P. Arnold knew of Mary’s aversion to his mother and had survived several of Mary’s attempts to bar her from their home. “We can’t just throw her under the bus,” he said. This was an early use of the expression and Mary took it too literally, encouraged that Arnold thought such an option was in play. Mrs. Tanner turned from the window, beaming at everything and animadverting about the “new life.” Arnold winced at these remarks as sharply as he did at Mary’s contractions. Mary was just disconcerted by the number of unreciprocated statements, more bugling than dialogue. Arnold held her hand, and then leaned across so that he could hold both of her hands, while Mrs. Tanner strode the linoleum. He loved to hold Mary’s hands: they were so strong. He thought of them as farmer’s hands. Mary owed her hard hands and a confidant horsemanship to her childhood on a ranch a mile and a quarter from the Canadian border, a remote place, yet well within reach of the bank that had seized it and thrown Mary and her family into poverty. The President of the United States had told them to borrow, borrow, borrow for their business; thus, the bank had got the swather, the baler, the rock windrower, the tractor, the front-end loader, the self-propelled bale wagon, and eight broke horses and their tack, while the family had hit the road. Mary used to say that “bank” was just another four-letter word, but eventually she’d put that behind her, too. “Mrs. Tanner,” Mary said, “I seem to be oversensitive tonight. Could you stop talking?” “Is it a problem?” “Is it a problem?” Mary repeated. Arnold’s face was in his hands. “Mrs. Tanner, it is a huge problem. This is a time when people want a little peace, and you just won’t shut up. I’m about to have a baby, and you seem rambunctious.” Mrs. Tanner reassembled her winter clothes and departed. Mary looked at Arnold and said, “I’m sorry, Arnie.” The boy was born at two o’clock in the morning. Mary was exhausted and so was Arnold, who was both elated and confused but truly loving to his bedraggled wife. They had never chosen a name for the baby, thinking that it was presumptuous to do so before seeing whether it was a boy or a girl. They agreed that a list of gender-based alternatives was somehow corny. But Mary’s suggestion, based on a sudden recollection of the aspirant at loan-officer school, startled Arnold. “Pedro? I don’t think I’d be comfortable with that, Mary.” They settled on Peter, which left Mary with her glimmer of rationale and pleased Arnold, who liked old-fashioned names. Mary’s affectionate name for him, however, would always be Pedro. And, without question, he had a Pedro look to him. Mary bought a horse and, as Peter grew, Arnold spent more and more time in San Juan Capistrano; the day came when he told Mary that he would not be coming back. As foreseen as that must have been, they both wept discreetly to avoid alarming Peter, who was in the next room. They tried to discuss how Arnold would spend time with Peter, but the future looked so fractured that they were forced to trust to their love and intentions. “Will I always be able to see Peter?” Arnold sobbed. Mary was crying, too. But she knew where to put her pain. She had her boy to think of, and where to put pain was a skill she’d learned early on. “The house is yours, of course,” Arnold said with a brave, generous smile that suggested he was unaware that he was speaking to a loan officer who had already begun to do the numbers in her head. She couldn’t help it. It was her latest version of tough. “Thank you, Arnold.” “And my owning the bank with my mother means that your job is assured.” Mary loved Arnold, but this airy way of dispensing justice hurried her agenda. “Don’t you find that a little informal?” “You must mean divorce.” “I’m not the one going to San Juan Capistrano. You are.” “No doubt we’ll have to get something written up.” “This is a no-fault state. When couples split the sheets, they split them fifty-fifty.” Mary laughed heartily. “I could keep you on at the bank, Arnold, but not from California.” He’d let Mary see his origins, and Mary had reminded him of hers. Arnold sighed in concession. His mother was not pleased when she learned of her new partnership. Her mouth fell open as Mary explained the arrangement, but Mary reached across the conference-room table and gently lifted it shut. News of all this was greeted warmly as it shot around the bank. Mary learned more about banking every day. Mrs. Tanner, despite her claims at the beauty parlor, however, knew nothing except how she had come to acquire what equity she had, and she spent more and more of her time and money on increasingly futile cosmetic surgery. As a figurehead at board meetings, she wore costumes and an imitation youth that contrasted with the professionalism of Mary Elizabeth Tanner, who ran the bank with evenhanded authority. Over time, there came to be nothing disreputable about Mary whatsoever. Wonderful how dollars did that, and Mary had a little gold dollar sign on a chain around her pretty neck. Considering the hoops he had to jump through, Arnold did his very best to be Peter’s father, virtually commuting from California. This was even more remarkable once he had sold his share of the bank to Mary, since this occasioned a rupture with his own mother. Peter was consoled by the fact that his parents were now sleeping together once a month, and Arnold called him Pedro at intimate moments. He never let on to his friend in California how much he enjoyed these interludes of snuggling with Mary. Peter was already a star at little-guy soccer. Mrs. Tanner came to the games and Peter ran straight to Grandma after each game, which softened the smirk on her well-stretched face. Finally, Arnold and his mother reconciled, under the leafless cottonwoods shadowing the battered playing field, during a 3–1 win over the Red Devils of Reed Point, Montana. All the fight went out of Mrs. Tanner, who never made another board meeting but spent her life estate as she saw fit, letting her face sag, and reading bodice rippers on her porch, from which she could watch the neighbors during the warm months, and by the pool in San Juan Capistrano during the cold. Arnold got out of banking and into business, at which he did well. Arnold always did well: no one was more serious about work. Peter had a girlfriend, Mary’s hair was going gray, and Arnold’s domestic arrangements were stable most of the time, except during the winter, when his mother interfered. “She’s driving me nuts,” Arnold complained to Mary. “You’ll have to stand it,” Mary said. “She’s lonely, she’s old, and she’s your mother.” “Can’t Peter do winter sports? What about basketball?” When Mrs. Tanner’s advancing dementia and prying nature made Arnold’s companion, T.O.—tired of her referring to him as a houseboy—threaten to leave, Arnold popped her into assisted living and that was that. Mrs. Tanner did not go easily; as T.O., a burly Oklahoman, drawled, “She hung on like a bulldog in a thunderstorm.” “She’s my mother!” Arnold cried without much feeling. Before Peter left for college, Mary decided to take him to see the place where she had grown up. This was a reward, in a sense, because Peter had always asked about it. No doubt he had heard rumors concerning his mother and he wanted to confirm her ranch origins. This was straightforward curiosity, as Peter was the furthest thing from insecure. Well brought up and popular, he was the first in his family to trail neither his past nor his proclivities like a lead ball. They set out in the middle of June, in Mary’s big Lincoln, heading for the great, nearly empty stretches of northern Montana, where underpopulated counties would deny the government’s right to tax them, attempt to secede from the union, and issue their own money in the form of scrip. Some radicalized soothsayer would arise—a crop duster, a diesel mechanic, a gunsmith—then fade away, and the region would go back to sparse agriculture, a cow every hundred acres, a trailer house with a basketball backboard and a muddy truck. Minds spun in the solitude. Peter said, “Where is everybody?” “Gone.” “Where’d they go?” “Who knows.” “Is that what you did, Mom?” “I had to. We lost the place to the bank. I liked it where I was. I had horses.” “Don’t you wish you’d gone to college?” “I got an education, Peter, that’s what matters. And now I can send you to college. Maybe you can go to college in California, near Pop.” “Where did your brothers go?” Mary understood that Peter would have liked to have a bigger family. “Here and there. They didn’t stay in touch.” “Did you ever try to find them?” Mary didn’t say anything for a moment. “I did, but they didn’t want to stay in touch with me.” “What? Why’s that?” “They had their reasons.” “Like what?” Peter could be demanding. “They didn’t like what I did for a living.” “What’s wrong with working at the bank?” She thought for a moment. “Well, a bank took away our home.” Peter said, “I still think it’s totally weird. They’d better not be there.” Mary glanced over from the wheel, smiled a bit, and said, “It was a long time ago, Peter.” She watched him as he looked out the window at the prairie. She thought that he was beautiful, and that was enough. It didn’t hurt that the car was big and smelled new and hugged the narrow road with authority. She said to herself, as she had since she was a girl, “I can do this.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Citizen Conn	Credit Illustration by Jashar Awan I first met Mr. Morton Feather in the spring of 1997, just after his discharge from a weeklong stay at Cedars-Sinai, where they were treating him for cancer of the bones. Though he was at the time unknown to me even by reputation, I soon learned that my own husband had been among the millions of American boys in the nineteen-sixties whose minds were blown by Feather’s art work in comic books such as The New Frontiersmen and Mister Arcane. When, after dinner that night, I told him that I had met Mort Feather and that the old man was dying, David was so moved that he had to put aside the dish he was drying and sit down. David is a professor of plant pathology, a deliberate, reserved man, given neither to hyperbole nor to self-revelation. And yet that night, sitting in our kitchen, smoothing the dish towel flat on his thigh, my husband made the astonishing admission that he viewed his life as a perpetual struggle to retain some starry residue of the sense of wonder with which the drawings of Mort Feather had imbued his early adolescence. But I’m getting ahead of my story. When Mr. Camac, the executive director, stopped by my office that morning and suggested that I might want to look in on Mr. Feather now that he was home, the name meant almost nothing to me. I knew only that Morton Feather was one of two residents who had been in the hospital upon my arrival, two days earlier, to assume the rabbi position at Zion Pointe, an assisted-living facility nowhere near any point, spit, or, for that matter, pinnacle that I could see, on the Los Angeles side of the Santa Monica airport. The other hospitalized resident, Yetta Lichtenbaum, I had met for the first time just the day before, if it isn’t in poor taste so to put it, when I officiated—with nothing to go on but the steadfast clue of the Kaddish—at her funeral in Zion Pointe’s bare sanctuary. After Mr. Camac left, I checked the resident directory and found that Morton Feather was listed in Suite 105. That was around the corner and down the hall from my office, in the Sam and Leah Bratnick Wing. Nothing about the Zion Pointe Residence for Independent Seniors quite lived up to the pomposity of its name, in particular not the dim, low-ceilinged Bratnick Wing, originally built in the nineteen-twenties as the novitiate of a now defunct order of Catholic monks. Its walls had been painted often enough since then, in the abject pastels fashionable among nursing homes, but sometimes in the late afternoon on one wall of my office I could still see, emulsified by years of Los Angeles sunlight, the shadow of a crucifix imprinted in the dust. I tried calling Mr. Feather’s apartment. There was no answer. But an unanswered telephone, in a place like Zion Pointe, does not always mean that there is nobody home. Mr. Feather might have been deaf, or he might have been drowsing, or it might have been that simply getting up to answer the phone was more than he could manage right then. It might also have been, I knew, more than he thought he could afford. I had worked in such places long enough to learn that a kind of bunker mentality sometimes came over the residents when they were ill or trying to recuperate. I decided that I had better just drop in on Mr. Feather. I took off the gaudy Bukhara kipa I generally wore and put on a plain black velour one that matched my long black skirt. I tried to think about what I was going to say to this elderly stranger with bone metastasis. There are gifted rabbis for whom the limited vocabulary of condolence is not a handicap but a series of proven vessels into which true emotion can be poured. Not me; usually, though I tried to plan out something gentle and reflective, I ended up relying on my native chattiness to muddle through. Turning into Mr. Feather’s hall, I saw, far down at the other end of an expanse of gray-brown terrazzo, which the passage of decades of monastic sandals had polished to a liquid shimmer, a white-haired man, on his knees, at the door of what could only be Suite 105. From a distance, I could see that he was tall, even when kneeling; a lean, lanky old guy. My first brief impression—that he was repairing or tampering with the lock on the door—was quickly replaced by one of unmistakable supplication. He clutched the doorknob with both hands and seemed almost to hang from it, his head bowed, moving his lips as though the keyhole were the meatus of an ear. He was speaking urgently and reasonably, with an exasperated rasp. “I drove three hours,” he was saying. “You can give me five goddam minutes.” When he heard me coming, he looked up, his face blank, dot-eyed. He reached into the breast pocket of his blazer, navy with brass buttons, took out a yellow envelope, and slipped it under the door of 105. Then, in segments, like a carpenter’s rule, he unfolded himself to his full height. Under the blazer he wore a gray turtleneck. His hair was swept back in luxuriant furrows from the crown of his high forehead, and he wore his wide sideburns with panache. The rather dated, Dave Brubeck nattiness of his attire was spoiled only by the grin of his half-zipped trouser fly. “Mr. Feather?” I said. The former blackness of the man’s hair lingered oddly in his eyebrows, drawn across his pale forehead as if by a thick-nibbed pen. His dark eyes were deeply shadowed and rimmed with pink, and I would have said—just guessing—that something was eating at him; yet I knew, as soon as the words were spoken, that he could not be Mort Feather. Now he just looked hurt, as though the name Feather were a reproach to him. He shook his head, then inclined it toward the mute steel door of 105. “In there,” he said. He turned and walked away, the soles of his blue boat shoes squeaking against the old brown monastery floor, and disappeared around the corner without a backward glance. I rapped with the knocker. There was no reply. I drummed with my fingers. “Mr. Feather?” I called. While I waited, I noticed that the mezuzah on the lintel had come loose. It was the standard-issue Zion Pointe model, verdigris with a stylized Hebrew shalom in raised brass, half painted over by a careless brush. I tried to insert the edge of my pinky finger into the lower of the two screws but succeeded only in tearing the nail. “Mr. Feather!” I was suddenly irritated. “Mr. Feather, can you hear me? It’s Rabbi Teplitz. I came to see how you were feeling.” I pounded on the door with the heel of my hand. “Mr. Feather!” Then I had a thought. “He’s gone, Mr. Feather,” I said. The door opened almost at once, and I found myself looking not at the downy-haired wisp I had been imagining, a human plume that would be lofted into Heaven by the next puff of merciful breath from the mouth of the Most High, but a thick, squat, square-jawed teamster, crewcut and clean-shaven, smoking a fat cigar. His nose had been broken at some point, smashed flat against his face, and in his forehead, above his left eye, there were a series of deep old scars like a line of cuneiform. His shirtsleeves were rolled back to reveal a pair of wasted but sinewy brown forearms. His hair was the color of ash on an iron poker. His eyes were hidden behind murky lenses in heavy black frames. “I’m terribly sorry, Rabbi,” he said. “I meant no disrespect.” I looked down at the threshold, but the yellow envelope was not there. “Who was that man?” I said. He pursed his lips, as though the question had not occurred to him, and shrugged. “His name is Artie Conn,” he said. He moved his body to one side and gestured into the apartment. “Please come in.” I had already learned to expect very little from the rooms of old people. There were some, most of them women, who transported into the last two hundred square feet of their lives, if not the entire composition, at least a kind of abstract of their abandoned houses and histories, a terse, semi-random, incongruous summary composed of a Persian rug, a tinted studio portrait of a romantic young sailor, a Swarovski bud vase, a parakeet named half-madly for a dead husband, an accordion file jammed with forty years of recipes religiously clipped from the Times. Most people arrived, however, after the inevitable final yard sale, with only a few valises, some liquor boxes filled with rattling pictures in frames, perhaps a favorite recliner. Mort Feather slept in a tiny single bed. He kept two feet of battered, manly classics—“The Call of the Wild,” “Moby-Dick,” Kipling and Service, “Kon-Tiki,” “A Farewell to Arms,” “Microbe Hunters”—on a veneer shelf, and his dark knit shirts and tan trousers hung indistinguishably from a dozen hangers, with a single dun-colored suit, on a chrome rack in one corner. The rest of his room was occupied only by canvases and paint, by the burnt-upholstery stink of his perfecto, and by the Los Angeles sunshine that drizzled in through the raised Venetian blinds and smeared itself across every surface like Vaseline. The floor itself was draped with spattered tarpaulins. Paintings hung on the walls or leaned, stacked ten deep, against them. They seemed to be sombre paintings, green-gray and blue-gray and ochre, stung here and there with red. At the time, they struck me as purely abstract, but on subsequent visits to Mr. Feather’s room I learned to pick out a hydrant, a light-filled evening window, the spidery filigree of a fire escape. He was painting the landscape of his Brooklyn childhood. “You’re an artist,” I said. He shrugged. “More or less.” There was nowhere to sit but at the table in the breakfast nook, avocado Formica with legs and matching chairs made of white-painted curlicue iron. The kitchen was spotless, even sterile, not a plate, not a crumb of toast, no dry bit of orange pulp stuck to the side of a glass. Old men are frequently excellent housekeepers, but Mr. Feather’s kitchen looked actually unused. There were no dishtowels, no keep and battlement of pill bottles; the toaster sat unplugged, its cord neatly tied into a bundle. All this unnerved me until I remembered that Mr. Feather had just got out of the hospital. Perhaps he hadn’t had time to dirty a dish. “So, how are you feeling?” I said. He shrugged again. Aged Jews tend to shrug with practiced eloquence, expressing subtle fluctuations in the nature of their doubt. Mr. Feather’s shrug was inarticulate and curt as a child’s. The question seemed simply not to interest him. I had sat down at the kitchen table thinking he would join me, but he continued to stand, arms folded across his stout chest, regarding me. “The new rabbi,” he said. “Rabbi Teplitz.” “Rebecca,” I said. I waited to see what he would say next. Some of the male residents of Zion Pointe had chosen to make jokes on our first being introduced. These men were inveterate, miscellaneous jokers, not overly concerned with matters of religion, orthodoxy, or the state of their souls. Others had offered, with a dash that I found touching, remarks, typical of their generation, that toed an artful line between salacity and gallantry. And then there were those who had felt moved, either on the spot or—after taking some time to reflect and make notes—in my office, to deliver themselves of wild, unanswerable orations, complete with hand gestures and table-poundings, on all the things I could not possibly know about life, the Torah, and the State of Israel, and on my evident personal shortcomings relative to the previous (old, male) rabbi, or, in one case, on the secret, malign accords between Hitler and Cordell Hull, F.D.R.’s Secretary of State during the Second World War. “Can I make you some tea, Rabbi?” Mr. Feather said. Naturally, I wanted to reply that he ought not to bother, that he should just sit down and rest and let me put the kettle on for him. But over the years I had seen enough of the assiduous cruelty of children and grandchildren, in suppressing old people’s vivid hunger for bother, to know better. “Tea would be nice,” I said. I looked around the kitchen for some hint, some way into his history and life. In vain I searched the mugs, hanging on hooks from the bottom of a cabinet, for the names of favorite vacation spots, for bits of corny wisdom, for testimonials or messages from co-workers or grandchildren. The pot holder on its hook was plain green terry. It had not been woven out of colored elastic bands on a plastic loom at a summer camp. The lone refrigerator magnet read, in cheery blue script, with impenetrable circularity, “Zion Pointe.” It was not currently in use; there were no to-do lists, no prescriptions, not a single scrap of paper or photograph. The wall clock was as anonymous as a bus station’s. “Do you have any children, Mr. Feather?” I tried. “A wife?” “I was never married.” He took the kettle from the stove. It rattled with the mysterious beads that can materialize over time from a stream of clear water. “I have no family to speak of within a thousand miles of here. I have no friends.” He set the kettle back on the burner and turned on the flame. He made a dark, scraping sound that alarmed me for a moment until I realized that he was laughing. “But at least I have my health.” He took a box of Red Rose tea from a cabinet. There was only one tea bag left. He dangled it between us like a hypnotist’s watch. “We’ll have to share,” he said. I said that would be fine. When he opened the cabinet under the sink, to throw away the empty box, I saw, poking from the mouth of the garbage can, the yellow envelope that the tall man had slipped under the door. Mr. Feather jabbed at it with a finger, then turned and glanced at me over his shoulder, looking . . . not guilty, exactly. Apprehended; caught in the act. “What is it?” I said. I had long since trained myself not to worry about the question of whether something was any of my business. “What’s in the envelope, Mr. F.?” He let out a long sigh, and fished the yellow envelope back out of the trash. He stood up, weighing it, tapping its sharp corners with the pads of his fingers. Then he handed it over. “You tell me,” he said. He opened a drawer, rifled through it, and came out with a small paring knife. While I slit the envelope at the flap, he took off his glasses and wiped them on the hem of his paint-spattered polo shirt, affecting unconcern. “It’s a check,” I said. “Oh, my goodness.” “How much?” he said. “How much did I throw away?” “Oh, my gosh.” “How much?” “A hundred and fifty thousand dollars.” He nodded and put his glasses back on. “Mr. Feather, I . . . I know you’ve been in the hospital. . . . Is it possible—” “That what? That the painkillers are clouding my thoughts?” He was teasing me. I lowered my voice and tried to reassume a measure of the clerical authority that had dissipated in my rather teen-aged amazement at the sum. “Mr. Feather,” I said. “You cannot throw this check away.” “I don’t need it. I don’t want it. I won’t accept it.” The kettle began to whistle. He let it go. “I’m not going to take one dime from Artie Conn.” I looked at the check again and saw that it had been drawn from the account of Nova Publications, Inc., at 323 Third Avenue, New York. “It’s not from Artie Conn,” I said. “It’s from these people.” I held the check out to him, pointing to the account holder’s name. “Nova Publications.” “It’s from him,” he said. “He put them up to it.” Then he held out his hand, palm upward. I looked at him, knowing what he intended to do. The kettle went on squandering its contents in an endless shrill alarum, as if registering its protest over what was about to happen. I shook my head. He nodded. I laid the check on his upturned palm. “Thank you,” he said. He tore the check in half, then crumpled the halves together and tossed the little blue ball into the trash. He shut off the flame under the kettle, and the screeching of the valve sputtered and died. “You look sicker than me,” he said. He had, I had gathered, a dour, gravelly sense of humor. “Please, tearing it up gives me so much more naches than spending it ever could. What could I buy? What good would it do?” “You could give it to charity,” I said. “If that’s how you feel.” “That isn’t how I feel,” he said. “Those are just ancillary arguments. How I feel is, if this cigar here hadn’t gone out, and I hadn’t left my matches in the other room, I would have lit that check on fire, just to show you how I feel.” “There goes that new-car smell”Buy the print » I pointed to the stove. “The burners,” I said, trying to get into the spirit. “Yeah, well, I think the moment has passed,” he said. “But you get the idea. Lemon or milk?” “Lemon.” “I don’t have lemon. And I think my milk maybe turned while I was gone.” I said I would take my tea plain. That night, in our own message-rich, sauce-spattered kitchen, David told me what he knew of the story of Feather and Conn. They had worked together for some twenty-five years, from after the war until the end of the sixties, in obscurity and in fame, affixing their names, in that time, to both phantasmagoria and crap. For thirteen years they had toiled away at Nova Publications, a strictly-from-hunger house that climbed onto every bandwagon to come rolling through the world of comics—grisly horror, true romance, Western, and crime—until one fateful day in 1959 when Sol Geisler, the owner and publisher, on the verge of closing down the Nova shop for good, received a fateful letter. It had been sent by Geisler’s accountant to one of his chief competitors, Century Comics, but some dizzy secretary had stuck it into an envelope addressed to Nova. The letter informed Century, in warm terms, in case they did not already know it, that business was looking very good. Not long before this, out of sheer desperation, Century had begun to revive a number of the costumed crime-fighter characters that had been so popular before and during the war. Now those books were, to the surprise of Sol Geisler no less than that of the accountant he shared with Century Comics, beginning to sell. That afternoon, Geisler called his only remaining employees, Feather and Conn, into his office and showed them the misaddressed letter. “Boys,” he told them, though they were no longer boys at all, “it’s time to dust off the long-underwear types.” They started with the old Black Diamond, Nova’s biggest star during the war years. Today you can buy a tattered, yellowed copy of the first issue of The New Adventures of the Black Diamond, dated January, 1960, for about twenty thousand dollars. The Elf and a few other revivals followed, then Feather and Conn began to create new characters, drawn from world mythology and the principles of physics and chemistry. The canvas grew broad, encompassing other galaxies and planes of reality; the characters, cranky and pixilated and neurotic in a hip, late-fifties style, approached, for the first time in the history of comic books, three dimensions. All that was part of the legend of Feather and Conn, a legend crafted, in large part, by Artie Conn, who in the mid-sixties had begun to incorporate himself and Mort Feather into the stories he wrote, interacting with the jiving young New Frontiersmen or the irascible Elf. In the comics Feather and Conn were always depicted as friends on the Abbot and Costello model, quarrelling, trading insults, but ever, at bottom, bosom pals. When, in an issue of The Elf, Conn was thrown into the Daliesque Impossible Zone, Feather risked his life to get his partner out. Their long association was a key part of the legend. Another part—its Ragnarök, I suppose—was the tale of how, at the peak of their success, with Nova Publications an expanding empire bringing in tens of millions of dollars a year, Feather and Conn were asked by Nova’s lawyers to sign away any claim they might ever attempt to make on the characters they had created for Nova, in exchange for a sizable cash payment. The lawyers approached them separately—the fertile partnership of Feather and Conn had never been formalized and would not have been recognized by a court of law. Feather refused; he hired an attorney and instructed him to begin looking into the possibility of renegotiating the Feather-and-Conn contract to include payment of royalties on comics featuring their characters. Conn, however, who was feeling the bite of alimony and bad investments, agreed to sign the Nova release. When Feather heard that his partner had sold them out, he called his lawyer. “Never mind,” he told him. “I’ll sign the damn paper.” From that moment on, David told me, Feather’s work began to fade and cheapen. His attention wandered—the flame had gone out. The final gruesome scene of the Feather-and-Conn saga was the day that Artie Conn went to tell Mort Feather that Nova was not going to renew his contract for 1969—was going, in other words, to fire him. “It was the saddest day of my life, when I heard,” David said, trying to sound self-mocking but unable to conceal the nerdly pain of it. “Way sadder than when the Beatles broke up. And now I can’t believe that one day soon you’re going to come home from work and tell me that Mort Feather is dead.” “He’s getting treatment,” I said. “But I don’t get the impression that they’re holding out an awful lot of hope.” “Just do me a favor, then,” David said. “Keep an eye on him for me.” So, for the next few weeks, I tried to keep an eye on Mr. Feather. I saw that although he was unfailingly cheerful, polite, and even solicitous toward the other residents, he did not seem to hang around with them very much. I never saw him playing cards, chess, or Scrabble. He wasn’t part of the lobby crowd, or of the bored and ravenous gang that filled the chairs outside the dining room at four o’clock every afternoon and sat around complaining about the food until five, when dinner was served. He was, without question, the most talented artist at Zion Pointe, but he never seemed to go to the art room or to avail himself of any of the equipment or supplies; he always bought his own, and when Zion Pointe held its annual art show there was not a single Mort Feather for sale. Mr. Feather attended services only once—he was not, he had informed me, “the type.” It was on the Saturday morning that followed my visit to his kitchen. He showed up in his lone, brown suit, shiny at the elbows, with a wide brown 1974 necktie. During the Torah reading, he came up to the bimah, as I had invited him to do, and handled his aliyah with toneless and desultory ease, his Ashkenazic pronunciation of the Hebrew words rich and pungent, packed in oil. When he finished his pair of blessings, I offered him the traditional congratulations, and as we shook hands I saw what I took to be a hint of gratitude in his eyes, as though, to his surprise, he were taking genuine comfort in hearing the Saturday-morning prayers again after the passage of twenty or thirty years. But he never came back to my little shul behind the gift shop, with its windows of Lucite stained glass and the ever-spreading empire of names on its memorial wall. Thereafter I seemed to see him only at mealtimes—he’d sit with the younger men, the ones who went in for lawn bowling, poker, and dabbling in the stock market, letting them do most of the talking. And every so often I’d see him in the media center. He was a big Burt Lancaster fan; when “The Killers” turned up on one of the classic-movie channels, I think he must have caught every single showing of it. One Saturday, David came to the morning service—my husband, it had turned out, much to our mutual regret, was not “the type,” either—and afterward I arranged for him to meet the idol of his youth. The three of us went down to the dining room, and while the men started chatting I fetched us each a cup of coffee and a slice of coffee cake. The coffee was not good at Zion Pointe, but I had quite a little thing for the coffee cake. It was crumbly and moist, sandy on top, and, as coffee cake ought to be, distinctly salty. I ate two pieces of it while they sat discussing the imaginary adventures of invented heroes who wore tights and armor and fought megalomaniacal psychopaths with names that sounded like skin conditions. “When Fenris ate the sun,” David said (or something like that, don’t ask me), “Christ.” He shook his head, lost in admiration for the stunning vistas and cataclysms that had once flowed from Mort Feather’s pen. “Yes, Fenris was lots of fun,” Mr. Feather said grimly. “But wolves are tricky. In real life they don’t look the way they do in people’s minds. They’re actually sort of sweet-faced animals. You draw an accurate wolf, people tend to think it’s a dog.” “Interesting,” David said. “I took Fenris from the Norse myths,” Mr. Feather said. “I used to have a book.” He sipped at his cup of coffee, wincing a little. He didn’t seem to be enjoying the homage David had come to pay him. When I’d first mentioned to him that my husband was a fan, a funny look had crossed his face, at once irritated and pitying, as if, for my sake, he would be willing to take my arrested adolescent of a husband off my hands for an hour or two. Now, as David plied him with intricate and silly questions and heartfelt flattery, Mr. Feather seemed to shift and fidget in his chair. He was a man of gravitas, inert and contemplative, and not the type to squirm or tap his feet in impatience. Nevertheless, I could see that David’s enthusiasm for his four-color masterworks of thirty-five years ago was making him uncomfortable. Finally, David noticed it, too. “I’m sorry,” he said, laying down the fork that he had been happily waving around. “I guess you must be pretty tired of talking about all this stuff.” “Not at all,” Mr. Feather said. “If the circumstances were different, I’m sure I’d be able to look back on my career in comic books with a good deal of pride and affection. But, unfortunately, for various reasons, which, I hope you’ll forgive me, I prefer not to discuss, I can’t think about that time or my work then with anything but a bitter taste in my mouth. A taste of ashes. It’s all ruined for me. That’s the sorry truth.” It was hard to know just what to say after this speech, but Mr. Feather solved the problem for us by pushing his tray away from him, the cake uneaten, the coffee half drunk, and standing up. He signed the paperback copy of something called “The Black Grimoire: A Mr. Arcane Treasury” that David had bought that morning at Hi-De-Ho Comics, shook his hand, and then walked, with his rolling, scrapper’s gait, out of the dining room. Mr. Feather had not been gone for more than a minute or two when Artie Conn wandered in, holding a rolled-up magazine in one hand and squinting a little as he scanned the tables. When he saw me, he blushed and looked as if he might be on the point of backing out. I would have been willing to let him go; whatever his quarrel with his old partner was, until Mr. Feather asked me for help it was not really any business of mine. But I had noticed that there tended, even among the least observant Jews, to be something about my presence, as a rabbi, that struck people as ineluctable. Men with no faith, women with nothing in their hearts but guilt, rage, or the accumulated inky soot of years of fierce denial, had crossed crowded ballrooms and airports to give me the opportunity to condemn them or force them to confess. This was never my intention, of course, but often enough, for better or worse, it was my accomplishment. “That’s him,” I said, in a low voice, as Mr. Conn ran his fingers through his longish hair, then started toward our table. “I know,” David said. “Wow.” “Hiya,” Mr. Conn said, with a smile that was pleasant if somewhat formally so—the execution was flawless, but the intent was just not there. He looked as if he hadn’t slept; silver whiskers spangled his cheeks. “You’re the new rabbi, aren’t you? Last time I was here, they told me—” “I’m Rabbi Teplitz. This is my husband, David.” “It’s a real honor, Mr. Conn.” “You know who I am?” He looked childishly pleased; then, again like a child, he pouted. “You’ve been talking to Feather.” He smacked the palm of his left hand with the rolled-up magazine. “Look, I don’t know what he might have told you, Rabbi, but until you hear my side of the story”—he showed me his great gray capped teeth—“you can’t send me to Hell just yet.” “He hasn’t said a word about you,” I said. I was always a little uneasy when people started talking about going to Hell, a concept from which we Jews have been trying to distance ourselves since the day we invented it. “David here is one of your biggest fans.” “A fan, eh?” This time the smile came off brilliantly. He pumped David’s hand up and down. “Well, if you know a little about me, then you’ll probably appreciate this.” He unrolled the magazine and thrust it toward us with both hands. It was called The Comics Journal; it was nothing I had ever seen before. On the cover there was a large, unfriendly, accurate caricature of the very man to whom we were speaking—the big teeth, the Arthur Fiedler locks, the good-natured hipster leer—and the words, in big, excited blue capitals, “CITIZEN CONN,” and, beneath this, in smaller letters, “THE COMPLETE GARY GROTH INTERVIEW,” and, still smaller, at the bottom, “JIVING WITH ARTIE ABOUT LIFE, THE NEGAVERSE, AND THE STRAIGHT DOPE ON MORT FEATHER.” “That’s great,” I said, not understanding, and feeling, to be frank, a certain reluctance, inspired by the whole idea of an apparently serious journal devoted to comic books, to understand. “You’re on the cover.” “That isn’t the important part, sweetheart.” He peeled back the magazine to a page where several paragraphs, set in small type, had been highlighted in fluorescent green, then he handed it to David, having apparently given up on me. I leaned in to read over David’s shoulder. “Here,” Conn said, tapping the page, solemn, even, I thought, a little bashful. “And if you think that didn’t cost me you’re wrong.” The highlighted paragraphs made up the bulk of Mr. Conn’s reply to questions from the interviewer about the role that Mort Feather had played in the creation or reformulation of the New Frontiersmen, Mr. Arcane, the Black Diamond, the Elf, and the other “classic” characters on which Nova Publications’ success had been founded. For years now, apparently, comic books published by Nova that starred these and other costumed heroes made famous by Feather and Conn always featured a banner on the first page saying that they were “Artie Conn Productions.” Although Artie Conn was still strongly associated with Nova, a company to which he had devoted nearly fifty years of his life and of which he was the living symbol, and although Feather had long since severed his ties with the firm, a number of people—my husband among them—felt that the absence of Feather’s name from the books he had helped pioneer almost forty years earlier was certainly inaccurate, arguably dishonest, probably an attempt to keep Feather away from the profits, and perhaps a reflection of Artie Conn’s intention to aggrandize his own role in the story of Nova’s success. Conn was viewed as hogging the glory, stealing the credit, or, according to the charitable construction my husband put on the situation, as a fairly talented but deeply insecure man envious of the indisputable genius of his erstwhile friend. The interviewer wanted to know, once and for all: just how much of the early Nova stuff was Mort Feather responsible for? A: Well, that’s a question I get a lot, as you know. And over the years maybe, maybe I haven’t been quite as—as forthcoming as I might have been about the part Morty played in all that. There are various reasons I could go into, and God knows the amateur psychologists and armchair inquisitors have been pretty much hanging me in effigy for years over this. But now I would like to take this opportunity to set the record straight. The Frontiersmen, the Elf, all those great characters and ideas were as much Morty’s doing as my own. We were partners. We had a great working relationship. And I think that’s what I’ve always said. Q: So, given that, is there any chance of getting the tagline in the books changed to read “A Feather and Conn Production”? A: Gary, to tell you the truth, I’m working on that very thing. But of course it isn’t up to me. I’m only the editor emeritus. “I just want him to see this,” Mr. Conn said. “But the bastard won’t even take my calls. Pardon me, Rabbi. He won’t see me. I write him letters, they come back. I arranged for him to receive an extremely generous settlement from Nova, a regular annual income from the royalties. Royalties! Nobody in our generation got royalties!” His voice rose in exasperation to a schoolboy alto, then sank to an incredulous whisper: “He never even cashed the check.” “He tore it up, actually,” I said. “I was there.” “You let him tear up that check? Did he tell you how much it was for, that check?” I was obliged to confess that, in fact, he had. “And you just, forgive me, Rabbi, but you just sat there and let him tear up a check for a hundred and fifty thousand dollars?” He turned to David, who was slicing an apple with his Swiss Army knife. It was an elaborate affair, with thirty-three different tools and implements, but, as far as I could tell, David never used it for anything but slicing apples and tightening screws. My husband now nodded, disloyally, I thought, as if he, too, were appalled by my acquiescence in a wanton act of check vandalism. But before I could begin to defend myself Conn was backtracking. He patted me on the arm. “Don’t worry about it, it’s all right,” he said. “I know how he is. Believe you me.” He gave his head a bitter shake. “Look, Rabbi, I need your help. He needs your help, too. The man is sick, you know that. He’s dying. I talked to his nephew, Jerry. He lives in New York. The doctor gives Mort a month, maybe two. So I really need to make this right with him. It’s been eating at me for years.” I looked over at David, who was regarding me now with such hope, with such patent belief in my ability to reconcile these old partners and antagonists, that I, who knew my own limitations much better than I had ever allowed my husband to, was ashamed. “All right, then,” I said. “We might as well go see him now.” In the two months since my first visit to his apartment, Mort Feather’s mezuzah had not been tightened, or else it had come loose again. It looked as though a single good slam of the door would be enough to send it tumbling from the jamb. “Fix that, will you?” I snapped. “It’s really bugging me.” David went to work with alacrity, always happy for an excuse to employ his marvellous Swiss knife, but in particular when people were getting ready to start hurling emotions around. “Mr. Feather?” I tapped three times quickly. “Mr. Feather, can you hear me? It’s Rabbi Teplitz. Mr. Feather, I have Mr. Conn here with me.” There was no reply. “Mr. Feather, I’ve spoken with Mr. Conn at some length now, and I sincerely believe that his desire to reconcile with you is genuine.” You are remarkably eloquent, I told myself, when confronted only with the cool smooth metal of a door. “Mr. Feather, please.” Not without gentleness, Artie Conn brushed me aside and then pounded savagely on the door ten times. “Morty! Morty, God damn you, for Christ’s sake, open up!” We waited. When nothing happened, Mr. Conn sagged a little, as though one of his knees had given out, and rested his forehead against the wall beside the door. “Maybe he isn’t there,” I said. “Maybe he’s resting.” “He’s there. He hears.” We waited for another minute or so, and then it was clear that we had to give up. I unrolled the magazine again, smoothed it out, and promised that I would deliver it personally to Mr. Feather. “What more does he want from me?” Mr. Conn said softly. “What more can I do?” I reached out and put my hand on his shoulder, carefully at first, and then, when he seemed not to notice, with greater weight and tenderness. “Be patient,” I told him. “I’m sure that we can settle this eventually.” He nodded, slumping against me, almost visibly putting his trust in me. Then David and I walked him down the hall to the lobby and out into the hazy dazzle of the parking lot. It was a brilliant afternoon. A bulbous old propeller liner, like something out of “Casablanca,” droned into the sky overhead. We shook hands, and he started toward his car, something tiny and green, a Triumph or an Alfa Romeo. “You tell him for me,” he said, forming his hand into an inarticulate fist. “I’m not giving up. I’m going to give him peace before he dies if it kills him.” He grinned and waved, already recovering a measure of what I took to be a habitual jauntiness. Then he worked his big frame into his miniature vehicle. He swerved out of the parking lot, his engine rattling and coughing, and then shot, with a stylish little squeal of tires, onto the boulevard, toward the 405 and San Diego, the place to which he had, by and large, retired from the comic-book business three years before. We went back to Mr. Feather’s door, and this time, unencumbered by Artie Conn, managed to gain instant admittance. The paintings—closeups of manhole covers with their cryptic labyrinthine pattern of raised welts, loving roseate sunsets that turned out to be the sheen and scuff on a spaldeen—had multiplied; there were so many of them now that the artist had been obliged to carve a trail, as it were, among them, that would permit access to the kitchen table, where David and I now sat down. Mr. Feather cleared a stack of canvases from a third chair that, I imagined, had not held a human behind since he took up residence in Suite 105, and settled himself, looking composed, relaxed, not in the least apprehensive or, to be honest, especially interested in what I had to say. I showed him the magazine, and encouraged David to display his enthusiasm for this long-overdue and considerable gesture that Mr. Conn had made, in a respected journal that was widely read, as David had given me to understand, by the leading opinion-makers in the comics field. “When somebody finally does the right thing, you have to give him credit for it,” I told him. “Even if it took him thirty years or more to get around to it. People change, Mr. Feather.” This was something that, in the face of a good deal of evidence to the contrary, I truly did believe, fundamentally, as a matter of faith. “I think that Mr. Conn sincerely wants to make it up to you. I really do. I think that this article and the money are proof of that.” Mr. Feather listened politely, nodding his head, his big knuckly hands with their expressive fingers spread contentedly on the tops of his knees. He even managed a small but congenial smile. “Screw the money,” he said pleasantly. “Screw the credit, too.” I was stunned. I thought of those words from the thirty-second chapter of Exodus, that famous expression of divine exasperation: “I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiff-necked people.” What had Conn done to Feather that the latter found so unforgivable, irredeemable by emolument, by statements of praise and credit, by the persistent efforts of heartfelt remorse? What hurt could so engross a man that he would determine to carry it with him to the grave? David nudged my foot with his, and then, when that failed, gave my knee a squeeze. I guess no one in the room had said anything for quite some time. “What is it that you want?” I said finally, not bothering to conceal my irritation with this stiff-necked man. “If it isn’t a matter of money, and the credit isn’t important to you, what is? What is it going to take to get you to forgive Artie Conn?” Mr. Feather shrugged, another of his unintelligible shrugs. “Nothing,” he said. “What I wanted from him he couldn’t give me. But it was never a matter of getting the credit. And God knows it ain’t the money.” “What is it?” I said, feeling a little silly at how girlish my voice came out sounding. “Can you tell us?” He shook his head, looking sorry to have to let me down. “If I tried to put it into words,” he said, haltingly, with a wince that might well have been the product of the excruciating pain that was ringing in his bones, “I’d sound like an idiot. Which I’m not. And neither is he. He knows. He ought to know. Deep in his heart, he knows what he did to me.” Mr. Conn made one last attempt to earn the forgiveness of Mr. Feather. He showed up in my office at Zion Pointe on a Tuesday, quite early. I had been called into the hospital at five that morning to be there as one of my old women died. The woman’s daughter and son-in-law were coming down from Calabasas to meet with the funeral director in my office. The dead woman—her name was Mae—had been a favorite of mine, but, beyond that, caring for the dead was the most important part of my job. After my meeting with the family and the funeral director, I was going to head over to the funeral home on Pico and sit with Mae’s body for the rest of the day, praying: this was not my duty so much as Mae’s right. I had just sat down in my office, hoping to get in a few minutes of meditation, maybe even a catnap, before the Weintraubs showed up to start the day’s work of handing Mae on from this world to the next, when Mr. Conn walked in. Actually, when he walked in I was crying. I always allowed myself to feel sad, if I was feeling sad, when somebody went; in that kind of congregation you had to, or you’d harden and snap. Mr. Conn did not notice, at first, that I was crying. He was very excited when he walked in, agitated, happy, and angry at the same time, in a way that unnerved me. He had on a chocolate-and-vanilla striped seersucker suit with a knit polo shirt, sky blue. There was a stain on the polo shirt, at the belly, that I suspected was refried beans. He’d knocked on my door—for symbolic reasons I tried always to keep my door open—and then, before I could even ask him to wait a minute, he’d poked in his head and said, “Rabbi Teplitz? Have you maybe got a minute?” “Well . . .” “Just one minute.” He had eased more than half of himself into my office by then, and though the dispute between Feather and Conn struck me at that moment as a vain and picayune business, I could hardly turn him away. “Actually, more like, say, seven minutes.” He was not a part of my official congregation, but he was a member of my ordained one. “I’ve gone way out on a limb here, Rabbi.” He brandished a videocassette on whose label the words “VICTORY AT SEA—PART 2” had been scrawled in black Magic Marker and then crossed out. His Tony Bennett sideburns needed a trim; they were beginning to curl at the ends, just a little, into inadvertent payot. “You’ve gone out on a limb, Mr. Conn?” “Way out.” “And it was all captured on videotape?” “I went on television,” he said. “Maybe you saw me?” He named the host of a talk show that I had heard of but never seen. I shook my head. “I don’t see a lot of TV.” “Are you—what’s the matter, sweetheart? Why are you crying?” He leaned over the desk and gave me a few stiff pats on the head. One of his sleeve buttons clinked my earring. “There, there,” he said. “I’m fine.” I waved him to a chair, blew my nose, fixed my kipa more firmly with its silver hairpin. “Please sit down.” “Did you eat something?” “I’m not hungry.” “You have to eat,” he said. I said I would have something in a little while. “So, you went out on a limb on television.” He opened his mouth, then seemed to think better of trying to explain. He looked around, at the black steel bookshelves freighted with argument and prayer, at the small table, formerly the property of some young monk, that held my printer and fax machine, at the file cabinet stuffed with mimeographed liturgy, minutes of board meetings, and yards of comfort and inspiration culled from the wise and long-suffering saints of many peoples, alphabetized by tribulation, milestone, and stage of grief. His eyes alighted finally on a defunct slab of Japanese circuitry sitting on top of the file cabinet. “That a VCR?” “It’s broken. We’ll have to go down to the media center.” “Please,” he said. He got up from the chair. “Seven minutes and thirteen seconds, that’s all it’ll take.” I thought about begging off, telling him that I had important work to do, that Mae Horvitz had died and there were preparations to be made. I was shocked by his egotism, by the selfishness of his single-minded obsession with obtaining Feather’s forgiveness. But then, I reminded myself, there was no reason for this old man to have a clearer idea of the tragedies going on around him than anybody else did. “All right,” I said. “I’ll watch your tape.” In the hall, he surprised me by taking my arm, not out of courtliness but because he needed somebody to lean on. He had lost weight; the skin of his jowls was crêpey and trembling. The weight of him on my arm was negligible. He seemed to have endured the final stages of Mort Feather’s illness less well than the patient himself, whose grip remained vigorous, his flesh hale, his appetite for the kitchen’s dubious cooking unimpaired. “I don’t have any illusions about getting Mort to watch this myself,” he said. “I bet the bastard doesn’t even have a television.” “No, you’re right, he doesn’t.” “But after I leave here today I would like for you to show this to him.” He tapped the cassette with a confident finger. “Make sure he sees it. I wonder if you would do that for me, Rabbi? It would mean a lot to me.” “Of course,” I said. “There’s no way he’ll be able to keep it up,” Conn said. “Not after he sees this.” We went into the media center. Two of the residents, Betty Firestone and Sally Gabler, sat deeply absorbed in a program about the death of Sal Mineo. It was only with difficulty, and repeated, half-disbelieved assurances that the gentleman on my right arm was an eminent publisher of children’s magazines, whose recent appearance on a well-known talk show they were now going to be able to enjoy, that I was able to wrest control of the remote from Betty. I put in the tape, and we sat down to watch. “That is him,” Sally allowed. “I’ve never heard of this program,” Betty said. “What is this program?” “Sh-h-h,” I said. The talk show’s host and Artie Conn chatted amiably for five minutes about the imminent release of the long-overdue Hollywood adaptation of Mister Arcane that was the pretext for the interview, starring Kevin Kline in the title role (perfect casting, my husband thought). Whoever was in charge of making up Artie Conn had done a hasty job of it, and though I told him that he came off very well, I thought that he looked ghastly. There was a large bloody nick on his throat, and a corresponding red blossom on his shirt collar. At last, as if cautiously, the host dared to raise the subject of Conn’s old partner, Mort Feather. His name, it was said, had been included in the credits of the upcoming film—which would read “Based on the character created by Mort Feather and Artie Conn.” It was furthermore said that this gesture came at the personal insistence of Artie Conn himself. Was this true? And what was Mort Feather up to these days? Were they in touch? What was the truth behind those old stories of ill-feeling and resentment? Had they ever attempted a rapprochement? “Are they talking about Morton Feather my neighbor?” Betty wanted to know. She lived in Suite 107. “Does he know Mort Feather?” Sally asked me, pointing to the flesh-and-blood Artie Conn beside her. “They’re old friends,” I said. “Another reckless baby driver! I’d arrest the whole lot of them if they weren’t so damn cute.”Buy the print » “Yes!” the televised Mr. Conn told the host, pouncing on the question, hunching forward in his swivel chair as if the host had just played right into his hands. “I have tried to patch things up with Mort. I have seen to it that he be paid for his work at Nova in the sixties, that he receive published credit in every issue of a comic book featuring a character that he and I developed, that people all over the world hear it straight from my lips that I never could have done it without him.” A grin, yellow and nauseating. “But now I see that nothing short of a full confession is ever going to satisfy that man.” The host of the program raised a renowned luxuriant eyebrow: a confession? That sounded interesting. Not to Betty Firestone and Sally Gabler, who had lost interest and left the room, never to hear the previously unrevealed eyewitness testimony about Sal Mineo’s last hours on earth that they had been promised. “For thirty-odd years now,” Mr. Conn, on television, went on, “I have allowed the world to believe that the New Frontiersmen, Mister Arcane, and all those other great characters were the product of my own inspiration. But now I would like to set the record straight.” His tone was light and sardonic. This tone had been a well-known and well-liked quality, I knew, of his writing. “I had nothing to do with any of it. Mort Feather did all the work. He created the characters, he designed them, he invented their histories and their powers and came up with all those villains they fought. I never did anything but tinker with the words before they went into the little balloons.” He smiled a lipless smile. “Yep, it was all Mort.” The interviewer, solemn-faced, hush-voiced, now offered Artie a chance to abase himself. Artie took it. He said that it felt very good, finally, to get all this off his chest. While he talked, I watched the live Artie Conn. He slouched in his chair, hands pressed together on either side of his nose, watching himself. His eyes were alight with a strong emotion of some sort, but I could not determine which. Pride would have been my guess; pride, flickering. Then the segment ended and dissolved, in a foam of pixels, into a carrier battle group on the Leyte Gulf. Mr. Conn got up and stopped the tape. “That’s it,” he said. He rewound the tape, returned it to its sleeve, and handed it to me. He was watching my face, looking for my reaction to his feat of self-betrayal. “Is it true?” I said, after a moment. “You don’t believe it?” There was a plaintive note of gratitude in his voice. “You think I was just making that up?” I thought for a moment, then nodded. He let out a long, slow breath, and sat back down. “My wife believed it,” he said. “She wouldn’t speak to me for two days after the show. Finally, I had to tell her that it was just a load of bull I made up to try to get through to Morty.” “You shouldn’t have done it,” I said. “It wasn’t worth it. It isn’t what he wants.” “What does he want?” “I don’t know, Mr. Conn. He claims that you do. But I don’t get the impression—I have to tell you—I don’t think it has very much to do with who came up with the Elf or the Aztec Knight.” That genuinely came as news to him. “It’s something else?” he said. “You mean all these fits I’ve been giving myself . . . the contortions . . . the hoops I’ve jumped through! No. It can’t be something else. There isn’t anything else.” “Are you sure? How long have you and he been friends?” “We met for the first time in 1936, at Henry Ward Beecher Junior High, in Brooklyn.” “And you’re telling me—I’m not questioning what you’re saying, I’m just trying to get clear about this—that you and Mr. Feather have known each other for more than sixty years, and in all that time there was never any incident? You never, I don’t know, took his girl away, or . . .” I tried to imagine other possible hurtful scenarios, but all my ideas were the stuff of bad movies starring Joan Crawford. I finished, lamely, “Or something of that nature?” “Rabbi, what kind of person do you think I am?” “I think you are a good person, Mr. Conn. But there has to be something.” “No. No, I always treated him fair. I looked out for him. Hell, I used to find girls for him.” He gave his head an emphatic, old-man shake. “No. I’m going to make him tell me. I’m not going to fool around anymore. If I’ve been barking up the wrong tree all this time, he owes it to me to just come out and tell me what it is that I supposedly did.” He sprang to his feet and made his way as quickly as his unsteady legs could carry him toward Suite 105. As we passed my office, we ran into a grave, well-dressed couple: the Weintraubs. Mrs. Weintraub looked at me with evident longing. I hated having to ask them to wait. “I’ll be right back,” I promised, feeling my cheeks hum, and, although they were very gracious, they looked a little surprised to see me go. Why was I indulging Conn’s mania in this way when I had work to do? I offered him my arm once again, but this time he shook his head. When he reached Mr. Feather’s door, he stopped, his right hand curled into a fist, poised to knock. But then he lowered his hand. Betty Firestone emerged from her apartment, carrying a carton of Newport cigarettes and a six-pack of diet cream soda. “They took the poor man away to die in the hospital,” she said with brutal tenderness. “You just missed him.” On my way to the funeral home, I drove Artie Conn to the hospital and waited with him until the nurse would allow us into the room, but Mort Feather never regained consciousness, then or on any of the three subsequent times that Mr. Conn drove up from San Diego. At the funeral, Artie Conn was one of five aging giants of the comics business who carried the coffin from the hearse to the grave, the remaining sixth of the burden being taken up, to his everlasting wonder, by David Teplitz, Ph.D. The service was the best attended that I was ever to hold at Zion Pointe—more than three hundred comic-book fans and professionals, from all over the world, turned up to mourn the loss along with the overgrown, serious boy I had chosen to marry, that sober, reticent nebbish whose mind contained the residuum of positronic nebulae and atom-powered gods. To his nephew, Jerry, from White Plains, who did not even bother to come to the funeral, Mort Feather left everything he owned, and all his modest wealth, as well as all future proceeds, if any, from the sale of his paintings. That, at least, was the impression I got from a brief conversation with Mr. Feather’s attorney a few weeks after he died. Then, one afternoon about six months after the funeral, Betty Firestone stopped by my office. She was carrying a flat white cardboard box whose lid was printed, in gilt letters, with the name of the old Wanamaker’s department store. At one time it might have held a sweater or a shawl. “Do you happen to have a telephone number, Rabbi, for that partner of Mort Feather’s? The one that was on television and they put too much foundation. Cohen, or is it—?” “Conn,” I said, reaching for my purse. “Yes, I think I have his card somewhere. Why?” She hefted the box, looking irritated with me, as if I ought to know perfectly well why she was here and what this was all about. “This is supposed to be for him,” she said. “Mr. Feather gave it to me a day or two before they took him away. For safekeeping. The end was coming, and he knew it. ‘Betty,’ I remember he told me, ‘this is probably it.’ He wanted the other one to have this. But I don’t know what happened. Somehow I lost track of it. I was cleaning out my desk this morning. Here, take it. Take it, Rabbi.” I felt a tingle in my hands, as though I were about to touch something profound and sad. “So what’s in it?” Mrs. Firestone looked offended. “That’s none of my business,” she said. I took the box, thanked her, and gave Mr. Conn a call. He sounded very surprised to hear that Feather had left him something. “What could it be? Will you open it for me?” “You want me to open it over the phone?” “Why not?” I opened the box. “It looks like—it’s a yearbook,” I said. “The Henry Ward Beecher Pioneer for 1936.” It was a lovely, crude relic, a hundred photostatted pages stapled together between pink paper covers. The title was hand-lettered with Art Deco flair, and under it there was a drawing of a man in a bubble helmet stepping out of a finned rocket called “The Conestoga of the Stars.” A bunch of little Martians were standing around looking astonished. The drawing was signed “Feather ’36”; I wondered how much some collector would pay for that bit of early work. I opened the yearbook and riffled quickly through it. The pages gave off a nostalgic whiff of rot and outmoded typography. The children whose photographs filled the back pages looked like miniature adults, serious people with mortgages and obligations, dressed in neckties and sombre sweaters. “The Pioneer,” he said. “Christ, I haven’t seen one of those in years.” “Does it—well, does it mean anything to you?” “No, not right off the bat. But I’ll give it some thought on my way.” “I could mail it to you. You don’t have to—” “I’ll be there in three hours,” he said. “If he left me something, I want it.” He showed up late that afternoon, drenched in sweat, his hair standing up in all directions, and looking, really, half mad. “I had the top down,” he said, sounding breathless. “But I guess I forgot my hat.” I pictured this eighty-year-old man shooting up the 405 in his Italian ragtop and big black ophthalmological sunglasses, the brains boiling in his head. I steered him toward my office and fetched him a cup of water. He drank it gratefully, and then polished off two more. For a minute he just sat with the yearbook in his lap, his stomach gurgling, cooling down. Then he began to flip slowly through the pages, lingering over certain photographs, from time to time offering a reminiscence. As he turned the last few pages, something slipped from the book and floated, tumbling like a maple propeller, to the ground. I stooped to pick it up. It was a blank scrap torn from a sheet of paper that had itself been torn from a Zion Pointe memo pad. “ ‘Camera Shy,’ ” Mr. Conn said, studying the page that had been marked by the notepaper. “What’s that?” He turned the yearbook around and held it up for me to see. At the bottom of the last page of photographs of the graduating class of ’36, under the rubric “CAMERA SHY,” two entries were stranded. Though the typeface was small, I could easily make out the pair of names. “That was the day,” he said, his voice breaking a little in wonder as the memory bobbed abruptly to the surface of his mind. “Yeah. That’s right. He’s right.” “Mr. Feather? What day? What is he right about?” “That was the day we met. In the library. They were taking yearbook pictures that day, during lunch.” “And you were hiding from the photographer?” “What can I tell you?” He sat, shivering from the memory or the sweat evaporating on his brow. “I was camera shy, like it says in the book. If you’d seen me then, you’d understand why. And Morty never liked to have his picture taken. He used to hate it when I made him draw himself into the comics.” His tone lightened, as he settled in to telling me the story. “See, I used to go in the library and eat my lunch sometimes, you know, I wasn’t the happiest kid. God knows. My kid sister had died. My parents—don’t get me started on them. So anyway, that day in the library, I’m hiding out with my copy of Astounding Stories, and I see this tough boy, Morty Feather, the kind of kid I would normally go out of my way to avoid running into, and he’s in there eating his lunch, and also reading that month’s issue of Astounding Stories, which, I can remember to this day, had the conclusion of that H. P. Lovecraft story, the one in the South Pole. Turns out Morty Feather likes E. E. (Doc) Smith, too. Also Edmund Hamilton. Turns out he wants to be an artist. We sit there talking for an hour. Right before the bell rings, I ask him, ‘So, first time they find life on another planet. Humanoid or totally alien? What’s your bet?’ And he goes”—he lowered his voice and scrunched up his features until they fairly approximated Mr. Feather’s pugnacious mien—“ ‘Depends.’ ‘On what?’ ” He laid on the Brooklyn, thick as mustard. “ ‘On whether the planet was one of the seed worlds of the galactic parent race or if it, y’know, just evolved by chance.’ My family moved to the Bronx a couple weeks later, and I never saw him again after that until one day in 1946 when totally by chance the editor at Nova put us together. That was how we got our start.” “What else does it say there, under your names?” He handed me the book, and I read the brief texts accompanying each of their imageless entries: ARTHUR CONN (“Artie”) Chess (1) Galileo Club (3,4) Accordion Club (4) We firmly expect, some fine day, very soon, To bump into Arthur Conn on the Moon For Morton (“Morty”) Feather there were no activities or interests listed. There was merely an enigmatic couplet: Get into a scrap and ol’ Mort is your guy But what is the source of that gleam in his eye? That was it; there was no other trace of them anywhere in the book. I checked the photographs of the Galileo and Accordion Clubs, but young Artie Conn seemed to have managed to miss out on those photo sessions, too. “I guess Morty just wanted me to have this,” he said, sounding a little disappointed now that the initial exhilaration of recovering the long-sunken memory had subsided. “Couldn’t think of anyone else who might appreciate it. Why he held on to it all this time I don’t know. God knows, I threw mine away years ago.” “It must have meant something to him,” I said. “That day in the library.” “Yeah. It meant something to me, too, you know. I never forgot it. When Sol Geisler reintroduced us that day in his office, back in ’46, I recognized Morty right away.” “Well, perhaps it meant more to him than to you,” I suggested. “He was a pretty lonely man, you know. He never really had anyone but you.” I thought of the story that David had told me, of how Feather’s brilliant art work had seemed to languish from the day that Conn betrayed him. Perhaps what had snuffed out the flame of Mort Feather’s wild and minor genius was not the fact that Conn had sold out their partnership, and their possible legal claim to a considerable fortune, but that, with a stroke of his pen, he had wiped out the history of a blessing, refuted—to make a balloon payment—the lone, certifiable miracle of Morty Feather’s life: his friendship with Artie Conn. “Maybe that’s what made him so angry.” Mr. Conn considered this for a moment, and for the first time I thought I saw in his wan blue eyes the radiant damage of grief. He picked up the Dixie cup and tipped it toward his lips, but he had already drunk all the water. He sighed, crumpled the cup in a fist, and nodded. “You know what?” he said. “That wouldn’t surprise me a bit. He always took everything so goddam seriously.” He stood up, with the yearbook tucked under his arm. “Oh, well,” he said, giving it a pat. He shook his head, smiling a little, as if mocking himself for still caring so much about Mort Feather’s forgiveness when there was no longer any mortal chance of getting it. “I have to admit, Rabbi, I was hoping there might be a clue here.” I didn’t know what to say, how to explain to him that this—our everlasting human cluelessness—was his unforgivable sin. I went around my desk, and hugged him goodbye. As he walked, limping, out of my office and my life—a month later he had a stroke and died, on his knees, beside his bed, while feeling around for a lost slipper—I said a prayer for him. I prayed that one day, here or in another place, Mr. Conn would find the forgiveness that he sought from the shade of the boy he had once chatted with, for an hour, about life on other worlds, on what had been, though he was blind to it, the happiest day of his life. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Los Gigantes	Credit Illustration by Brian Cronin At first they kept us in cages like zoo animals, but that was too depressing. After a while, we began to lose interest in what we’d been brought there to do. We didn’t think about it, or not much, anyway. We were just depressed, that was all, and when they brought the women to us it was inevitable that we went about the business in a half-hearted way. In any case, it was soon over, and then it was time for a meal, another meal. They fed us well, I’ll say that for them. No expense was spared. And the food was good, the best I’d ever tasted, prepared for us by a man who was rumored to have been first assistant to the pastry chef at the Presidential Palace before he was replaced by a Frenchman who didn’t speak a word of Spanish. Originally we were ten, but one of our number was suspect and quickly rooted out. It happened that a woman refused to go with him, and when Corporal Carrera, who held the keys, wanted to know why, she said, “Just look at him.” And he did. We all did. (This was during the first week, when we hadn’t really had a chance to get to know one another yet and no one had given the man much thought. Why would we? We were being fed. We had women. Life was good.) Anyway, once this woman had spoken up we all began to scrutinize him and saw what she meant: he was damaged goods. He was tall enough, three or four inches taller than me, in fact, and thick in the limbs, but his face was like an anvil and his eyes couldn’t seem to focus. And when he talked it was in disconnected monosyllables that seemed to dredge themselves up out of some deep fissure in his digestive tract. The man in the cage beside mine whispered, “Pituitary freak,” and in that instant I saw what I’d missed. Yes: damaged goods. No sense in wasting the stipend, the ex-assistant pastry chef’s culinary concoctions, and all those prescribed women on him. I felt a sense of outrage that was as much about my own humiliation as anything else: whoever had chosen him had chosen me, too, and what did that say about me? Even worse, for the first time in my life I had to contend with the fact that I wasn’t the biggest man around. At six feet ten inches and four hundred and twenty-odd pounds I wasn’t far off, but there were two men heavier, in addition to the pituitary case. (Freak or not, he’d still looked down at me.) All my life I’d been the one looking down on the world, the biggest boy and then the biggest man not only in my own bustling port city but in the entire province. I was strong, too. At the Fiesta de Primavera I once lifted two sheep above my head, one in each hand, and for a prank when I was in my teens I hauled the mayor’s shining black Duesenberg coupe up the steps of the Ministry of Justice and left it there at the feet of the gilded statue of the President. By the time I turned twenty I was earning a good wage cranking the capstan that lifted the wooden drawbridge in the center of town so that high-masted fishing vessels could pass beneath it—and, if that seems unremarkable, just consider that formerly three mules had been required to do the job, mules that were now free to pull plows through the fields of maize that ring the city, while the mule skinner himself was able to retire on a small pension and move into the house his mother had left him, at the place where the river runs brown into the moss-green sea. People would come out to watch me work—families with picnic baskets, nubile women, strongmen, grandmothers, sailors. My legend grew. Of course, to be a legend, to attain that status, is to court attention. That was how they found me. And truly? I wish they never had. Within the month, the first rumors of discontent began to circulate among us. If in the beginning it seemed as if we’d arrived in paradise, our days given over to leisure and nothing expected of us but the essentials, the routine began to wear on us. We were free to roam the compound by day and we had books and a radio and we played games of cards and dice, the usual sort of thing, but we were locked in at night, and the cages—though they were roomy enough and each equipped with a toilet, a desk, a couch, and a reading lamp, in addition to a gargantuan steel-frame bed—were an oppression of the spirit. The man I was to become closest to—Fruto Lacayo, a former circus fat man who stood seven inches shorter but outweighed me by some forty pounds—was the first to voice his complaints. We were in the courtyard one afternoon, smoking, chatting, getting our bearings in this place that was not, despite appearances, a former zoo but, in fact, a camp where the regime had kept dissidents in a time before dissidence had been so radically discouraged as to eliminate it altogether. Fruto had been pacing along the path that traced the outer walls under the beneficent gaze of the guard in the tower (who wasn’t a guard at all, we were told, but, rather, a facilitator) when he came directly across the courtyard to where I was sitting in the shade with the latest issue of Hombre, examining the photographs of the slim-ankled women who stared out from its pages with looks of airbrushed longing. “Jesus Christ,” he muttered, gasping for breath, “I feel like my joint’s about to fall off.” I gave him a wary smile. He was a fat man. I was a giant. And if you don’t see the distinction, then you have no access to my soul and no appreciation, either. I shrugged. “Better than working, isn’t it?” There was a sheen of sweat on his jowls. It was winter then, thank the Lord and the Blessed Virgin, but still the humidity was high and the afternoon temperatures were in the eighties and even nineties, so that we were always uncomfortable, especially where our parts chafed. “I’m not so sure,” he said. “It’s these cages. We’re not animals.” “No,” I said, “we’re not.” “Do you know what the President did before he joined the Army—professionally, I mean?” I didn’t. He’d been President before I was born and I expected he’d be President still when I moved on to the next world. Fruto winked, as if he were letting me in on a great secret. “You don’t? You really don’t?” I shook my head. “Well, let me tell you, let me awaken you: he was a cattle breeder.” The initial breakout wasn’t a serious attempt—it was perfunctory, at best—but at least it made a statement, at least it was a beginning. Early one night, after we’d lain with the evening’s women and were gathered around the radio in the courtyard half listening to the tail end of one of the President’s speeches (rumba music, that was what we wanted, and “Rumba Ciudad” was due to come on at eight), Fruto heaved himself up from his chair and, addressing us all, growled, “I don’t know about you, but I’ve had it. I’m going home. Tonight. Soon as it’s dark.” There was a flutter of astonished voices: You can’t be serious! Have you gone mad? Leave here? Melchior Arce, a former stevedore who was nearly as wide across the shoulders as me, though his head was disproportionately small and his left hand had been mangled in an accident, so that it looked like a crushed tarantula dangling from his shirtsleeve, gave a whistle of surprise. “The only way they’ll get me out of here,” he said, “is in a coffin.” He paused to bite off the end of his cigar and spit it in the dirt. “What’s wrong with you, fat man—you a maricón?” “You want to know the truth?” Fruto went on, ignoring the insult. “I don’t like big women. Never have. I like them petite, the way women should be—if I want to see fat I can just look in the mirror.” If I’d been feeling the stirrings of my own discontent, now I went rigid with longing: all I could see was the face of Rosa, my Rosita, the girl I’d left behind when I signed the agreement and came all the way across the country to be cooped up here in this stifling compound with its jungle reek and chicken-wire cages that showed us for what we really were. Rosita was petite by any measure, a hundred pounds, if that, and an inch short of five feet. I, too, had always been attracted to the sleek and unencumbered, to the girls who looked more like children than like women, and why was that? Because opposites attract, of course they do—otherwise we’d all be pygmies or giants, instead of something proportional, something in between. I’d asked her to wait for me. “I’ll be gone six months,” I told her, “a year at most. And we’ll save the stipend—every penny of it—so we can be married when I come back.” She asked what the government wanted of me—pressed me, over and over—but I couldn’t tell her. “Secret work,” I said. And she looked up at me with her saucer eyes, beseeching, wanting more, the truth. “Top secret,” I said. “For the military.” But now, as soon as Fruto spoke the words, I knew I was going with him. We gathered a few things—sliced meat, bread, chocolate bars left over from dinner—and waited till lights-out, at ten, when the nocturnal clamor of the jungle rose to a crescendo and our fellow-gigantes, exhausted from their venereal labors, turned over in their massive beds and began to snore. Then we made our way across the courtyard to the main gate, which was secured by a padlocked chain doubled over on itself. The guard was asleep. Nothing moved but a solitary rat silhouetted against the faint glow of the village that lay three miles to the west of us. I took hold of the chain in the grip of my two hands and snapped it without even trying (it was nothing, a child’s toy, a poor weak thing designed to forestall ordinary men), and then I rolled back the gate on its lubricated rail and in the next moment we were outside in the darkness. The problem was Fruto. We hadn’t gone five hundred yards down the dirt lane that would take us to the village, where there were taxis, buses, even a rail line that would give us access to the whole of the country, to freedom, to the slim and beautiful, to Rosita, when he sat ponderously on a wet stump overgrown with black twisted vines and, wheezing heavily, croaked, “I can’t go on.” “Can’t go on? What are you talking about? We just left the place!” I crushed mosquitoes against the back of my neck. Something flapped across the darkened road. “Give me a minute. Let me catch my breath.” I could barely make out the shape of him there in the dense clot of shadows. I heard him slapping at his own host of mosquitoes. “You don’t have one of those sandwiches handy, do you?” he asked. “Look,” I said, “if we expect to get out of this, to go home—you do want to go home, don’t you?—we’ll need to get to the village and purchase a bus ticket or hire a taxi and be gone before they bring in the morning’s women.” “Go on without me,” he said. The air seemed to tear through his lungs. “I’ll follow you after I’ve had a bit of rest. And a sandwich. Let’s split up the provisions now. Just in case.” “In case of what?” “In case we don’t meet up again.” So I left him there. It was no less than he deserved. The worst that would happen was that they would take him back to his cage, to food and leisure and the manipulation of the flesh. For my part, I made it as far as the village, where I found myself distracted by the lights of a cantina. I had to duck to get through the door. Everyone stared. I should say in my own defense that I’m not one of these men who drink themselves senseless, but they didn’t allow us liquor in the compound—for fear it would affect our performance, I suppose—and the taste of it after more than a month without made me want another taste and another after that. I slept somewhere—I don’t remember where. And in the morning, when they came for me, I went along with them as docilely as one of the sheep I’d lifted above my head as if they were no more than woolly clouds trailing across a serene blue sky. The following afternoon, after we’d eaten our lunch and ministered to the women who joined us each day at siesta time, Fruto and I were summoned to the military barracks on the far side of the village. A truck painted in camouflage colors took us through town (ordinary men, ordinary women, bicyclists, street venders, dogs that were so ordinary that even the bitches who whelped them wouldn’t have given them a second glance) and into another compound, this one made of whitewashed brick, with a three-story building at the center of it. Corporal Carrera led us up the stairs and into a grand office on the second floor that was presided over by a monumental oil portrait of the President and a dozen limp flags representing each of the country’s provinces. There was a bank of windows, spilling light. Beneath them stood a mahogany desk, very grand in size, though to us it was the sort of thing that children make use of in elementary school, and seated at the desk, in full military uniform, replete with epaulettes and layered decorations, was a man we recognized as Colonel Lázaro Apunto, Director of Educational and Agricultural Resources for the Western Region. There were no seats for us, or no seats large enough, and so we were made to stand. A long moment elapsed, Corporal Carrera stationed at the door, the Colonel gazing up at us with a look caught halfway between irascibility and awe. Finally, he spoke. “So, I’m given to understand that you two have been abrogating your patriotic duties, is that correct?” I said, “Yes, that is correct.” “You have complaints—legitimate complaints?” This started Fruto going, in the way that a molded steel crank, in the hands of the President’s chauffeur, might fire up a balky engine. “We are not animals,” he said, “and we want our privacy. We can’t be expected to be, be intimate, in a chicken-wire cage where anyone can see for himself how we go about our business, and the heat is intolerable. And the insects. And—” “And the food?” the Colonel asked, cutting him off. “Is that not of the highest order, rich in protein, flavorful? And your stipends, the money we send each week to your families—your loved ones, whose home addresses we scrupulously maintain—aren’t they sufficient? And what of work? It’s not as if we’re asking you to work.” “The food is excellent,” I said, stifling the impulse to append “Your Excellency” to the assessment. “Good.” The Colonel sighed, leaning back in his chair. “Very good.” He was a little man, with mustaches. But then they were all little men, everyone in the military, everyone on the street, even the President himself. “For a moment there, I thought you were going to renege on your contract with the government, but here I see the whole matter is nothing, really, just a question of adjustments. You want stucco walls built over the chicken wire? Fine. It will not be a problem. In fact”—he scrawled something on a pad—“we’ll see to it immediately.” “Tile floors,” Fruto put in. “For the sake of the coolness on our feet. A fan. Two fans. And a radio in each—room—and, and a day off. Once a week. Sundays. Sundays off.” He bowed his head, mopped sweat. His grin was like a grimace. “The day of rest, eh? Our Lord’s day.” The Colonel tented his fingers, smiled benignly at us. He waved a hand. “All this can be arranged. Your needs are our needs. If you haven’t already divined the importance of the project in which you’re participating, let me enlighten you. The President—the country—has many enemies, I don’t have to tell you that. They are building up their armed forces, constantly building and accelerating, and who can guess what their purposes are—but we must counter them. Do you know your Greeks?” “Greeks?” I echoed, mystified. “Homer. Aeschylus. Euripides. They had their heroes, their champions, their Achilleses and Ajaxes, and that is what the President envisions for our country’s forces—and not simply individual heroes but an entire regiment of them, do you see?” “Like Samson?” Fruto put in. The Colonel shot him a look. “Not the Hebrews, the Greeks. They knew how to win a war.” “The President must be a very patient man,” I offered. “It’ll take generations.” Buy the print » A shrug. “ ‘Prescient’ is the word. That is why he is the father of our country. And don’t concern yourself: we will breed the issue of your labors—the females, that is—once they reach puberty. And when that issue reaches puberty we will breed them as well.” He fumbled for something on his desk, sifting through the papers there until he held up a single sheet, transparent in the light glazing the windows. “Do you see this? This is a sample requisition form to be sent out to the bootmakers of the future, calling for boots in exactly your size, señor, eighteen triple E. Just think of it.” He settled back in his chair. “Helmets the size of birdbaths, jerseys like tents. No, my friends, the President is a man of foresight, a futurist, you might say, and his vision is all-encompassing. Are you not proud of your country? Do you not want, with all your heart, to protect and nourish her?” Fruto stood there dazed. I nodded in assent, but it was only for show. Was I seething inside? Not just then, perhaps—we’d already had a pretty fair idea of what was wanted from us, and we had, after all, signed on the dotted line, as venal as any other men—but I could see the months to come, years even, stretching out before me like a sentence in the penitentiary. Corporal Carrera pulled open the door behind us, our signal to vacate the room: our business here was concluded. But just as we reached the door, my legs working autonomously and Fruto heaving for breath and wiping at his face with the great sopping field of his handkerchief, the Colonel called out to us. “Now go and do your duty, for the love of your country and of the President. Go to your female volunteers—whose stipends are but half of yours, incidentally, and so it should be—and, in your throes, think of him.” The Colonel was as good as his word. Improvements came rapidly, laborers from the village appearing the very next day to reinforce the frames of the cages with four-by-four posts, enclose them in walls of lath and stucco, and lay tile in a handsome herringbone pattern you could stare at for hours. There were tin roofs. Each of us got a radio. At night, electric fans stirred the breezes and mosquito netting held the insects at bay. I’d volunteered to help with the work—let’s face it, I was bored to the point of vacuity with all that sitting around—but the Colonel wouldn’t hear of it. “No,” he said, on one of his inspections of the compound. “You must conserve your energy”—and here the hint of a smile appeared beneath the dark cantilever of his mustaches—“for your President and your country.” In the interim, we were bused to the women’s compound, which, as it turned out, lay some three miles to the north of the men’s facility, on the banks of a nameless oozing watercourse that bred mosquitoes and stinging flies in the pestilent millions, so that we were all of us, men and women alike, scratching furiously the entire time we were there. What distinguished their compound from ours, aside from the increase of insects? Not much. They, too, lived in cages, but they were crammed in, four or five of them to a cage, and their camp stretched as far as the eye could see. If we were nine, the women numbered in the hundreds, and this, of course, reflected a simple calculus that any cattle breeder could have worked out on a single sheet of paper. The women I was put in with the first night were among the biggest in the camp, selected especially for me. And by big I don’t necessarily mean the heaviest—such women were reserved for Fruto and his ilk—but the tallest and broadest, with the longest limbs and the thickest bones. These women could have felled forests, collapsed mines, held back the sea just by linking arms. Where the President had found them, I couldn’t imagine—not till one of them called me by name. I’d just set down my overnight bag and taken possession of the bed, as uninterested in these women as I’d been in the phalanxes that had trooped in and out of my cage at the men’s compound, when one of them broke ranks and came across the dirt floor to me, my name on her lips. She was Magdalena Duarte. She’d been brought up in the city I called home and—in a shy voice—told me that she’d often come to the drawbridge to watch me at work when she was just a girl. “Before my growth spurt,” she said, covering her mouth with one hand as she laughed at her own joke. Later, after we’d coupled by rote while the insects whined and the other women, utterly indifferent, unfurled straw mats and lay down to sleep, she asked me how I was adjusting to my new role in life. Did I like it? “Anything for the President,” I said. Her voice was soft, with a scratch in it. “All work and no play, eh?” “Something like that. But what about you—do you like serving your country?” I could just make out her features in the light of the guard tower where it fell across the wire mesh of the cage. She glowed a moment, her face like a moon rising over a dim horizon. “They move us to a nicer place once we’re pregnant,” she said. “And the stipend is all my parents have to live on in these times. You see, I come from a large family”—she caught herself, giggled softly—“of many children, that is, thirteen of us, and so when the recruiter came to us I did my duty. To the President, yes, and to my family as well.” I was quiet a moment, thinking about that—duty—when she dropped her voice even lower and whispered, “You know, there’s another compound. Two other compounds.” “No,” I said, “I had no idea.” Beside us, in the dark, the giantesses heaved and sighed and let their stertorous snores crash through their dreams. “For little people.” “Little? What do you mean little?” Forgive me if in that moment I thought of Rosa, my Rosa, my Rosita, and her perfect diminutive feet that were the size of a child’s, of her mouth, her lips, the way she teased me good-naturedly every time I had to bend double and squeeze sideways through a doorway or avoid the chairs in her parents’ parlor for fear of splintering them. “Not dwarfs, not midgets—the President wants normal stock only—but people who, by the grace or whim of God, are very fine and very small.” “But why? Why would he want—little people?” I couldn’t see anything but her face in the mosaic shadow of the wire, but I could feel her shrug animate the mattress. “They say he wants to create a race no more than two feet high and normal in every other way, intelligent, active people like cats who can come and go in the night without detection.” “Spies?” Another shift of the mattress. She was nodding now. “Our fatherland has many enemies,” she said, whispering still, as if fearful of being overheard. “We must be ready for them.” I couldn’t sleep that night, not a wink, not after what Magdalena had told me. I kept picturing Rosa in a camp like this one, stepping into a cage where a wiry little man like a human Chihuahua lay waiting for her, though I knew it was absurd. Rosa was an innocent. She would never volunteer, never allow herself to be conscripted no matter what pressures were brought to bear. Or would she? Would she feel moved in her heart (in her loins!) to serve her country, like all these patriotic women laid out snoring in the darkness around me? The thought seared me, burned in my brain like the perpetual flame illuminating the grave of our President’s lamented mother. It was dawn by the time I finally dozed off, my dreams poisoned and my heart constricted as if a noose had been drawn tight around it. After that, I bided my time, and when they moved us back to our new apartments in the men’s compound—that very night—I broke out again. This time I went straight for the bus terminal and soon experienced the giddy release of the wheels revolving beneath me as a dark curtain of vegetation lurched past the windows and the striped margins of the road home came clear in the first light of dawn. What I didn’t know was that after our first abortive attempt at escape the Colonel had issued an alert to all carriers to be on the lookout for any big man seeking passage out of the province. They were waiting for me at the end of the line. Did I go quietly? No, I didn’t. When I saw them there in their Black Maria with its chopping blue light, I came down off the bus like a hurricane and laid that vehicle over on its roof till the men it contained came crawling out the windows and I snatched them up two at a time and flung them behind me like so many paper dolls. Sadly, they’d anticipated me here, too, and their chloroform cannisters brought me down as swiftly and surely as if I were that king ape in the cinema show we’d all marvelled at in simpler times, when the images played across the screen like waking dreams and Rosa breathed quietly at my side. I awoke in a damp subterranean place that smelled of the raw dirt of the floor and the whitewash slathered over the rough stone of the walls. Here was a huge vault of a room, lit dimly by a pair of gray bulbs in wall sconces, a silent place where no one would hear my cries of outrage or pleas for freedom. I was laid out on my back on one of the big industrial-strength beds, and my hands and ankles were bound up in chains—and not merely run-of-the-mill chains but the heavy steel links they use to moor boats in the harbor of my ancestral home by the sea. It took me no more than sixty seconds to intuit where I was—that is, in the basement of the three-story brick building where the Colonel had his offices overlooking the poor huts and open sewers of the village beyond. If I listened carefully I could hear the sound of footsteps on the floor above and of a chair rolling back and forth on its casters. I tugged at my chains, of course, but they held me fast, secured not to the posts of the bed but to the great ceiba pillars that rose out of the shadows at the four corners of the room to disappear into the ceiling above. Almost as soon as I opened my eyes, a door swung to at the far end of the room and a woman entered bearing a tray of food. She was of average height and weight, this woman—no Amazon—and, as I soon discovered, it was her task to spoon-feed me while I lay there under the burden of my chains. “Release me,” I whispered, but she shook her head. “Just one hand—so I can eat. I feel like an infant lying here. Please. I beg you.” She shook her head again and pressed a spoonful of the rich seafood stew we know as zarzuela to my lips. If I’d had any notion of refusing it, of going on a hunger strike in protest of the way I was being treated—mistreated—the scent and taste of that zarzuela drove it away. You can’t begin to imagine what it takes to fuel the cells of this body that entraps me. I ate. Ate hungrily and gladly. And then the women started coming to me, three a day, morning, afternoon, and evening, the big women, the giantesses, lowering themselves over me as I lay chained and helpless beneath them. Did I want to perform the act? No. But I was devoured by lust, perpetually aroused, no matter that I was rebelling inside or that I found the women gross and the task odious. They must have been putting something in my food—one of the coarse brown powders easily attainable at any Chinese herbalist’s shop, the ground horn of the rhinoceros or the friable bones of the tiger infused in alcohol. The women came. I stared at the ceiling. My rage grew. It must have been the third or fourth day that the Colonel appeared. He was seated in a wicker chair drawn up to my bed when I awakened one afternoon from a bludgeoning dream and he began lecturing me without preliminaries. “You may be interested to know,” he said, “that you’ve obtained excellent results, superior, the best of your cadre.” “Release me,” I said, my voice tense and caught deep in my throat. He was studying a notepad. He took a moment to smooth the top sheet with his fingers. “Some seventy-six per cent of the women you’ve”—he broke off, searching for the right phrase—“been with have become impregnated. Congratulations.” “If you release me, I promise, I swear on my mother’s soul, that I will do my duty without complaint, without—” He held up a hand. “Speaking of your mother, she’s doing very well for herself, better than she’s ever done in all her life, thanks to the stipend you’re providing. She appreciates your service, as does the President.” Here he leaned in close to me and I saw that a small glittering object was dangling by a ribbon from his right hand—a medal, such as the military doles out to its heroes. In the next moment I felt the pressure of his fingers as he pinned it to the breast of my shirt. “You’ll be released in good time,” he said, “so that you can go back to the compound, where you’ll be more comfortable, but we all feel that, for the present, given your, what shall we say, recalcitrance, not to mention dereliction of duty, you’ll be better off here. Really, it’s for your own good. And the President’s, too, that goes without saying.” Later, in my boredom and the solitude that ground me down till my consciousness floated free—Rosa, Rosa, where are you?—I shifted my neck and forced my head as far back against the pillow as it would go, so that I was able to squint down the vast slope of my chest and get a look at the medal the President had devised as a token of his gratitude. Dangling from the ribbon was a figure cast in metal—either gold or brass, I never did discover which. It took me a moment—squinting, as I say—to see what it represented: a bull, rampant, with a thin golden puff of steam spewing from his nostrils. That was it. That was the end. I didn’t care what became of me after that, but I knew then that I hadn’t been born on this earth to serve anybody, let alone the President, that I didn’t love him, didn’t even know him, and that the rage building in me, beat by beat, was a force no man could contain, not even a giant. I waited till the mute who served me had left with the remains of the evening meal and the last giantess had done with me and waddled her way out the door, and then I went deep inside myself, working like a Hindu fakir through every cell of my body, from my smallest toes to the truncheons of my legs and my torso that was like a bucket of iron and on up to my shoulders, my biceps and forearms, and down into the reservoirs of my fingers, one digit at a time. Then I began worrying the chain that bound my right arm, thrusting and jerking back again, over and over, through a thousand repetitions, till finally it gave way and the arm was free. After that, it was easy. I came up off the bed, chains rattling loose around me, telling tales, and if the guard who must have been watching through a hidden peephole came hurtling into the room I barely noticed. I could have gone through the door and taken the guard with me, but I didn’t. No, I just leaned into the nearest pillar and shoved till the whole edifice began to quake and quake again. That was six months ago. I wasn’t blinded, no one cut my hair, and when the building came down around me—inferior construction; the termites would have got to it if I hadn’t—I found a pocket of air trapped beneath a beam and was spared. I dug my own way out, and if the authorities presumed I was buried beneath the rubble, along with the Colonel and his functionaries and the great glistening oil portrait of the President, I wasn’t about to disabuse them. This time I avoided public transport, making my way home in the depths of a freight car designed to carry livestock from one place to another. Rosa and I escaped to the high fractured plains caught fast in the mountains that separate our country from that of our enemies to the south, where we are living now as man and wife in a village populated by Indians whose teeth are eroded by the leaves they chew to give them energy in the high altitudes, where they must scrape a poor living from the earth. I earn my own keep here through main strength, as I always have, hauling loads up and down the stony trails that vanish around each bend and drop off thousands of feet to the distant featureless land below. Am I a beast of burden? Yes. But I’m nobody’s beast but my own. And Rosa’s. Rosa is pregnant now, incidentally, and if we’re lucky she’ll bear our first son come spring, and if we’re even luckier he’ll be neither a giant nor a dwarf, but something in between. As for me, I try to keep my head down and avoid attracting notice, but inevitably they’ll find me, I know that. How could anybody, let alone a man like me, expect to blend in in a land where the people are so very, very small? ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Someone	Credit Illustration by Joshua Ray Stephens On the sidewalk in front of St. Mary Star of the Sea, a Sunday morning in early June, 1937, when Marie was seventeen, Walter Hartnett said, “What’s wrong with your eye?” Their mothers were talking, purses over their arms and hats on their heads. The sunlight reflecting brightly off the black glass of windshields, the tin fenders, the pocketbooks of the women in that after-Mass crowd. Off Walter, too, when she looked up at him: his dark hair and that white face, gray eyes translucent in the sunshine. “Nothing wrong with it,” she said. “This one just screws up on me sometimes. When the sun’s strong.” “Well, don’t let it,” he said. “It makes your whole face look funny.” Back home, in the tiny mirror above the narrow bathroom sink, she saw it: how the right eye, when squinted closed, pulled at the corner of her mouth so that she looked like a tough with a wad of chewing gum in her cheek; how her glasses, thick bottle bottoms, stayed steady on her nose despite the contortions of the face behind them. She was reminded for a moment of Walter Hartnett as a boy, the way he’d held his hands behind his back, placid and wise beside blind Bill Corrigan, who had served as the umpire for every stickball game on her street. Games that Walter Hartnett would not join because of his bad leg. She was reminded of the sagacity with which Walter would nod whenever Bill Corrigan—who had been gassed in the war and spent his days in the kitchen chair that his mother brought to the sidewalk every morning—made his impossible calls. As if only he and the blind man could see what the rest of them could not. She opened up the offending eye. Smiled at the mirror and said, “How’s that?” Took her glasses off entirely and smoothed the skin under her eyes and said, “Is that better? Walter Hartnett. Mr. Hartnett.” Brushed her hair back—dark and thick but, like the scrinching eye, with a will of its own—peered into the small mirror, which showed her now only a smear of face and hair and smiling teeth, made her eyes as large as she could make them, and said out loud, “Is that better, Mr. Walter Hartnett?” When he called that afternoon—his voice a small and miraculous thing inside the big black receiver—he said he was sorry if he had been rude. It was none of his business, he said, what she did with her eyes. Later, reconstructing the conversation during what was to be the first night of her life that sleep escaped her entirely, she replied, “Not at all,” but at the time she’d barely murmured a word. “I’m bossy sometimes,” he said. “I get it from where I work. They give me a lot of responsibilities. Do you want to go out for a soda?” When her daughters began dating she told them, “Here’s a good rule: If he looks over your head while you’re talking, get rid of him. Walter Hartnett . . .” But by then they would throw up their hands: “Jesus, Mom, no more Walter Hartnett stories.” Walter Hartnett on the candy-store stool looked over her head every time a figure appeared in the doorway behind her. It got so that she felt she could see them, too, the other people coming in out of the evening sun, as if she could feel their cool shadows on her back as they stood for a moment in silhouette and he looked up to see who it was. “Hiya,” he’d say if he knew them—even if she was in mid-sentence—“How are you?” He’d shoot a finger up beside his face to signal hello. Or just stare—this was for strangers—his eyes following whoever it was into the candy store, wondering, calculating, assessing as a man alone might do, a man alone and unguarded in the brazenness of his gaze. And then his gray eyes would drop to her face once more. There would be a second of utter indifference, boredom, perhaps, and then a slow dawning—oh, yeah, you—a slow warming as his attention returned to her—well, I’m happy to be here with you—sometimes even as much as a smile entering those dark-lashed eyes, before they flicked upward again. It must have been second nature to him, this veering attention. But for her it was both devastating and thrilling, so that by the time they’d finished their sodas and slipped from their stools she was unsteady on her feet from the dizzying turns that her hopes, her heart, had been taking. Her pumps caught, somehow, against his built-up shoe, and in the tangle as she fell into him he slipped his warm hand under her arm. “Not very graceful,” he said. But they were both blushing. Out on the sidewalk again, they walked without touching, although most of the other people on the street seemed to be couples, young and old, strolling arm in arm. The Sunday-evening promenade. The sun was setting with that thick orange light, but the sky to the east was still a cool morning blue. There was only the slightest irrhythm in Walter’s gait, a nearly imperceptible hitch, not a limp. Had he turned right and walked her silently to her stoop, she would have followed, her head down, and said nothing more. But he turned left instead, and she went with him. He was talking about his job. How it was steady and he was lucky to have it. He named some friends who had jobs he wouldn’t wish on a dog—with the B.M.T., with the diocese, on a barge that plied the harbor. He told her to forget about lower Manhattan and head to Borough Hall when the time came to look for work. Who wanted to work in New York City? All the while his eyes following the other couples they passed or darting to the opposite side of the street to see who was there. When he stopped, she thought perhaps it was because he’d recognized someone ahead. But then he turned to her, and, now in the light of the street lamp, his eyes reacquainted themselves with her face again, indifference, once again, warming into pleasure. He pointed to the brownstone behind him. “I’ve got to run upstairs for a minute,” he said, his voice full of a reluctance to leave her that well matched his newly recalled delight at her presence. “You want to come up or wait here?” “This your house?” she said. And he only cocked his head to convey, Whose house do you think it is? “I’ll come up,” she told him. He and his mother lived on the top floor, as she and her mother did. “Widows in aviaries,” he would say some time later. He let himself in, calling, “Ma?,” but all the lights were off. He reached for a small lamp, pulled it on. Its amber shade and the bulb beneath it swayed a little. “She must have gone out,” he said. “Have a seat. I won’t be a minute.” He walked through the living room, into the adjoining dining room, and then into another room—the kitchen, perhaps. She sat. The couch was covered in a dark-blue brocade, lace doilies on the arms and across the back. There was a painting of the Holy Family above the boarded-up fireplace, a water glass holding fading lilacs on the mantelpiece. Two more heavy chairs in the same midnight-blue brocade faced her. On the small table between them, there were four photographs in oval frames. She stood up and crossed over to them. A wedding portrait of Walter’s parents, the father looking much as Walter would with a big mustache, a portrait of Walter as a baby, wide-eyed and propped up from behind, then in knickers and a white collar, a huge First Communion ribbon on his arm, and then, looking exactly like himself, although more thoughtful and more solemn, in his graduation gown. She felt a twinge of envy. Envy for the widowed mother who had known Walter all his life, who had heard his first words, dried his first tears—had they been for the shortened leg? She even envied the mustachioed father, now buried in Calvary Cemetery, where her father, too, had gone—envied every happy moment Walter had lived that had no trace of her in it. She heard his voice coming from the back of the apartment. He was on the phone. He seemed to be speaking seriously. Was it his important job? A lifetime later, she still couldn’t say whether the phone call had been a ruse. She returned to the couch. When he came back into the living room, he was carrying two opened bottles of beer. He offered and she refused, laughing a little at what struck her as the preposterousness of the idea, and he looked at the brown bottle and said, “Oh, but it’s already open.” As if she had broken a promise. He placed the rejected beer on the radiator cover beside him and then sat next to her on the couch. “My mother should be back soon,” he said, looking her over—her throat, her blouse, her belt, her hands in her lap. “She’ll want to say hello to you.” She nodded, pointed to the portraits on the small table. “Is that her wedding picture?” she asked, and he said, “Yeah.” “She was pretty,” she said. “I wouldn’t mind getting married,” he told her. And then took a drink of his beer. He began to talk about his job again. What a good job it was. What an easy thing it would be for him to begin to save his money to get a nice place of his own. For when he got married. He sat very close to her. Did she want to get married, he asked, and when she said, Sure, she did, someday, that slow, delighted recognition in his eyes fell on her again. He leaned away as if to see her better. They might have been the only two people in all the vast universe who agreed that they would like to get married someday, he took such pleasure in her answer. And children? he asked. Did she want to have children? Well, sure. Well, sure. His eyes, darker now in the dim light of the apartment, were on her alone, on her face, as if she were the very thing they’d been searching for all evening. When he leaned to kiss her, it was both her first real kiss and her first taste of beer. He held the beer bottle against her shoulder for a minute as he pressed toward her, dampening her blouse. Then he lowered his arm across her lap to put the bottle on the floor and, moving up again, put his hand on her breast. Astonished and, perhaps, afraid—already she had learned the triumph and distress of his veering attention—she made no move. Delicately—she thought at first that he was making an “O.K.” sign with thumb and forefinger just over her heart—he unbuttoned her shirt, then slipped his fingers into her bra, pulling it aside. Her breast, exposed to the shadowy room, seemed lit with its own light. He sighed and bowed his head. She felt the momentary terror of not knowing what he was going to do as he moved his mouth toward her and then felt it increase a hundredfold when she understood. He closed his mouth over her nipple. He pulled and tugged. Of course she had seen women nursing babies here and there, in closed-off rooms, and it was this recollection that muddled her emotions now. He breathed deeply, like an infant nursing, and she felt the warm air of his nostrils on her skin. He put his hand to her spine and pressed her toward him. She felt his teeth on her flesh, lightly at first but then in a stinging grip that made her pull in her breath. He clamped harder, and she cried out, which only made him turn his head slightly, as if to get a better grip on her with his molars. He might have drawn blood if there hadn’t been a sudden slam of the door in the downstairs vestibule. He paused, lifted his head. Slam of the interior door and footsteps across the foyer. He said, “Cover up,” and then reached across her lap for the beer on the floor. “So near and yet so far!”Buy the print » Her poor pale breast was soggy and tender, the pink nipple distended. She fumbled for her buttons. He leaned back on the couch, seemed to roll himself off it, the beer in one hand and the other hand pressed to his thigh. He walked, stooped, really limping now, toward the bottle he had left on the radiator. But then they heard the rattle of keys and another door opening on a floor below. He cursed, and with his back to her hung his head, shaking it sorrowfully. And then, without another word, he limped out of the room again. For a few minutes she sat alone under the shaded light. She imagined she felt a warm trickle of blood moving down her chest. When he came back he had washed himself, hands and face, and combed water through his hair. He no longer had the bottle of beer, but he swung the second one off the radiator cover and carried it to one of the thick chairs on the other side of the room. He sank into the chair and took a drink. “When we get married,” he said, “you’re probably going to want to live on the parlor floor. Baby carriages and all. But I think that’s cheap. Everybody and his brother walking by your door. I think it’s better to be up high.” He finished off the bottle in two or three long gulps and put his hand to his chest and quietly belched, as if they were already married and had been for quite some time. “I guess you’d better go,” he said amicably. They walked down the stairs. She felt a panic at each turning—if his mother came through the door now, or now, what would she read on their faces? But he took his time. On the street—the air was lovely, a slight breeze had kicked up, and it felt like bathwater against her skin—he put his arm around her waist as they walked. They passed the church. Was it only this morning that he had looked down at her with the sunlight across his face and asked, “What’s wrong with your eye?” “Well, at least,” he said, “we won’t have to fight over whose church we’ll get married in, yours or mine. Both our mothers will be happy. What do you have?” he asked. “One more year till graduation, right?” She said yes. “Get a job downtown,” he said. “You don’t want to go into New York City.” When they reached her stoop, he paused. “Here you are,” he said. He put his hands in his pockets and shifted a little on his uneven legs. He may have been feeling the two quick bottles of beer. There was a couple walking down the other side of the street, toward the subway, and his eyes followed them. This time, she turned to gaze at them, too. The woman’s skirt was tight across her wide bottom, and her heels were clicking. The man’s suit jacket was long, with a belt across the back. Together she and Walter turned to face each other again, but this time he did not go through that momentary, disinterested amnesia. Rather, he raised his chin and shot a finger into the air, as he’d done when acknowledging people in the candy store and on the street—a wordless “I know you”—and then let his eyes fall, and linger, on her breast, the one he had exposed and suckled. He grinned. I know you. She felt both the thrill of his acknowledgment and a hot black rush of shame. “Go on in,” he said, touching her hip. “Go tell your mother you’ve got a boyfriend.” Three years before, driving home from Calvary Cemetery, she had sunk into the sweetest sleep she had ever known. They had put her father in the ground and her world was shattered, but the nap she’d had in the hired car was like a long draft of cool water—deep and fragrant, washed with an ivory light—the kind of sleep, she would later learn, that came only in the aftermath of many tears. When the car pulled up to the curb in front of the restaurant where the funeral luncheon was to be held, her mother gently woke her. Only her brother, Gabe, in his Roman collar then, disapproved. His own eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot; there were shadows on his pale cheeks. “You slept?’’ he said, disbelieving. He had ridden in front, beside the driver. “How could you have slept?” Now, lying beside her mother in the bed they shared because Gabe had come home from his first parish, saying only that the priesthood was not for him, she wondered if such easy sleep would ever come to her again. She knew that she could not put her hand to her bruised and tender breast, for fear that her mother would see what she was doing, but neither could she think of any other way to tamp down the smoldering wire of shame that was coiling down her spine. A thrilling kind of shame that made guilt and confusion feel like pleasure, like joy. She was in love. Walter Hartnett with the gray eyes loved her. Next year they would be married in St. Mary Star of the Sea, and those eyes would never again fall on her with cold indifference. I know you. Her mother said, in the darkness, “Do you want some hot milk, Marie?” “No,” she said. “Can’t you sleep?” “No,” she said. “Can you at least try to be still?” her mother said. “It’s 3 A.M. I’ve got to work in the morning.” “Sorry,” she whispered. The ticking of the bedside clock had never before sounded so cruel. The windows were broad, uneven strokes of pale gray, hastily painted on the long black wall beyond the bed. What sounds came from the street were distant, indistinguishable. Everyone else was still. Everyone else had fallen into the cool ivory light, fallen asleep. “Is Walter Hartnett a nice boy?” her mother asked. She said, “Yes,” but could add nothing more. Her mother rolled over, bouncing the mattress they shared, then pulled the thin sheet up over her shoulder. “I like his mother,” she said. “Her people are from Armagh.” By month’s end, Walter was riding the extra stop on the subway every night on his way home from work, and walking past her house, where he always pretended to be surprised to find her sitting on the steps, waiting for him. He would lean against the balustrade, cock the toe of his built-up shoe into the sidewalk, and talk about his work, their wedding, the guys he wouldn’t want to be, his eyes sliding, always, from her face to her breast and then rising up to her face again, his eyebrows lifted as if to say, “Remember?” As if the flush that rose to her cheeks hadn’t already told him she did. They went to the movies together and a party, once, where he drank half a bottle of whiskey, then leaned heavily against her walking home. They took a drive in a caravan of cars to a summer place owned by one Judge Sweeney, whose daughter went with a guy Walter knew. They had a picnic on the Sweeneys’ lovely lawn but were allowed into the house only to use the john. Driving back, he said, “Maybe we should get a house like that instead.” She put her hand through his arm when they walked, or he put his arm around her waist. He put his arm across her shoulders in the movie theatre. At the end of the evening, he would kiss her gently, always standing on the sidewalk, at the foot of her steps, never at the door, because, she guessed, he did not want her to turn and watch him limp back down the wide stairs. She could not say if it was lack of opportunity or part of some plan, but the intimacy of that first Sunday evening was never repeated. And yet it was always there. She felt the pulse thrum in her veins every time they neared his block together—would this be the night that he finally said again, “Do you want to come in?” Leaving the party where he’d had too much to drink, he had paused in the dark and deserted vestibule, and for a moment his head had dropped onto her chest, his hair brushing her chin, and it was all she could do not to cup her breast herself, offer it to him. On the park-like lawn of Judge Sweeney’s summer house he’d stretched out on the grass beside her, propped on his elbows. He was chatting with the others, and the touch of his cheek against her forearm as he spoke and chewed and laughed, the movements of his jaw, filled her with an unbearable recollection of the dark couch and the amber lamp and the bared breast, lit as if from within. It was the very end of summer when he called her to say, “Meet me for lunch downtown, will you?” She hardly knew what she was hoping for, but before she left she changed from a sleeveless polished-cotton sheath with a zipper up the back to a striped shirtwaist with buttons and a patent-leather belt. She wore new shoes and new gloves and a new slip and a new hat with red trim. She got to the restaurant before he did and sat alone at a table, which she had never done before, the water glasses throwing off trembling hoops of light because of the tremor in her legs beneath the white tablecloth. She saw him come in—in a suit he had not worn before, tweedy linen with a pinched waist and a belt across the back—and then took off her glasses and smiled up in his direction until the shape of him materialized across the table. “Pretty hat,” he said, and pulled out his chair. “Isn’t this some place? Put your glasses back on. I don’t know you without them.” She had been here once before, for her father’s funeral luncheon, but this was not yet something she could say without her voice breaking. She put her glasses back on and said, “Pretty suit.” He held out his arms. “You like it?” He grinned. He was an ordinary-looking boy with brown hair and somewhat remarkable gray eyes. But handsome today in the suit, the white shirt, and the pale tie. He had small straight teeth. Nice ears. “I borrowed it from a buddy of mine,” he said, “ ’cause I’m on my way up to Judge Sweeney’s summer place for the weekend.” She leaned her gloved hands against the table edge, pressed the buttons of her shirtwaist against them. “Whatever for?” she said. His eyes skimmed over hers and then bounced away to follow the rise and fall of his napkin as he shook it out. “Looks like me and Rita Sweeney are getting married,” he said, and tucked the napkin onto his lap. In her recollection of that hour, she saw the tears accumulate behind her glasses like water in two fishbowls. Because she knew she had cried, and yet she had no memory of a single tear falling. It wasn’t just that Rita’s family had money, he explained while he ate and the food he had ordered for her sat untouched on her plate. Although that made it better than the two of them, he and Marie—with their widowed mothers ending up alone in their top-floor aviaries if they got married. It was simply that Rita was better-looking. No flaws that he could see. Not, he said, like you and me. “Blind you,” he said. “Gimpy me.” He said as the lunch wore on, “Don’t kid yourself that everybody’s equal in this country. It’s the best-looking people who have the best chances.” “I’m giving my future children the best chance I can give them. What kind of father would I be if I didn’t?” In her recollection, the tears churned like the sea behind her glasses. He said, “You’ve been swell. I wanted to give you a nice lunch.” She walked back to the subway with the tears that were trapped behind her glasses washing up over her eyes. Through them she saw the buildings and the street lamps and the cars with their bright windshields, even the dark figures of other people, grow buoyant. She saw them float past, clashing and bobbing, unmoored by the flood. At home, she climbed the steps, and everything that was terrible about this house and this street, about her life thus far, washed before her eyes. Here was the turn in the stairs where they’d struggled with her father’s coffin. Here was the couch where she’d found her mother one morning last year, counting the pile of wrinkled dollars in her lap, hollow-eyed, sleepless. Here was the bed that had once belonged to her parents but that she and her mother now shared because Gabe had lost his vocation. “You know how it is these days—they won’t hire you to whack someone unless you’ve already got a job whacking people.”Buy the print » She sat on the edge of the bed. She wanted to take her glasses off, fling them across the room. To tear the new hat from her head and fling it, too. Put her hands to her scalp and peel off the homely face. Unbutton the dress, unbuckle the belt, remove the frail slip. She wanted to reach behind her neck and unhook the flesh from the bone, open it along the zipper of her spine, step out of her skin, and throw it to the floor. Back, shoulder, stomach, and breast. Trample it. Raise a fist to God for how he had shaped her in that first darkness: unlovely and unloved. The door to the second bedroom opened, and her brother appeared, his Breviary in his hand. There was an uncharacteristic stoop to his shoulders, as if he were prepared for some blow. “My Lord, what is it?” he said. Apparently, she’d been crying all along. Standing in the doorway of the bedroom they’d shared as children, he listened to the tale of her woe with his finger still marking his place in the Breviary, the book held against his heart. When she paused, gulping and whimpering, he said simply, “Wash your face. I’ll get my hat.” In her despair, she obeyed. When she emerged from the bathroom, Gabe was waiting for her. He said, “It is solved by walking,” and opened the door. He did not take her hand. Or offer her his arm. They walked down the stairs together without touching, like children. He pulled open the vestibule door for her, and then the outside door. On the sidewalk, he slipped his hands into his pockets and nodded that they should go to the right. She went along. It was a hot day. She hadn’t realized how hot, because earlier, when she left for the restaurant, she had just bathed and splashed herself with cologne, and later, when she returned, the heat was only a part of the general devastation. But now the asphalt was as hot as a griddle. Across the street, blind Bill Corrigan’s kitchen chair had been set out, but it was empty. There were only a few children on stoops. They sat on the higher steps, close to their buildings, where there was some shade. They looked limp and malnourished. She glanced up at them and then glanced down. The air was a wall. The heat was a reminder of something she had gleaned years ago, when her father was dying, but had managed to forget: that ordinary days were a veil, a swath of thin cloth that distorted her sight. When they were brushed aside, in moments such as these, all that was brittle and terrible and unchanging was made clear. Her father would not return to the earth, her eyes would not heal, she would never step out of her skin or marry Walter Hartnett in the pretty church. And, since this was true for her, it was true, in its way, for everyone. She and her brother greeted the people they knew walking by, neighborhood women, shopkeepers in doorways trying to catch a breeze. Each one of them, it seemed to her now that the veil was parted, hollow-eyed with some disappointment or solitary grief. Even in this heat, there was the smell of industrial smoke in the thick air. Her brother walked beside her. His suit jacket was buttoned, and his tie was tight, but his hands were in his pockets, and this made his stride seem leisurely. He paused at the first corner and then shrugged a little, turned left across the street. Soon enough she saw that he didn’t really have a destination in mind, which was fine with her; she might as well do this, walk like this, as anything else. She’d had a brief fear that he was going to take her to church. On the next block, a young man stopped right in front of them, pulled off his hat, and swabbed his high forehead with a white handkerchief as large as a flag. He was slipping his hat back on as they passed him. She heard him say, “Father,” and then, “Father Gabe?” Her brother turned and greeted the man, whose friendly eyes seemed to stutter for a moment, jumping to her brother’s neck, and then to her. He was short, with a round, boyish face that was florid with the heat. He lifted his hat again as she was introduced, and she saw that his hatband had left a red impression across his forehead. He said, “How are you, Father?” and her brother held up his hand. “Father no more,” Gabe said. “It wasn’t for me.” Now panic entered the young man’s eyes—he looked to her again, and she found herself shrugging, the two of them united for a moment by the puzzle of her brother’s lost vocation. Gabe had gone into the seminary when she was a little girl, and when he’d come home from his parish without his collar she was a teen-ager on the brink of her first love. Whatever he had experienced in between had happened in another country. “Oh, gee,” the young man said, “I’m sorry.” It was impossible to know if he was sorry for the lost vocation or for his own, awkward mistake. “Once a priest,” he began to say, but Gabe spoke over him. “Nice to see you, Tom,” he said, and held out his hand. “Nice to see you, Father,” the young man said, and then quickly pulled his lips together. Gabe raised his palm, a kind of absolution. “That’s all right, Tom,” he said gently. She and her brother walked on together. The soles of her feet had begun to burn and a blister was forming on her left heel. She felt the back of her dress clinging to her shoulder blades, felt the tickle of sweat running down her spine. By the time they reached the park, the pain of the blister was making her limp. They found a bench just inside, in the shade, and Gabe said, “Let’s sit awhile before we head back.” He said it with an air of defeat, as if they had formerly agreed that they would not stop at all. It was now late afternoon, and the park was full of people looking for relief from the heat. There were kids with baseball bats and mitts hanging, forgotten it seemed, from their hands. Mothers with carriages. Men with their jackets off. Some in sweat-stained undershirts. Her brother took off his hat and put it on the bench between them. He loosened his tie, reached into his pocket for cigarettes and matches. There was something clean, even cool, about the scent of the struck match, the first exhalation of smoke. She watched him as he drew on the cigarette again and saw how handsome his face was—the smooth stubble of his cheek, the amber glow of his skin and his fair hair. His hands, too, were fine, long-fingered. They’d been wrapped in white cloth on the day of his ordination, a beautiful winter day. She and her mother had ridden the train out to Huntington together. They’d gone straight to the hospital on their return, to tell her father all they had seen. She opened her purse and took out a handkerchief. She took off her glasses to wipe the perspiration from under her eyes. Her parents had said, “We’re not so enamored of the clergy as some.” Leaving the hospital that evening, her mother had told her, “Your father might have preferred to see him married.” With her glasses off, she looked at her brother once more, her eyes drawn, perhaps, by the movement of the cigarette to his lips, the suggestion, in her peripheral vision, of a blessing. Here was the familiar blur of his profile seen through her distorted vision: the way she’d known him when she was young, when they had shared that second bedroom. He was not sitting close to her—the heat required a good space on the bench between them—but she was aware of the easy, physical nearness they had known as children. Her brother tossed his cigarette into the dirt at his feet and lifted his hat again. He leaned forward, over his knees. He spoke without turning to see her. “He’s more to be pitied,” he said softly. “That bad leg. An affliction like that. It can sometimes make a person compassionate. You’d expect it would. But more often than not it makes them cruel. Makes people resent God. They figure, If he formed me, then why did he choose to form me this way? Why burden me with all this needless pain?” She put her glasses back on and looked up at the trees, the thick landscape of them against the colorless sky. She had loved Walter Hartnett for the hitch in his walk, the built-up shoe, as much as she’d loved him for his clever smile and his gray eyes. “Once,” her brother said, “we were all playing ball—Walter was still just a kid then—and an ambulance came along and stopped just past us, in front of the Corrigans’ house. Of course we tore over there to see what was going on. The ambulance men were halfway up the Corrigans’ steps when this nursing Sister comes running out of the house next door, saying, ‘She’s here, over here.’ So they turn around, back down the Corrigans’ steps and then up the steps next door. In no time at all they’re back out again with an old woman—Mrs. Cooper, it was—on a stretcher. ‘Dead,’ one of us says. ‘Drunk,’ says someone else. But the nun says, ‘Mind your own business,’ and shoos us away. So we go back to our game, but then we notice Bill Corrigan. There are big tears running down his face. ‘Is it my mother?’ he says when we come closer, in a voice we haven’t ever heard before, all cracked and whispery.” Gabe was slowly turning his hat in his hands. There was a bit of white satin inside the crown, elegant and cool, ecclesiastical. “I mentioned Bill in a sermon once,” he said. “I wanted to say something about faith or second sight, but everyone laughed when I said we’d had a blind umpire when we were kids. So I pretty much left it at that.” He shrugged. “I guess it was something about those big tears. On a grown man. How many of us had ever seen a grown man cry? I guess it—the weakness of it—brought out something cruel in us.” He paused, looking out across the park. “We said, ‘Yeah, Bill. It was your mother. She’s dead.’ And then we just stood there. Bill dropped his head. It was only a matter of seconds, but for a few seconds we saw him wrecked. His whole life, the rest of his life, however he had foreseen it, blasted. Just for a few seconds. We saw that we had done this. Easily. Casually. Made him suffer.” He shook his head. “For a few seconds,” he said, “we savored it.” He said, “It was Walter who finally told him, ‘Nah. We’re kidding. Not her. It was the old lady next door.’ Which got us all slapping Bill on the back and laughing at how we’d had him fooled. It took a while for him to get the joke.” Gabe gazed out at the park. “Some joke,” he said. Even that day, after all her tears, the habit of loving Walter Hartnett had not yet left her, and so she assumed that her brother had told her this story not to admit that he, too, had once been cruel but to prove that Walter had once been kind. “Rescue me from my enemies, my God,” Gabe said, suddenly sitting back. He paused. “I never much liked playing ball after that. With Bill Corrigan always there.” He put his hand on the bench between them. “I’m sorry this happened to you,” he said wearily. “There’s a lot of cruelty in the world.” And then waved his hat to indicate the paths through the park and all the people on them. “You’ll be lucky if this is your worst taste of it.” Turning away from him, she leaned forward to examine the stinging blister on her heel. Across a lifetime, she could see that her brother had been no more able to step out of his flesh—face, chest, and limb—than she was. That he bore in those days his own blasted vision of a lost future. “Can you make it home?” she heard him say. She told him she’d be fine if they walked slowly. He raised his hat to his head, adjusted it jauntily. As he stood, she looked up at him, her eye squinting closed against the sun. She touched his arm. Even through the fabric of his sleeve, she felt him withdraw a little. Something in him, in his muscle or in his bone, withheld. “Who’s going to love me?” she said. The brim of his hat cast his eyes in shadow. Behind him, the park teemed with strangers. “Someone,” he said. “Someone will.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Labyrinth	Credit Courtesy Jacques Henric They’re seated. They’re looking at the camera. They are captioned, from left to right: J. Henric, J.-J. Goux, Ph. Sollers, J. Kristeva, M.-Th. Réveillé, P. Guyotat, C. Devade, and M. Devade. There’s no photo credit. They’re sitting around a table. It’s an ordinary table, made of wood, perhaps, or plastic, it could even be a marble table on metal legs, but nothing could be less germane to my purpose than to give an exhaustive description of it. The table is a table that is large enough to seat the above-mentioned individuals and it’s in a café. Or appears to be. Let’s suppose, for the moment, that it’s in a café. The eight people who appear in the photo, who are posing for the photo, are fanned out around one side of the table in a crescent or a kind of opened-out horseshoe, so that each of them can be seen clearly and completely. In other words, no one is facing away from the camera. In front of them, or rather between them and the photographer (and this is slightly strange), there are three plants—a rhododendron, a ficus, and an everlasting—rising from a planter, which may serve, but this is speculation, as a barrier between two distinct sections of the café. The photo was probably taken in 1977 or thereabouts. But let us return to the figures. On the left-hand side we have, as I said, J. Henric, that is, the writer Jacques Henric, born in 1938 and the author of “Archées,” “Artaud Travaillé par la Chine,” and “Chasses.” Henric is a solidly built man, broad-shouldered, muscular-looking, probably not very tall. He’s wearing a plaid shirt with the sleeves rolled halfway up his forearms. He’s not what you would call a handsome man; he has the square face of a farmer or a construction worker, thick eyebrows, and a dark chin, one of those chins which need to be shaved twice a day (or so some people claim). His legs are crossed and his hands are clasped over his knee. Next to him is J.-J. Goux. About J.-J. Goux I know nothing. He’s probably called Jean-Jacques, but in this story, for the sake of convenience, I’ll continue to use his initials. J.-J. Goux is young and blond. He’s wearing glasses. There’s nothing especially attractive about his features (although, compared with Henric, he looks not only more handsome but also more intelligent). The line of his jaw is symmetrical and his lips are full, the lower lip slightly thicker than the upper. He’s wearing a turtleneck sweater and a dark leather jacket. Beside J.-J. is Ph. Sollers, Philippe Sollers, born in 1936, the editor of Tel Quel, author of “Drame,” “Nombres,” and “Paradis,” a public figure familiar to everyone. Sollers has his arms crossed, the left arm resting on the surface of the table, the right arm resting on the left (and his right hand indolently cupping the elbow of his left arm). His face is round. It would be an exaggeration to say that it’s the face of a fat man, but it probably will be in a few years’ time: it’s the face of a man who enjoys a good meal. An ironic, intelligent smile is hovering about his lips. His eyes, which are much livelier than those of Henric or J.-J., and smaller, too, remain fixed on the camera, and the bags underneath them help to give his round face a look that is at once preoccupied, perky, and playful. Like J.-J., he’s wearing a turtleneck sweater, though the sweater that Sollers is wearing is white, dazzlingly white, while J.-J.’s is probably yellow or light green. Over the sweater Sollers is wearing a garment that appears at first glance to be a dark-colored leather jacket, though it could be made of a lighter material, possibly suède. He’s the only one who’s smoking. Beside Sollers is J. Kristeva, Julia Kristeva, the Bulgarian semiologist, his wife. She is the author of “La Traversée des Signes,” “Pouvoirs de l’Horreur,” and “Le Langage, Cet Inconnu.” She’s slim, with prominent cheekbones, black hair parted in the middle and gathered into a bun at the back. Her eyes are dark and lively, as lively as those of Sollers, although there are differences: in addition to being larger, they transmit a certain hospitable warmth (that is, a certain serenity) which is absent from her husband’s eyes. She’s wearing a turtleneck sweater, which is very close-fitting, though the collar is loose, and a long V-shaped necklace that accentuates the form of her torso. At first glance she could almost be Vietnamese. Except that her breasts, it seems, are larger than those of the average Vietnamese woman. Hers is the only smile that allows us a glimpse of teeth. Beside la Kristeva is M.-Th. Réveillé. About her, too, I know nothing. She’s probably called Marie-Thérèse. Let’s suppose that she is. Marie-Thérèse, then, is the first person so far not to be wearing a turtleneck sweater. Henric isn’t, either, actually, but his neck is short (he barely has one at all), while Marie-Thérèse Réveillé, by contrast, has a neck that is long and entirely revealed by the dark garment she is wearing. Her hair is straight and long, with a center part, light brown in color, or perhaps honey blond. Thanks to the slight leftward turn of her face, a pearl can be seen suspended from her ear, like a stray satellite. Next to Marie-Thérèse Réveillé is P. Guyotat, that is, Pierre Guyotat, born in 1940, the author of “Tombeau pour Cinq Cent Mille Soldats,” “Éden, Éden, Éden,” and “Prostitution.” Guyotat is bald. That’s his most striking characteristic. He’s also the handsomest man in the group. His bald head is radiant, his skull capacious, and the black hair at his temples resembles nothing so much as the laurel leaves that used to wreathe the heads of victorious Roman generals. Neither shrinking away nor striking a pose, he has the expression of a man who travels by night. He’s wearing a leather jacket, a shirt, and a T-shirt. The T-shirt (but here there must be some mistake) is white with black horizontal stripes and a thicker black stripe around the neck, like something a child might wear, or a Soviet parachutist. His eyebrows are narrow and definite. They mark the border between his immense forehead and a face that is wavering between concentration and indifference. The eyes are inquisitive, but perhaps they give a false impression. His lips are pressed together in a way that may not be deliberate. Next to Guyotat is C. Devade. Caroline? Carole? Carla? Colette? Claudine? We’ll never know. Let’s say, for the sake of convenience, that she’s called Carla Devade. She could well be the youngest member of the group. Her hair is short, without bangs, and although the photo is in black-and-white, it’s reasonable to suppose that her skin has an olive tone, suggesting a Mediterranean background. Maybe Carla Devade is from the South of France, or Catalonia, or Italy. Only Julia Kristeva is as dark, but Kristeva’s skin—perhaps it’s a trick of the light—has a metallic, bronzelike quality, while Carla Devade’s is silky and yielding. She is wearing a dark sweater with a round neck, and a blouse. Her lips and her eyes betray more than a hint of a smile: a sign of recognition, perhaps. Next to Carla Devade is M. Devade. This is presumably the writer Marc Devade, who was still a member of Tel Quel’s editorial committee. His relationship with Carla Devade is obvious: man and wife. Could they be brother and sister? Possibly, but the physical dissimilarities are numerous. Marc Devade (I find it hard to call him Marc, I would have preferred to translate that “M” into Marcel or Max) is blond, chubby-cheeked, and has very light eyes. So it makes more sense to presume that they are man and wife. Just to be different, Devade is wearing a turtleneck sweater, like J.-J. Goux, Sollers, and Kristeva, and a dark jacket. His eyes are large and beautiful, and his mouth is decisive. His hair, as I said, is blond; it’s long (longer than that of the other men) and elegantly combed back. His forehead is broad and perhaps slightly bulging. And he has, although this may be an illusion produced by the graininess of the image, a dimple in his chin. How many of them are looking directly at the photographer? Only a few: J.-J. Goux, Sollers, and Marc Devade. Marie-Thérèse Réveillé and Carla Devade are looking away to the left, past Henric. Guyotat’s gaze is angled slightly to the right, fixed on a point a yard or two from the photographer. And Kristeva, whose gaze is the strangest of all, appears to be looking straight at the camera, but in fact she’s looking at the photographer’s stomach, or, to be more precise, into the empty space beside his hip. The photo was taken in winter or autumn, or maybe at the beginning of spring, but certainly not in summer. Who are the most warmly dressed? J.-J. Goux, Sollers, and Marc Devade, without question: they’re wearing jackets over their turtleneck sweaters, and thick jackets, too, from the look of them, especially J.-J.’s and Devade’s. Kristeva is a case apart: her turtleneck sweater is light, more elegant than practical, and she’s not wearing anything over it. Then we have Guyotat. He might be as warmly dressed as the four I’ve already mentioned. He doesn’t seem to be, but he’s the only one wearing three layers: the black leather jacket, the shirt, and the striped T-shirt. You could imagine him wearing those clothes even if the photo had been taken in summer. It’s quite possible. All we can say for sure is that Guyotat is dressed as if he were on his way somewhere else. As for Carla Devade, she’s in between. Her blouse, whose collar is showing over the top of her sweater, looks soft and warm; the sweater itself is casual, but of good quality, neither very heavy nor very light. Finally, we have Jacques Henric and Marie-Thérèse Réveillé. Henric is clearly not a man who feels the cold, although his Canadian lumberjack’s shirt looks warm enough. And the least warmly dressed of all is Marie-Thérèse Réveillé. Under her light, knitted V-neck sweater there are only her breasts, cupped by a black or white bra. All of them, more or less warmly dressed, captured by the camera at that moment in 1977 or thereabouts, are friends, and some of them are lovers, too. For a start, Sollers and Kristeva, obviously, and the two Devades, Marc and Carla. Those, we might say, are the stable couples. And yet there are certain features of the photo (something about the arrangement of the objects, the petrified, musical rhododendron, two of its leaves invading the space of the ficus like clouds within a cloud, the grass growing in the planter, which looks more like fire than grass, the everlasting leaning whimsically to the left, the glasses in the center of the table, well away from the edges, except for Kristeva’s, as if the other members of the group were worried they might fall) that suggest a more complex and subtle web of relations among these men and women. Let’s imagine J.-J. Goux, for example, who is looking out at us through his thick submarine spectacles. Buy the print » His space in the photo is momentarily vacant and we see him walking along Rue de l’École de Médecine, with books under his arm, of course, two books, till he comes out onto Boulevard Saint-Germain. There he turns his steps toward the Mabillon Métro station, but first he stops in front of a bar, checks the time, goes in, and orders a cognac. After a while, J.-J. moves away from the bar and sits down at a table near the window. What does he do? He opens a book. We can’t tell what book it is, but we do know that he’s finding it difficult to concentrate. Every twenty seconds or so he lifts his head and looks out onto Boulevard Saint-Germain, his gaze a little more gloomy each time. It’s raining, and people are walking hurriedly under their umbrellas. J.-J.’s blond hair isn’t wet, from which we can deduce that it began to rain after he entered the bar. It’s getting dark. J.-J. remains seated, and now there are two cognacs and two coffees on his tab. Coming closer, we can see that the dark rings under his eyes have the look of a war zone. At no point has he taken off his glasses. He’s a pitiful sight. After a very long wait, he goes back out onto the street, where he is gripped by a shiver, perhaps because of the cold. For a moment he stands still on the sidewalk and looks both ways, then he starts walking in the direction of the Mabillon Métro station. When he reaches the entrance, he runs his hand through his hair several times, as if he’d suddenly realized that his hair was a mess, although it’s not. Then he goes down the steps, and the story ends or freezes in an empty space where appearances gradually fade away. Who was J.-J. Goux waiting for? For someone he’s in love with? Someone he was hoping to sleep with that night? And how was his delicate sensibility affected by that person’s failure to show up? Let’s suppose that the person who didn’t come was Jacques Henric. While J.-J. was waiting for him, Henric was riding a 250-cc Honda motorcycle to the entrance of the apartment building where the Devades live. But no. That’s impossible. Let’s imagine that Henric simply climbed onto his Honda and rode off into a vaguely literary, vaguely unstable Paris, and that his absence on this occasion is strategic, as amorous absences nearly always are. So let’s set up the couples again. Carla Devade and Marc Devade. Sollers and Kristeva. J.-J. Goux and Jacques Henric. Marie-Thérèse Réveillé and Pierre Guyotat. And let’s set up the night. J.-J. Goux is sitting and reading a book whose title is immaterial, in a bar on Boulevard Saint-Germain; his turtleneck sweater won’t let his skin breathe, but he doesn’t yet feel entirely ill at ease. Henric is stretched out on his bed, half undressed, smoking and looking at the ceiling. Sollers is shut up in his study, writing (pinkly snug and warm inside his turtleneck sweater). Julia Kristeva is at the university. Marie-Thérèse Réveillé is walking along Avenue de Friedland near the intersection with Rue Balzac, the headlights of the cars shining in her face. Guyotat is in a bar on Rue Lacépède, near the Jardin des Plantes, drinking with some friends. Carla Devade is in her apartment, sitting on a chair in the kitchen, doing nothing. Marc Devade is at the Tel Quel office, speaking politely on the phone to one of the poets he most admires and hates. Soon Sollers and Kristeva will be together, reading after dinner. They will not make love tonight. Soon Marie-Thérèse Réveillé and Guyotat will be together in bed, and he will sodomize her. They will fall asleep at five in the morning, after exchanging a few words in the bathroom. Soon Carla Devade and Marc Devade will be together, and she will shout, and he will shout, and she will go to the bedroom and pick up a novel, any one of the many that are lying on her bedside table, and he will sit at his desk and try to write but fail. Carla will fall asleep at one in the morning, Marc at half past two, and they will try not to touch each other. Soon Jacques Henric will go down to the underground parking garage and climb onto his Honda and venture out into the cold streets of Paris, becoming cold himself, a man who shapes his own destiny, and knows, or at least believes, that he is lucky. He will be the only member of the group to see the day dawning and the disastrous retreat of the night wanderers, each an enigmatic letter in an imaginary alphabet. Soon J.-J. Goux, who was the first to fall asleep, will have a dream in which a photo will appear, and he’ll hear a voice warning him of the Devil’s presence and of hapless death. He’ll wake with a start from this dream or auditory nightmare and won’t be able to get back to sleep for the rest of the night. Day breaks and the photo is illuminated once again. Marie-Thérèse Réveillé and Carla Devade look off to the left, at an object beyond Henric’s muscular shoulders. There is recognition or acceptance in Carla’s gaze: that much is clear from her half smile and gentle eyes. Marie-Thérèse, however, has a penetrating gaze: her lips are slightly open, as if she were having difficulty breathing, and her eyes are trying to fix on (trying, unsuccessfully, to nail) the object of her attention, which is presumably moving. The women are looking in the same direction, but it’s clear that they have quite different emotional reactions to whatever it is they are seeing. Carla’s gentleness may be conditioned by ignorance. Marie-Thérèse’s insecurity, her defensive yet inquisitorial glare, may result from the sudden stripping away of various layers of experience. Any moment now, J.-J. Goux might start to cry. The voice that warned him of the Devil’s presence is still ringing, though faintly, in his ears. He is not, however, looking to the left, at the object that has attracted the women’s attention, but directly at the camera, and an infinitesimal smile is creeping over his lips, a would-be ironic smile confined, for the moment, to the safer domain of placidity. When night falls over the photograph again, J.-J. Goux will head straight for his apartment, make himself a sandwich, watch television for exactly fifteen minutes, not one more, then sit in an armchair in the living room and call Philippe Sollers. The phone will ring five times and J.-J. will hang up slowly, holding the receiver in his right hand, raising his left hand to his lips, and touching them with two fingers, as if to check that he’s still there, that the person there is him, in a living room that’s not too big, not too small, crowded with books, and dark. As for Carla Devade, having lost her acquiescent smile, she’ll call Marie-Thérèse Réveillé, who will pick up the phone after three rings. In a roundabout way, they’ll talk about things they don’t really want to talk about at all, and arrange to meet in three days’ time at a café on Rue Galande. Tonight Marie-Thérèse will go out on her own, to nowhere in particular, and Carla will shut herself in her room as soon as she hears the sound of Marc Devade’s key sliding into the lock. But nothing tragic will happen for now. Marc Devade will read an essay by a Bulgarian linguist; Guyotat will go to see a film by Jacques Rivette; Julia Kristeva will stay up late reading; Philippe Sollers will stay up late writing, and he and his wife will barely exchange a word, shut away in their respective studies; Jacques Henric will sit down at his typewriter, but nothing will occur to him, so after twenty minutes he’ll put on his leather jacket and his boots and go down to the underground parking garage and look for his Honda; for some reason the lights in the garage don’t seem to be working, but Henric can remember where he left his bike, so he walks in the dark, in the belly of that whale-like garage, without fear or apprehension of any kind, until about halfway there he hears an unusual noise (not a knocking in the pipes or the sound of a car door opening or closing) and he stops, without really understanding why, and listens, but the noise is not repeated, and now the silence is absolute. And then the night ends (or a small part of the night, at least, a manageable part) and light wraps the photo like a bandage on fire, and there he is again, Pierre Guyotat, almost a familiar presence now, with his powerful, shiny bald head and his leather jacket, the jacket of an anarchist or a commissar from the Spanish Civil War, and his sidelong gaze, veering off to the right, as if into the space behind the photographer, as if directed at someone near or at the bar, perhaps, standing or sitting on a stool, someone whose back is turned to Guyotat and whose face is invisible to him unless, and this is not unlikely, there is a mirror behind the bar. It may be a woman. A young woman, perhaps. Guyotat looks at her reflection in the mirror and looks at the back of her neck. His gaze, however, is far less intense than the gaze of this woman, which is plumbing an abyss. Here we can reasonably conclude that, while Guyotat is looking at a stranger, Marie-Thérèse and Carla are looking at a man they know, although, as is usually (or, in fact, inevitably) the case, their perceptions of him are entirely different. Let’s call these two beyond the frame X and Z. X is the woman at the bar. Z is the man who is known to Marie-Thérèse and Carla. They don’t know him very well, of course. From Carla’s gaze (which is not only gentle but protective) it could be inferred that he is young, although from Marie-Thérèse’s gaze it could also be inferred that he is a potentially dangerous individual. Who else knows Z? No one, or at least there is nothing to suggest that his presence is of any concern to the others. Maybe he’s a young writer who at some stage tried to get his work published in Tel Quel; maybe he’s a young journalist from South America, no, from Central America, who at some point tried to write an article about the group. He may well be an ambitious young man. If he’s a Central American in Paris, in addition to being ambitious he may also be bitter. Of the people sitting around the table, he knows only Marie-Thérèse, Carla, Sollers, and Marc Devade. Let’s say he once visited the Tel Quel office and was introduced to those four. (He also once shook hands with Marcelin Pleynet, but Pleynet’s not in the photo.) He has never seen the others in his life, or only (in the cases of Guyotat and Jacques Henric) in author photos. We can imagine the young Central American, hungry and bitter, in the Tel Quel office, and we can imagine Philippe Sollers and Marc Devade, wavering between puzzlement and indifference as they listen to him, and we can even imagine that Carla Devade is there by pure chance; she has come to meet her husband, she has brought some papers that Marc forgot on his desk, she’s there because she couldn’t stand being alone in the apartment a minute longer, etc. What we can’t imagine (or justify) in any way at all is Marie-Thérèse’s presence in the office. She is Guyotat’s partner, she doesn’t work for Tel Quel, and she has no reason to be there. And yet there she is, and that is where she meets the young Central American. Is she there on that day because of Carla Devade? Has Carla arranged to meet Marie-Thérèse at the office because she knows that Marc will not be coming home with her? Or has Marie-Thérèse come to meet someone else? Let’s return, discreetly, to the afternoon when the Central American came to the office on Rue Jacob to pay his respects. “All of our flow charts are backing up!”Buy the print » It’s the end of the workday. The secretary has already gone home, and when the bell rings it’s Marc Devade who opens the door and lets the visitor in without meeting his eye. The Central American crosses the threshold and follows Marc Devade to an office at the end of the corridor. He leaves a trail of drops on the wooden floor behind him, although it stopped raining quite some time ago. Devade is, of course, oblivious of this detail; he walks ahead, talking about something or other—the weather, money, chores—with that elegance that only certain Frenchmen seem to possess. In the office, which is spacious and contains a desk, several chairs, two armchairs, and shelves full of books and magazines, Sollers is waiting, and as soon as the introductions are over the Central American hails him as a genius, one of the century’s most brilliant minds, a compliment that would be par for the course in certain tropical nations on the far side of the Atlantic but which, in the Tel Quel office and the ears of Philippe Sollers, verges on the preposterous. In fact, as soon as the Central American makes his declaration, Sollers catches Devade’s eye and both of them wonder whether they’ve let a madman in. Deep down, however, Sollers is eighty per cent in agreement with the Central American’s appraisal, so once he has set aside the idea that the visitor might be mocking them the conversation proceeds in an amicable fashion, at least for a while. The Central American speaks of Julia Kristeva (he winks at Sollers as he mentions that eminent Bulgarian), he speaks of Marcelin Pleynet (whom he has already met), and of Denis Roche (whose work he claims to be translating). Devade listens to him with a slightly wry smile. Sollers listens, nodding from time to time, his boredom increasing with every passing second. Suddenly, a sound of footsteps in the corridor. The door opens. Carla Devade appears, wearing tight corduroy trousers, flat shoes, and a disconsolate smile on her pretty Mediterranean face. Marc Devade gets up from his chair; for a moment the couple whisper questions and answers. The Central American has fallen silent; Sollers is mechanically flipping through a British magazine. Then Carla and Marc walk across the room (Carla taking tentative little steps, holding her husband’s arm), and the Central American stands up, is introduced, obsequiously greets the newcomer. The conversation immediately resumes, but the Central American’s chatter veers off in a new direction, unfortunately for him (he changes the subject from literature to the matchless beauty and grace of French women), at which point Sollers completely loses interest. Shortly afterward, the visit is brought to a close: Sollers looks at his watch, says it’s late; Devade shows the Central American to the door, shakes his hand, and the visitor, instead of waiting for the elevator, rushes down the stairs. On the second-floor landing he runs into Marie-Thérèse Réveillé. The Central American is talking to himself in Spanish, not under his breath but out loud. As their paths cross, Marie-Thérèse notices a fierce look in his eyes. They bump into each other. Both apologize. They look at each other again (and this is surprising, the way their eyes meet again after the apology), and what she sees, beneath the expedient mask of bitterness, is a well of unbearable horror and fear. So the Central American, Z, is there in the café when the photo is taken, and Carla and Marie-Thérèse have recognized him, they’ve remembered him; perhaps he has just arrived, perhaps he walked past the table at which the group is sitting and greeted them, but, except for the two women, they had no idea who he was; this happens quite often, of course, but it’s something that the Central American still can’t accept with equanimity. There he is, to the left of the group, with some Central American friends, or waiting for them, maybe, and deep within him there’s a seething anger nourished by affronts and grudges, fuelled by bitterness and the chill of the City of Light. His appearance, however, is equivocal: it makes Carla Devade feel like a protective older sister or a missionary nun in Africa, but it catches at Marie-Thérèse Réveillé like barbed wire and triggers a vague erotic longing. And then night falls again and the photo empties out or disappears under a scribble of lines traced by the mechanism of night, and Sollers is writing in his study, and Kristeva is writing in her study next door—soundproofed studies, so that they can’t hear each other typing, for example, or getting up to consult a book, or coughing or talking to themselves—and Carla and Marc Devade are leaving a cinema (they’ve been to see a film by Rivette), not talking to each other, although a couple of times Marc and then Carla, who’s more distracted, greet people they know, and J.-J. Goux is preparing his dinner, a frugal dinner consisting of bread, pâté, cheese, and a glass of wine, and Guyotat is undressing Marie-Thérèse Réveillé and throwing her onto the sofa with a violent thrust that Marie-Thérèse intercepts in midair as if she were catching a butterfly of lucidity in a lucidity net, and Henric is leaving his apartment, going down to the parking garage, and he stops again as the lights go out, first the ones near the metal roller door that opens onto the street, and then the others, till there is only the light down at the far end, illuminating his multicolored Honda, flickering helplessly, and then it fails as well. And it occurs to Henric that his motorcycle is like an Assyrian god, but for the moment his legs refuse to walk on into the darkness, and Marie-Thérèse shuts her eyes and opens her legs, one foot on the sofa, the other on the carpet, while Guyotat pushes into her, the panties still around her thighs, and calls her his little whore, his little bitch, and asks her what she did during the day, what happened to her, what streets she wandered down, and J.-J. Goux is sitting at the table and spreading pâté on a piece of bread and lifting it to his mouth and chewing, first on the right side, then on the left, unhurriedly, with a book by Robert Pinget open beside him to page 2 and the television switched off but the screen reflecting his image, a man on his own with his mouth closed and his cheeks full, looking thoughtful and absent, and Carla Devade and Marc Devade are making love, Carla on top, illuminated only by the light in the corridor, a light they usually leave on, and Carla is groaning and trying not to look at her husband’s face, his blond hair a mess now, his light eyes, his broad and placid face, his delicate, elegant hands, devoid of the fire she’s longing for, ineffectually holding her hips, as if he were trying to keep her there with him, but he has no real sense of what she might be fleeing from or what her flight might mean, a flight that goes on and on like torture, and Kristeva and Sollers are going to bed, first her, she has to lecture early the next day, then him, and both of them take books that they will leave on their bedside tables when sleep comes to close their eyes, and Philippe Sollers will dream that he is walking along a beach in Brittany with a scientist who has discovered a way to destroy the world; they will be walking westward along this long, deserted beach, bounded by rocks and black cliffs, and suddenly Sollers will realize that the scientist (who is talking and explaining) is himself and that the man walking beside him is a murderer; this will dawn on him when he looks down at the wet sand (with its souplike consistency) and the crabs skittering away to hide and the prints the two of them are leaving on the beach (there is a certain logic to this: identifying the murderer by his footprints), and Julia Kristeva will dream of a little village in Germany where years ago she participated in a seminar, and she’ll see the streets of the village, clean and empty, and sit down in a square that’s tiny but full of plants and trees, and close her eyes and listen to the distant cheeping of a single bird and wonder if the bird is in a cage or free, and she’ll feel a breeze on her neck and her face, neither cold nor warm, a perfect breeze, perfumed with lavender and orange blossom, and then she’ll remember her seminar and look at her watch, but it will have stopped. So the Central American is outside the frame of the photograph, sharing that pristine and deceptive territory with the object of Guyotat’s gaze: an unknown woman armed only, for the moment, with her beauty. Their eyes will not meet. They will pass each other by like shadows, briefly sharing the same hazardous ambit: the itinerant theatre of Paris. The Central American could quite easily become a murderer. Perhaps, back in his country, he will, but not here, where the only blood he could possibly shed is his own. This Pol Pot won’t kill anyone in Paris. And actually, back in Tegucigalpa or San Salvador, he’ll probably end up teaching in a university. As for the unknown woman, she will not be captured by Guyotat’s asbestos nets. She’s at the bar, waiting for the boyfriend she’ll marry before long (him or the next one), and their marriage will be disastrous, though not without its moments of comfort. Literature brushes past these literary creatures and kisses them on the lips, but they don’t even notice. The section of restaurant or café that contains the photo’s nest of smoke continues imperturbably on its voyage through nothingness. Behind Sollers, for instance, we can make out the fragmentary figures of three men. None of their faces can be seen in their entirety. The man on the left, in profile: a forehead, one eyebrow, the back part of his ear, the top of his head. The man on the right: a little piece of his forehead, his cheekbone, strands of dark hair. The man in the middle, who seems to be calling the shots: most of his forehead, traversed by two clearly visible wrinkles, his eyebrows, the bridge of his nose, and a discreet quiff. Behind them, there is a pane of glass and behind the glass many people walking about curiously among stalls or exhibition stands, bookstands perhaps, mostly facing away from our characters (who have their backs to them in turn), except for a child with a round face and straight bangs, wearing a jacket that may be too small for him, looking sideways toward the café, as if from that distance he could observe everything going on inside, which, on the face of it, seems rather unlikely. And in a corner, to the right: the waiting man, the listening man. His face appears just above Marc Devade’s blond hair. His hair is dark and abundant, his eyebrows are thick, he is thin. In one hand (a hand resting listlessly against his right temple) he is holding a cigarette. A spiral of smoke is rising from the cigarette toward the ceiling, and the camera has captured it almost as if it were the image of a ghost. Telekinesis. An expert could identify the brand of cigarette that he’s smoking in half a second just by the solid look of that smoke. Gauloises, no doubt. He’s gazing off toward the photo’s right-hand side—that is, he’s pretending not to notice that the photo is being taken, but in a way he, too, is posing. And there is yet another person: careful examination reveals something protruding from Guyotat’s neck like a cancerous growth, which turns out to be made up of a nose, a withered forehead, the outline of an upper lip, the profile of a man who is looking, with a certain gravity, in the same direction as the smoking man, although their gazes could not be more different. And then the photo is occluded and all that is left is the smoke of a Gauloise floating in the air, as if the viewfinder had suddenly swung to the right, toward the black hole of chance, and Sollers comes to a sudden halt in the street, a street near Place Wagram, and feels in his pockets as if he had left his address book behind or lost it, and Marie-Thérèse Réveillé is driving on Boulevard Malesherbes, near Place Wagram, and J.-J. Goux is talking on the phone with Marc Devade (J.-J.’s voice is unsteady, Devade isn’t saying a word), and Guyotat and Henric are walking on Rue Saint-André des Arts, heading for Rue Dauphine, and by chance they run into Carla Devade, who says hello and joins them, and Julia Kristeva is coming out of class surrounded by a retinue of students, quite a few of whom are foreign (two Spaniards, a Mexican, an Italian, two Germans), and once more the photo dissolves into nothingness. Aurora borealis. Terrible dawn. As they open their eyes, they are almost transparent. Marc Devade, alone in bed, snug in gray pajamas, dreaming of the Académie Goncourt. J.-J. Goux at his window, watching clouds float through the sky over Paris and comparing them unfavorably with certain clouds in paintings by Pissarro or the clouds in his nightmare. Julia Kristeva is sleeping and her calm face seems an Assyrian mask until, with a very slight wince of discomfort, she wakes. Philippe Sollers is in the kitchen, leaning on the edge of the sink, and blood is dripping from his right index finger. Carla Devade is climbing the stairs to her apartment after having spent the night with Guyotat. Marie-Thérèse Réveillé is making coffee and reading a book. Jacques Henric is walking through a dark parking garage, which echoes to the sound of his boots on the concrete. A world of forms is unfolding before his eyes, a world of distant noises. The possibility of fear is approaching, the way wind approaches a provincial capital. Henric stops, his heart speeds up, he tries to orient himself. Before, he could at least glimpse shadows and silhouettes at the far end of the garage; now it seems hermetically black, like the darkness in an empty coffin at the bottom of a crypt. So he decides to keep still. In that stillness his heartbeat gradually slows and memory brings back images of the day. He remembers Guyotat, whom he secretly admires, openly pursuing little Carla. Once again, he sees them smiling and then he sees them walking away down a street where yellow lights scatter and regroup sporadically, without any obvious pattern, although Henric knows deep down that everything is determined in some way, everything is causally linked to something else, and human nature leaves very little room for the truly gratuitous. He touches his crotch. He is startled by this movement, the first he has made for some time. He has an erection and yet he doesn’t feel sexually aroused in any way. ♦ (Translated, from the Spanish, by Chris Andrews.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Expectations	Credit Illustration by Steve Powers The proprietor of 51 Pepys Road, in South London, Roger Yount, sat at his desk at his bank, Pinker Lloyd, doing sums. He was trying to calculate whether his bonus for 2007 would come to a million pounds. At forty, Roger was a man to whom everything in life had come easily. He was six feet three, not quite tall enough to feel a need to conceal it by stooping—so that even his height appeared a form of ease, as if gravity had, when he was growing up, exerted less effect on him than on more ordinary people. The resulting complacency seemed so well deserved, and came with so little necessity to emphasize his own good fortune relative to anyone else’s, that it appeared as a form of charm. It helped that Roger was good-looking, in an anonymous way, and had such good manners. He had been to a good school (Harrow) and a good university (Durham) and got a good job (in the City of London) and been perfect in his timing (just after the Big Bang, just before the City became infatuated with the mathematically gifted and/or barrow boys). He would have fit seamlessly into the old City of London, where people came in late and left early and had a good lunch in between, and where everything depended on who you were and whom you knew and how well you blended in, and the greatest honor was to be one of us and to “play well with others”; but he fit in very well in the new City, too, where everything was supposedly meritocratic, where the ideology was to work hard, play hard, and take no prisoners; to be in the office from seven to seven, minimum, and where nobody cared what your accent was or where you came from as long as you showed you were up for it and made money for your employer. Roger had a deep, instinctive understanding of the way in which people in the new City liked people who reminded them of the old City as long as they accepted the new City’s way of doing things, and he was very adroit at signalling his status as someone who would have been at home in the old world but who loved the modern one—even his clothes, beautifully made suits from a wide-boy, Flash Harry tailor just off Savile Row, showed that he understood. (His wife, Arabella, helped him with that.) He was a popular boss, who never lost his temper and was good at letting people get on with things. That was an important skill. A skill worth a million quid in a good year, you would have thought. . . . But it was not straightforward for Roger to calculate the size of his bonus. His employer, a smallish investment bank, did not make it straightforward, and there were many factors to consider, to do with the size of the company’s profits over all, the portion of those profits made by his department, which traded in foreign-currency markets, the relative performance of his department when compared with its competitors, and a number of other calculations, many of them not at all transparent, and some of them based on subjective judgments of how well he had performed as a manager. There was an element of deliberate mystification about the process, which was in the hands of the Compensation Committee, sometimes known as the Politburo. Sitting on Roger’s desk were three computer screens, one of them tracking departmental activity in real time, another being Roger’s own P.C., given over to e-mail and I.M. and videoconferencing and his diary, and the third tracking trades in the foreign-exchange department over the year. According to that one, his team was showing a profit of about seventy-five million pounds on a turnover of six hundred and twenty-five million pounds so far, which, although he said it himself, wasn’t bad. Simple justice, looking at those numbers, would surely see him awarded a bonus of a million pounds. But it had been a strange year in the markets, ever since the collapse of Northern Rock, a few months before. Basically, the Rock had destroyed itself with its own business model. Its credit had dried up, the Bank of England had been asleep, and the punters had panicked. Since then, credit had been more expensive, and people were twitchy. That was O.K. as far as Roger was concerned, because in the foreign-exchange business twitchy meant volatile, and volatile meant profitable. The FX world had seen a number of fairly self-evident one-way bets against high-interest currencies: the Argentinean peso, for instance; some rival firms’ FX departments had, he knew, made out like bandits. This was where the lack of transparency became a problem. The Politburo might be benchmarking him against some impossible standard of profitability based on some whiz-kid idiot, some boy racer who had pulled off a few crazy unhedged bets. There were certain numbers that couldn’t be beaten without taking what the bank told him to think of as unacceptable risks. The way it worked, however, was that the risks tended to seem less unacceptable when they were making you spectacular amounts of money. Another potential problem was that the bank might claim to be making less money over all this year, so that bonuses in general would be down on expectations—and, indeed, there were rumors that Pinker Lloyd was sitting on some big losses in its mortgage-loan department. There had also been a well-publicized disappointment over its Swiss subsidiary, which had been outcompeted in a takeover fight and seen its stock price drop thirty per cent as a result. The Politburo might claim that “times are hard” and “the pain must be shared equally” and “we’re all giving a little blood this time” and (with a wink) “next year in Jerusalem.” What a gigantic pain in the arse that would be. Roger moved around in his swivel chair so that he was looking out the window toward Canary Wharf. The rain had cleared, and the early-setting December sun was making the towers, normally so solid-looking and unethereal, seem momentarily aflame with clean gold light. He swivelled back the other way. He preferred to face inward, toward “the pit,” as everyone called it, in honor of the trading floors, where people yelled and fought and waved papers—though the foreign-exchange trading department couldn’t be less like that, as forty people sat at screens, murmuring into headsets or at one another, but in general hardly looked up from the flow of data. His office had glass walls, and there were blinds that could be lowered when he wanted privacy. Most of the time, though, he liked having his blinds up and the door of his office open so that he could feel the activity in the room outside. Roger knew from experience that being cut off from your department was a risk, and that the more you knew about what was going on among your underlings the less chance you had of getting unpleasant surprises. Roger was not personally ambitious; he mainly wanted life not to make too many demands on him. One of the reasons he had fallen for and married Arabella was that she had a gift for making life seem easy. But he wanted to do well and to be seen as doing well; and he did very much want his million-pound bonus. He wanted a million pounds because he had never earned it before and he felt it was his due and a proof of his masculine worth. But he also wanted it because he needed the money. The figure of a million pounds had started as a vague, semi-comic aspiration and had become an actual necessity, something he needed to pay the bills and set his finances on the square. His basic pay of a hundred and fifty thousand pounds was nice as what Arabella called “frock money,” but it did not cover even his two mortgages. The house in Pepys Road had cost two and a half million pounds, which at the time had felt like the top of the market, even though prices had risen a great deal since then. They had converted the loft, dug out the basement, redone all the wiring and the plumbing because there was no point in not doing it, knocked through the downstairs, added a conservatory, built out the side extension, and redecorated from top to bottom. (Joshua’s room had a cowboy theme, Conrad’s a spaceman motif, though he had started to express a preference for all things Viking, and Arabella was thinking about a redesign.) The kitchen had initially been from Smallbone of Devizes, but Arabella had gone off that and got a new German one with an amazing smoke extractor and a colossal American fridge. The nanny flat had been done up with a separate pair of rooms and kitchen, because in Arabella’s view it was important for the nanny to have that feeling of cut-offness when she, whoever she was, had boyfriends over to stay. But, in the event, they didn’t like having a live-in nanny, that sense of someone under their feet, and there was something naff and seventies about the idea of having a lodger, so the flat was empty. The sitting room was underwired and the Bang & Olufsen system could stream music through all the adult rooms of the house. The television was a sixty-inch plasma. On the opposite wall was a Damien Hirst spot painting, bought by Arabella after a decent bonus season. Roger’s considered view of the painting, looking at it from aesthetic, art-historical, interior-design, and psychological points of view, was that it had cost forty-seven thousand pounds, plus V.A.T. Leaving out the furnishings but including architects’, surveyors’, and builders’ fees, the work on the Younts’ house had cost about six hundred and fifty thousand pounds. The Old Parsonage in Minchinhampton, Gloucestershire, had also not been cheap. It was a lovely building from 1780, though the outside impression of Georgian airiness and proportion was undermined by the fact that the rooms were smallish and the windows admitted less light than one might expect. Still. Their offer of nine hundred thousand pounds had been accepted and then gazumped, for nine hundred and seventy-five thousand, so they had had to regazump, and it had become theirs for a cool million pounds. Minchinhampton was lovely—you can’t beat the English countryside. Everyone agreed. But going there for your major summer holiday was a little bit dowdy, Arabella felt. It was more of a weekend place. So they also went away for two weeks in the summer, taking a few friends and, on alternate years, inviting either Roger’s or Arabella’s parents for one week out of the two. The going rate for the sort of villa they had in mind seemed to be ten thousand pounds a week. Any flights would be taken business class, since Roger thought that the whole point of having money, if it had to be summed up in a single point, which it couldn’t, but if you had to, the whole point of having a bit of money was not to have to fly scum class. The other costs, when you began to think about them, added up, too. Pilar, the nanny, was twenty thousand pounds a year out of net income—more like thirty-five thousand gross, once all the pissy employment taxes were allowed for. Sheila, the weekend nanny, was another two hundred pounds a time, adding up to about nine thousand (though they paid her in cash and they didn’t pay her for holidays, unless she came with them, which she often did; or they would get another nanny from an agency). Arabella’s BMW M3 “for the shops” had been fifty-five thousand pounds and the Mercedes S400, the principal family car, which was used in practice by the nanny on the school run and playdates, was seventy-five thousand. Other things: a tax bill of about two hundred and fifty thousand from last year, a need to make a pension contribution “well into six figures,” as his accountant put it, ten thousand pounds for their annual summer party, and then the general hard-to-believe expensiveness of everything in London—restaurants and shoes and parking fines and cinema tickets and gardeners and the feeling that every time you went anywhere or did anything money just started melting off you. Roger didn’t mind that, he was completely up for it, but it did mean that if he didn’t get his million-pound bonus this year he was at genuine risk of going broke. At 51 Pepys Road, Mrs. Arabella Yount, who had once read a book about how women were better than men at multitasking, was doing four different things at the same time: she was putting up some shelves in the tiny storeroom that she liked to call her pantry; she was looking after her two lovely children, Joshua and Conrad; she was shopping for clothes on the Internet; and she was making plans to give her husband a nasty fright. Two of those tasks Arabella had subcontracted to other people. The shelves were being put up by her Pole, Bogdan the builder, whom she had started using after a recommendation from a friend and had now adopted as her own. He worked twice as hard as a British worker, was twice as reliable, and cost half as much. Something similar could be said about Pilar, their Spanish nanny, who was looking after her two boys. Arabella had found Pilar through an agency. She had a qualification in child care (in fact, had a degree) and a valid driving license, could cook, didn’t mind doing her share of the housework, got on famously with Maria the cleaner, which was good because otherwise it could have been a bit embarrassing on the two days they were both in the house, and, most important—it went without saying that it was by far the most important—was just heavenly with her two boys. Conrad and Joshua positively doted on Pilar. “They’re crowdsourcing your session.”Buy the print » There was only one problem with Pilar, which was that she was leaving them to go back to Spain. That was scheduled to happen just before Christmas. Pilar had told Arabella six weeks earlier. She was going back to a job at a nursery school. A new nanny would begin work in the New Year, but the Younts would be without any child care over the holidays. When she’d realized that and begun to think about it, Arabella had had the initial flickering of an idea. For some time now, almost everything about her husband had made Arabella cross. It had begun with the birth of Conrad, eased off a bit after he got to his second birthday, then got much worse when she was pregnant with Joshua, and worse still after he was born. Joshua was now three years old and Arabella was as cross with her husband as she had ever been. The shorthand term for what she felt was “competitive tiredness.” She felt she was so tired that she could not think or see straight; she felt that she began the day tired, thanks to the broken and shallow sleep she had been having for, literally, years now, and got more tired as the day wore on, and that there were times when she was running on, as she put it, “sheer adrenaline”; but that when her husband came home from work he had the temerity to act as if he were the one making all the effort, as if he were the one who had the right to sigh and put his feet up and talk about what a tiring day he’d had! As for weekends, in some ways they were even worse. Sheila, the Australian weekend nanny, was very helpful (though she was no Pilar—for one thing, she couldn’t drive), but there was still masses to do, and her husband did very little of it. He didn’t cook, except showoff barbecues on the occasional summer weekend at his silly boy-toy gas grill, and he didn’t wash clothes or iron them or sweep the floor or, hardly at all, play with the children. Arabella did not do those things, either, not much, but that did not mean that she went through life acting as if they did not exist, and it was this obliviousness that drove her so nuts. The idea Arabella had had was quite simply to vamoose and leave Roger to it for a few days, with no warning. He could learn about looking after the children and the house by doing it for a few days, solo. While he was doing it, Arabella would be at X. X was nowhere definite, not yet, and yet Arabella had very specific ideas about X. It was going to be a luxury hotel, somewhere not exhaustingly far from London, with a spa. Arabella was not contemplating running away forever. She couldn’t possibly leave Conrad and Joshua. The point was to give her husband a nasty shock. Ideally, the shock of his life. He had no idea, no idea, of the burden actually involved in looking after the children and running the house. No idea. Well, this would bloody well give him an idea. Beside Arabella on the floor was a pile of perhaps twenty hotel brochures. If her husband had noticed them—which assumed that he ever noticed anything—he would have thought she was planning to nag him about holidays. This would teach him. In addition, the Web browser on her computer had six different windows open. The current most promising candidate was a hotel in the New Forest that offered a getaway package starting at four thousand pounds for two, though the nicer-looking package, which included a daily massage and pampering, was fifty-three hundred—not unreasonable, Arabella felt, for what it was. The idea of luxury, even the word “luxury,” was important to Arabella. Luxury meant something that was by definition overpriced, but was so nice, so lovely, in itself that you did not mind, in fact was so lovely that the expensiveness became part of the point. Arabella knew that there were thoughtlessly rich people who could afford everything, but she didn’t see herself as one of them. She loved expensive things because she knew what their expensiveness meant. She had a complete understanding of the signifiers. The tricky thing could be friends: you needed friends who felt the same way. And who had the money to act on the feeling. Luckily, Saskia was one of them. She had been dumped by her shit of a husband eighteen months before but had cleaned him out in the divorce, so for this sort of adventure she was perfect. Arabella picked up her mobile phone, flipped it open, and said, “Saskia.” The phone rang four times. “Babes!” said Saskia, who was thirty-seven. “Darling!” said Arabella, who was also thirty-seven. “I think I’ve found somewhere down south. Shall I read you all the porn or just book?” “Darling, you know I trust you.” “Big kiss.” When Roger had something important on at work, he did something that he’d never told anyone about: he made a huge deal of his washing and grooming. He showered and shaved as usual, shampooed and conditioned his hair, and then moisturized with a face mask that he left on for ten minutes, trimmed any stray nose or ear hair, rubbed some lotion into his legs and chest, took some vitamins, took some artichoke pills for his liver, did some stretches, went downstairs in his dressing gown, and ate a bowl of microwaved porridge. Then he dressed in his best clothes: his softest, lushest Savile Row shirt and its matching tie, a pocket square, antique cufflinks Arabella had found on eBay, the suit he’d had made bespoke after a bonus, the handmade shoes, and, underneath the ensemble, the slinkiest secret of them all, his special lucky silk underpants, brought back by Arabella from a shopping junket to Antwerp. The paradoxical effect of all this pampering was to make him feel fortified, defended, ready for trouble. It was thus armored that, on Friday, December 21st, Roger went into the conference room at Pinker Lloyd ready to open the envelope that would tell him what he would be getting for his bonus. In the room was Max, the head of the Compensation Committee. Junior employees receiving their bonuses would tend to have more than one person in the room, in case they flipped out in a bad year, which meant that they had to have more than one person in the room in good years, too, so that the number of people in the room didn’t become an immediate giveaway as to the size of the bonus. Heads of department got more credit than that. When Roger had been more junior, by this point he would already have known the tenor of the bonus meetings—what kind of mood music was being sent out about bonuses in general. So you would be braced for a downer or psyched about a good year. Now he had no warning. No point trying to pick up cues in body language from Max; he did deadpan for a living. His form of deadpan was smiley and let’s-be-friends. “Roger!” Max said, pointing at the seat opposite. “Max,” Roger said. “Petra well? Toby and Isabella?” “All good,” Max said. “Arabella? Conrad?” And then there was a half-a-beat or a quarter-of-a-beat pause while he stretched for the name; which meant that Roger had won this exchange. “Joshua?” “Fit as fleas,” Roger said. “You know what they’re like about Christmas. They go mad, can’t get enough presents, impossible demands. And, of course, the children are excited about it, too.” The two men shared a smile. Max reached into the leather folder in front of him and took out an envelope. Roger, who had been feeling cool and even-tempered in his silk knickers, felt his heart rate and blood pressure shoot up. A pound sign followed by a one with six zeros, one with six zeros, one with six zeros. Two with six zeros? No, that was greedy. One with six zeros. “Good year for the department,” Max said. Yesssssss! “The figures speak for themselves.” Yesssssss! “As you know, it isn’t always straightforward to, ah, parse the relevant figures from our competitors, so the comparison can’t be exact, but we are confident that your department’s performance is in the top quartile for the sector.” Roger knew that, or strongly suspected it, but it was still good to hear. “Your personal evaluations are strong. The Compensation Committee is of the view that your performance over all is strong.” Yesssssss! This wasn’t million-quid talk. This was two million, maybe more. Could he be heading for two and a half? He and Arabella might even have sex! “There is, of course, a context for all this,” Max went on. Now, for a smaller man than Roger, a man with less steady nerves, this might have been a warning note, an incitement to panic; maybe, even, an invitation to think about missed mortgage payments, promised but unbought diamond necklaces, the deferment of holiday plans; because, to a lesser man than Roger, Max’s words might have sounded awfully like a “but.” Roger, however, was a veteran of Pinker Lloyd assessments. This was getting on for his twentieth. He knew that, just as a judge delivering a summing up likes to make both sides in court shit themselves before reaching his conclusion, a member of the Compensation Committee likes to have you thinking about bread and water before he gives you a villa in Poggibonsi with a line of cypresses down the drive, a small vineyard, and a heated swimming pool. Actually, there was something to think about there. Minchinhampton was fine but, as previously noted, could be seen as dowdy, and it took only one wet summer to put you permanently off the whole holidays-in-England thing. A bonus of £2.5 million would, once he’d paid for all the things he had to pay for, salted some away in the pension and V.C.T.s and all that, leave him with a fair few quid left over. It was said you could get somewhere pretty habitable on Ibiza for a million quid. Worth thinking about. Roger’s attention had wavered for only a moment, but when he got his focus back Max was saying, “. . . and of course the context for this is not just the wider problems in the industry, the cloud no larger than a man’s hand and all that, and the repricing of insurance and swaps. That’s just the general weather. In addition, there’s the difficulty we have been having with our Swiss subsidiary.” And all of a sudden, just like that, Roger felt his bonus beginning to shrink. This was not mood music; this was an actual, genuine, no-bones-about-it “but.” “. . . goes beyond routine volatility into areas of genuine loss. Once the extent of our subsidiary vehicle’s exposure to the U.S. market in insecure securitizations was fully known, in particular the fact that those losses are still not precisely assessed, though known as reaching into the ten figures in euros . . .” Max was telling him that the bank had lost a couple of hundred million euros this year. This was through its Swiss subsidiary’s exposure to subprimes. Well, whoop-de-flipping-doo. Roger stopped listening. He was getting it in the arse, and didn’t need to know the details. Max talked on for a bit more and then the moment came when he slid the envelope across the table. It was clear that his bonus was going to be minute, could even be as little as his annual pay. In practical terms, that would be the same as being dragged out the back of the office and finished off with a bullet in the back of his neck. Roger opened the envelope. It was stuck down, and for a moment he felt a flash of irritation at the prats who ran the bank, the kind of people who didn’t know the convention about hand-delivered letters, that they were never stuck down, on the basis that it was an implied insult to third parties handling the letter; the convention was that among gentlemen you could rest assured that private correspondence would go unread. But these nouveau twats had no idea about anything like that. He took out the piece of paper. His bonus for the year was thirty thousand pounds. He knew that there was no point saying anything; that it would do no good to cough and splutter and remonstrate. And yet he found himself saying, “But . . . what . . . it isn’t . . . contribution, billions . . . fundamentally not fair . . . when I think of what I’ve done . . . basic pay . . . not a question of greed but of necessary . . .” What was the point? There was no point. Roger stopped talking. He felt his stomach twitch, and then churn, and then he had a strange sensation in his esophagus, accompanied by a gust of something that was like nausea. Then he realized that it was, in fact, nausea. He felt sick. Actually, he more than felt sick; he was going to be sick. Roger slowly rose to a crouching position and leaned forward over the table. He nodded at Max. He turned and left the room. There might have been people in the corridor; he didn’t notice and didn’t care. The lavatory was ten paces away. Roger just made it to a cubicle. When he had finished, he lowered the lid of the toilet and just stayed where he was, kneeling on the floor. Wasn’t this great? Wasn’t this perfect? It was funny to think of all the occasions in a man’s life, all the different contexts, when he was sick. It must add up to hundreds of pukings. Yes, Roger thought. I’ve been sick hundreds of times. There’s a whole thesaurus to describe it. Talking to the great white telephone. Parking a tiger. Blowing chunks. But this was different from all the other times he’d thrown up, because on all those other occasions, once he’d been sick, he felt better. Hanging from a strap on the Tube as he went home on Christmas Eve, Roger thought about when might be the best time to tell Arabella about his nonexistent bonus. Arabella was good at making life seem easy, except when she suddenly and dramatically wasn’t. Roger had an intuition this might be one of those times. “Guns and alcohol! Hey, I’ve got guns and alcohol!”Buy the print » It would have been better to have done it already, obviously. But on Friday he had just been too numb, too freaked, too incredulous, too sick. He’d been in no condition to have a long talk about his missing million pounds. . . . And, anyway, by the end of the day the impulse to blurt everything out had long since faded. A lesser man, Roger felt, would have gone home straight after being sick. Roger was made of sterner stuff, and anyway what would he do if he went home? Sit there blubbing and moping and waiting for Arabella to get back from the shops? No, he sucked it up, took it like a man, and spent the day hiding in his office and pretending to work. Not that much work got done on December 21st at Pinker Lloyd, as the Compensation Committee broke its news. Every now and then, he would peek through the window and survey the scene in the trading room. There was no noise. People were just sitting there. A few of them had their heads in their hands. Others were standing around in a demoralized little group. They looked like refugees or something. Sad, so sad. It was like . . . Roger stretched to find some metaphor for the scale of the grief, the comprehensiveness of the disaster. Being in some shit hole in Iraq or somewhere, where some Yank pilot has dropped a bomb on you by mistake. Everybody’s blown into pieces, bits everywhere, limbs, blood, everything. And it’s not your fault. That was the key thing—not your fault. He hadn’t done anything wrong. But they’d gone and dropped the bomb regardless. Those bloody Yanks . . . Anyway: Friday had been too soon, and there hadn’t really been an opportunity over the weekend. It was the sort of news you had to steel yourself to break, you had to create a pause around the moment, and now it was Monday, Christmas Eve, and there was no way this could possibly be the right time, could it? Not just to tell your wife you’d underperformed against your own expectations—expectations that Roger had foolishly mentioned to Arabella, one night a couple of months ago, when his marital stock had otherwise been rather low—but to tell your wife you’d underperformed by a cool nine hundred and seventy thousand pounds, that wasn’t the sort of gift you gave on Christmas Eve. Roger wasn’t a monster. What with all the whatever, he’d barely had time to think about its being Christmas. At least he had sorted out Arabella’s present, some fancy sofa she’d had her eye on, which would be (this was the punch line) delivered on Christmas Day itself. Fair enough—if you were spending ten grand on a sofa, you could at least get the arsing thing delivered when you actually wanted it, even if it was Christmas. The thing was to let Christmas be Christmas. Not to turn it into something out of a depressing film, “It’s a Wonderful Life” without the happy ending. “It’s a Shit Life and We’re Suddenly Poor.” No. Don’t tell her on Boxing Day, obviously. Tell her on the twenty-seventh, once they’d gone down to the country. Maybe go for a walk and tell her. He’d be carrying Joshua in a papoose on his back, which would make it hard for her to yell at him. As always, once he’d made a plan, Roger felt better. He trotted up the stairs at the Tube station and came out into the dark of Christmas Eve. The high street was mayhem: half the people there doing last-minute Christmas shopping, the other half determined to start the first evening of the holiday smashed. The bars were heaving. Roger dodged drunks and shoppers. Church bells were ringing: for a moment Roger thought about rounding everybody up and dragging them to the service of lessons and carols. But that wasn’t really them, was it? No: shower, change, glass of champagne. Roger was home. The front door bumped against Pilar’s bag—that’s right, she was off to whichever Latin country it was she was from, Colombia or something. At the other end of the open-plan ground floor, the television was showing one of Conrad’s Japanese-looking cartoon series. He would be sitting in front of the screen with his thumb in his mouth. Pilar materialized by the door. She seemed in something of a rush. “Mr. Yount, thank you, I go now,” she said. “Josh he upstairs. Already in bed.” “Great, fabulous, thank you so much.” “Happy Christmas,” Pilar said. “Goodbye!” And she was gone. That was, as Roger’s conversations with her went, on the long side; weeks passed without his seeing Pilar at all. Roger walked through into the sitting room. Sure enough, Conrad was sucking his thumb and watching people fighting on rocket-powered skycycles. Arabella wasn’t with him, so she must be upstairs, perhaps settling Josh or on the phone making plans for New Year’s. “Daddy’s just going to have a quick shower,” Roger said. His son made no sign of having heard him. From the noise and the general sense of dramatic urgency, Roger gathered that it was a crucial moment in the story. He went upstairs, undressed, ran the shower until it was hot and the room was half-full of steam, and then got in. He felt his muscles unknot and some of the horror of the bonus question melt away. It was Christmas: family time; quality time; the thing was to enjoy it. Yes. Roger shampooed his hair and shaved, both for the second time that day, then dressed in his non-going-out slouchy trousers and went downstairs. Time for a glass of Bollinger. There was an envelope on the table addressed in Arabella’s large, looping, very feminine handwriting. Roger picked it up. Dear Roger, You stupid spoilt selfish shit, I have gone away for a few days. So that you get a glimpse of what it is like to be me, you spoilt lazy arrogant stuck-up typical male bastard. You have no idea at all what it’s like to look after the children, and you have no idea at all what the last couple of years have been like, so this is now your chance to try it and see. Pilar has gone and the nanny agencies will be shut for the next few days at least. Congratulations, you are looking after your two boys on your own. As for where I’ve gone that’s none of your fucking business but I will be back and when I am I’ll expect to see some changes in your attitude and in what you actually do. None of that coming home from work acting like you’re the one who has a difficult time of it. Fuck off, Arabella It wouldn’t be true to say that Roger saw the funny side, or had glimpses of perspective, or anything like that; but there were one or two moments on Christmas morning when he was able to remember that things hadn’t always been like this. At about quarter to seven, for instance, he was downstairs on the sitting-room carpet trying to assemble a plastic robot that turned into a car and also into a gun and uttered set phrases through a speaker box and could also be operated by remote control. The problem was that it was a very complicated toy: not only was it highly fiddly, with hundreds of small parts, but it came with instructions that seemed designed with the conscious intention to confuse and mislead. Beside and around and beneath Roger, the floor was covered in pieces of Lego from several different kits, which Conrad had torn open and thrown around the room while his back was turned. Joshua had upended the gigantic box of Brio trains he’d been given, so a substrate of wooden train tracks and engines lay mixed in with the plastic, paper, torn boxes, and various other toys that had been briefly experimented with and discarded. Conrad had already broken one of his, a racing car with green stripes and a driver who was supposed to beep when you pressed down on his head, but who had been jammed down so firmly that he didn’t stop beeping, like an alarm. Roger hadn’t been able to find either an off switch or a battery hatch to open, so he had smashed the toy with a hammer. No, Roger had not seen the funny side. But there had been a moment when, after looking at his watch, he had thought, I can remember when Christmas morning would start at about half past ten with a mimosa in bed. Now it begins at half past five, with a test of my fine motor skills and ability to read Korean. There was no sense in which Roger had taken things lying down. The previous night, he had bundled a protesting Conrad off to bed, then hit Google. He had left messages on the answering machines of seven different nanny agencies and knew that he was going to hire the very first person who was available. So help was at hand. But help being at hand was no help, not right in the here and now, with his wife away wherever the hell she was, and his parents (a) in Majorca and (b) useless. The question was what message to leave on Arabella’s mobile. He knew her well enough to know she wouldn’t answer it; he also knew that she’d be checking her messages, desperate to know how her plan had gone. His first impulse was to ring her up and rant, denounce, deplore, ask her who she thought she was, tell her just how lazy she was, just how little a clue she had, and by the way they were nine hundred and seventy thousand pounds short of where they needed to be this holiday. To tell her not to bother coming back; to tell her that the locks would be changed; that all further contact between them would have to be through solicitors. But Roger also knew that she would be expecting and to some extent depending on a reaction along those lines. He had a simple maxim for all competitive or adversarial situations: work out what the other party least wants you to do, and then do it. On that basis, the thing that would most freak out Arabella was for him to be cool, to act as if nothing could have bothered him less than having the kids on his own over Christmas. Knowing Arabella, he guessed she would have gone to some posh spa or hotel. Well, she could stew there. He’d be fine with the boys. How hard could it be? Now it was Christmas morning. Conrad and Joshua were sitting in front of the television watching a children’s program with shouting presenters. Roger knew that there were scandals involving children’s-TV presenters taking cocaine. To be that lively at quarter past seven in the morning, it would in Roger’s view have been much more shocking if they hadn’t been taking cocaine. In fact, now that he thought about it, maybe coke could be the secret of a whole new parenting strategy. . . . But the television was a terrible mistake. He’d used it up too soon. Roger didn’t know that his boys eventually tired of television; they became febrile and listless. In that condition, it was as if they’d had too much sugar, and became unbiddable, unmalleable, prone to tantrums, both manic and exhausted at the same time. Roger should have used TV as a strategy of last resort. After no more than a couple of hours, he was knackered (also panicking, and full of rage and self-pity); Joshua and Conrad were tired, too, and bored, and bouncing on the sofa, each desperate for their father to play a strenuous game with him alone. With two sons and one father, that was impossible, which made it all the more necessary, until Joshua trumped his older brother by flinging himself off the sofa-side table while Roger was distracted, and bumping his head, and Conrad retaliated by smashing his biggest new Transformer—Optimus Prime, his favorite—against a table leg, so hard that it didn’t just break for effect but broke for real, and his tears and tantrum became real, too: genuine, inconsolable grief. At that point, with his sons screaming and crying, and Roger, feeling as tired as he could ever remember feeling—weepy with tiredness, gritty-eyed, furious, heavy, as if lying down on the bed would make him sleep for a month—the doorbell rang. And rang again. Then again. Who rang the bell like that on Christmas Day, for God’s sake? Roger thought, as he stepped on a sharp bit of Optimus Prime. Three large men, all of them at least Roger’s height, were standing at the door with a huge package, wrapped in cardboard. “Happy Christmas,” the largest of the large men said, in a booming Slavic accent. “We have a delivery for Mrs. Yount.” He lowered his voice to a loud whisper. “Sofa.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Creative Writing	Credit Photograph by QUENTIN BERTOUX / AGENCE VU/AURORA The first story Maya wrote was about a world in which people split themselves in two instead of reproducing. In that world, every person could, at any given moment, turn into two beings, each one half his/her age. Some chose to do this when they were young; for instance, an eighteen-year-old might split into two nine-year-olds. Others would wait until they’d established themselves professionally and financially and go for it only in middle age. The heroine of Maya’s story was splitless. She had reached the age of eighty and, despite constant social pressure, insisted on not splitting. At the end of the story, she died. It was a good story, except for the ending. There was something depressing about that part, Aviad thought. Depressing and predictable. But Maya, in the writing workshop she had signed up for, actually got a lot of compliments on the ending. The instructor, who was supposed to be this well-known writer, even though Aviad had never heard of him, told her that there was something soul-piercing about the banality of the ending, or some other piece of crap. Aviad saw how happy that compliment made Maya. She was very excited when she told him about it. She recited what the writer had said to her the way people recite a verse from the Bible. And Aviad, who had originally tried to suggest a different ending, backpedalled and said that it was all a matter of taste and that he really didn’t understand much about it. It had been her mother’s idea that she should go to a creative-writing workshop. She’d said that a friend’s daughter had attended one and enjoyed it very much. Aviad also thought that it would be good for Maya to get out more, to do something with herself. He could always bury himself in work, but, since the miscarriage, she never left the house. Whenever he came home, he found her in the living room, sitting up straight on the couch. Not reading, not watching TV, not even crying. When Maya hesitated about the course, Aviad knew how to persuade her. “Go once, give it a try,” he said, “the way a kid goes to day camp.” Later, he realized that it had been a little insensitive of him to use a child as an example, after what they’d been through two months before. But Maya actually smiled and said that day camp might be just what she needed. The second story she wrote was about a world in which you could see only the people you loved. The protagonist was a married man in love with his wife. One day, his wife walked right into him in the hallway and the glass he was holding fell and shattered on the floor. A few days later, she sat down on him as he was dozing in an armchair. Both times, she wriggled out of it with an excuse: she’d had something else on her mind; she hadn’t been looking when she sat down. But the husband started to suspect that she didn’t love him anymore. To test his theory, he decided to do something drastic: he shaved off the left side of his mustache. He came home with half a mustache, clutching a bouquet of anemones. His wife thanked him for the flowers and smiled. He could sense her groping the air as she tried to give him a kiss. Maya called the story “Half a Mustache,” and told Aviad that when she’d read it aloud in the workshop some people had cried. Aviad said, “Wow,” and kissed her on the forehead. That night, they fought about some stupid little thing. She’d forgotten to pass on a message or something like that, and he yelled at her. He was to blame, and in the end he apologized. “I had a hellish day at work,” he said and stroked her leg, trying to make up for his outburst. “Do you forgive me?” She forgave him. The workshop instructor had published a novel and a collection of short stories. Neither had been much of a success, but they’d had a few good reviews. At least, that’s what the saleswoman at a bookstore near Aviad’s office told him. The novel was very thick, six hundred and twenty-four pages. Aviad bought the book of short stories. He kept it in his desk and tried to read a little during lunch breaks. Each story in the collection took place in a different foreign country. It was a kind of gimmick. The blurb on the back cover said that the writer had worked for years as a tour guide in Cuba and Africa and that his travels had influenced his writing. There was also a small black-and-white photograph of him. In it, he had the kind of smug smile of someone who feels lucky to be who he is. The writer had told Maya, she said to Aviad, that when the workshop was over he’d send her stories to his editor. And, although she shouldn’t get her hopes up, publishers these days were desperate for new talent. Her third story started out funny. It was about a woman who gave birth to a cat. The hero of the story was the husband, who suspected that the cat wasn’t his. A fat ginger tomcat that slept on the lid of the dumpster right below the window of the couple’s bedroom gave the husband a condescending look every time he went downstairs to throw out the garbage. In the end, there was a violent clash between the husband and the cat. The husband threw a stone at the cat, which countered with bites and scratches. The injured husband, his wife, and the kitten she was breastfeeding went to the clinic for him to get a rabies shot. He was humiliated and in pain but tried not to cry while they were waiting. The kitten, sensing his suffering, uncurled itself from its mother’s embrace, went over to him, and licked his face tenderly, offering a consoling “Meow.” “Did you hear that?” the mother asked emotionally. “He said ‘Daddy.’ ” At that point, the husband could no longer hold back his tears. And, when Aviad read that passage, he had to try hard not to cry, too. Maya said that she’d started writing the story even before she knew she was pregnant again. “Isn’t it weird,” she asked, “how my brain didn’t know yet, but my subconscious did?” The next Tuesday, when Aviad was supposed to pick her up after the workshop, he arrived half an hour early, parked his car in the lot, and went to find her. Maya was surprised to see him in the classroom, and he insisted that she introduce him to the writer. The writer reeked of body lotion. He shook Aviad’s hand limply and told him that if Maya had chosen him for a husband he must be a very special person. Three weeks later, Aviad signed up for a beginners’ creative-writing class. He didn’t say anything about it to Maya, and, to be on the safe side, he told his secretary that if he had any calls from home she should say that he was in an important meeting and couldn’t be disturbed. The other members of the class were mostly elderly women, who gave him dirty looks. The thin young instructor wore a head scarf, and the women in the class gossiped about her, saying that she lived in a settlement in the occupied territories and had cancer. She asked everyone to do an exercise in automatic writing. “Write whatever comes into your head,” she said. “Don’t think, just write.” Aviad tried to stop thinking. It was very hard. The old women around him wrote with nervous speed, like students racing to finish an exam before the teacher tells them to put their pens down, and after a few minutes he began writing, too. The story he wrote was about a fish that was swimming happily along in the sea when a wicked witch turned it into a man. The fish couldn’t come to terms with his transformation and decided to chase down the wicked witch and make her turn him back into a fish. Since he was an especially quick and enterprising fish, he managed to get married while he was pursuing her, and even to establish a small company that imported plastic products from the Far East. With the help of the enormous knowledge he had gained as a fish who had crossed the seven seas, the company began to thrive and even went public. Meanwhile, the wicked witch, who was a little tired after all her years of wickedness, decided to find all the people and creatures she’d cast spells on, apologize to them, and restore them to their natural state. At one point, she even went to see the fish she had turned into a man. The fish’s secretary asked her to wait until he’d finished a satellite meeting with his partners in Taiwan. At that stage in his life, the fish could hardly remember that he was in fact a fish, and his company now controlled half the world. The witch waited several hours, but when she saw that the meeting wouldn’t be ending any time soon she climbed onto her broom and flew off. The fish kept doing better and better, until one day, when he was really old, he looked out the window of one of the dozens of huge shoreline buildings he’d purchased in a smart real-estate deal, and saw the sea. And suddenly he remembered that he was a fish. A very rich fish who controlled many subsidiary companies that were traded on stock markets around the world, but still a fish. A fish who, for years, had not tasted the salt of the sea. When the instructor saw that Aviad had put down his pen, she gave him an inquiring look. “I don’t have an ending,” he whispered apologetically, keeping his voice down so as not to disturb the old ladies who were still writing. ♦ (Translated, from the Hebrew, by Sondra Silverston.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Stone Mattress	Credit Photograph by Olaf Otto Becker / Amador Gallery At the outset Verna had not intended to kill anyone. What she had in mind was a vacation, pure and simple. Take a breather, do some inner accounting, shed worn skin. The Arctic suits her: there’s something inherently calming in the vast cool sweeps of ice and rock and sea and sky, undisturbed by cities and highways and trees and the other distractions that clutter up the landscape to the south. Among the clutter she includes other people, and by other people she means men. She’s had enough of men for a while. She’s made an inner memo to renounce flirtations and any consequences that might result from them. She doesn’t need the cash, not anymore. She’s not extravagant or greedy, she tells herself: all she ever wanted was to be protected by layer upon layer of kind, soft, insulating money, so that nobody and nothing could get close enough to harm her. Surely she has at last achieved this modest goal. But old habits die hard, and it’s not long before she’s casting an appraising eye over her fleece-clad fellow-travellers dithering with their wheely bags in the lobby of the first-night airport hotel. Passing over the women, she ear-tags the male members of the flock. Some have females attached to them, and she eliminates these on principle: why work harder than you need to? Prying a spouse loose can be arduous, as she discovered via her first husband: discarded wives stick like burrs. It’s the solitaries who interest her, the lurkers at the fringes. Some of these are too old for her purposes; she avoids eye contact with them. The ones who cherish the belief that there’s life in the old dog yet: these are her game. Not that she’ll do anything about it, she tells herself, but there’s nothing wrong with a little warmup practice, if only to demonstrate to herself that she can still knock one off if she wishes to. For that evening’s meet-and-greet she chooses her cream-colored pullover, perching the Magnetic Northward nametag just slightly too low on her left breast. Thanks to Aquacize and core strength training, she’s still in excellent shape for her age, or indeed for any age, at least when fully clothed and buttressed with carefully fitted underwiring. She wouldn’t want to chance a deck chair in a bikini—superficial puckering has set in, despite her best efforts—which is one reason for selecting the Arctic over, say, the Caribbean. Her face is what it is, and certainly the best that money can buy at this stage: with a little bronzer and pale eyeshadow and mascara and glimmer powder and low lighting, she can finesse ten years. “Though much is taken, much remains,” she murmurs to her image in the mirror. Her third husband had been a serial quotation freak with a special penchant for Tennyson. “Come into the garden, Maud,” he’d been in the habit of saying just before bedtime. It had driven her mad at the time. She adds a dab of cologne—an understated scent, floral, nostalgic—then she blots it off, leaving a mere whiff. It’s a mistake to overdo it: though elderly noses aren’t as keen as they may once have been, it’s best to allow for allergies; a sneezing man is not an attentive man. She makes her entrance slightly late, smiling a detached but cheerful smile—it doesn’t do for an unaccompanied woman to appear too eager—accepts a glass of the passable white wine they’re doling out, and drifts among the assembled nibblers and sippers. The men will be retired professionals: doctors, lawyers, engineers, stockbrokers, interested in Arctic exploration, polar bears, archeology, birds, Inuit crafts, perhaps even Vikings or plant life or geology. Magnetic Northward attracts serious punters, with an earnest bunch of experts laid on to herd them around and lecture to them. She’s investigated the two other outfits that tour the region, but neither appeals. One features excessive hiking and attracts the under-fifties—not her target market—and the other goes in for singsongs and dressing up in silly outfits, so she’s stuck with Magnetic Northward, which offers the comfort of familiarity. She travelled with this company once before, after the death of her third husband, five years ago, so she knows pretty much what to expect. There’s a lot of sportswear in the room, much beige among the men, many plaid shirts, vests with multiple pockets. She notes the nametags: a Fred, a Dan, a Rick, a Norm, a Bob. Another Bob, then another: there are a lot of Bobs on this trip. Several appear to be flying solo. Bob: a name once of heavy significance to her, though surely she’s rid herself of that load of luggage by now. She selects one of the thinner but still substantial Bobs, glides close to him, raises her eyelids, and lowers them again. He peers down at her chest. “Verna,” he says. “That’s a lovely name.” “Old-fashioned,” she says. “From the Latin word for ‘spring.’ When everything springs to life again.” That line, so filled with promises of phallic renewal, had been effective in helping to secure her second husband. To her third husband she’d said that her mother had been influenced by the eighteenth-century Scottish poet James Thomson and his vernal breezes, which was a preposterous but enjoyable lie: she had, in fact, been named after a lumpy, bun-faced dead aunt. As for her mother, she’d been a strict Presbyterian with a mouth like a vise grip, who despised poetry and was unlikely to have been influenced by anything softer than a granite wall. During the preliminary stages of netting her fourth husband, whom she’d flagged as a kink addict, Verna had gone even further. She’d told him she’d been named for “The Rite of Spring,” a highly sexual ballet that ended with torture and human sacrifice. He’d laughed, but he’d also wriggled: a sure sign of the hook going in. Now she says, “And you’re . . . Bob.” It’s taken her years to perfect the small breathy intake, a certified knee-melter. “Yes,” Bob says. “Bob Goreham,” he adds, with a diffidence he surely intends to be charming. Verna smiles widely to disguise her shock. She finds herself flushing with a combination of rage and an almost reckless mirth. She looks him full in the face: yes, underneath the thinning hair and the wrinkles and the obviously whitened and possibly implanted teeth, it’s the same Bob—the Bob of fifty-odd years before. Mr. Heartthrob, Mr. Senior Football Star, Mr. Astounding Catch, from the rich, Cadillac-driving end of town where the mining-company big shots lived. Mr. Shit, with his looming bully’s posture and his lopsided joker’s smile. How amazing to everyone, back then—not only everyone in school but everyone, for in that armpit of a town they’d known to a millimetre who drank and who didn’t and who was no better than she should be and how much change you kept in your back pocket—how amazing that golden-boy Bob had singled out insignificant Verna for the Snow Queen’s Palace winter formal. Pretty Verna, three years younger; studious, grade-skipping, innocent Verna, tolerated but not included, clawing her way toward a scholarship as her ticket out of town. Gullible Verna, who’d believed she was in love. Or who was in love. When it came to love, wasn’t believing the same as the real thing? Such beliefs drain your strength and cloud your vision. She’s never allowed herself to be skewered in that tiger trap again. What had they danced to that night? “Rock Around the Clock.” “Hearts Made of Stone.” “The Great Pretender.” Bob had steered Verna around the edges of the gym, holding her squashed up against his carnation buttonhole, for the unskilled, awkward Verna of those days had never been to a dance before and was no match for Bob’s strenuous and flamboyant moves. For meek Verna, life was church and studies and household chores and her weekend job clerking in the drugstore, with her grim-faced mother regulating every move. No dates; those wouldn’t have been allowed, not that she’d been asked on any. But her mother had permitted her to go to the well-supervised high-school dance with Bob Goreham, for wasn’t he a shining light from a respectable family? She’d even allowed herself a touch of smug gloating, silent though it had been. Holding her head up after the decampment of Verna’s father had been a full-time job, and had given her a very stiff neck. From this distance Verna could understand it. So out the door went Verna, starry-eyed with hero worship, wobbling on her first high heels. She was courteously inserted into Bob’s shiny red convertible with the treacherous Mickey of rye already lurking in the glove compartment, where she sat bolt upright, almost catatonic with shyness, smelling of Prell shampoo and Jergens lotion, wrapped in her mother’s mothbally out-of-date rabbit stole and an ice-blue tulle-skirted dress that looked as cheap as it was. Cheap. Cheap and disposable. Use and toss. That was what Bob had thought about her, from the very first. Now Bob grins a little. He looks pleased with himself: maybe he thinks Verna is blushing with desire. But he doesn’t recognize her! He really doesn’t! How many fucking Vernas can he have met in his life? Get a grip, she tells herself. She’s not invulnerable after all, it appears. She’s shaking with anger, or is it mortification? To cover herself she takes a gulp of her wine, and immediately chokes on it. Bob springs into action, giving her a few brisk but caressing thumps on the back. “Excuse me,” she manages to gasp. The crisp, cold scent of carnations envelops her. She needs to get away from him; all of a sudden she feels quite sick. She hurries to the ladies’ room, which is fortunately empty, and throws up her white wine and her cream-cheese-and-olive canapé into a cubicle toilet. She wonders if it’s too late to cancel the trip. But why should she run from Bob again? Back then she’d had no choice. By the end of that week, the story was all over town. Bob had spread it himself, in a farcical version that was very different from what Verna herself remembered. Slutty, drunken, willing Verna, what a joke. She’d been followed home from school by groups of leering boys, hooting and calling out to her: Easy out! Can I have a ride? Candy’s dandy but liquor’s quicker! Those were some of the milder slogans. She’d been shunned by girls, fearful that the disgrace—the ludicrous, hilarious smuttiness of it all—would rub off on them. Then there was her mother. It hadn’t taken long for the scandal to hit church circles. What little her mother had to say through her clamp of a mouth was to the point: Verna had made her own bed, and now she would have to lie in it. No, she could not wallow in self-pity—she would just have to face the music, not that she would ever live it down, because one false step and you fell, that’s how life was. When it was evident that the worst had happened, she bought Verna a bus ticket and shipped her off to a church-run Home for Unwed Mothers on the outskirts of Toronto. There Verna spent the days peeling potatoes and scrubbing floors and scouring toilets along with her fellow-delinquents. They wore gray maternity dresses and gray wool stockings and clunky brown shoes, all paid for by generous donations, they were informed. In addition to their scouring and peeling chores, they were treated to bouts of prayer and self-righteous hectoring. What had happened to them was justly deserved, the speeches went, because of their depraved behavior, but it was never too late to redeem themselves through hard work and self-restraint. They were cautioned against alcohol, tobacco, and gum chewing, and were told that they should consider it a miracle of God if any decent man ever wanted to marry them. Verna’s labor was long and difficult. The baby was taken away from her immediately so that she would not get attached to it. There was an infection, with complications and scarring, but it was all for the best, she overheard one brisk nurse telling another, because those sorts of girls made unfit mothers anyway. Once she could walk, Verna was given five dollars and a bus ticket and instructed to return to the guardianship of her mother, because she was still a minor. But she could not face that—that or the town in general—so she headed for downtown Toronto. What was she thinking? No actual thoughts, only feelings: mournfulness, woe, and, finally, a spark of defiant anger. If she was as trashy and worthless as everyone seemed to think, she might as well act that way, and, in between rounds of waitressing and hotel-room cleaning, she did. It was only by great good luck that she stumbled upon an older married man who took an interest in her. She traded three years of noontime sex with him for the price of her education. A fair exchange, to her mind—she bore him no ill will. She learned a lot from him, how to walk in high heels being the least of it—and pulled herself up and out. Little by little she jettisoned the crushed image of Bob that she still carried like a dried flower—incredibly!—next to her heart. “I know you probably hear this all the time, but I’ve got a great idea for a balloon animal.”Buy the print » She pats her face back into place and repairs her mascara, which has bled down her cheeks despite its waterproof claims. Courage, she tells herself. She will not be chased away, not this time. She’ll tough it out; she’s more than a match for five Bobs now. And she has the advantage, because Bob doesn’t have a clue who she is. Does she really look that different? Yes, she does. She looks better. There’s her silver-blond hair, and the various alterations, of course. But the real difference is in the attitude—the confident way she carries herself. It would be hard for Bob to see through that façade to the shy, mousy-haired, snivelling idiot she’d been at fourteen. After adding a last film of powder, she rejoins the group and lines up at the buffet for roast beef and salmon. She won’t eat much of it, but then she never does, not in public: a piggy, gobbling woman is not a creature of mysterious allure. She refrains from scanning the crowd to pinpoint Bob’s position—he might wave to her, and she needs time to think—and selects a table at the far end of the room. But presto, Bob is sliding in beside her without so much as a may-I-join-you. He assumes he’s already pissed on this fire hydrant, she thinks. Spray-painted this wall. Cut the head off this trophy and got his picture taken with his foot on the body. As he did once before, not that he realizes it. She smiles. He’s solicitous. Is Verna all right? Oh, yes, she replies. It’s just that something went down the wrong way. Bob launches straight into the preliminaries. What does Verna do? Retired, she says, though she had a rewarding career as a physiotherapist, specializing in the rehabilitation of heart and stroke victims. “That must have been interesting,” Bob says. Oh, yes, Verna says. So fulfilling to help people. It had been more than interesting. Wealthy men recovering from life-threatening episodes had recognized the worth of an attractive younger woman with deft hands, an encouraging manner, and an intuitive knowledge of when to say nothing. Or, as her third husband put it in his Keatsian mode, heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter. There was something about the intimacy of the relationship—so physical—that led to other intimacies, though Verna had always stopped short of sex: it was a religious thing, she’d said. If no marriage proposal was forthcoming, she would extricate herself, citing her duty to patients who needed her more. That had forced the issue twice. She’d chosen her acceptances with an eye to the medical condition involved, and once married she’d done her best to provide value for money. Each husband had departed not only happy but grateful, if a little sooner than might have been expected. But each had died of natural causes—a lethal recurrence of the heart attack or stroke that had hit him in the first place. All she’d done was give them tacit permission to satisfy every forbidden desire: to eat artery-clogging foods, to drink as much as they liked, to return to their golf games too soon. She’d refrained from commenting on the fact that, strictly speaking, they were being too zealously medicated. She’d wondered about the dosages, she’d say later, but who was she to set her own opinion up against a doctor’s? And if a man happened to forget that he’d already taken his pills for that evening and found them neatly laid out in their usual place and took them again, wasn’t that to be expected? Blood thinners could be so hazardous, in excess. You could bleed into your own brain. Then there was sex: the terminator, the coup de grâce. Verna herself had no interest in sex as such, but she knew what was likely to work. “You only live once,” she’d been in the habit of saying, lifting a champagne glass during a candlelit supper and then setting out the Viagra, a revolutionary breakthrough but so troubling to the blood pressure. It was essential to call the paramedics in promptly, though not too promptly. “He was like this when I woke up” was an acceptable thing to say. So was “I heard a strange sound in the bathroom, and then when I went to look . . .” She has no regrets. She did those men a favor: surely better a swift exit than a lingering decline. With two of the husbands, there’d been difficulties with the grownup children over the will. Verna had graciously said that she understood how they must feel, then she’d paid them off, more than was strictly fair considering the effort she’d put in. Her sense of justice has remained Presbyterian: she doesn’t want much more than her due, but she doesn’t want much less, either. She likes balanced accounts. Bob leans in toward her, sliding his arm along the back of her chair. Is her husband along for the cruise? he asks, closer to her ear than he should be, breathing in. No, she says, she is recently widowed—here she looks down at the table, hoping to convey muted grief—and this is a sort of healing voyage. Bob says he’s very sorry to hear it, but what a coincidence, for his own wife passed away just six months ago. It had been a blow—they’d been really looking forward to the golden years together. She’d been his college sweetheart—it was love at first sight. Does Verna believe in love at first sight? Yes, Verna says, she does. Bob confides further: they’d waited until after his law degree to get married and then they’d had three kids, and now there are five grandkids—he’s so proud of them all. If he shows me any baby pictures, Verna thinks, I’ll hit him. “It does leave an empty space, doesn’t it?” Bob says. “A sort of blank.” Verna admits that it does. Would Verna care to join Bob in a bottle of wine? You crap artist, Verna thinks. So you went on to get married and have children and a normal life, just as if nothing ever happened. Whereas for me . . . She feels queasy. “I’d love to,” she says. “But let’s wait until we’re on the ship. That would be more leisurely.” She gives him the eyelids again. “Now I’m off to my beauty sleep.” She smiles, wafts upward. “Oh, surely you don’t need that,” Bob says gallantly. The asshole actually pulls out her chair for her. He hadn’t shown such fine manners back then. Nasty, brutish, and short, as her third husband had said, quoting Hobbes on the subject of natural man. Nowadays a girl would know to call the police. Nowadays Bob would go to jail no matter what lies he might tell, because Verna was underage. But there had been no true words for the act then: rape was what occurred when some maniac jumped on you out of a bush, not when your formal-dance date drove you to a side road in the mangy twice-cut forest surrounding a tin-pot mining town and told you to drink up like a good girl and then took you apart, layer by torn layer. To make it worse, Bob’s best friend, Ken, had turned up in his own car to help out. The two of them had been laughing. They’d kept her panty girdle as a souvenir. Afterward, Bob had pushed her out of the car halfway back, surly because she was crying. “Shut up or walk home,” he’d said. She has a picture of herself limping along the icy roadside with her bare feet stuck in her dyed-to-match ice-blue heels, dizzy and raw and shivering and—a further ridiculous humiliation—hiccupping. What had concerned her most at that moment was her nylons—where were her nylons? She’d bought them with her own drugstore money. She must have been in shock. Did she remember correctly? Had Bob stuck her panty girdle upside down on his head and danced about in the snow with the garter tabs flopping around like jesters’ bells? Panty girdle, she thinks. How prehistoric. It, and all the long-gone archeology that went with it. Now a girl would be on the pill or have an abortion without a backward glance. How Paleolithic to still feel wounded by any of it. It was Ken—not Bob—who’d come back for her, told her brusquely to get in, driven her home. He, at least, had had the grace to be shamefaced. “Don’t say anything,” he’d muttered. And she hadn’t, but her silence had done her no good. Why should she be the only one to have suffered for that night? She’d been stupid, granted, but Bob had been vicious. And he’d gone scot-free, without consequences or remorse, whereas her entire life had been distorted. The Verna of the day before had died, and a different Verna had solidified in her place: stunted, twisted, mangled. It was Bob who’d taught her that only the strong can win, that weakness should be mercilessly exploited. It was Bob who’d turned her into—why not say the word?—a murderer. The next morning, during the chartered flight north to where the ship is floating on the Beaufort Sea, she considers her choices. She could play Bob like a fish right up to the final moment, then leave him cold with his pants around his ankles: a satisfaction, but a minor one. She could avoid him throughout the trip and leave the equation where it’s been for the past fifty-some years: unresolved. Or she could kill him. She contemplates this third option with theoretical calm. Just say, for instance, if she were to murder Bob, how might she do it during the cruise without getting caught? Her meds-and-sex formula would be far too slow and might not work anyway, since Bob did not appear to suffer from any ailments. Pushing him off the ship is not a viable option. Bob is too big, the railings are too high, and she knows from her previous trip that there will always be people on deck, enjoying the breathtaking views and taking pictures. A corpse in a cabin would attract police and set off a search for DNA and fabric hairs and so forth, as on television. No, she would have to arrange the death during one of the onshore visits. But how? Where? She consults the itinerary and the map of the proposed route. An Inuit settlement will not do: dogs will bark, children will follow. As for the other stops, the land they’ll be visiting is bare of concealing features. Staff with guns will accompany them to protect against polar bears. Maybe an accident with one of the guns? For that she’d need split-second timing. Whatever the method, she’d have to do it early in the voyage, before he had time to make any new friends—people who might notice he was missing. Also, the possibility that Bob will suddenly recognize her is ever present. And if that happens it will be game over. Meanwhile, it would be best not to be seen with him too much. Enough to keep his interest up, but not enough to start rumors of, for instance, a budding romance. On a cruise, word of mouth spreads like the flu. Once on board the ship—it’s the Resolute II, familiar to Verna from her last voyage—the passengers line up to deposit their passports at Reception. Then they assemble in the forward lounge for a talk on procedure given by three of the discouragingly capable staff members. Every time they go ashore, the first one says with a severe Viking frown, they must turn their tags on the tag board from green to red. When they come back to the ship, they must turn their tags back to green. They must always wear life jackets for the Zodiac trips to shore; the life jackets are the new, thin kind that inflate once in water. They must deposit their life jackets on the shore when landing, in the white canvas bags provided, and put them back on when departing. If there are any tags unturned or any life jackets left in the bags, the staff will know that someone is still ashore. They do not want to be left behind, do they? And now a few housekeeping details. They will find laundry bags in their cabins. Bar bills will be charged to their accounts, and tips will be settled at the end. The ship runs on an open-door policy, to facilitate the work of the cleaning staff, but of course they can lock their rooms if they wish. There is a lost-and-found at Reception. All clear? Good. The second speaker is the archeologist, who, to Verna, looks about twelve. They will be visiting sites of many kinds, she says, including Independence 1, Dorset, and Thule, but they must never, never take anything. No artifacts, and especially no bones. Those bones might be human, and they must be very careful not to disturb them. But even animal bones are an important source of scarce calcium for ravens and lemmings and foxes and, well, the entire food chain, because the Arctic recycles everything. All clear? Good. Now, says the third speaker, a fashionably bald individual who looks like a personal trainer, a word about the guns. Guns are essential, because polar bears are fearless. But the staff will always fire into the air first, to scare the bear away. Shooting a bear is a last resort, but bears can be dangerous, and the safety of passengers is the first priority. There is no need to fear the guns: the bullets will be taken out during the Zodiac trips to and from shore, and it will not be possible for anyone to get shot. All clear? Good. Clearly a gun accident won’t do, Verna thinks. No passenger is going to get near those guns. After lunch, there’s a lecture on walruses. There are rumors of rogue walruses that prey on seals, puncturing them with their tusks, then sucking out the fat with their powerful mouths. The women on either side of Verna are knitting. One of them says, “Liposuction.” The other laughs. Once the talks are over, Verna goes out on deck. The sky is clear, with a flight of lenticular clouds hovering in it like spaceships; the air is warm; the sea is aqua. There’s a classic iceberg on the port side, with a center so blue it looks dyed, and ahead of them is a mirage—a fata morgana, towering like an ice castle on the horizon, completely real except for the faint shimmering at its edges. Sailors have been lured to their deaths by those; they’ve drawn mountains on maps where no mountains were. “Beautiful, isn’t it?” Bob says, materializing at her side. “How about that bottle of wine tonight?” “I spy with my little eye something black and dark.”Buy the print » “Stunning,” Verna says, smiling. “Perhaps not tonight—I promised some of the girls.” True enough—she’s made a date with the knitting women. “Maybe tomorrow?” Bob grins, and shares the fact that he has a single cabin: “No. 222, like the painkiller,” he quips, and comfortably amidships. “Hardly any rock and roll at all,” he adds. Verna says that she, too, has a single: worth the extra expense, because that way you can really relax. She draws out “relax” until it sounds like a voluptuous writhe on satin sheets. Glancing at the tag board while strolling around the ship after dinner, Verna notes Bob’s tag—close enough to her own. Then she buys a pair of cheap gloves in the gift shop. She’s read a lot of crime novels. The next day starts with a talk on geology by an energetic young scientist who has been arousing some interest among the passengers, especially the female ones. By great good fortune, he tells them, and because of a change in itinerary owing to ice pack, they’ll be making an unanticipated stop, where they’ll be able to view a wonder of the geological world, a sight permitted to very few. They’ll be privileged to see the world’s earliest fossilized stromatolites, clocking in at an astonishing 1.9 billion years old—before fish, before dinosaurs, before mammals—the very first preserved form of life on this planet. What is a stromatolite? he asks rhetorically, his eyes gleaming. The word comes from the Greek stroma, a mattress, coupled with the root word for “stone.” Stone mattress: a fossilized cushion, formed by layer upon layer of blue-green algae building up into a mound or dome. It was this very same blue-green algae that created the oxygen they are now breathing. Isn’t that astonishing? A wizened, elflike man at Verna’s lunchtime table grumbles that he hopes they’ll be seeing something more exciting than rocks. He’s one of the other Bobs: Verna’s been taking an inventory. An extra Bob may come in handy. “I’m looking forward to them,” she says. “The stone mattresses.” She gives the word “mattress” the tiniest hint of suggestiveness, and gets an approving twinkle out of Bob the Second. Really, they’re never too old to flirt. Out on deck after coffee, she surveys the approaching land through her binoculars. It’s autumn here: the leaves on the miniature trees that snake along the ground like vines are red and orange and yellow and purple, with rock surging out of them in waves and folds. There’s a ridge, a higher ridge, then a higher one. It’s on the second ridge that the best stromatolites are to be found, the geologist has told them. Will someone who has slipped behind the third ridge be visible from the second one? Verna doesn’t think so. Now they’re all stuffed into their waterproof pants and their rubber boots; now they’re being zipped and buckled into their life jackets like outsized kindergarten kids; now they’re turning their tags from green to red; now they’re edging down the gangway and being whisked into the black inflatable Zodiacs. Bob has made it into Verna’s Zodiac. He lifts his camera, snaps her picture. Verna’s heart is beating more rapidly. If he recognizes me spontaneously, I won’t kill him, she thinks. If I tell him who I am and he recognizes me and then apologizes, I still won’t kill him. That’s two more escape chances than he gave her. It will mean forgoing the advantage of surprise, a move that could be hazardous—Bob is much bigger than she is—but she wishes to be more than fair. They’ve landed and have shed their life jackets and rubber footwear and are lacing up their hiking boots. Verna strolls closer to Bob, notes that he hasn’t bothered with the rubber boots. He’s wearing a red baseball cap; as she watches, he turns it backward. Now they’re all scattering. Some stay by the shore; some move up to the first ridge. The geologist is standing there with his hammer, a twittering cluster already gathered around him. He’s in full lecture mode: they will please not take any of the stromatolites, but the ship has a sampling permit, so if anyone finds a particularly choice fragment, especially a cross section, check with him first and they can put it on the rock table he’ll set up on board, where everyone can see it. Here are some examples, for those who may not want to tackle the second ridge. . . . Heads go down; cameras come out. Perfect, Verna thinks. The more distraction the better. She feels without looking that Bob is close by. Now they’re at the second ridge, which some are climbing more easily than others. Here are the best stromatolites, a whole field of them. There are unbroken ones, like bubbles or boils, small ones, ones as big as half a soccer ball. Some have lost their tops, like eggs in the process of hatching. Still others have been ground down, so that all that’s left of them is a series of raised concentric oblongs, like a cinnamon bun or the growth rings on a tree. And here’s one shattered into four, like a Dutch cheese sliced into wedges. Verna picks up one of the quarters, examines the layers, each year black, gray, black, gray, black, and at the bottom the featureless core. The piece is heavy, and sharp at the edges. Verna lifts it into her backpack. Here comes Bob as if on cue, lumbering slowly as a zombie up the hill toward her. He’s taken off his outer jacket, tucked it under his backpack straps. He’s out of breath. She has a moment of compunction: he’s over the hill; frailty is gaining on him. Shouldn’t she let bygones be bygones? Boys will be boys. Aren’t they all just hormone puppets at that age? Why should any human being be judged by something that was done in another time, so long ago it might be centuries? A raven flies overhead, circles around. Can it tell? Is it waiting? She looks down through its eyes, sees an old woman—because, face it, she is an old woman now—on the verge of murdering an even older man because of an anger already fading into the distance of used-up time. It’s paltry. It’s vicious. It’s normal. It’s what happens in life. “Great day,” Bob says. “It’s good to have a chance to stretch your legs.” “Isn’t it?” Verna says. She moves toward the far side of the second ridge. “Maybe there’s something better over there. But weren’t we told not to go that far? Out of sight?” Bob gives a rules-are-for-peasants laugh. “We’re paying for this,” he says. He actually takes the lead, not up the third ridge but around behind it. Out of sight is where he wants to be. The gun bearer on the second ridge is yelling at some people straying off to the left. He has his back turned. A few more steps and Verna glances over her shoulder: she can’t see anyone, which means that no one can see her. They squelch over a patch of boggy ground. She takes her thin gloves out of her pocket, slips them on. Now they’re at the far side of the third ridge, at the sloping base. “Come over here,” Bob says, patting the rock. His backpack is beside him. “I brought us a few drinks.” All around him is a tattered gauze of black lichen. “Terrific,” Verna says. She sits down, unzips her backpack. “Look,” she says. “I found a perfect specimen.” She turns, positioning the stromatolite between them, supporting it with both hands. She takes a breath. “I think we’ve known each other before,” she says. “I’m Verna Pritchard. From high school.” Bob doesn’t miss a beat. “I thought there was something familiar about you,” he says. He’s actually smirking. She remembers that smirk. She has a vivid picture of Bob capering triumphantly in the snow, sniggering like a ten-year-old. Herself wrecked and crumpled. She knows better than to swing widely. She brings the stromatolite up hard, a short sharp jab right underneath Bob’s lower jaw. There’s a crunch, the only sound. His head snaps back. Now he’s sprawled on the rock. She holds the stromatolite over his forehead, lets it drop. Again. Once again. There. That seems to have done it. Bob looks ridiculous, with his eyes open and fixed and his forehead mashed in and blood running down both sides of his face. “You’re a mess,” she says. He looks laughable, so she laughs. As she suspected, the front teeth are implants. She takes a moment to steady her breathing. Then she retrieves the stromatolite, being careful not to let any of the blood touch her or even her gloves, and slides it into a pool of bog water. Bob’s baseball cap has fallen off; she stuffs it into her pack, along with his jacket. She empties out his backpack: nothing in there but the camera, a pair of woollen mitts, a scarf, and six miniature bottles of Scotch—how pathetically hopeful of him. She rolls the pack up, stuffs it inside her own, adds the camera, which she’ll toss into the sea later. Then she dries the stromatolite off on the scarf, checking to make sure there’s no visible blood, and stows it in her pack. She leaves Bob to the ravens and the lemmings and the rest of the food chain. Then she hikes back around the base of the third ridge, adjusting her jacket. Anyone looking will assume she’s just been having a pee. People do sneak off like that, on shore visits. But no one is looking. She finds the young geologist—he’s still on the second ridge, along with his coterie of admirers—and produces the stromatolite. “May I take it back to the ship?” she asks sweetly. “For the rock table?” “Fantastic sample!” he says. Travellers are making their way shoreward, back to the Zodiacs. When she reaches the bags with the life jackets, Verna fumbles with her shoelaces until all eyes are elsewhere and she can cram an extra life jacket into her backpack. The pack is a lot bulkier than it was when she left the ship, but it would be odd if anyone noticed that. Once up the gangway, she diddles around with her pack until everyone else has moved past the tag board, then flips Bob’s tag from red to green. And her own tag, too, of course. On the way to her cabin she waits till the corridor is clear, then slips through Bob’s unlocked door. The room key is on the dresser; she leaves it there. She hangs up the life jacket and Bob’s waterproof and baseball cap, runs some water in the sink, messes up a towel. Then she goes to her own cabin along the still-empty corridor, takes off her gloves, washes them, and hangs them up to dry. She’s broken a nail, worse luck, but she can repair that. She checks her face: a touch of sunburn, but nothing serious. For dinner, she dresses in pink and makes an effort to flirt with Bob the Second, who gamely returns her serves but is surely too decrepit to be a serious prospect. Just as well—her adrenaline level is plummeting. If there are northern lights, they’ve been told, there will be an announcement, but Verna doesn’t intend to get up for them. So far she’s in the clear. All she has to do now is maintain the mirage of Bob, faithfully turning his tag from green to red, from red to green. He’ll move objects around in his cabin, wear different items from his beige-and-plaid wardrobe, sleep in his bed, take showers, leaving the towels on the floor. He will receive a first-name-only invitation to have dinner at a staff table, which will then quietly appear under the door of one of the other Bobs, and no one will spot the substitution. He will brush his teeth. He will adjust his alarm clock. He will send in laundry, without, however, filling out the slip: that would be too risky. The cleaning staff won’t care—a lot of older people forget to fill out their laundry slips. Meanwhile, the stromatolite will sit on the geological samples table and will be picked up and examined and discussed, acquiring many fingerprints. At the end of the trip it will be jettisoned. The Resolute II will travel for fourteen days; it will stop for shore visits eighteen times. It will sail past ice caps and sheer cliffs, and mountains of gold and copper and ebony black and silver gray; it will glide through pack ice; it will anchor off long, implacable beaches and explore fjords gouged by glaciers over millions of years. In the midst of such rigorous and demanding splendor, who will remember Bob? There will be a moment of truth at the end of the voyage, when Bob will not appear to pay his bill and pick up his passport; nor will he pack his bags. There will be a flurry of concern, followed by a staff meeting—behind closed doors, so as not to alarm the passengers. Ultimately, there will be a news item: Bob, tragically, must have fallen off the ship on the last night of the voyage while leaning over to get a better camera angle on the northern lights. No other explanation is possible. Meanwhile, the passengers will have scattered to the winds, Verna among them. If, that is, she pulls it off. Will she or won’t she? She ought to care more about that—she ought to find it an exciting challenge—but right now she just feels tired and somewhat empty. Though at peace, though safe. Calm of mind all passion spent, as her third husband used to say so annoyingly after his Viagra sessions. Those Victorians always coupled sex with death. Who was that poet anyway? Keats? Tennyson? Her memory isn’t what it was. But the details will come back to her later. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank	Credit Illustration by Zohar Lazar They’re in our house maybe ten minutes and already Mark’s lecturing us on the Israeli occupation. Mark and Lauren live in Jerusalem, and people from there think it gives them the right. Mark is looking all stoic and nodding his head. “If we had what you have down here in South Florida,” he says, and trails off. “Yup,” he says, and he’s nodding again. “We’d have no troubles at all.” “You do have what we have,” I tell him. “All of it. Sun and palm trees. Old Jews and oranges and the worst drivers around. At this point, we’ve probably got more Israelis than you.” Debbie, my wife, puts a hand on my arm—her signal that I’m either taking a tone, interrupting someone’s story, sharing something private, or making an inappropriate joke. That’s my cue, and I’m surprised, considering how often I get it, that she ever lets go of my arm. “Yes, you’ve got everything now,” Mark says. “Even terrorists.” I look at Lauren. She’s the one my wife has the relationship with—the one who should take charge. But Lauren isn’t going to give her husband any signal. She and Mark ran off to Israel twenty years ago and turned Hasidic, and neither of them will put a hand on the other in public. Not for this. Not to put out a fire. “Wasn’t Mohamed Atta living right here before 9/11?” Mark says, and now he pantomimes pointing out houses. “Goldberg, Goldberg, Goldberg—Atta. How’d you miss him in this place?” “Other side of town,” I say. “That’s what I’m talking about. That’s what you have that we don’t. Other sides of town. Wrong sides of the tracks. Space upon space.” And now he’s fingering the granite countertop in our kitchen, looking out into the living room and the dining room, staring through the kitchen windows at the pool. “All this house,” he says, “and one son? Can you imagine?” “No,” Lauren says. And then she turns to us, backing him up. “You should see how we live with ten.” “Ten kids,” I say. “We could get you a reality show with that here in the States. Help you get a bigger place.” The hand is back pulling at my sleeve. “Pictures,” Debbie says. “I want to see the girls.” We all follow Lauren into the den for her purse. “Do you believe it?” Mark says. “Ten girls!” And the way it comes out of his mouth, it’s the first time I like the guy. The first time I think about giving him a chance. Facebook and Skype brought Deb and Lauren back together. They were glued at the hip growing up. Went all the way through school together. Yeshiva school. All girls. Out in Queens till high school and then riding the subway together to one called Central in Manhattan. They stayed best friends until I married Deb and turned her secular, and soon after that Lauren met Mark and they went off to the Holy Land and shifted from Orthodox to ultra-Orthodox, which to me sounds like a repackaged detergent—ORTHODOX ULTRA®, now with more deep-healing power. Because of that, we’re supposed to call them Shoshana and Yerucham now. Deb’s been doing it. I’m just not saying their names. “You want some water?” I offer. “Coke in the can?” “ ‘You’—which of us?” Mark says. “You both,” I say. “Or I’ve got whiskey. Whiskey’s kosher, too, right?” “If it’s not, I’ll kosher it up real fast,” he says, pretending to be easygoing. And right then he takes off that big black hat and plops down on the couch in the den. Lauren’s holding the verticals aside and looking out at the yard. “Two girls from Forest Hills,” she says. “Who ever thought we’d be the mothers of grownups?” “Trevor’s sixteen,” Deb says. “You may think he’s a grownup, and he may think he’s a grownup—but we are not convinced.” Right then is when Trev comes padding into the den, all six feet of him, plaid pajama bottoms dragging on the floor and T-shirt full of holes. He’s just woken up, and you can tell he’s not sure if he’s still dreaming. We told him we had guests. But there’s Trev, staring at this man in the black suit, a beard resting on his belly. And Lauren, I met her once before, right when Deb and I got married, but ten girls and a thousand Shabbos dinners later—well, she’s a big woman, in a bad dress and a giant blond Marilyn Monroe wig. Seeing them at the door, I can’t say I wasn’t shocked myself. “Hey,” he says. And then Deb’s on him, preening and fixing his hair and hugging him. “Trevy, this is my best friend from childhood,” she says. “This is Shoshana, and this is—” “Mark,” I say. “Yerucham,” Mark says, and sticks out a hand. Trev shakes it. Then Trev sticks out his hand, polite, to Lauren. She looks at it, just hanging there in the air. “I don’t shake,” she says. “But I’m so happy to see you. Like meeting my own son. I mean it.” And here she starts to cry, and then she and Deb are hugging. And the boys, we just stand there until Mark looks at his watch and gets himself a good manly grip on Trev’s shoulder. “Sleeping until three on a Sunday? Man, those were the days,” Mark says. “A regular little Rumpleforeskin.” Trev looks at me, and I want to shrug, but Mark’s also looking, so I don’t move. Trev just gives us both his best teen-age glare and edges out of the room. As he does, he says, “Baseball practice,” and takes my car keys off the hook by the door to the garage. “There’s gas,” I say. “They let them drive here at sixteen?” Mark says. “Insane.” “So what brings you here after all these years?” I say. “My mother,” Mark says. “She’s failing, and my father’s getting old—and they come to us for Sukkot every year. You know?” “I know the holidays.” “They used to fly out to us. For Sukkot and Pesach, both. But they can’t fly now, and I just wanted to get over while things are still good. We haven’t been in America—” “Oh, gosh,” Lauren says. “I’m afraid to think how long it’s been. More than ten years. Twelve,” she says. “With the kids, it’s just impossible until enough of them are big.” “How do you do it?” Deb says. “Ten kids? I really do want to hear.” That’s when I remember. “I forgot your drink,” I say to Mark. “Yes, his drink. That’s how,” Lauren says. “That’s how we cope.” And that’s how the four of us end up back at the kitchen table with a bottle of vodka between us. I’m not one to get drunk on a Sunday afternoon, but, I tell you, when the plan is to spend the day with Mark I jump at the chance. Deb’s drinking, too, but not for the same reason. I think she and Lauren are reliving a little bit of the wild times. The very small window when they were together, barely grown up, two young women living in New York on the edge of two worlds. Deb says, “This is really racy for us. I mean, really racy. We try not to drink much at all these days. We think it sets a bad example for Trevor. It’s not good to drink in front of them right at this age when they’re all transgressive. He’s suddenly so interested in that kind of thing.” “I’m just happy when he’s interested in something,” I say. Deb slaps at the air. “I just don’t think it’s good to make drinking look like it’s fun with a teen-ager around.” Lauren smiles and straightens her wig. “Does anything we do look fun to our kids?” I laugh at that. Honestly, I’m liking her more and more. “It’s the age limit that does it,” Mark says. “It’s the whole American puritanical thing, the twenty-one-year-old drinking age and all that. We don’t make a big deal about it in Israel, and so the kids, they don’t even notice alcohol. Except for the foreign workers on Fridays, you hardly see anyone drunk at all.” “The workers and the Russians,” Lauren says. “The Russian immigrants,” he says, “that’s a whole separate matter. Most of them, you know, not even Jews.” “What does that mean?” I say. “It means matrilineal descent, is what it means,” Mark says. “With the Ethiopians there were conversions.” But Deb wants to keep us away from politics, and the way we’re arranged, me in between them and Deb opposite (it’s a round table, our kitchen table), she practically has to throw herself across to grab hold of my arm. “Fix me another,” she says. And here she switches the subject to Mark’s parents. “How’s the visit been going?” she says, her face all sombre. “How are your folks holding up?” Deb is very interested in Mark’s parents. They’re Holocaust survivors. And Deb has what can only be called an unhealthy obsession with the idea of that generation being gone. Don’t get me wrong. It’s important to me, too. All I’m saying is there’s healthy and unhealthy, and my wife, she gives the subject a lot of time. “What can I say?” Mark says. “My mother’s a very sick woman. And my father, he tries to keep his spirits up. He’s a tough guy.” “I’m sure,” I say. Then I look down at my drink, all serious, and give a shake of my head. “They really are amazing.” “Who?” Mark says. “Fathers?” I look back up and they’re all staring at me. “Survivors,” I say, realizing I jumped the gun. “There’s good and bad,” Mark says. “Like anyone else.” Lauren says, “The whole of Carmel Lake Village, it’s like a D.P. camp with a billiards room.” “One tells the other, and they follow,” Mark says. “From Europe to New York, and now, for the end of their lives, again the same place.” “Tell them that crazy story, Yuri,” Lauren says. “Tell us,” Deb says. “So you can picture my father,” Mark says. “In the old country, he went to heder, had the peyes and all that. But in America a classic galusmonger. He looks more like you than me. It’s not from him that I get this,” he says, pointing at his beard. “Shoshana and I—” “We know,” I say. “So my father. They’ve got a nice nine-hole course, a driving range, some greens for the practice putting. And my dad’s at the clubhouse. I go with him. He wants to work out in the gym, he says. Tells me I should come. Get some exercise. And he tells me”—and here Mark points at his feet, sliding a leg out from under the table so we can see his big black clodhoppers—“‘You can’t wear those Shabbos shoes on the treadmill. You need the sneakers. You know, sports shoes?’ And I tell him, ‘I know what sneakers are. I didn’t forget my English any more than your Yiddish is gone.’ So he says, ‘Ah shaynem dank dir in pupik.’ Just to show me who’s who.” “Tell them the point,” Lauren says. “He’s sitting in the locker room, trying to pull a sock on, which is, at that age, basically the whole workout in itself. It’s no quick business. And I see, while I’m waiting, and I can’t believe it—I nearly pass out. The guy next to him, the number on his arm, it’s three before my father’s number. You know, in sequence.” “What do you mean?” Deb says. “I mean the number tattooed. It’s the same as my father’s camp number, digit for digit, but my father’s ends in an eight. And this guy’s, it ends in a five. That’s the only difference. I mean, they’re separated by two people. So I say, ‘Excuse me, sir.’ And the guy just says, ‘You with the Chabad? I don’t want anything but to be left alone. I already got candles at home.’ I tell him, ‘No. I’m not. I’m here visiting my father.’ And to my father I say, ‘Do you know this gentleman? Have you two met? I’d really like to introduce you, if you haven’t.’ And they look each other over for what, I promise you, is minutes. Actual minutes. It is—with kavod I say this, with respect for my father—but it is like watching a pair of big beige manatees sitting on a bench, each with one sock on. They’re just looking each other up and down, everything slow. And then my father says, ‘I seen him. Seen him around.’ The other guy, he says, ‘Yes, I’ve seen.’ ‘You’re both survivors,’ I tell them. ‘Look. The numbers.’ And they look. ‘They’re the same,’ I say. And they both hold out their arms to look at the little ashen tattoos. To my father I say, ‘Do you get it? The same, except his—it’s right ahead of yours. Look! Compare.’ So they look. They compare.” Mark’s eyes are popping out of his head. “Think about it,” he says. “Around the world, surviving the unsurvivable, these two old guys end up with enough money to retire to Carmel Lake and play golf every day. So I say to my dad, ‘He’s right ahead of you. Look, a five,’ I say. ‘And yours is an eight.’ And my father says, ‘All that means is he cut ahead of me in line. There same as here. This guy’s a cutter. I just didn’t want to say.’ ‘Blow it out your ear,’ the other guy says. And that’s it. Then they get back to putting on socks.” Deb looks crestfallen. She was expecting something empowering. Some story with which to educate Trevor, to reaffirm her belief in the humanity that, from inhumanity, forms. But me, I love that kind of story. I’m starting to take a real shine to these two, and not just because I’m suddenly feeling sloshed. “Good story, Yuri,” I say, copying his wife. “Yerucham, that one’s got zing.” Yerucham hoists himself up from the table, looking proud. He checks the label of our white bread on the counter, making sure it’s kosher. He takes a slice, pulls off the crust, and rolls the white part against the countertop with the palm of his hand, making a little ball. He comes over and pours himself a shot and throws it back. Then he eats that crazy dough ball. Just tosses it in his mouth, as if it’s the bottom of his own personal punctuation mark—you know, to underline his story. “Is that good?” I say. “Try it,” he says. He goes to the counter and pitches me a slice of white bread, and says, “But first pour yourself a shot.” I reach for the bottle and find that Deb’s got her hands around it, and her head’s bowed down, like the bottle is anchoring her, keeping her from tipping back. “Are you O.K., Deb?” Lauren says. “It’s because it was funny,” I say. “Honey!” Deb says. “She won’t tell you, but she’s a little obsessed with the Holocaust. That story—no offense, Mark—it’s not what she had in mind.” I should leave it be, I know. But it’s not like someone from Deb’s high school is around every day offering insights. “It’s like she’s a survivor’s kid, my wife. It’s crazy, that education they give them. Her grandparents were all born in the Bronx, and here we are twenty minutes from downtown Miami but it’s like it’s 1937 and we live on the edge of Berlin.” “You sound like you’re on speakerphone.”Buy the print » “That’s not it!” Deb says, openly defensive, her voice super high up in the register. “I’m not upset about that. It’s the alcohol. All this alcohol. It’s that and seeing Lauren. Seeing Shoshana, after all this time.” “Oh, she was always like this in high school,” Shoshana says. “Sneak one drink, and she started to cry. You want to know what used to get her going, what would make her truly happy?” Shoshana says. “It was getting high. That’s what always did it. Smoking up. It would make her laugh for hours and hours.” And, I tell you, I didn’t see it coming. I’m as blindsided as Deb was by that numbers story. “Oh, my God,” Deb says, and she’s pointing at me. “Look at my big bad secular husband. He really can’t handle it. He can’t handle his wife’s having any history of naughtiness at all—Mr. Liberal Open-Minded.” To me she says, “How much more chaste a wife can you dream of than a modern-day yeshiva girl who stayed a virgin until twenty-one? Honestly. What did you think Shoshana was going to say was so much fun?” “Honestly-honestly?” I say. “I don’t want to. It’s embarrassing.” “Say it!” Deb says, positively glowing. “Honestly, I thought you were going to say it was something like competing in the Passover Nut Roll, or making sponge cake. Something like that.” I hang my head. And Shoshana and Deb are laughing so hard they can’t breathe. They’re grabbing at each other so that I can’t tell if they’re holding each other up or pulling each other down. “I can’t believe you told him about the nut roll,” Shoshana says. “And I can’t believe,” Deb says, “you just told my husband of twenty-two years how much we used to get high. I haven’t touched a joint since before we were married,” she says. “Have we, honey? Have we smoked since we got married?” “No,” I say. “It’s been a very long time.” “So come on, Shosh. When was it? When was the last time you smoked?” Now, I know I mentioned the beard on Mark. But I don’t know if I mentioned how hairy a guy he is. That thing grows right up to his eyeballs. Like having eyebrows on top and bottom both. So when Deb asks the question, the two of them, Shosh and Yuri, are basically giggling like children, and I can tell, in the little part that shows, in the bit of skin I can see, that Mark’s eyelids and earlobes are in full blush. “When Shoshana said we drink to get through the days,” Mark says, “she was kidding about the drinking.” “We don’t drink much,” Shoshana says. “It’s smoking that she means,” he says. “We still get high,” Shoshana says. “I mean, all the time.” “Hasidim!” Deb screams. “You’re not allowed!” “Everyone does in Israel. It’s like the sixties there,” Mark says. “It’s the highest country in the world. Worse than Holland and India and Thailand put together. Worse than anywhere, even Argentina—though they may have us tied.” “Well, maybe that’s why the kids aren’t interested in alcohol,” I say. “Do you want to get high now?” Deb says. And we all three look at her. Me, with surprise. And those two with straight longing. “We didn’t bring,” Shoshana says. “Though it’s pretty rare anyone at customs peeks under the wig.” “Maybe you guys can find your way into the glaucoma underground over at Carmel Lake,” I say. “I’m sure that place is rife with it.” “That’s funny,” Mark says. “I’m funny,” I say, now that we’re all getting on. “We’ve got pot,” Deb says. “We do?” I say. “I don’t think we do.” Deb looks at me and bites at the cuticle on her pinkie. “You’re not secretly getting high all these years?” I say. I really don’t feel well at all. “Our son,” Deb says. “He has pot.” “Our son?” “Trevor,” she says. “Yes,” I say. “I know which one.” It’s a lot for one day, that kind of news. And it feels to me a lot like betrayal. Like my wife’s old secret and my son’s new secret are bound up together, and I’ve somehow been wronged. Also, I’m not one to recover quickly from any kind of slight from Deb—not when there are people around. I really need to talk stuff out. Some time alone, even five minutes, would fix it. But it’s super apparent that Deb doesn’t need any time alone with me. She doesn’t seem troubled at all. What she seems is focussed. She’s busy at the counter, using a paper tampon wrapper to roll a joint. “It’s an emergency-preparedness method we came up with in high school,” Shoshana says. “The things teen-age girls will do when they’re desperate.” “Do you remember that nice boy that we used to smoke in front of?” Deb says. “He’d just watch us. There’d be six or seven of us in a circle, girls and boys not touching—we were so religious. Isn’t that crazy?” Deb is talking to me, as Shoshana and Mark don’t think it’s crazy at all. “The only place we touched was passing the joint, at the thumbs. And this boy, we had a nickname for him.” “Passover!” Shoshana yells. “Yes,” Deb says, “that’s it. All we ever called him was Passover. Because every time the joint got to him he’d just pass it over to the next one of us. Passover Rand.” Shoshana takes the joint and lights it with a match, sucking deep. “It’s a miracle when I remember anything these days,” she says. “After my first was born, I forgot half of everything I knew. And then half again with each one after. Just last night, I woke up in a panic. I couldn’t remember if there were fifty-two cards in a deck or fifty-two weeks in a year. The recall errors—I’m up all night worrying over them, just waiting for the Alzheimer’s to kick in.” “It’s not that bad,” Mark tells her. “It’s only everyone on one side of your family that has it.” “That’s true,” she says, passing her husband the joint. “The other side is blessed only with dementia. Anyway, which is it? Weeks or cards?” “Same, same,” Mark says, taking a hit. When it’s Deb’s turn, she holds the joint and looks at me, like I’m supposed to nod or give her permission in some husbandly anxiety-absolving way. But instead of saying, “Go ahead,” I pretty much bark at Deb. “When were you going to tell me about our son?” At that, Deb takes a long hit, holding it deep, like an old pro. “Really, Deb. How could you not tell me you knew?” Deb walks over and hands me the joint. She blows the smoke in my face, not aggressive, just blowing. “I’ve only known five days,” she says. “I was going to tell you. I just wasn’t sure how, or if I should talk to Trevy first, maybe give him a chance,” she says. “A chance to what?” I ask. “To let him keep it as a secret between us. To let him know he could have my trust if he promised to stop.” “But he’s the son,” I say. “I’m the father. Even if it’s a secret with him, it should be a double secret between me and you. I should always get to know—even if I pretend not to know—any secret with him.” “Do that double part again,” Mark says. But I ignore him. “That’s how it’s always been,” I say to Deb. And, because I’m desperate and unsure, I follow it up with “Hasn’t it?” I mean, we really trust each other, Deb and I. And I can’t remember feeling like so much has hung on one question in a long time. I’m trying to read her face, and something complex is going on, some formulation. And then she sits right there on the floor, at my feet. “Oh, my God,” she says. “I’m so fucking high. Like instantly. Like, like,” and then she starts laughing. “Like, Mike,” she says. “Like, kike,” she says, turning completely serious. “Oh, my God, I’m really messed up.” “We should have warned you,” Shoshana says. As she says this, I’m holding my first hit in, and already trying to fight off the paranoia that comes rushing behind that statement. “Warned us what?” I say, my voice high, and the smoke still sweet in my nose. “This isn’t your father’s marijuana,” Mark says. “The THC levels. One hit of this new hydroponic stuff, it’s like if maybe you smoked a pound of the stuff we had when we were kids.” “I feel it,” I say. And I do. I sit down with Deb on the floor and take her hands. I feel nice. Though I’m not sure if I thought that or said it, so I try it again, making sure it’s out loud. “I feel nice,” I say. “I found the pot in the laundry hamper,” Deb says. “Leave it to a teen-age boy to think that’s the best place to hide something. His clean clothes show up folded in his room, and it never occurs to him that someone empties that hamper. To him, it’s the loneliest, most forgotten space in the world. Point is I found an Altoids tin at the bottom, stuffed full.” Deb gives my hands a squeeze. “Are we good now?” “We’re good,” I say. And it feels like we’re a team again, like it’s us against them. Because Deb says, “Are you sure you guys are allowed to smoke pot that comes out of a tin that held non-kosher candy? I really don’t know if that’s O.K.” And it’s just exactly the kind of thing I’m thinking. “First of all, we’re not eating it. We’re smoking it,” Shoshana says. “And even so, it’s cold contact, so it’s probably all right either way.” “ ‘Cold contact’? ” I say. “It’s a thing,” Shoshana says. “Just forget about it and get up off the floor. Chop-chop.” And they each offer us a hand and get us standing. “Come, sit back at the table,” Shoshana says. “I’ll tell you,” Mark says. “That’s got to be the No. 1 most annoying thing about being Hasidic in the outside world. Worse than the rude stuff that gets said is the constant policing by civilians. Everywhere we go, people are checking on us. Ready to make some sort of liturgical citizen’s arrest.” “Strangers!” Shoshana says. “Just the other day, on the way in from the airport. Yuri pulled into a McDonald’s to pee, and some guy in a trucker hat came up to him as he went in and said, ‘You allowed to go in there, brother?’ Just like that.” “Not true!” Deb says. “It’s not that I don’t see the fun in that,” Mark says. “The allure. You know, we’ve got Mormons in Jerusalem. They’ve got a base there. A seminary. The rule is—the deal with the government—they can have their place, but they can’t do outreach. No proselytizing. Anyway, I do some business with one of their guys.” “From Utah?” Deb says. “From Idaho. His name is Jebediah, for real—do you believe it?” “No, Yerucham and Shoshana,” I say. “Jebediah is a very strange name.” Mark rolls his eyes at that, handing me what’s left of the joint. Without even asking, he gets up and gets the tin and reaches into his wife’s purse for another tampon. And I’m a little less comfortable with this than with the white bread, with a guest coming into the house and smoking up all our son’s pot. Deb must be thinking something similar, as she says, “After this story, I’m going to text Trev and make sure he’s not coming back anytime soon.” “So when Jeb’s at our house,” Mark says, “when he comes by to eat and pours himself a Coke, I do that same religious-police thing. I can’t resist. I say, ‘Hey, Jeb, you allowed to have that?’ People don’t mind breaking their own rules, but they’re real strict about someone else’s.” “So are they allowed to have Coke?” Deb says. “I don’t know,” Mark says. “All Jeb ever says back is ‘You’re thinking of coffee, and mind your own business, either way.’ ” And then my Deb. She just can’t help herself. “You heard about the scandal? The Mormons going through the Holocaust list.” “Like in ‘Dead Souls,’ ” I say, explaining. “Like in the Gogol book, but real.” “Do you think we read that?” Mark says. “As Hasidim, or before?” “They took the records of the dead,” Deb says, “and they started running through them. They took these people who died as Jews and started converting them into Mormons. Converting the six million against their will.” “And this is what keeps an American Jew up at night?” Mark says. “What does that mean?” Deb says. “It means—” Mark says. But Shoshana interrupts him. “Don’t tell them what it means, Yuri. Just leave it unmeant.” “We can handle it,” I say. “We are interested, even, in handling it.” “Your son, he seems like a nice boy.” “Do not talk about their son,” Shoshana says. “Do not talk about our son,” Deb says. This time I reach across and lay a hand on her elbow. “Talk,” I say. “He does not,” Mark says, “seem Jewish to me.” “How can you say that?” Deb says. “What is wrong with you?” But Deb’s upset draws less attention than my response. I’m laughing so hard that everyone turns toward me. “What?” Mark says. “Jewish to you?” I say. “The hat, the beard, the blocky shoes. A lot of pressure, I’d venture, to look Jewish to you. Like, say, maybe Ozzy Osbourne, or the guys from Kiss, like them telling Paul Simon, ‘You do not look like a musician to me.’ ” “It is not about the outfit,” Mark says. “It’s about building life in a vacuum. Do you know what I saw on the drive over here? Supermarket, supermarket, adult bookstore, supermarket, supermarket, firing range.” “Floridians do like their guns and porn,” I say. “And their supermarkets.” “What I’m trying to say, whether you want to take it seriously or not, is that you can’t build Judaism only on the foundation of one terrible crime,” Mark says. “It’s about this obsession with the Holocaust as a necessary sign of identity. As your only educational tool. Because for the children there is no connection otherwise. Nothing Jewish that binds.” “Wow, that’s offensive,” Deb says. “And close-minded. There is such a thing as Jewish culture. One can live a culturally rich life.” “Not if it’s supposed to be a Jewish life. Judaism is a religion. And with religion comes ritual. Culture is nothing. Culture is some construction of the modern world. It is not fixed; it is ever changing, and a weak way to bind generations. It’s like taking two pieces of metal, and instead of making a nice weld you hold them together with glue.” “What does that even mean?” Deb says. “Practically.” Mark raises a finger to make his point, to educate. “In Jerusalem we don’t need to busy ourselves with symbolic efforts to keep our memories in place. Because we live exactly as our parents lived before the war. And this serves us in all things, in our relationships, too, in our marriages and parenting.” “Are you saying your marriage is better than ours?” Deb says. “Really? Just because of the rules you live by?” “I’m saying your husband would not have the long face, worried his wife is keeping secrets. And your son, he would not get into the business of smoking without first coming to you. Because the relationships, they are defined. They are clear.” “Because they are welded together,” I say, “and not glued.” “Yes,” he says. “And I bet Shoshana agrees.” But Shoshana is distracted. She is working carefully with an apple and a knife. She is making a little apple pipe, all the tampons gone. “When will you grow up about sex and lose interest in it?”Buy the print » “Did your daughters?” Deb says. “If they tell you everything, did they come to you first, before they smoked?” “Our daughters do not have the taint of the world we grew up in. They have no interest in such things.” “So you think,” I say. “So I know,” he says. “Our concerns are different, our worries.” “Let’s hear ’em,” Deb says. “Let’s not,” Shoshana says. “Honestly, we’re drunk, we’re high, we are having a lovely reunion.” “Every time you tell him not to talk,” I say, “it makes me want to hear what he’s got to say even more.” “Our concern,” Mark says, “is not the past Holocaust. It is the current one. The one that takes more than fifty per cent of the Jews of this generation. Our concern is intermarriage. It’s the Holocaust that’s happening now. You don’t need to be worrying about some Mormons doing hocus-pocus on the murdered six million. You need to worry that your son marries a Jew.” “Oh, my God,” Deb says. “Are you calling intermarriage a Holocaust?” “You ask my feeling, that’s my feeling. But this, no, it does not exactly apply to you, except in the example you set for the boy. Because you’re Jewish, your son, he is as Jewish as me. No more, no less.” “I went to yeshiva, too, Born-Again Harry! You don’t need to explain the rules to me.” “Did you just call me ‘Born-Again Harry’?” Mark asks. “I did,” Deb says. And she and he, they start to laugh at that. They think ‘Born-Again Harry’ is the funniest thing they’ve heard in a while. And Shoshana laughs, and then I laugh, because laughter is infectious—and it is doubly so when you’re high. “You don’t really think our family, my lovely, beautiful son, is headed for a Holocaust, do you?” Deb says. “Because that would really cast a pall on this beautiful day.” “No, I don’t,” Mark says. “It’s a lovely house and a lovely family, a beautiful home that you’ve made for that strapping young man. You’re a real balabusta,” Mark says. “That makes me happy,” Deb says. And she tilts her head nearly ninety degrees to show her happy, sweet smile. “Can I hug you? I’d really like to give you a hug.” “No,” Mark says, though he says it really politely. “But you can hug my wife. How about that?” “That’s a great idea,” Deb says. Shoshana gets up and hands the loaded apple to me, and I smoke from the apple as the two women hug a tight, deep, dancing-back-and-forth hug, tilting this way and that, so, once again, I’m afraid they might fall. “It is a beautiful day,” I say. “It is,” Mark says. And both of us look out the window, and both of us watch the perfect clouds in a perfect sky, so that we’re both staring out as the sky suddenly darkens. It is a change so abrupt that the ladies undo their hug to watch. “It’s like that here,” Deb says. And the clouds open up and torrential tropical rain drops straight down, battering. It is loud against the roof, and loud against the windows, and the fronds of the palm trees bend, and the floaties in the pool jump as the water boils. Shoshana goes to the window. And Mark passes Deb the apple and goes to the window. “Really, it’s always like this here?” Shoshana says. “Sure,” I say. “Every day. Stops as quick as it starts.” And both of them have their hands pressed up against the window. And they stay like that for some time, and when Mark turns around, harsh guy, tough guy, we see that he is weeping. “You do not know,” he says. “I forget what it’s like to live in a place rich with water. This is a blessing above all others.” “If you had what we had,” I say. “Yes,” he says, wiping his eyes. “Can we go out?” Shoshana says. “In the rain?” “Of course,” Deb says. Then Shoshana tells me to close my eyes. Only me. And I swear I think she’s going to be stark naked when she calls, “Open up.” She’s taken off her wig is all, and she’s wearing one of Trev’s baseball caps in its place. “I’ve only got the one wig this trip,” she says. “If Trev won’t mind.” “He won’t mind,” Deb says. And this is how the four of us find ourselves in the back yard, on a searingly hot day, getting pounded by all this cool, cool rain. It’s just about the best feeling in the world. And, I have to say, Shoshana looks twenty years younger in that hat. We do not talk in the rain. We are too busy frolicking and laughing and jumping around. And that’s how it happens that I’m holding Mark’s hand and sort of dancing, and Deb is holding Shoshana’s hand, and they’re doing their own kind of jig. And when I take Deb’s hand, though neither Mark nor Shoshana is touching the other, somehow we’ve formed a broken circle. We’ve started dancing our own kind of hora in the rain. It is the silliest and freest and most glorious I can remember feeling in years. Who would think that’s what I’d be saying with these strict, suffocatingly austere people visiting our house? And then my Deb, my love, once again she is thinking what I’m thinking, and she says, face up into the rain, all of us spinning, “Are you sure this is O.K., Shoshana? That it’s not mixed dancing? I don’t want anyone feeling bad after.” “We’ll be just fine,” Shoshana says. “We will live with the consequences.” The question slows us, and stops us, though no one has yet let go. “It’s like the old joke,” I say. Without waiting for anyone to ask which one, I say, “Why don’t Hasidim have sex standing up?” “Why?” Shoshana says. “Because it might lead to mixed dancing.” Deb and Shoshana pretend to be horrified as we let go of hands, as we recognize that the moment is over, the rain disappearing as quickly as it came. Mark stands there staring into the sky, lips pressed tight. “That joke is very, very old,” he says. “And mixed dancing makes me think of mixed nuts, and mixed grill, and insalata mista. The sound of ‘mixed dancing’ has made me wildly hungry. And I’m going to panic if the only kosher thing in the house is that loaf of bleached American bread.” “You have the munchies,” I say. “Diagnosis correct,” he says. Deb starts clapping at that, tiny claps, her hands held to her chest in prayer. She says to him, absolutely beaming, “You will not even believe what riches await.” The four of us stand in the pantry, soaking wet, hunting through the shelves and dripping on the floor. “Have you ever seen such a pantry?” Shoshana says, reaching her arms out. “It’s gigantic.” It is indeed large, and it is indeed stocked, an enormous amount of food, and an enormous selection of sweets, befitting a home that is often host to a swarm of teen-age boys. “Are you expecting a nuclear winter?” Shoshana says. “I’ll tell you what she’s expecting,” I say. “You want to know how Holocaust-obsessed she really is? I mean, to what degree?” “To no degree,” Deb says. “We are done with the Holocaust.” “Tell us,” Shoshana says. “She’s always plotting our secret hiding place,” I say. “No kidding,” Shoshana says. “Like, look at this. At the pantry, with a bathroom next to it, and the door to the garage. If you sealed it all up—like put drywall at the entrance to the den—you’d never suspect. If you covered that door inside the garage up good with, I don’t know—if you hung your tools in front of it and hid hinges behind, maybe leaned the bikes and the mower against it, you’d have this closed area, with running water and a toilet and all this food. I mean, if someone sneaked into the garage to replenish things, you could rent out the house. Put in another family without their having any idea.” “Oh, my God,” Shoshana says. “My short-term memory may be gone from having all those children—” “And from the smoking,” I say. “And from that, too. But I remember from when we were kids,” Shoshana says, turning to Deb. “You were always getting me to play games like that. To pick out spaces. And even worse, even darker—” “Don’t,” Deb says. “I know what you’re going to say,” I tell her, and I’m honestly excited. “The game, yes? She played that crazy game with you?” “No,” Deb says. “Enough. Let it go.” And Mark—who is utterly absorbed in studying kosher certifications, who is tearing through hundred-calorie snack packs and eating handfuls of roasted peanuts, and who has said nothing since we entered the pantry except “What’s a Fig Newman?”—he stops and says, “I want to play this game.” “It’s not a game,” Deb says. And I’m happy to hear her say that, as it’s just what I’ve been trying to get her to admit for years. That it’s not a game. That it’s dead serious, and a kind of preparation, and an active pathology that I prefer not to indulge. “It’s the Anne Frank game,” Shoshana says. “Right?” Seeing how upset my wife is, I do my best to defend her. I say, “No, it’s not a game. It’s just what we talk about when we talk about Anne Frank.” “How do we play this non-game?” Mark says. “What do we do?” “It’s the Righteous Gentile game,” Shoshana says. “It’s Who Will Hide Me?” I say. “In the event of a second Holocaust,” Deb says, giving in. “It’s a serious exploration, a thought experiment that we engage in.” “That you play,” Shoshana says. “That, in the event of an American Holocaust, we sometimes talk about which of our Christian friends would hide us.” “I don’t get it,” Mark says. “Of course you do,” Shoshana says. “It’s like this. If there was a Shoah, if it happened again—say we were in Jerusalem, and it’s 1941 and the Grand Mufti got his way, what would Jebediah do?” “What could he do?” Mark says. “He could hide us. He could risk his life and his family’s and everyone’s around him. That’s what the game is: would he—for real—would he do that for you?” “He’d be good for that, a Mormon,” Mark says. “Forget this pantry. They have to keep a year of food stored in case of the Rapture, or something like that. Water, too. A year of supplies. Or maybe it’s that they have sex through a sheet. No, wait. I think that’s supposed to be us.” “All right,” Deb says. “Let’s not play. Really, let’s go back to the kitchen. I can order in from the glatt kosher place. We can eat outside, have a real dinner and not just junk.” “No, no,” Mark says. “I’ll play. I’ll take it seriously.” “So would the guy hide you?” I say. “The kids, too?” Mark says. “I’m supposed to pretend that in Jerusalem he’s got a hidden motel or something where he can put the twelve of us?” “Yes,” Shoshana says. “In their seminary or something. Sure.” Mark thinks about this for a long, long time. He eats Fig Newmans and considers, and you can tell that he’s taking it seriously—serious to the extreme. “Yes,” Mark says, looking choked up. “Jeb would do that for us. He would risk it all.” Shoshana nods. “Now you go,” she says to us. “You take a turn.” “But we don’t know any of the same people anymore,” Deb says. “We usually just talk about the neighbors.” “Our across-the-street neighbors,” I tell them. “They’re the perfect example. Because the husband, Mitch, he would hide us. I know it. He’d lay down his life for what’s right. But that wife of his.” “Yes,” Deb says. “Mitch would hide us, but Gloria, she’d buckle. When he was at work one day, she’d turn us in.” “You could play against yourselves,” Shoshana says. “What if one of you wasn’t Jewish? Would you hide the other?” “I’ll do it,” I say. “I’ll be the Gentile, because I could pass best. A grown woman with an ankle-length denim skirt in her closet—they’d catch you in a flash.” “Fine,” Deb says. And I stand up straight, put my shoulders back, like maybe I’m in a lineup. I stand there with my chin raised so my wife can study me. So she can decide if her husband really has what it takes. Would I have the strength, would I care enough—and it is not a light question, not a throwaway question—to risk my life to save her and our son? Deb stares, and Deb smiles, and gives me a little push to my chest. “Of course he would,” Deb says. She takes the half stride that’s between us and gives me a tight hug that she doesn’t release. “Now you,” Deb says. “You and Yuri go.” “How does that even make sense?” Mark says. “Even for imagining.” “Sh-h-h,” Shoshana says. “Just stand over there and be a good Gentile while I look.” “But if I weren’t Jewish I wouldn’t be me.” “That’s for sure,” I say. “He agrees,” Mark says. “We wouldn’t even be married. We wouldn’t have kids.” “Of course you can imagine it,” Shoshana says. “Look,” she says, and goes over and closes the pantry door. “Here we are, caught in South Florida for the second Holocaust. You’re not Jewish, and you’ve got the three of us hiding in your pantry.” “But look at me!” he says. “I’ve got a fix,” I say. “You’re a background singer for ZZ Top. You know that band?” Deb lets go of me so she can give my arm a slap. “Really,” Shoshana says. “Look at the three of us like it’s your house and we’re your charges, locked up in this room.” “And what’re you going to do while I do that?” Mark says. “I’m going to look at you looking at us. I’m going to imagine.” “O.K.,” he says. “Nu, get to it. I will stand, you imagine.” And that’s what we do, the four of us. We stand there playing our roles, and we really get into it. I can see Deb seeing him, and him seeing us, and Shoshana just staring at her husband. We stand there so long I can’t tell how much time has passed, though the light changes ever so slightly—the sun outside again dimming—in the crack under the pantry door. “So would I hide you?” he says. And for the first time that day he reaches out, as my Deb would, and puts his hand to his wife’s hand. “Would I, Shoshi?” And you can tell that Shoshana is thinking of her kids, though that’s not part of the scenario. You can tell that she’s changed part of the imagining. And she says, after a pause, yes, but she’s not laughing. She says yes, but to him it sounds as it does to us, so that he is now asking and asking. But wouldn’t I? Wouldn’t I hide you? Even if it was life and death—if it would spare you, and they’d kill me alone for doing it? Wouldn’t I? Shoshana pulls back her hand. She does not say it. And he does not say it. And of the four of us no one will say what cannot be said—that this wife believes her husband would not hide her. What to do? What will come of it? And so we stand like that, the four of us trapped in that pantry. Afraid to open the door and let out what we’ve locked inside. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Musical Brain	Credit Milner Library Special Collections, Illinois State University I was a kid—I must have been four or five years old. This was in my home town, Coronel Pringles, at the beginning of the nineteen-fifties. One night, it must have been a Saturday, we’d gone to have dinner at the hotel; we didn’t eat out often, not because we were really poor, though we lived pretty much as if we were because of my father’s austere habits and my mother’s invincible suspicion of any food she hadn’t prepared herself. Some obscure combination of circumstances had brought us to the hotel’s luxurious restaurant that night and seated us, stiffly and uncomfortably, around a table covered with a white cloth and laden with silver cutlery, tall wineglasses, and gold-rimmed porcelain dishes. We were dressed to the nines, like all the other diners. The dress codes in those days were relatively strict. I remember the continual to-and-fro of people getting up and carrying boxes full of books to a small table like an altar at the far end of the room. Most of them were cardboard boxes, though there were wooden ones, too, and some were even painted or varnished. Sitting behind the table was a little woman wearing a shiny blue dress and a pearl necklace, with a powdered face and white hair combed into the shape of a feathery egg. It was Sarita Subercaseaux, who later on, throughout my time there, was the high school’s headmistress. She took the boxes and examined their contents, making notes in a record book. I was following all this activity with the keenest attention. Some of the boxes were too full to be properly closed, others were half-empty, with only a few books knocking around inside, making an ominous sound. Yet it wasn’t so much the quantity of books that determined the value of the boxes (though quantity did matter) as the variety of titles. The ideal box would have been one in which all the books were different; the worst (and this was the most frequent case), a box containing nothing but copies of the same book. I don’t know who explained this rule to me; maybe it was the product of my own speculations and fantasies. That would have been typical: I was always inventing stories and machinations to make sense of things I didn’t understand, and I understood almost nothing. Anyway, where else could the explanation have come from? My parents weren’t very communicative, I couldn’t read, there was no television, and the kids in my gang of neighborhood friends were as ignorant as I was. Seen from a distance, there’s something dreamlike about this scene, with the boxes of books, and the way we’re dressed up as if for a photo. But I’m sure that it happened as I’ve described it. It’s a scene that’s kept coming back to me over the years, and in the end I’ve worked out a reasonable explanation. Plans must have been afoot to set up the Pringles Public Library, and someone must have organized a book drive, with the support of the hotel’s proprietors: “a dinner for a book,” or something along those lines. That’s plausible, at least. And it’s true that the library was founded around that time, as I was able to confirm on my most recent visit to Pringles, a few months ago. Sarita Subercaseaux, moreover, was the first head librarian. In my youth, I was one of the library’s most assiduous patrons, probably the most assiduous of all, borrowing books at a rate of one or two a day. And it was always Sarita who filled out my card. This turned out to be crucial when I began high school, since she was the headmistress. She spread the word that in spite of my tender years I was the most voracious reader in Pringles, which established my reputation as a prodigy and simplified my life enormously: I graduated with excellent grades, without having studied at all. During my last visit to Pringles, hoping to confirm my memories I asked my mother if Sarita Subercaseaux was still alive. She burst out laughing. “She died years and years ago!” Mom said. “She died before you were born. She was already old when I was a girl.” “That’s impossible!” I exclaimed. “I remember her very clearly. In the library, at school . . .” “Yes, she worked at the library and the high school, but before I was married. You must be getting mixed up, remembering things I told you.” That was all I could get out of her. I was unsettled by her certainty, especially because her memory, unlike mine, is infallible. Whenever we disagree about something that happened in the past, she invariably turns out to be right. But how could she be right about this? Perhaps I was remembering Sarita Subercaseaux’s daughter, a daughter who as well as being the spitting image of her mother had followed in her footsteps. But that was impossible. Sarita had never married and she was the prototype of Pringles’s classic old maid: her clothes, hair, and makeup always in meticulous order; cool and remote, the very image of sterility. I was quite sure of that. Getting back to the hotel. The movement between the tables in the restaurant and the little altar where the boxes were piling up was not entirely fluid. Everyone there knew everyone else—that’s how it was in Pringles—so when people got up to take their boxes to the far end of the room they stopped at other tables on the way to greet and chat with their acquaintances. These little transactions, informed as they were by a sincere curiosity about the lives of others, which was common to all the inhabitants of Pringles, turned out to be rich in information, and that is how we learned that the Musical Brain was being exhibited next door, in the lobby of the Spanish Theatre. The news was an excuse to finish with the dinner, which all of us were finding tedious. The Musical Brain had appeared in town some time before, and an informal association of residents had taken charge of it. The original plan had been to lend it out to private homes, for short periods, following a procedure that had been used with various miraculous images of the Virgin. But the requests for those images had come from people with illnesses or family problems, while the reason for borrowing this new magical device was sheer curiosity (although perhaps there was also a touch of superstition). Since the association had no religious framework, and no authority to regulate the rotation, it was impossible to stick to a schedule. On the one hand, there were those who tried to get rid of the Brain after the first night, with the excuse that the music stopped them sleeping; on the other hand were those who built elaborate niches and pedestals, and then tried to use their expenses as a pretext for prolonging the loan indefinitely. The association soon lost track of where the Brain was, and those who, like us, hadn’t seen it yet came to suspect that the whole thing was a hoax. That’s why we were overcome by impatience when we found out that it was on display just next door. Dad asked for the bill, and when it came he reached into his pocket and took out his wallet, for me the most fascinating object in the world. It was very large and made of green leather, marvellously embossed with complex arabesques, the back and front adorned with glass beads that composed colorful scenes. It had belonged to Pushkin, who, according to the legend, was carrying it in his pocket the day he was killed. One of my father’s uncles had been an ambassador in Russia at the beginning of the century and had bought many works of art, antiquities, and curiosities there, which his widow had distributed among her nephews and nieces after his death, since the couple had no children of their own. The Spanish Theatre, which was part of a complex belonging to the Spanish Provident Society, abutted the hotel. And yet we didn’t go straight there. We crossed the street to where our truck was parked, walked around it, and then crossed back. This detour was for my mother’s benefit: she didn’t want the diners at the hotel, in the unlikely event they should look out the windows and actually be able to see something, to suppose that she was going to the theatre. We walked into the lobby, and there it was, placed on a box, an ordinary wooden one that Cereseto (the manager of the theatre) had disguised with strips of shredded white paper, the kind used for packing. The presentation was quite effective: it was like a big nest, and there was a double allusion to fragility, that of eggs and that of artifacts. The famous Musical Brain was made of cardboard and was the size of a trunk. It resembled a brain quite closely in shape, but not in color, because it was painted phosphorescent pink and crisscrossed with blue veins. We formed a silent semicircle. It was the sort of thing in the presence of which one is at a loss for words. Mom’s voice interrupted our rapt contemplation. “What about the music?” she asked. “Yes, of course!” Dad said. “The music . . .” He frowned and leaned forward. “Maybe it’s switched off?” “No, it’s never switched off, that’s what’s so strange. . . .” “Hey! What’s with the brick on the accelerator?”Buy the print » He leaned farther forward, so far that I thought he’d fall onto the Brain, then stopped suddenly and turned to look at us with a conspiratorial grin. My sister and I came closer. Mom shouted, “Don’t touch it!” I felt an overwhelming desire to touch it, if only with a fingertip. And I could have. We were completely alone in the lobby. The ticket vender and the usher must have been in the theatre, watching the play, which seemed to be nearing its end. “How could you hear it, with all this racket!” Mom said. “It’s barely a whisper. To think that people give it back because they find the noise annoying! It’s a disgrace!” Mom nodded, but she was thinking of a different disgrace. Thunderous laughter was coming from the theatre, shaking the whole building. It must have been a full house. Leonor Rinaldi, Tomás Simari, and their troupe were performing one of those vulgar, broad comedies that people never seemed to tire of laughing at; they used to tour the provinces for years on end. The secret, tremulous music supposedly emanating from the Brain could hardly compete with all the guffaws and stomping. My mother, proud heir to a line of sophisticated music lovers, reciters, and tragedians, disdained those products of popular taste epitomized by Leonor Rinaldi. Indeed, she actively campaigned against them. The theatre, for her, was disputed territory, a battlefield, because it was there that the classes of Pringles waged their cultural wars. Her brother directed an amateur dramatic society called the Two Masks, which was devoted to serious theatre; the town’s other drama club, directed by Isolina Mariani, specialized in comedies of manners. All of Isolina Mariani’s devotees must have been in the stalls that night, keen to learn, admiring Rinaldi’s demagogic stagecraft, absorbing her mannerisms like an invigorating syrup. Mom’s aversion was so extreme that on several occasions, when one of those popular companies came to town, she made us have dinner early, then drove us to the theatre just as the play was about to start and parked the truck near the entrance (but not too close, choosing a place in the shadows), so that she could check on who was going in. Usually there were no surprises: the audience was made up of poor people from the outer suburbs, whom my mother called “the great unwashed.” She would say, “What can you expect of ignorant fools like that?” But occasionally there was someone “respectable” among them, and then she became zealous. She felt that her spying had been worthwhile, and that from now on she’d “know the score” when dealing with certain cultural hypocrites. Once, she went so far as to get out of the truck and rebuke a cultivated dentist who was climbing the steps of the theatre with his daughters. Wasn’t he ashamed to be supporting that vulgarity? And bringing his daughters! Was that his idea of education? Luckily, he didn’t take her too seriously. He replied, with a smile, that for him theatre was sacred, even in its most debased forms, and that his primary objective was to expose his daughters to popular culture at its crudest in order to give them some perspective. Needless to say, his arguments made no impression on Mom. Anyway. To return to the memorable evening of our encounter with the Musical Brain. We got into the truck and off we went. We had a yellow Ika pickup. Although the four of us could fit in the front, I usually sat in the back, in the open air, partly because I liked it, partly to keep the peace—I was always getting into noisy fights with my sister—but mainly so that I could spend some time with my good friend Geniol, the family dog. Geniol was very big and white, of indeterminate breed, and he had a large head (like the man in the Geniol ads, hence the name). We couldn’t leave him at home alone, because he howled and made such a racket that the neighbors complained. But in the back of the truck he was well-behaved. There was also a more arcane reason that I liked to travel in the back: since I couldn’t hear what they were saying in front, it meant I didn’t know where we were going, and so the itinerary would take on an unpredictable air of adventure. I knew where we were going when we set out, if I’d been paying attention, but as soon as Mom climbed into the truck she was bound to be overcome by a sudden curiosity and ask Dad to make a detour down one street or another so that she could see a house, a store, a tree, or a sign. He was in the habit of humoring her, which meant that instead of going a few hundred yards in a straight line we’d often end up driving five miles, following a tortuous, labyrinthine route. For my mother, who had never left Pringles, it was a way of expanding the town from within. That night, all we had to do was turn the corner and go three blocks to our house. But we turned the other way, which didn’t surprise me. It was very cold, but there was no wind. The street lights at the intersections, suspended by four diagonal wires attached to the posts on the street corners, were still. And, above us, the Milky Way was all lit up and full of winks. I settled Geniol on my legs and hugged him to my chest. He didn’t resist. His fur reflected the starlight. We continued straight ahead to the square and then took the boulevard. Sitting with my back against the cab, I could see the square tower of the city hall receding into the distance, and I assumed that we were heading for the station, to satisfy one of Mom’s whims. The station was far away, and the mere supposition that we were going there made me drowsy. Geniol had already fallen asleep. A few blocks down the boulevard, the buildings began to thin out, giving way to big vacant lots taken over by mallows and thistles. Those mysterious plots belonged to no one. My eyes were beginning to close. . . . Suddenly, Geniol shook himself, jumped off my lap, went to one side of the truck, and growled. His agitation startled and bewildered me. Struggling free of the muddle of sleep, I looked, too, and understood why we’d made the detour and why Dad was slowing down now, bringing the truck almost to a standstill: we were passing the circus. My sister was leaning out the window in front and yelling in her half-articulate way, “César! The circus! The circus!” I knew, of course, that a circus had come to town; I’d seen the parades in the streets, and our parents had promised to take us the following day. I stared, entranced. Points and lines of bright light showed through the canvas of the tent, which seemed as big as a mountain to me, and the whole thing glowed with the light inside. A performance was under way: we could hear loud music and the cries of the audience. The smell of the animals had made Geniol nervous. Behind the tent, in the darkness, I thought I could see the shapes of elephants and camels moving among the wagons. Many years later, I left Pringles, as young people with artistic or literary inclinations often leave small towns, hungry for the cultural offerings promised by the capital. And now, many years after that emigration, it strikes me that perhaps I was lured away by a mirage, because nights from my childhood in Pringles come back to me, each so vivid and manifold that I can’t help wondering if I didn’t exchange riches for poverty. The night I am reconstructing is a good example: a book drive, a theatrical performance, and a circus, all at the same time. There was a range of options to choose from, and you had to choose. And yet there were capacity crowds everywhere. The circus was no exception. As we drove past the entrance, we had a brief glimpse of the boxes crammed with families and the stands groaning under the weight of the spectators. In the ring, the clowns had built a human pyramid, which came tumbling down, provoking roars of laughter. Almost the whole town was at the circus. The inhabitants of Pringles must have thought it was the safest place. “There’s an elephant in the room and no zookeeper.”Buy the print » Here an explanation is required. The circus had come to town three days earlier, and almost immediately the troupe had been rocked by a tremendous scandal. Among the attractions were three dwarfs. Two were men: twin brothers. The third, a woman, was married to one of the twins. This peculiar trio apparently had a defect that made it unstable and led to the crisis that occurred in Pringles. The woman and her brother-in-law were lovers, and for some reason they had chosen our town as the place in which to make off with the savings of the cuckolded husband. We might never have been aware of this bizarre intrigue if it weren’t for the fact that, a few hours after the disappearance of the lovers, the husband vanished, too, along with a 9-mm. pistol and a box of bullets belonging to the owner of the circus. His intentions could not have been clearer. The police were notified immediately, in the hope of averting a tragedy. The witnesses (clowns, trapeze artists, and animal trainers) all agreed on how furious the husband had been when he found out, and how determined he was to exact a bloody revenge. His threats were taken seriously, because he was a violent little man, known for his destructive fits of rage. The police mobilized all available manpower, and in spite of the circus authorities’ vehement insistence on discretion the news got around. It was unavoidable, because the whereabouts of the runaways—that is, both the lovers and their pursuer—could be discovered only with the help of the public. At first, it seemed a simple task: the town was small and it was easy to give a clear description of the individuals in question simply by using the word “dwarf.” Police officers were positioned at the railway station, the long-distance bus terminal, and the two roundabouts at opposite ends of the town, from which the outgoing roads diverged. These measures served only to confirm that the dwarfs were still in Pringles. Not surprisingly, they were the sole topic of conversation. What with the joking, the betting, and the collective searching of vacant lots and empty houses, the prevailing mood had initially been one of cheerful agitation and delicious suspense. Twenty-four hours later, the mood had changed. Two fears had begun to creep in, one vague and superstitious, the other very real. The first arose from the fact that the case remained perplexingly unsolved. With ample justification, the inhabitants of Pringles had assumed that the town was socially and geographically transparent. How could something as conspicuous as three dwarfs go unnoticed in that tiny glass box? The episode began to take on a supernatural coloring. The dimensions of a dwarf turned out to be problematic, at least for the unsettled collective imagination. Perhaps they should have been turning over stones, examining the undersides of leaves, peering into cocoons? Mothers started looking under their children’s beds, and children took their toys apart to check inside. But there was a more realistic fear. Or, if not entirely realistic, it was at least presented as such to rationalize the other one, the fear without a name. Somewhere out there was a loaded gun, in the hands of a desperate man. No one was worried about him carrying out his plan (and this can be explained without accusing the inhabitants of Pringles of being especially prejudiced. Caught up in the general panic, they regarded the dwarfs as a species apart, whose life and death were matters to be settled among themselves and were of no interest to the town), but shots do not always find their mark, and at a given moment anyone might happen to get in the way of a bullet. Anyone at all, because no one knew where the dwarfs were, much less where their encounter would take place. The assumptions that gave rise to this anxiety did not concern the husband’s aim so much as the elusive tininess of the adulterers. The same fantastic miniaturization that accounted for the failure of the search led people to imagine that every shot was bound to miss. Another twenty-four hours later, the two fears had become tightly intertwined, and the town had succumbed to an acute delirium of persecution. No one felt safe at home, still less in the street. But there was something reassuring about public gatherings, the bigger the better: other people could serve as human shields, and, since altruistic scruples go out the window when terror reigns, no one spared a thought for those whose bodies would be riddled with bullets. That must have been the reason we’d gone out to dinner, something we virtually never did. And on another level of motivation, in the realm of magical thinking, it must have been the reason Dad had brought Pushkin’s famous wallet, which he saved for special occasions. As you will remember, Pushkin was killed by a shot to the heart. Here I close the explanatory parenthesis and return to the story. But, in doing so, I notice that I have made a mistake. The action continues in the lobby of the theatre, which means that the drive along the boulevard past the circus must have happened earlier, when we were on our way to the hotel. And, in fact, when I think about it more carefully, it seems to me that the sky behind the city hall and above the circus tent was not entirely dark: it was the “blue hour,” with some remnants of dusky pink, and a layer of phosphorescent white along the western horizon. The black starry sky must have been an interpolation, suggested by the hair-raising events that were to take place later, on the roof of the theatre. My confusion may be due, in part, to this story’s particular strangeness: although there is a compelling logic to the order in which the various episodes follow one another, they also exist independently, like the stars in the sky which were the only witnesses to the dénouement, so the figures they compose may seem to owe more to fantasy than to reality. It happened more or less like this: Having satisfied their curiosity about the Musical Brain, my parents headed for the street, partly because there was nothing more to see and partly to be gone before the audience started coming out of the theatre. The performance must have been over; the applause hadn’t stopped, but it couldn’t go on much longer, and Mom didn’t want to be seen leaving along with “the great unwashed.” People who didn’t know better might think she had sunk to the cultural depths of the Peronists. She turned and began to walk out in such a decided manner that I felt the moment had come: it was now safe to touch the large pink object. Without a second thought, I reached out. The tip of my right index finger touched the surface of the brain for a bare fraction of a second. For reasons that will soon become clear, that momentary contact was something I would never forget. My naughtiness escaped the notice of my parents, who went on walking toward the lobby doors, but not of my sister, who was two or three at the time, and imitated everything I did. Emboldened by my daring, she wanted to touch the Brain, too. But, clumsy little devil that she was, she didn’t go about it daintily. Drawing herself up to her full height—she was barely as tall as the box on which the Brain rested—she raised her little arms and pushed with all her might. Sensing what was about to happen, she held her breath, then released it in a scream as the Brain began to move. My parents stopped and turned, and I think they took a step or two toward us. For me, the whole scene had taken on a phantasmagoric precision, like a play rehearsed a thousand times. The Musical Brain slid heavily over the edge of the box, fell to the floor, and broke. My sister burst into tears, more upset by guilt and fear of punishment than by the sight that had appeared before our eyes, which was probably beyond her powers of comprehension. I, however, was old enough to intuit what had happened, though struggling in the throes of a horrified confusion, which my parents must have shared. The pink crust of the Musical Brain had shattered on impact, a sign of its fragility, because it had fallen only a few feet. Inside was a solid, glassy mass, like gelatine, perfectly molded by the shell. A certain flattening, and perhaps a wobble from the aftershock (though I may have imagined this), indicated that the substance wasn’t hard. The color was unequivocal. It was semi-coagulated blood, and it wasn’t difficult to figure out its origin, or origins, because two dead bodies were suspended in the middle of the mass, in fetal position, head to toe: the male dwarfs, the twins. They were like playing-card images, dressed in their little black suits, their faces and hands as white as porcelain; the color contrast made them visible through the dark red of the blood, which had escaped from wounds in both throats like open, screaming mouths. I said that I saw this scene with supernatural clarity, and that is how I see it now. I see more now than I did then. It’s as if I were seeing the story itself, not as a film or a sequence of images but as a single picture freezing repeatedly. There was movement, though, and plenty of it: it was a whirl, an abyss of irrational atoms. “Let me know if the incessant complaining about my boyfriend is too much.”Buy the print » Mom, who was prone to hysteria, started screaming, but she was drowned out by a sudden uproar from the theatre. Something unexpected was happening. The great Leonor Rinaldi had already received her ovation, and the cast had taken seven curtain calls. The actors were about to walk off after the final bow, and the members of the audience were already rising from their seats. At that moment, as the characters began to fade from the skins of the actors, who were standing all together in a line across the stage, each face and body still identifiable as a part of the comedy, but a comedy whose plot, with its surprises and errors, was jumbled in that row of smiling, bowing figures, as if it were up to the spectators now, as they clapped and ran their eyes along the line, to recompose the story and bid it farewell as the fiction it was, along with the make-believe living-and-dining room, the armchairs, the fake staircase, the painted windows, the doors that had opened and closed in a cascade of comic revelations, and all the rest of the set . . . just then, as the festivities drew to a close, the large plaster effigy of Juan Pascual Pringles that adorned the apex of the proscenium arch burst open. The features of the founding father exploded like a nova of chalk, and in their place the astonished audience beheld the strangest creature ever produced by a theatrical deus ex machina: the female dwarf. That had been her hiding place, and no one would ever have found her. One might have thought that the vibrations caused by the clapping and the shouts of “Bravo!” had loosened the aging molecules of the heroic grenadier’s plaster head; but that supposition soon had to be abandoned when it became clear that the bursting of the effigy had been produced by an internal cause—namely, an increase in the volume of the creature. Once impregnated, this killer chrysalis had withdrawn to a safe hiding place in order to allow nature (of which monsters are also a part, after all) to take its course. And, by chance, the process had reached completion just as the actors were about to walk off; a few minutes later and the creature would have emerged into a dark, empty theatre. As it happened, this provided an encore of a kind never witnessed before or since. Two thousand pairs of eyes saw a large head appear from the niche, a head without eyes, nose, or mouth, but crowned with curly blond hair, then two chubby arms ending in claws, and a pair of opulent pink breasts with eyes where the nipples should have been. The creature kept coming out, horizontally, up near the high roof, like a gargoyle, until, with convulsive shudders, she freed her wings, first one, then the other—enormous iridescent membranes that made a sound like cardboard when they flapped—and was airborne. The rear part of her body was a bloated sac covered with black fur. At first, she seemed to be falling into the orchestra pit, but then she stabilized herself at medium altitude with a series of rapid wing beats and began to fly around erratically. Terror broke loose. A fire would not have caused as much panic as that flying mutant: there was no telling what she might do. The aisles were jammed, the exits blocked; people were jumping over the seats; mothers were looking for their children, husbands for their wives, and everyone was screaming. Frightened by the commotion, the thing flapped around aimlessly; she, too, was looking for a way out. When she lost altitude, the screaming in the stalls intensified, and when she climbed again the loudest cries came from the boxes, where spectators were trapped by the choked stairways. In desperation, some people climbed onto the stage, which the actors had already deserted. Some refugees from the front boxes also climbed down and crossed in front of the semicircle of footlights. Noticing this, other members of the audience, who had been shoving their way up the aisles but could see that it would be impossible to get through that chaotic human mass, turned, ran frantically back, and leaped onto the stage. It was like breaking a taboo: invading the space of fiction, which was precisely what they had paid not to do; but the instinct for survival prevailed. As for the winged mutant, that giant dragonfly, after crossing the theatre’s airspace several times with her terrifying flap-flap, picking up speed, and repeatedly bumping into the ceiling and the walls, she, too, plunged toward the stage, which was, after all, the most reasonable thing to do. She was swallowed by Leonor Rinaldi’s bourgeois stage set, and all the drop scenes came tumbling down. The audience finally fled the theatre, but naturally no one wanted to go home. Calle Stegmann was seething with an agitated crowd. Diners came out of the hotel’s restaurant, some with their napkins tucked into their collars, many still holding forks. The news had spread all around town; an unofficial messenger had taken it to the big top and arrived just as the show was ending, so the circus audience transferred itself en masse. When the police arrived, with sirens blaring, they had trouble making their way through the crowd. So did the firefighters, who came on their own initiative, as did an ambulance from the hospital. Pouring out through the lobby, the crazed horde had thoughtlessly trampled the globe of blood. When the owner of the circus came to collect the bodies of the dwarfs, he was given two wrinkled silhouettes, which the clowns identified, handing them around. There hadn’t been time for the clowns, or any of the other circus performers, to change out of their costumes. Riders, trapeze artists, and fakirs rubbed shoulders with actors from Leonor Rinaldi’s company, and with Tomás Simari and La Rinaldi herself, and all of them mingled with the mingled audiences, not to mention curious onlookers, neighbors, and assorted night owls. There had never been anything like this, not even at carnival time. The first search of the theatre, conducted by the police with pistols drawn and led by Cereseto (only he knew all its ins and outs), proved fruitless. The creature had disappeared again, wings and all. There was a rumor that she had found a way out and flown off. The hypothesis should have provided some relief, but people were disappointed. By now, everyone was in the mood for a show, hanging out for more. Hopes were revived by an unexpected event: from the imposing mass of the theatre, countless bats and doves came flying out in all directions. Because doves don’t usually fly at night, they gave this exodus a fantastic twist. Those little creatures had obviously sensed a monstrous presence and cleared out helter-skelter. There was a moment of suspense, then a shout, a pointing hand. Every head rocked back, and all eyes converged on the pseudo-Gothic crenellations of the theatre’s façade. There, crouched between two turrets, was the monster, with her wings held out and her body seized by a tremor that was visible even at a distance. The fire truck’s powerful spotlight lit her up. Down in the street, two of the clowns, with their motley costumes and painted smiles, climbed up on cars, and each waved a flattened dwarf body over his head like a banner. Although the inhabitants of Pringles had never seen a mutant of this kind, they were mainly country folk, familiar with the principles of procreation. However odd the forms that nature’s children take, the basic mechanisms of life are common to them all. So it was soon obvious to the crowd that the creature was about to “lay.” All the signs pointed to a reproductive process: the sexual encounter, the period of seclusion to allow for metamorphosis, the crimes, the enormous abdominal sac, the choice of an inaccessible place, and now the hunched posture, the air of concentration, and the trembling. What no one could predict was whether she would lay one egg or two, or several, or millions. The last hypothesis seemed the most likely, because her closest morphological affinities were with the insect world. But, when the furry silk of the sac began to split, what appeared was a single, white, pointed egg, the size of a watermelon. An enormous “Oohh . . .” of wonder ran through the multitude. Perhaps because every gaze was fixed on the slow extrusion of that fantastic pearl, the surprise was all the greater when another figure appeared beside the mutant: slowly it entered the circle of light, becoming entirely visible only when the egg had fully emerged and was balanced upright on that vertiginous cornice. It was Sarita Subercaseaux, with her big beehive hairdo, her pink, abundantly powdered face, her blue dress, and her little wedge-heeled shoes. How had she got up there? What was she trying to do? She was just inches from the creature, who, having now finished her labor, turned her eyeless face to look, as it were, at Sarita. They were the same size, and had the same aura of supernatural determination. A confrontation seemed inevitable, perhaps even a fight. The whole town held its breath. But something quite different happened. Shaking herself, as if waking from a dream, the creature stretched her wings as far as they would go, and with a single flap lifted herself a few yards into the air. With a wing beat she turned, with another she began to pick up speed, and then she was flying, like a pterodactyl, toward the stars, which were shining like mad diamonds for the occasion. She disappeared among the constellations, and that was that. Only then did the gazes of the crowd return to the roof of the theatre. Sarita Subercaseaux was unperturbed by the departure of the mutant. Now she was alone with the egg. Moving very slowly, she raised one arm. She was holding something in her hand. An axe. Contradictory cries rose from the crowd. No! Don’t! Yes! Break it! Opinion was, of course, divided. No one wanted to subject our quiet town on the pampas to the unforeseeable consequences of a monstrous birth, and there was something precious about the mere fragility of an egg. And yet it seemed a pity to forgo the possibilities offered by that unrepeatable occasion. But, when the movement of Sarita’s arm brought the axe clearly into view, it turned out to be not an axe but a book. And her intention was not to break the egg but to balance the book on top of it, delicately. In the legendary history of Pringles, the curious figure thus produced has come to symbolize the founding of the Municipal Library. ♦ (Translated, from the Spanish, by Chris Andrews.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Leaving Maverley	Credit Illustration by Jean-françois Martin In the old days when there was a movie theatre in every town there was one in this town, too, in Maverley, and it was called the Capital, as such theatres often were. Morgan Holly was the owner and the projectionist. He didn’t like dealing with the public—he preferred to sit in his upstairs cubbyhole managing the story on the screen—so naturally he was annoyed when the girl who took the tickets told him that she was going to have to quit, because she was having a baby. He might have expected this—she had been married for half a year, and in those days you were supposed to get out of the public eye before you began to show—but he so disliked change and the idea of people having private lives that he was taken by surprise. Fortunately, she came up with somebody who might replace her. A girl who lived on her street had mentioned that she would like to have an evening job. She was not able to work in the daytime, because she had to help her mother look after the younger children. She was smart enough to manage, though shy. Morgan said that that was fine—he didn’t hire a ticket-taker to gab with the customers. So the girl came. Her name was Leah, and Morgan’s first and last question for her was to ask what kind of name that was. She said that it was out of the Bible. He noticed then that she did not have any makeup on and that her hair was slicked unbecomingly tight to her head and held there with bobby pins. He had a moment’s worry about whether she was really sixteen and could legally hold a job, but close up he saw that it was likely the truth. He told her that she would need to work one show, starting at eight o’clock, on week nights and two shows, starting at seven, on Saturday nights. After closing, she would be responsible for counting the take and locking it away. There was only one problem. She said that she would be able to walk herself home on week nights but it would not be allowed on Saturday nights and her father could not come for her then, because he himself had a night job at the mill. Morgan said that he did not know what there was to be scared of in a place like this, and was about to tell her to get lost, when he remembered the night policeman who often broke his rounds to watch a little of the movie. Perhaps he could be charged with getting Leah home. She said that she would ask her father. Her father agreed, but he had to be satisfied on other accounts. Leah was not to look at the screen or listen to any of the dialogue. The religion that the family belonged to did not allow it. Morgan said that he did not hire his ticket-takers to give them a free peek at the show. As for the dialogue, he lied and said that the theatre was soundproofed. Ray Elliot, the night policeman, had taken the job so that he would be able to help his wife manage for at least some part of the daytime. He could get by with about five hours’ sleep in the morning and then a nap in the late afternoon. Often, the nap did not materialize, because of some chore that had to be done or just because he and his wife—her name was Isabel—got to talking. They had no children and could get talking anytime about anything. He brought her the news of the town, which often made her laugh, and she told him about the books she was reading. Ray had joined up for the war as soon as he was eighteen. He chose the Air Force, which promised, as was said, the most adventure and the quickest death. He had been a mid-upper gunner—a position that Isabel could never get straight in her head—and he had survived. Close to the end of the war, he’d been transferred to a new crew, and within a couple of weeks his old crew, the men he’d flown with so many times, were shot down and lost. He came home with a vague idea that he had to do something meaningful with the life that had so inexplicably been left to him, but he didn’t know what. First, he had to finish high school. In the town where he had grown up, a special school had been set up for veterans who were doing just that and hoping to go on to college, courtesy of the grateful citizens. The teacher of English Language and Literature was Isabel. She was thirty years old and married. Her husband, too, was a veteran, who considerably outranked the students in her English class. She was planning to put in this one year of teaching out of general patriotism, and then she was going to retire and start a family. She discussed this openly with her students, who said, just out of her earshot, that some guys got all the luck. Ray disliked hearing that kind of talk, and the reason was that he had fallen in love with her. And she with him, which seemed infinitely more surprising. It was preposterous to everybody except themselves. There was a divorce—a scandal to her well-connected family and a shock to her husband, who had wanted to marry her since they were children. Ray had an easier time of it than she did, because he had little family to speak of, and those he did have announced that they supposed they wouldn’t be good enough for him now that he was marrying so high up, and they would just stay out of his way in the future. If they expected any denial or reassurance in response to this, they did not get it. O.K. with him was what he more or less said. Time to make a fresh start. Isabel said that she could go on teaching until Ray had finished college and got established in whatever it was that he wanted to do. But the plan had to change. She was not well. At first, they thought it was nerves. The upheaval. The foolish fuss. Then the pains came. Pain whenever she took a deep breath. Pain under the breastbone and in her left shoulder. She ignored it. She joked about God punishing her for her amorous adventure and said that he, God, was wasting his time when she didn’t even believe in him. She had something called pericarditis. It was serious and she had ignored it to her peril. It was something she would not be cured of but could manage, with difficulty. She could never teach again. Any infection would be dangerous, and where is infection more rampant than in a schoolroom? It was Ray now who had to support her, and he took a job as a policeman in this small town called Maverley, just over the Grey-Bruce border. He didn’t mind the work and she didn’t mind, after a while, her semi-seclusion. There was one thing they didn’t talk about. Each of them wondered whether the other minded not being able to have children. It occurred to Ray that that disappointment might have something to do with Isabel’s wanting to hear all about the girl he had to walk home on Saturday nights. “That is deplorable,” she said when she heard about the ban on movies, and she was even more upset when he told her that the girl had been kept out of high school to help at home. “And you say she’s intelligent.” Ray did not remember having said that. He had said that she was weirdly shy, so that during their walks he had to rack his brains for a subject of conversation. Some questions he thought of wouldn’t do. Such as, What is your favorite subject at school? That would have had to go into the past tense and it would not matter now whether she’d liked anything. Or, What did she want to do when she was grown up? She was grown up now, for all intents and purposes, and she had her work cut out for her, whether she wanted it or not. Also the question of whether she liked this town, and did she miss wherever it was that she used to live—pointless. And they had already gone through, without elaboration, the names and ages of the younger children in her family. When he inquired after a dog or a cat, she reported that she didn’t have any. She did come up with a question for him eventually. She asked what it was that people had been laughing about in the movie that night. He didn’t think he should remind her that she wasn’t supposed to have heard anything. But he could not remember what might have been funny. So he said that it must have been some stupid thing—you could never tell what would make the audience laugh. He said that he didn’t get too involved in the movies, seeing them as he did, in bits and pieces. He seldom followed the plots. “Plots,” she said. He had to tell her what that meant—that there were stories being told. And from that time on there was no problem making conversation. Nor did he need to warn her that it might not be wise to repeat any of it at home. She understood. He was called upon not to tell any specific story—which he could hardly have done anyway—but to explain that the stories were often about crooks and innocent people and that the crooks generally managed well enough at first by committing their crimes and hoodwinking people singing in night clubs (which were like dance halls) or sometimes, God knows why, singing on mountaintops or in some other unlikely outdoor scenery, holding up the action. Sometimes the movies were in color. With magnificent costumes if the story was set in the past. Dressed-up actors making a big show of killing one another. Glycerin tears running down ladies’ cheeks. Jungle animals brought in from zoos, probably, and teased to act ferocious. People getting up from being murdered in various ways the moment the camera was off them. Alive and well, though you had just seen them shot or on the executioner’s block with their heads rolling in a basket. “You should take it easy,” Isabel said. “You could give her nightmares.” Ray said he’d be surprised. And certainly the girl had an air of figuring things out, rather than being alarmed or confused. For instance, she never asked what the executioner’s block was or seemed surprised at the thought of heads on it. There was something in her, he told Isabel, something that made her want to absorb whatever you said to her, instead of just being thrilled or mystified by it. Some way in which he thought she had already shut herself off from her family. Not to be contemptuous of them, or unkind. She was just rock-bottom thoughtful. But then he said what made him sorrier than he knew why. “She hasn’t got much to look forward to, one way or the other.” “Well, we could snatch her away,” Isabel said. Then he warned her. Be serious. “Don’t even think about it.” Shortly before Christmas (though the cold had not really set in yet), Morgan came to the police station around midnight one night in the middle of the week to say that Leah was missing. She had sold the tickets as usual and closed the window and put the money where it was supposed to go and set off for home, so far as he knew. He himself had shut things up when the show was done, but when he got outside this woman he didn’t know had appeared, asking what had become of Leah. This was the mother—Leah’s mother. The father was still at his job at the mill, and Morgan had suggested that the girl might have taken it into her head to go and see him at work. The mother didn’t seem to know what he was talking about, so he said that they could go to the mill and see if the girl was there, and she—the mother—cried and begged him not to do any such thing. So Morgan gave her a ride home, thinking that the girl might have turned up by now, but no luck, and then he thought he had better go and inform Ray. He didn’t relish the thought of having to break the news to the father. Ray said that they should go to the mill at once—there was a slim chance she might be there. But of course when they located the father he hadn’t seen anything of her, and he got into a rage about his wife’s going out like that when she did not have permission to leave the house. Ray asked about friends and was not surprised to learn that Leah didn’t have any. Then he let Morgan go home and went himself to the house, where the mother was very much in the distracted state that Morgan had described. The children were still up, or some of them were, and they, too, proved to be speechless. They trembled either from fright and their misgivings about the stranger in the house or from the cold, which Ray noticed was definitely on the rise, even indoors. Maybe the father had rules about the heat as well. “The salary is unimportant—I’ll just siphon off what I need.”Buy the print » Leah had been wearing her winter coat—he got that much out of them. He knew the baggy brown checked garment and thought that it would keep her warm for a while, at least. Between the time that Morgan had first shown up and now, snow had begun to fall fairly heavily. When his shift was over, Ray went home and told Isabel what had happened. Then he went out again and she didn’t try to stop him. An hour later, he was back with no results, and the news that the roads were likely to be closed for the first big snowstorm of the winter. By morning, that was in fact the case; the town was boxed in for the first time that year and the main street was the only one that the snowplows tried to keep open. Nearly all the stores were closed, and in the part of town where Leah’s family lived the power had gone out and there was nothing that could be done about it, with the wind arching and bowing the trees until it looked as if they were trying to sweep the ground. The day-shift policeman had an idea that had not occurred to Ray. He was a member of the United Church and he was aware—or his wife was aware—that Leah did ironing every week for the minister’s wife. He and Ray went to the parsonage to see if anybody there knew anything that could account for the girl’s disappearance, but there was no information to be had, and after that brief stirring of hope the trail seemed even more hopeless than before. Ray was a little surprised that the girl had taken on another job and not mentioned it. Even though, compared with the theatre, it hardly seemed like much of a foray into the world. He tried to sleep in the afternoon and did manage an hour or so. Isabel attempted to get a conversation going at supper but nothing lasted. Ray’s talk kept circling back to the visit to the minister, and how the wife had been helpful and concerned, as much as she could be, but how he—the minister—had not exactly behaved as you might think a minister should. He had answered the door impatiently, as if he had been interrupted while writing his sermon or something. He’d called to his wife and when she came she’d had to remind him who the girl was. Remember the girl who comes to help out with the ironing? Leah? Then he’d said that he hoped there would be some news soon, while trying to inch the door shut against the wind. “Well, what else could he have done?” Isabel said. “Prayed?” Ray thought that it wouldn’t have hurt. “It would just have embarrassed everybody and exposed the futility,” Isabel said. Then she added that he was probably a very up-to-date minister who went in more for the symbolic. Some sort of search had to be carried out, never mind the weather. Back sheds and an old horse barn unused for years had to be pried open and ransacked in case she had taken shelter there. Nothing came to light. The local radio station was alerted and broadcast a description. If Leah had been hitchhiking, Ray thought, she might have been picked up before the storm got started, which could be good or bad. The broadcast said that she was a little under average height—Ray would have said a little over—and that she had straight medium-brown hair. He would have said very dark brown, close to black. Her father did not take part in the search; nor did any of her brothers. Of course, the boys were younger than she was and would never have got out of the house without the father’s consent anyway. When Ray went around to the house on foot and made it through to the door, it was hardly opened, and the father didn’t waste any time telling him that the girl was most likely a runaway. Her punishment was out of his hands and in God’s now. There was no invitation to Ray to come in and thaw himself out. Perhaps there was still no heat in the house. The storm did die down, around the middle of the next day. The snowplows got out and cleared the town streets. The county plows took over the highway. The drivers were told to keep their eyes open for a body frozen in the drifts. The day after that, the mail truck came through and there was a letter. It was addressed not to anyone in Leah’s family but to the minister and his wife. It was from Leah, to report that she had got married. The bridegroom was the minister’s son, who was a saxophone player in a jazz band. He had added the words “Surprise Surprise” at the bottom of the page. Or so it was reported, though Isabel asked how anybody could know that, unless they were in the habit of steaming envelopes open at the post office. The sax player hadn’t lived in this town when he was a child. His father had been posted elsewhere then. And he had visited very rarely. Most people could not even have told you what he looked like. He never attended church. He had brought a woman home a couple of years ago. Very made-up and dressy. It was said that she was his wife, but apparently she hadn’t been. How often had the girl been in the minister’s house, doing the ironing, when the sax player was there? Some people had worked it out. It would have been one time only. This was what Ray heard at the police station, where gossip could flourish as well as it did among women. Isabel thought it was a great story. And not the elopers’ fault. They had not ordered the snowstorm, after all. It turned out that she herself had some slight knowledge of the sax player. She had run into him at the post office once, when he happened to be home and she was having one of her spells of being well enough to go out. She had sent away for a record but it hadn’t come. He had asked her what it was and she had told him. Something she could not remember now. He’d told her then about his own involvement with a different kind of music. Something had already made her sure that he wasn’t a local. The way he leaned into her and the way he smelled strongly of Juicy Fruit gum. He didn’t mention the parsonage, but somebody else told her of the connection, after he had wished her goodbye and good luck. Just a little bit flirtatious, or sure of his welcome. Some nonsense about letting him come and listen to the record if it ever arrived. She hoped she was meant to take that as a joke. She teased Ray, wondering if it was on account of his descriptions of the wide world via the movies that the girl had got the idea. Ray did not reveal and could hardly believe the desolation he had felt during the time when the girl was missing. He was, of course, greatly relieved when he found out what had happened. Still, she was gone. In a not entirely unusual or unhopeful way, she was gone. Absurdly, he felt offended. As if she could have shown some inkling, at least, that there was another part of her life. Her parents and all the other children were soon gone as well, and it seemed that nobody knew where. The minister and his wife did not leave town when he retired. They were able to keep the same house and it was often still referred to as the parsonage, although it was not really that anymore. The new minister’s young wife had taken issue with some features of the place, and the church authorities, rather than fix it up, had decided to build a new house so that she could not complain anymore. The old parsonage was then sold cheaply to the old minister. It had room for the musician son and his wife when they came to visit with their children. There were two, their names appearing in the newspaper when they were born. A boy and then a girl. They came occasionally to visit, usually with Leah only; the father was busy with his dances or whatever. Neither Ray nor Isabel had run into them at those times. Isabel was better; she was almost normal. She cooked so well that they both put on weight and she had to stop, or at least do the fancier things less often. She got together with some other women in the town to read and discuss Great Books. A few had not understood what this would really be like and dropped out, but aside from them it was a startling success. Isabel laughed about the fuss there would be in Heaven as they tackled poor old Dante. Then there was some fainting or near-fainting, but she would not go to the doctor till Ray got angry with her and she claimed it was his temper that had made her sick. She apologized and they made up, but her heart took such a plunge that they had to hire a woman who was called a practical nurse to stay with her when Ray could not be there. Fortunately, there was some money—hers from an inheritance and his from a slight raise, which materialized even though, by choice, he kept on with the night shift. One summer morning, on his way home, he checked at the post office to see if the mail was ready. Sometimes they had got it sorted by this time; sometimes they hadn’t. This morning they hadn’t. And now on the sidewalk, coming toward him in the bright early light of the day, was Leah. She was pushing a stroller, with a little girl about two years old inside it, kicking her legs against the metal footrest. Another child was taking things more soberly, holding on to his mother’s skirt. Or to what was really a long orangey pair of trousers. She was wearing with them a loose white top, something like an undervest. Her hair had more shine than it used to have, and her smile, which he had never actually seen before, seemed positively to shower him with delight. She could almost have been one of Isabel’s new friends, who were mostly either younger or recently arrived in this town, though there were a few older, once more cautious residents, who had been swept up in this bright new era, their former viewpoints dismissed and their language altered, straining to be crisp and crude. He had been feeling disappointed not to find any new magazines at the post office. Not that it mattered so much to Isabel now. She used to live for her magazines, which were all serious and thought-provoking but with witty cartoons that she laughed at. Even the ads for furs and jewels had made her laugh, and he hoped, still, that they would revive her. Now, at least, he’d have something to tell her about. Leah. Leah greeted him with a new voice and pretended to be amazed that he had recognized her, since she had grown—as she put it—into practically an old lady. She introduced the little girl, who would not look up and kept a rhythm going on the metal footrest, and the boy, who looked into the distance and muttered. She teased the boy because he would not let go of her clothes. “We’re across the street now, honeybunch.” His name was David and the girl’s was Shelley. Ray had not remembered those names from the paper. He had an idea that both were fashionable. She said that they were staying with her in-laws. Not visiting them. Staying with them. He didn’t think of that till later and it might have meant nothing. “We’re just on our way to the post office.” He told her that he was coming from there, but they weren’t through with the sorting yet. “Oh, too bad. We thought there might be a letter from Daddy, didn’t we, David?” The little boy had hold of her clothing again. “Wait till they get them sorted,” she said. “Maybe there’ll be one then.” There was a feeling that she didn’t quite want to part with Ray yet, and Ray did not want it, either, but it was hard to think of anything else to say. “I’m on my way to the drugstore,” he said. “Oh, are you?” “I have to pick up a prescription for my wife.” “Oh, I hope she’s not sick.” Then he felt as if he had committed a betrayal and said rather shortly, “No. Nothing much.” She was looking past Ray now, and saying hello in the same delighted voice with which she had greeted him, some moments ago. Speaking now to the United Church minister, the new, or fairly new, one, whose wife had demanded the up-to-date house. She asked the two men if they knew each other and they said yes, they did. Both spoke in a tone that indicated not well, and that maybe showed some satisfaction that it should be so. Ray noticed that the man was not wearing his dog collar. “Hasn’t had to haul me in for any infractions yet,” the minister said, perhaps thinking that he should have been jollier. He shook Ray’s hand. “This is so lucky,” Leah said. “I’ve been wanting to ask you some questions and now here you are.” “Here I am.” “I mean about Sunday school,” Leah said. “I’ve been wondering. I’ve got these two little creatures growing up and I’ve been wondering how soon and what’s the procedure and everything.” “Oh, yes,” the minister said. “Here, take this and give it back to the Man—I don’t need your corrupt society anymore.”Buy the print » Ray could see that he was one of those who didn’t particularly like doing their ministering in public. Didn’t want the subject brought up, as it were, every time they took to the streets. But the minister hid his discomfort as well as he could and there must have been some compensation for him in talking to a girl who looked like Leah. “We should discuss it,” he said. “Make an appointment anytime.” Ray was saying that he had to be off. “Good to run into you,” he said to Leah, and gave a nod to the man of the cloth. He went on, in possession of two new pieces of information. She was going to be here for some time, if she was trying to make arrangements for Sunday school. And she had not got out of her system all the religion that her upbringing had put into it. He looked forward to running into her again, but that did not happen. When he got home, he told Isabel about how the girl had changed, and she said, “It all sounds pretty commonplace, after all.” She seemed a little testy, perhaps because she had been waiting for him to get her coffee. Her helper was not due till nine o’clock and she was forbidden, after a scalding accident, to try to manage it herself. It was downhill and several scares for them till Christmastime, and then Ray got a leave of absence. They took off for the city, where certain medical specialists were to be found. Isabel was admitted to the hospital immediately and Ray was able to get into one of the rooms provided for the use of relatives from out of town. Suddenly, he had no responsibilities except to visit Isabel for long hours each day and take note of how she was responding to various treatments. At first, he tried to distract her with lively talk of the past, or observations about the hospital and other patients he got glimpses of. He took walks almost every day, in spite of the weather, and he told her all about those as well. He brought a newspaper with him and read her the news. Finally, she said, “It’s so good of you, darling, but I seem to be past it.” “Past what?” he countered, but she said, “Oh, please,” and after that he found himself silently reading some book from the hospital library. She said, “Don’t worry if I close my eyes. I know you’re there.” She had been moved some time ago from Acute Care into a room that held four women who were more or less in the same condition as she was, though one occasionally roused herself to holler at Ray, “Give us a kiss.” Then one day he came in and found another woman in Isabel’s bed. For a moment, he thought she had died and nobody had told him. But the voluble patient in the kitty-corner bed cried out, “Upstairs.” With some notion of jollity or triumph. And that was what had happened. Isabel had failed to wake up that morning and had been moved to another floor, where it seemed they stashed the people who had no chance of improving—even less chance than those in the previous room—but were refusing to die. “You might as well go home,” they told him. They said that they would get in touch if there was any change. That made sense. For one thing, he had used up all his time in the relatives’ housing. And he had more than used up his time away from the police force in Maverley. All signs said that the right thing to do was to go back there. Instead, he stayed in the city. He got a job with the hospital maintenance crew, cleaning and clearing and mopping. He found a furnished apartment, with just essentials in it, not far away. He went home, but only briefly. As soon as he got there, he started making arrangements to sell the house and whatever was in it. He put the real-estate people in charge of that and got out of their way as quickly as he could; he did not want to explain anything to anybody. He did not care about anything that had happened in that place. All those years in the town, all he knew about it, seemed to just slip away from him. He did hear something while he was there, a kind of scandal involving the United Church minister, who was trying to get his wife to divorce him, on the ground of adultery. Committing adultery with a parishioner was bad enough, but it seemed that the minister, instead of keeping it as quiet as possible and slinking off to get rehabilitated or to serve in some forsaken parish in the hinterlands, had chosen to face the music from the pulpit. He had more than confessed. Everything had been a sham, he said. His mouthing of the Gospels and the commandments he didn’t fully believe in, and most of all his preachings about love and sex, his conventional, timid, and evasive recommendations: a sham. He was now a man set free, free to tell them what a relief it was to celebrate the life of the body along with the life of the spirit. The woman who had done this for him, it seemed, was Leah. Her husband, the musician, Ray was told, had come back to get her sometime before, but she hadn’t wanted to go with him. He’d blamed it on the minister, but he was a drunk—the husband was—so nobody had known whether to believe him or not. His mother must have believed him, though, because she had kicked Leah out and hung on to the children. As far as Ray was concerned, this was all revolting chatter. Adulteries and drunks and scandals—who was right and who was wrong? Who could care? That girl had grown up to preen and bargain like the rest of them. The waste of time, the waste of life, by people all scrambling for excitement and paying no attention to anything that mattered. Of course, when he had been able to talk to Isabel, everything had been different. Not that Isabel would have been looking for answers—rather, that she would have made him feel as if there were more to the subject than he had taken account of. Then she’d have ended up laughing. He got along well enough at work. They asked him if he wanted to join a bowling team and he thanked them but said he didn’t have time. He had plenty of time, actually, but had to spend it with Isabel. Watching for any change, any explanation. Not letting anything slip away. “Her name is Isabel,” he used to remind the nurses if they said, “Now, my lady,” or “O.K., missus, over we go.” Then he got used to hearing them speak to her that way. So there were changes, after all. If not in Isabel, he could find them in himself. For quite a while, he had been going to see her once a day. Then he made it every other day. Then twice a week. Four years. He thought it must be close to a record. He asked those who cared for her if that was so and they said, “Well. Getting there.” They had a habit of being vague about everything. He had got over the persistent idea that she was thinking. He was no longer waiting for her to open her eyes. It was just that he could not go off and leave her there alone. She had changed from a very thin woman not to a child but to an ungainly and ill-assorted collection of bones, with a birdlike crest, ready to die every minute with the erratic shaping of her breath. There were some large rooms used for rehabilitation and exercise, connected to the hospital. Usually he saw them only when they were empty, all the equipment put away and the lights turned off. But one night as he was leaving he took a different route through the building for some reason and saw a light left on. And when he went to investigate he saw that somebody was still there. A woman. She was sitting astride one of the blown-up exercise balls, just resting there, or perhaps trying to remember where she was supposed to go next. It was Leah. He didn’t recognize her at first, but then he looked again and it was Leah. He wouldn’t have gone in, maybe, if he’d seen who it was, but now he was halfway on his mission to turn off the light. She saw him. She slid off her perch. She was wearing some sort of purposeful athletic outfit and had gained a fair amount of weight. “I thought I might run into you sometime,” she said. “How is Isabel?” It was a bit of a surprise to hear her call Isabel by her first name, or to speak of her at all, as if she’d known her. He told her briefly how Isabel was. No way to tell it now except briefly. “Do you talk to her?” she said. “Not so much anymore.” “Oh, you should. You shouldn’t give up talking to them.” How did she come to think she knew so much about everything? “You’re not surprised to see me, are you? You must have heard?” she said. He did not know how to answer this. “Well,” he said. “It’s been a while since I heard that you were here and all, so I guess I just thought you’d know about me being down here, too.” He said no. “I do recreation,” she told him. “I mean for the cancer patients. If they’re up to it, like.” He said he guessed that was a good idea. “It’s great. I mean for me, too. I’m pretty much O.K., but sometimes things get to me. I mean particularly at suppertime. That’s when it can start to feel weird.” She saw that he didn’t know what she was talking about and she was ready—maybe eager—to explain. “I mean without the kids and all. You didn’t know their father got them?” “No,” he said. “Oh, well. It’s because they thought his mother could look after them, really. He’s in A.A. and all, but the judgment wouldn’t have gone like that if it wasn’t for her.” She snuffled and dashed away tears in an almost disregarding way. “Don’t be embarrassed—it isn’t as bad as it looks. I just automatically cry. Crying isn’t so bad for you, either, so long as you don’t make a career of it.” The man in A.A. would be the sax player. But what about the minister and whatever had been going on there? Just as if he had asked her aloud, she said, “Oh. Then. Carl. That stuff was such a big deal and everything? I should have had my head examined. “Carl got married again,” she said. “That made him feel better. I mean because he’d sort of got past whatever it was he had on me. It was really kind of funny. He went and married another minister. You know how they let women be ministers now? Well, she’s one. So he’s like the minister’s wife. I think that’s a howl.” Dry-eyed now, smiling. He knew that there was more coming, but he could not guess what it might be. “You must have been here quite a while. You got a place of your own?” “Yes.” “You cook your own supper and everything?” He said that that was the case. “I could do that for you once in a while. Would that be a good idea?” Her eyes had brightened, holding his. He said maybe, but to tell the truth there wasn’t room in his place for more than one person to move around at a time. Then he said that he hadn’t looked in on Isabel for a couple of days, and he must go and do it now. She nodded just slightly in agreement. She did not appear hurt or discouraged. “See you around.” “See you.” They had been looking all over for him. Isabel was finally gone. They said “gone,” as if she had got up and left. When someone had checked her about an hour ago, she had been the same as ever, and now she was gone. He had often wondered what difference it would make. But the emptiness in place of her was astounding. He looked at the nurse in wonder. She thought he was asking her what he had to do next and she began to tell him. Filling him in. He understood her fine, but was still preoccupied. He’d thought that it had happened long before with Isabel, but it hadn’t. Not until now. She had existed and now she did not. Not at all, as if not ever. And people hurried around, as if this could be overcome by making arrangements. He, too, obeyed the customs, signing where he was told to sign, arranging—as they said—for the remains. What an excellent word—“remains.” Like something left to dry out in sooty layers in a cupboard. And before long he found himself outside, pretending that he had as ordinary and good a reason as anybody else to put one foot ahead of the other. What he carried with him, all he carried with him, was a lack, something like a lack of air, of proper behavior in his lungs, a difficulty that he supposed would go on forever. The girl he’d been talking to, whom he’d once known—she had spoken of her children. The loss of her children. Getting used to that. A problem at suppertime. An expert at losing, she might be called—himself a novice by comparison. And now he could not remember her name. Had lost her name, though he’d known it well. Losing, lost. A joke on him, if you wanted one. He was going up his own steps when it came to him. Leah. A relief out of all proportion, to remember her. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Climber Room	Credit Photograph by Peter Funch The sign in the Sweet Apple kitchen declared it a nut-free zone, and every September somebody, almost always a dad, cracked a stupid joke. The gag, Laura, the school director, explained to Tovah, would either mock the school’s concern for potentially lethal legumes or suggest that, despite the sign’s assurance, not everyone at Sweet Apple was mentally sound. Today, as Tovah leaned into the fridge to rearrange the heap of insulated lunch bags, a skinny, gray-haired man in a polo shirt, old enough to be the grandfather of the girl who called him “Papa!” as he nudged her along, winked at Tovah and pointed to the sign. Here it came, the annual benediction. “Nut free!” Papa said, and grinned. “Oh, no! Guess I’d better scram!” He looked at Tovah as though expecting some response, but what? Tolerant smile? Snappy retort? Hand job? These older fathers with their second, “doing it right this time” families were the worst. This version stuck out a large, knuckly hand that seemed locked in a contest for supremacy with his heavy platinum watch. “Randy Goat,” the man said. Tovah assumed she had misheard. “Tovah Gold,” she said, and shook his hand, or, rather, a few of his long, supple fingers. “And this is Dezzy.” “Dezzy!” Tovah said, recognizing the girl now. She sank to one knee, which was not only the proper way to address children but a nifty evasive maneuver vis-à-vis their crypto-creepy progenitors. “Hi, Dezzy. Do you remember me? I tagged along with Laura on the home visit a few weeks ago. You showed me your new sparkly shoes.” “Sparkle shoes,” Dezzy said. “Not sparkly.” “Sparkle, of course.” “Right,” Randy said. “I was out of town when you guys popped by.” The place had been enormous, dazzling, a living (well, not quite living) embodiment (not embodiment, precisely) of the aspirational sconce porn that Tovah sometimes indulged in online or at magazine racks. “We met your wife,” Tovah said. “She was so nice.” Tovah remembered the older blond woman hovering at the edges of the apartment (the nanny had presented Dezzy), but still couldn’t recall the family’s last name, and if she asked she might miss it again. She was stuck with Goat. “I remember with my older children,” the man said. “You guys like to do a little recon. Find out if we keep our kids in filth while we boost scag all day. But I guess we passed. We good, God-fearin’ folks, I swears.” Tovah stared at him, unsure of Laura’s preferred reply to such a performance. She was new to the pre-K world, and just part time, temporary. Tovah had been an administrative coördinator at an East Side prep school for years, until the school brought back the retired headmaster to replace her. The crash had made crumb-snatchers of the toniest. The headmaster had run the school; now he ran the office, and Tovah, at home, ran a lot of hot water for non-revitalizing soaks. The offer from Sweet Apple, arranged through a distant family friend, had saved her. “Sorry to shock you,” Randy Goat said. “Just funnin’.” “You didn’t shock me,” Tovah said, though the word “scag,” the old-timey TV creak of it, intrigued her. “A tight-ass,” Randy Goat said. “Good. It means you’ll be careful with my kid.” Now other children tore past, monogrammed backpacks jouncing. Laura jogged up in an outfit she’d recently described as “business yoga casual.” “Mr. Gautier,” she called. “Wonderful.” “You know to call me Randy, Laura. You look radiant. You must have fallen in love this summer.” Laura blushed. “Not quite.” “Just a fling? Sounds fun.” Tovah pictured another universe where, without hesitation, she could slap Randy Gautier’s smug, maybe once sensual, old-man mouth. Laura was annoying but she didn’t deserve this spinster-baiting, especially from a geezer. Tovah wasn’t that far from cat-ladyhood herself, though she believed—had staked her life on the belief—that everything always changed at the last minute. Suddenly, the right man or even woman (what did it matter, really?) would appear, and, for goddam certain, the right baby. Which meant any baby, within reason. Race or gender didn’t matter, but spine on the inside would be nice. Now an unknown force, perhaps the man’s shimmering wrist piece, whipped her back through conjectured space-time far from the cool lavender room where she cradled her perfectly intact newborn. She stood with her hand on Desdemona Gautier’s frizzy head while the girl’s father bent down to address her. “It’s going to be a great day, sweetie. The first of many great days. Just do whatever Laura and Tovah tell you.” The Goat Man winked at Tovah again. Tovah treated him to the smile she’d once bestowed upon the creative-writing professor who told her that some people were meant to write poetry and others, like Tovah, to treasure it. She’d proved that douche bag wrong, for a few years, anyway. Tovah’s D’Agostino card wouldn’t beep her the rebate. She feigned a pressing appointment, paid full price for her crackers and sodium-free vegetable broth. The woman at the register looked at Tovah as though she’d tossed a diamond brooch into the Hudson. “I can just swipe for you,” she said, and slid an extra card from beneath the cash drawer. “Save it for somebody worthy,” Tovah said. “Hey,” the woman said. “We need the wood.” “What’s that?” “You didn’t die for my sins, lady. So don’t go building a cross for yourself. We need the wood.” Tovah gave her a wild grin. By midnight tonight, fuelled by soup and crackers, she would have her first decent verse in years. “Thank you,” Tovah said. “You don’t even know.” “I know you’re a dumbshit,” the woman muttered, but Tovah, lost in private, triumphal noise, did not notice. By midnight, Tovah lay on the couch with a brutal stomach ache. A tiny elegant swordsman ribboned her gut lining with his foil, or so went the promising image that had come to Tovah as she puked up the crackers, the soup, and the Chinese entrées she’d ordered after the crackers were gone. She never ate like this. She kept her slim figure by subsisting on iced espressos, pre-cut cheese cubes, and a few dry salads a day. But she remembered that back when she really wrote poetry she ate a lot of greasy food, with no gastric regret. The extra weight, moreover, had just made her voluptuous. She’d been so young. Now she was thirty-six and in one eating spree had become a vile sack of fat and rot. In this vision of herself she was not even obese but more like a bloated corpse gaffed from a lake. There on the couch, her belly flopped over her jeans, the new chin she’d acquired in about five hours was damp and rashy, and rank scents curled from her pores and, especially, from her crotch whenever she tugged at her waistband to ease the ache. It was all so awful, so evil, so unlike the Tovah of recent years, of modified appetites and reduced expectations, that her corpse-body surged with something revoltingly, smearishly pleasing. She felt slimy, garbage-juice sexy. Her hand jerked inside her underwear for relief. She pictured the actual gaffer leaning over the side of his fishing boat: tan and rugged, with kind, lustful eyes under a brocaded cap. Sparkle eyes. Tovah’s legal pad, upon which she’d written only the title of her poem, “Needing the Wood,” slid to the carpet. Her fountain pen, caught against an embroidered yellow pillow, impaled it. Morning light woke her, but Tovah’s half-closed eyes bent the rays back into a dream about a sun-stabbed land of which Tovah was philosopher-queen. She could retain her crown only by mastering a vintage pinball machine set atop an onyx plinth. The flippers stuck and the holes were the mouths of famous female poets. A silver ball plopped into the maw of Dickinson. A voice in the head of her dream self told Tovah not to “skin lip.” She had no idea what the phrase meant. She woke again, rose from the couch, and saw the stained cartons of kung-pao chicken, sesame chicken, sweet-and-sour chicken, and mystery moo shu. She retched. She took a shower and made gunpowder tea and sat on the toilet and sighed. She had a date tonight. It would be odd to see Sean again. Her best friend in college, Callie, had a brother, and everyone had agreed that this lean, black-haired wonder was bound for an extraordinary life. Sean might direct a morally important movie, or design a marvellous bridge, or climb a heretofore unscalable mountain, both to prove his prowess and to deliver medicine to a snowed-in camp on the far slope. He had a keen mind, a daredevil physicality, a social conscience. He could conceivably lead his very own civil-rights movement, though on which group’s behalf was still up for grabs. At his sister’s party during one Christmas break years ago, Sean’s graciousness, even more than his charisma, had undone Tovah. Sean made the rounds, checked on everybody’s drinks, lavished his attentions on the shy. When he walked up and handed Tovah a daiquiri and they spoke for a few moments about turtles, or tortoises of great size and longevity, Tovah felt something magical and form-fitting, almost like a garment of spiritual love, a tunic of light, slip over her. This is the way Jesus must have worked, some petty wonder talk while revelation sank its celestial needle. An artificial insemination of the soul. Soon Sean drifted away, perhaps to knock up other guests. Tovah never saw him again and thought about him constantly. She waited for word of his victories. Whenever she asked Callie about her brother she heard exciting stories about new jobs and cities. He worked on oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, wrote experimental screenplays in Gobi Desert yurts, enrolled in architecture school, film school, medical school (but only for research, with no intention of doctoring). He had undertaken a scientifically significant balloon journey. But after a while the stories got hazy. Callie muttered something about a junk habit. Tovah wondered if he was the type who peaked just before setting off into the world, the boy the gang bet on before they understood life. A sad thought, but she still wanted to see him. He’d reached out to her through several friends (not Callie, though, who’d broken with Tovah over a misunderstanding about the location of a brunch spot). Sean’s e-mail seemed, well, not random but certainly sudden. His interest surprised her. People had eased away from Tovah. She had become a tad too prickly, she figured, or self-sufficient. Maybe her empathy seemed strained. Unfair, this last, as she really felt for others, and with them, but somehow it never quite came across. That’s what creative writing was for. She knew better, from so many workshops, than to suggest that poetry existed to express one’s feelings, though, infuriatingly, hers did. A baby, however, especially a baby bred to be lean and coal-haired and jade-eyed and slant-smiled, like Sean, could learn to express Tovah’s feelings, too, without the torture of words. Out on Broadway, Tovah stepped into a hat boutique, the kind of sparse, dusty affair you assume would be a depression’s first prey, but here it still stood. Tovah hated hats, or could never conceive of a hat that would suit her, except maybe a floppy straw thing she could wear to the beach with sunglasses and coquettishly unflattering sandals. She’d lug along books in a canvas bag, but when would she get to the beach? She lived on an island, sure, but that didn’t mean she numbered among those permitted to go to the beach. “Can I help you?” the salesgirl asked. She seemed, but didn’t look, fifteen. “Who comes in here?” Tovah asked. “People looking for hats.” “That is twisted.” Tovah felt funny. Maybe she hadn’t fully bounced back from last night’s death feast. Maybe what she’d been on the couch was pregnant, though she knew it was impossible. You could reckon the dates, track the cycles, but then you realize you couldn’t be pregnant if you hadn’t been laid in three years. A devout Catholic could still hope, but not Tovah. She’d never even considered herself the maternal type. She didn’t believe there was such a temperament, unless it was assembled in the culture factory, where you choked on images of women as radiant white creatures traipsing through summer fields with their tanned but still white spawn. “What a couple of clucks we are. Here’s another mistake right up here.”Buy the print » Those were the old lies. The newer ones claimed that all committed mothers could also manage bejewelled careers, that only the weak had to choose. But even the mothers at Sweet Apple could not disguise their struggle. Instead they sought catharsis in comic monologues about the slog. They were punished from both sides, called mediocre mothers and unreliable colleagues. A sick joke. But only now did these women, or at least a few grumblers she’d overheard at Sweet Apple, sense an even greater shift: the shame in procreation. People glared at families, at mothers. Nobody got up for pregnant women on the subway anymore. Tovah had mistaken it for an ethnic thing, but it was universal. The planet couldn’t sustain more mouths. So stand, greedy lady. Tovah had picked her side years before. No peace-shredding hominid would find shelter in her womb. She loved to play with the pre-K kids, but live with one? Then something embarrassing and possibly purely chemical occurred. She wanted a baby. That was all. She still winced at the idea of motherhood, cultivated privacy and solitude, and despite her attachment to the Sweet Apple tykes believed childlessness the noble course (yes, your kid might cure cancer, but probably he’d grow up to play video games, or, if the world followed its current path, huddle in a gulch slurping gulchwater and recalling the grandeur of video games). But she wanted a baby. That’s what her body was for, in the cruel scheme of things, and for some bizarre reason she craved the bleakness of biology. It didn’t matter if the baby was hers except it absolutely did. She wanted to carry it and give birth to it and breast-feed it and live in a natural cocoon with it for as long as possible, with somebody on the outside slipping everything she needed through a slim vent. In this way life would be joyful instead of nearly unlivable. The part of her that she’d always trusted knew she was crazy, but that part had also, one had to admit, been stuck in a serious rut. Tovah started across the street for a cleansing smoothie. Somebody shouted her name. Mr. Gautier strode toward her. He had a sharp-boned swagger, and wore a hat, a baseball cap, stitched with the words “Glyph Systems.” “Mr. Gautier,” she called. “Randy.” “Hello,” Tovah said. Mr. Gautier put a hand on Tovah’s shoulder, took a few hard breaths. He dipped his head and hawked something pebble-sized onto the pavement. Tovah noticed the tiny hearing aid that lurked behind a shrub of ear hair. “You played hooky today,” he said. “It was a day off. I’m only part time.” “Did you hear what happened over there?” She could picture only worst-case scenarios. Fires, floods, a collapsed ceiling in the lunch nook, a child pincered in that window sash the caretaker still hadn’t fixed. Or maybe Laura had finally snapped, kicked one of what she liked to call the Future Date-Rapists of America in the skull. Boys, Laura had told her, were bad for schools, bad for society. Which wasn’t to say, Laura added, that she didn’t love the cuties to death. “Dezzy was in the climber room,” Mr. Gautier said, “and she fell off the . . . whatever it is.” “The climber.” “The climber,” Mr. Gautier said. “They could just say jungle gym. What’s the big diff?” “Is Dezzy O.K.?” Tovah asked. “Those pads on the floor are pretty soft.” “She’s fine—that’s not the point. She freaked out, and she cried for you. I’m convinced she feels more comfortable and confident with you around.” “That’s sweet. She’s so delicious. Really.” Tovah had heard other teachers use “delicious” this way. It seemed natural but also strange, which maybe described cannibalism in general. “A delight,” she amended. “Of course she’s a delight,” Mr. Gautier said. “She’s my daughter. So, anyway, I worked it out with Laura. You’ll be changing your days so you can be there every morning Dezzy is.” “You what?” Tovah said. “Don’t worry, you don’t have to do a thing. I took care of it.” “Look, I’m flattered, but I picked my days already. I think Dezzy is great, but so are the other kids, and I’m all set in my schedule.” “Do a search,” Mr. Gautier said. A low snarl threaded his voice. There was something birdlike about his face, she noticed now, specifically a big scavenger bird, maybe a turkey vulture. But a handsome, old turkey vulture. It was confusing. “Excuse me?” “When you get home, open your browser and do a search on me.” “O.K.” She couldn’t believe she’d agreed. What a bastard. “Then you can do a search on me,” Tovah said. She hoped her snideness had no hint of a tease. She hoped she sounded young enough to make him feel old. “I did,” Mr. Gautier said. “When they aren’t mired in postmodern feminist crap, your poems are really good. Couldn’t find anything recent online. What happened?” “Life,” Tovah said, startled. “I’m thinking maybe the opposite. Look, we should be friends. I like the effect you have on Dezzy.” “It’s been two days,” Tovah said. “Those are the ones that count, that establish trust. Anyway, thanks for rejiggering your schedule. It means a lot, and you shall be rewarded.” “Rewarded? I’m a professional.” “No, you’re not,” Mr. Gautier said. “That’s why you’re good.” She figured she’d have to be patient, but the Goat popped right up on her computer search, and dominated the many pages of results that followed. Math prodigy Randolph Gautier had dropped out of a North Jersey high school in 1973 and hitched out to Palo Alto. He would have seized a silicon throne but for some purloined software here, a botched algorithm there. Still, he’d done just fine. He’d sold his company, Glyph Systems, for tens of millions, though in interviews he seemed bitter about it. He told RadTech that Bill Gates had an I.Q. of 74. So he’d made money in computers. Was this knowledge the object of her search? There were plenty of rich oldies in the neighborhood. Then she noticed another branch of search hits, sites that mentioned Gautier in relation to some artistic foundations, to his funding of a poetry journal called Glyphonym. She’d never heard of the journal or any of the poets listed in the index, but the bound editions looked swank. There were also pictures of a launch party in a grand ballroom. Charitable, omnipotent people chuckled over cocktails. No real poet would want a poem in that journal, but the party looked like vulgar fun, or at least better than a night on the couch, locked in a frigonometric fugue state, sour sweet-and-sour sweat soaked through the cushions, although Tovah did, to her surprise, look back on that evening with a certain fondness. “Needing the Wood” had a few lines now, borrowed, perhaps, and in Sanskrit, but indelibly on the page. The shock about Sean was his shock of white hair. It looked regal but was incongruous with the dark-locked boy she’d known. He stood and seemed to bow as she approached the table, a fairly formal gesture for a place that specialized in artisanal scrapple. “Sean!” she called, with cheerful volume, as though to cover her disappointment in his follicles. “Tovah!” Sean said. “Awesome!” They hugged, and Tovah’s chin grazed his collarbone. That zap, the hot sweet charge of the party long ago, tingled. She wanted Sean to save her and screw her and give her a baby. After that, maybe he’d have to leave. “You look great,” Tovah said. “If that’s true, I owe it to the mighty sport of handball. I play with the Spanish gentlemen at the playground. It’s an epic workout. You look really good, too. Seriously. ” “I never exercise and I rarely eat. It’s a winning plan.” “I think you’re meant to be a little heavier, though. You’re tall and skinny with big beautiful bones.” “Big bones?” “Totes. I know it’s a euphemism for chubby girls, but you just happen to be hot with slightly extra-large bones. I always wanted to jump them. That night we talked. That was an epic night.” They hadn’t even heard the specials and he’d already mentioned their magic moment. “Man,” he said. “What’s it been? Twenty years?” “Sixteen.” “Oh, that’s better.” “How’s your sister?” Tovah asked. “I haven’t spoken with her in a long time.” “She’s good. I mean, evil. She works for this huge, rape-a-licious law firm. Making fine butter.” “Is she still married?” “Totes.” “What’s ‘totes’?” “Sorry, I work with a lot of young people. I pick up their lingo. Anyway, man, Tovah, you do look really good.” Was it possible he could be a moron and still be her savior? “Where do you work?” “Right now I’m involved with a new start-up,” Sean said. “It’s hard to explain. We make apps for apps, basically.” “So that pays well?” “No, not yet. Meantime I’m working with organic food materials. Mostly flour items.” “Like a muffin shop?” “Yeah, pretty much. Only my sister seems to have a decent job.” “I’m a part-time preschool teacher right now.” “Sounds epic,” Sean said. “Little kids.” “I love kids,” Tovah said. “But the politics . . .” Or could she be the moron? A young waiter arrived without menus and explained the ordering process, which involved a few crucial decisions about sides and beverages but a surrender of volition in the realm of entrées. Tonight was Thursday, which meant Pennsylvania-style scrapple. “What exactly is scrapple?” Tovah asked. The waiter deferred to Sean. “It’s Mennonite soul food,” Sean said. The waiter rolled his eyes. “It’s everything from the pig except the meat,” he said. “Organs, hooves, eyelashes, lips. It’s all pressed together in a loaf. I, personally, love it.” “Sounds kind of trayf,” Tovah said. “Très trayf, dollface,” the waiter said. “After dinner you can join a settlement and redeem yourself.” “Whoa there, buddy,” Sean said. “It’s O.K., I’m a yid,” the waiter said. “Really?” Tovah said. “Totes,” the waiter said. “Look, I think I’m going to leave,” Tovah said. “I actually prefer pig eyelashes as a separate dish.” “Of course,” Sean said. “Let’s go.” They walked the streets for a while, laughed at the shitty waiter and the perspectival complexity of time. It felt like that acting class Tovah had taken in her twenties. Scene study. Lovers by the creek, or at the carnival. Something about the moon. Now they leaned on a playground fence. Beyond it, in the last of the light, children stalked each other with water rifles. Sean looked at Tovah, pinched the collar of her shirt. “Twenty years later and I still feel attracted to you.” “Sixteen years,” Tovah said. “I had no idea you liked me. You treated me very sweetly, but just like everybody else. I was so smitten. You were the genius. You were going to do all the wonderful things.” “Yeah, well.” “What happened?” “Nothing happened,” Sean said. “I’ve had all sorts of adventures. Good times, bad times. You know I’ve had my share . . .” “Seriously,” Tovah said. She must have clawed out of the womb saying that. “Seriously, I wasn’t measuring myself against a prophecy of me.” “We were,” Tovah said. “Well, then, fuck you, Big Bones. That’s your problem. And what are you doing that’s so great? Anybody can play with kids.” “I’m also a poet.” “And you have a blog, I’m guessing?” “I’m sorry,” Tovah said. “You’re right. I’m being abrasive. I get scared of intimacy. I flail.” “That’s so cool.” “Let’s start again. No more scrapple.” “I don’t think so,” Sean said. “Whatever the opposite of compatible is, that’s us.” “Incompatible?” Tovah said. “If you say so, wordsmith. Thing is we both need the same crap. Somebody with money, and security, and also did I mention money? To shore up our egos. To nurture our unrealistic dreams.” “Yes,” Tovah said. “That’s actually true. That’s an insight.” “Thank you,” Sean said. “I used to be very promising.” “Can I ask you something?” “Are you going to ask whether my hair turned white slowly or overnight?” “Do you want me to?” Tovah said. “Well, let me tell you a story. I was working on a guide boat out of the Solomon Islands.” Sean spoke into the darkness for a while, telling a mesmerizing, no doubt spurious tale. Tovah realized she didn’t care one whit about him or his saga or the whiteness of his hair. She could never mate with a man who called her Big Bones, even once, even in jest. She could never expose her eggs to such a jerk. The climber room admitted six kids and one teacher at a time. The other children had to wait in the next room at their sand tables and clay stations. Tovah stood near the varnished wooden bars and watched Dezzy scale the ladder. This day had once been her day off. Laura had called her soon after she’d talked to Mr. Gautier. “Is this standard at Sweet Apple?” Tovah had asked. “Letting a parent dictate schedules?” “He’s not dictating. He made a request.” “What’s the diff?” Buy the print » “Tovah, I understand how this might seem concerning to you. But you’re just here temporarily. Mr. Gautier has been part of the school family for many years. His annual donation keeps us afloat. I don’t want to disappoint him. That would be concerning to me. I don’t want to say that if you don’t abide by his request there’s a chance you might not be able to continue with us.” “You don’t want to say what?” “I believe you heard me.” “What if I just quit?” “God, can you afford that? Lucky you. Can I quit with you? Do you have us covered?” “O.K., Laura. I understand. It’s O.K.” “You’re a real sweetheart,” Laura said. “I’m a schmuck,” Tovah said. “Always a fine line,” Laura said. Tovah winced admiringly. Now Dezzy turned from the ladder and shoved herself at Tovah’s shoulder. Her frizz scratched Tovah’s cheek. The girl’s breath carried sour fruit. “I love you, Tovah!” she said, and gurgled through surplus saliva. Desdemona wasn’t slow or anything, just charmless, a sloppy need machine. One of the other kids, a funny boy named Ewen, tugged on Tovah’s jeans. “Tovah,” he said, “can we read about the tigers again?” Because Laura did in fact care about the boys and didn’t want them to notice her revulsion, they’d become Tovah’s responsibility. “You can change them, the boys,” Laura had told her. “Erase the predator patterns in their brains. Make them docile and generous. I’d do it myself, but I get so nauseated.” Tovah’s Dezzy duty was a drag. She wanted to read to Ewen, but if Dezzy didn’t want to join them the morning would turn dire. Dezzy would collapse and wail like a Trojan war widow. It made Tovah wonder what went on at the House of Gautier. Randy Goat hadn’t been making drop-offs or pick-ups this week. A young Chinese woman came instead. And what did Mrs. Gautier do with her time? Or was that blond woman at the home visit even Dezzy’s mother? Now Tovah found the narrative becoming dense. Dense wouldn’t do. She was ready to wrap this up, find another—what did they call it—situation. Dezzy licked and nibbled Tovah’s neck. Tovah hoisted the girl away from her. “You don’t want skin lip?” Dezzy said. “What? What did you say?” “Ouchie. Put me down.” “Tigers, Tovah,” Ewen said, tugged. Mr. Gautier offered too much money for the babysitting job. It was more like a call girl’s fee, even factoring in Dezzy’s unpleasantness, but this was no era to demur. Tovah took the gig. It would be a noon-to-midnight shift on Saturday, the nanny’s day off. Mr. Gautier had meetings and then a benefit dinner. Tovah had never babysat, not even in high school, but at least she was starting at the top. This wasn’t a few evening hours at the neighbor’s house, with payment in the form of cable TV and leftover London broil. This was big bucks to encamp in a palace on Central Park West and monitor the brat while Mr. and Mrs. Gautier lorded it over the city’s top-shelf kowtowers. Maybe they’d bring her white-frosted cake in swanned-up foil. Everything seemed so pathetic and exciting. She knew she should mention the offer to Laura, but she liked the secret, side-business feel of it. There was something creepy about Mr. Gautier, to be sure, but even if he returned home in his tux, tipsy from champagne, and his wife excused herself and retired to what she might refer to as her chambers, and when she was gone Mr. Gautier, while plucking sharp green bills from his silver clip, accidentally brushed his well-preserved knuckles against her breast, or her bosom, or her (perhaps let’s just say specifically) unusually responsive (based on informal polls of friends) nipple, and they locked eyes and giggled and then, for no reason at all, kissed, skin-lipped, as some tiny persons would have it, until they heard a noise, a door off the den or a loose board in the refurbished hallway, maybe the wife returning to the kitchen for her bedtime book, one of those wretched memoirs with a blurred photo of a schoolgirl on the jacket, and upon hearing the noise they, Randy and Tovah, froze, and broke apart in thrilled fright—even if all of that happened, she wasn’t sure she would tell Laura. In fact, she knew she wouldn’t tell her, so why mention the babysitting job at all? Besides, it would be awkward in a few years, when Tovah was, and let’s be totally random here, Randy’s new wife, the mother of his baby, and, for example, president of the board of Sweet Apple, which had the power to hire and fire directors as she (or she and the board) saw fit. Of course, without question, Tovah would endorse a renewal of Laura’s contract. The woman needed a viable wardrobe, but she’d proved herself a more than capable employee. Besides, there would be so many other things to worry about, like the transformation of Glyphonym from a ludicrous glossy bursting with trust-fund doggerel into a rigorous journal where the best poets, regardless of tradition, would connect with one another and with a larger audience. A few poems a year by Tovah would not be unseemly. Other editors did it. Plenty more so-called luxury problems might rear their plush heads as well, such as how to hire the right people to make certain that the nanny wasn’t teaching the baby Cantonese by mistake, or the cook wasn’t drizzling oil molecules on Tovah’s salads, not to mention the guaranteed Stuka dives of bitchery from the ditched blond wife. Tovah didn’t know a thing about her, but the woman’s gold-digging implements had been sharp enough to carve out some precious metal from the Randolph Gautier vein. Doubtless they could leave nasty divots in the flesh of her usurper. Still, the state of alert would be worth it, because of the baby, the baby that would be hers and also nestled in a safe, stable environment, a combination she’d never thought possible. Dezzy didn’t come to school on Friday, so Tovah e-mailed Mr. Gautier to make sure the date, or the job, rather, was still on. He did not respond all day. Sweet Apple exhausted her. Her boys—Ewen, Juanito, Medgar, and Harry—had been hanging all over her, begging her to read to them, or play airplane, or lie on the carpet as a launch pad. Tovah wasn’t sure if she had deactivated their predator wiring. It was hard to tell when they were such relentless puppies. She fell asleep on the train home and nearly missed her stop. She’d need some quality rest to handle Dezzy tomorrow, if that was still her destiny. The call finally came as she finished her radicchio. “You e-mail me?” “Yes. About tomorrow.” “It’s better to just call me. I don’t check e-mail much. But I see your e-mail in my browser. It scared me. I didn’t open it. Does it say you’re not coming? Don’t tell me you’re not coming. Jesus fucking Christ. I counted on you. I put my ass on the line convincing Connie that you weren’t just some tight little piece of . . . well, whatever, but a real—” “I’m coming, Randy Goat!” Tovah cried. “Huh?” “I mean, I just e-mailed to confirm. I’m certainly planning on coming to watch Dezzy, so you and your wife shouldn’t worry about a—” “My wife?” “Yes, I met her at the home visit.” “Connie’s my sister. That’s who you saw. She’s always trying to horn in on the raising of Dezzy. I guess I let her. It’s easier that way. Dezzy’s adopted. She was my goddaughter and her parents were killed. O.K., what the hell are we doing? Are we phone buddies or something?” “No,” Tovah said. “You bet your ass we aren’t. I’ll see you tomorrow at eleven.” “You said noon.” “Stay flexible, Tovah.” A few minutes before eleven the next morning, Tovah waited outside the building. She wore a blouse that was maybe too chic, especially since she usually wore bleached-out T-shirts at school, but she knew that after Dezzy went to bed there’d be some spare hours to relax in a beautiful apartment. She thought she’d do it in style. She knew she’d never be back after today. Since the phone call, she’d been mortified by her matrimonial fantasy. You think you know yourself, the world. You think you’ve got a bead on everybody else’s bullshit, but what about your own? She’d had delusions of using this man because he somehow deserved it. Now she wondered if she even deserved to watch Dezzy. At eleven she pushed the buzzer. The elevator, just as Tovah remembered, opened into the apartment. She felt the hand on her shoulder even while asleep, and the whole day whizzed through her, all the games and snacks, the walk to the Park, the Winnie the Pooh books, the TV programs full of furry beasts, the sudsy bath, the creamy noodles, Dezzy’s kissy snuggle at tuck-in. Tovah had come to the study afterward to read the volume of Elizabeth Bishop letters she carried in her bag. The leather Eames chair had pulled her into sleep like a pill. She blinked up at Mr. Gautier. He smiled and his eyes looked fogged. His bow tie hung limp around his collar. His tuxedo took on a rumpled sheen in the lamplight. “Wake up, little Toh-Va, wake up,” he sang. “Mr. Gautier.” She had a sleepy, whiskey voice, or it sounded that way to her ears, which felt stuffed with silk. “How was your day?” he asked. He sat on the coffee table beside her. She closed her eyes, smiled. “It was perfect. How was your evening with the muckety-mucks?” “Actually, I lied about the event. I don’t know why. My older son got married today. Evan. She’s a doctor, he’s a lawyer. They will be very happy or something.” “Sounds ominous.” “No, they’ll thrive. It’s just been a long, emotional day.” “Was your ex-wife there?” “Like I said, an emotional day.” Mr. Gautier stood. “Drink?” “I should go.” “You should have a drink with a sad old man first.” Mr. Gautier fetched Scotches from the kitchen, handed her one, and lowered himself onto the arm of her chair. “Is that comfortable?” Tovah asked. “It’s an Eames ream,” he said, laughed, stroked the back of Tovah’s neck. “What are you doing?” Tovah said. “Tovah, let’s be realistic. You’re not the high-school babysitter. I don’t play bridge with your father. We’re grown up and broken, just like everybody else. Stop acting like a precious flower.” Tovah set her drink down on the coffee table, rose, squeezed past Randy Gautier. She walked over to the bookshelf and stared out the window at the lights of the avenue, the darkness of the Park. She pictured wolves, packs of them, leaping the gates. “You know,” she said, gathering herself, “it’s very hard. Here. In America. In the world. For women. It’s a fucking nightmare. Our choices are no choice. Everybody has a goddam opinion, but nobody ever wants to help. The politicians, the culture, they push the idea of family, the importance of the mother, and they also push the idea of opportunities for women, but they screw us all on the stuff that counts, that will make it real. We are alone and suicidal or we have children and are suicidal. The only women who escape this are the rich. All of the accomplished women in history had servants. I’m convinced of that. Even if it’s not true. It certainly feels fucking true. I’m sorry. I’m babbling. Why am I going on about this? It’s stupid. I’m just cranky. Must be getting my period, right? That what you think? Well, fuck you and of course I am. But that’s not it. Maybe I wasn’t ready to wake up just now. Maybe I’m tired of waking up. Nothing changes when I do. Nothing ever suddenly . . . Christ, I’m sorry. I should just go. Maybe I should just—” Tovah turned and saw that Mr. Gautier had tugged his penis out of his tuxedo pants. He gave a shrug, and, like a loved boy, beamed. “It’s O.K.,” he said. “I’m listening.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Miracle Polish	Credit Illustration by Steve Powers I should have said no to the stranger at the door, with his skinny throat and his black sample case that pulled him a little to the side, so that one of his jacket cuffs was higher than the other, a polite no would have done the trick, no thanks, I’m afraid not, not today, then the closing of the door and the heavy click of the latch, but I’d seen the lines of dirt in the black shoe creases, the worn-down heels, the shine on the jacket sleeves, the glint of desperation in his eyes. All the more reason, I said to myself, to send him on his way, as I stepped aside and watched him move into my living room. He looked quickly around before setting his case down on the small table next to the couch. I’d made up my mind to buy something from him, anything, a hairbrush, the Brooklyn Bridge, buy it and get him out of there, I had better things to do with my time, but there was no hurrying him as he slowly undid each clasp with his bony fingers and explained in a mournful voice that this was my lucky day. In the suddenly opened case I saw six rows of identical dark-brown glass bottles, each a bit smaller than a bottle of cough medicine. Two things struck me: the case must have been very heavy, and he must not have sold anything in a long time. The product was called Miracle Polish. It cleaned mirrors with one easy flick of the wrist. He seemed surprised, even suspicious, when I said I’d take one, as if he had wandered the earth for years with the same case filled to bursting with unsold bottles. I tried not to imagine what would drive a man to go from house to house in a neighborhood like this one, with porches and old maples and kids playing basketball in driveways, a neighborhood where Girl Scouts sold you cookies and the woman across the street asked you to contribute to the leukemia drive, but no strangers with broken-down shoes and desperate eyes came tramping from door to door lugging heavy cases full of brown bottles called Miracle Polish. The name exasperated me, a child could have done better than that, though there was something to be said for the way it sat there flaunting its fraudulence. “Don’t trust me!” it shouted for all to hear. “Don’t be a fool!” When he tried to sell me a second bottle, he understood from my look that it was time to go. “You’ve made a wise choice,” he said solemnly, glancing at me and looking abruptly away. Then he clicked his case shut and hurried out the door, as if afraid I’d change my mind. Lifting a slat of the half-closed blinds, I watched him make his way along the front walk with the sample case pulling him to one side. At the sidewalk he stopped, put down his case next to the sugar maple, wiped his jacket sleeve across his forehead, and gazed up the block as if he were the new boy in school, getting ready to cross the school yard, where faces were already turning to stare at him. For a moment he looked back at my house. When he saw me watching him, he grinned suddenly, then frowned and jerked his head away. With a sharp snap I let the blind-slat drop. I had no interest in mirror polish. I placed the bottle in a drawer of the hutch, where I kept extra flashlight batteries, packages of light bulbs, and an unused photograph album, and gave no more thought to it. Early one morning, a week or so later, I stepped over to the oval mirror in the upstairs hall, as I did every morning before leaving for work. As I tugged down the sides of my suit jacket and smoothed my tie, I noticed a small smudge on the glass, near my left shoulder. It had probably been there for years, ever since I’d brought the mirror down from my parents’ attic, along with a faded armchair and my grandmother’s couch with the threadbare arms. I tried to recall whether I had ever cleaned the oval mirror before, whether I had ever bothered to dust the old mahogany frame carved with leaves and flowers. I understood that I was having these thoughts only because of the stranger with the bony fingers and the worn-down heels, and as I went down to the hutch I felt a burst of irritation as I heard him say, “This is your lucky day.” Upstairs I pulled a tissue from the box in the bathroom and unscrewed the top of the brown bottle. On the dark glass, in white capital letters, stood the words “MIRACLE POLISH.” The liquid was thick, slow, and greenish white. I applied a bit to the tissue and wiped the smudge. When I lifted my hand I was almost disappointed to see that the spot was gone. I was aware of another thing: the rest of the mirror looked dull or tarnished. Had I really never noticed it before? With another dab of polish I set to work wiping the entire surface, right up to the curves of the frame. It was done quickly; I stepped back for a look. In the light from the overhead bulb with its old glass shade, mixed with sunlight from the window on the nearby landing, I saw myself reflected clearly. But it was more than that. There was a freshness to my image, a kind of mild glow that I had never seen before. I looked at myself with interest. This in itself was striking, for I wasn’t the kind of man who looked at himself in mirrors. I was the kind of man who spent as little time as possible in front of mirrors, the kind of man who had a brisk and practical relation to his reflection, with its tired eyes, its disappointed shoulders, its look of defeat. Now I was standing before a man who resembled my old reflection almost exactly but who had been changed in some manner, the way a lawn under a cloudy sky changes when the sun comes out. What I saw was a man who had something to look forward to, a man who expected things of life. That afternoon when I returned from work, I went up to the oval mirror. In the polished glass I was struck again by a sense of freshness. Had the mirror really been so deeply in need of cleaning? There were three other mirrors in the house: the mirror over the sink in the upstairs bathroom, the mirror over the sink in the downstairs half bath, and the small circular mirror with a wooden handle that hung on a hook beside the upstairs-bathroom window. None of them had seemed to need cleaning before, but when I was through with them I saw my new reflection glowing back at me from all three. I looked at the brown bottle of Miracle Polish in my hand. It seemed an ordinary bottle, a bottle like any other. If the polish had made me look younger, if it had made me handsome, if it had smoothed my skin and fixed my teeth and changed the shape of my nose, I’d have known it was some horrible mechanical trick, and I’d have smashed those mirrors with my fists rather than allow myself to be taken in like a fool. But the image in the mirror was unmistakably me—not young, not good-looking, not anything in particular, a little slumped, heavy at the waist, pouchy under the eyes, not the sort of man that anyone would ever choose to be. And yet he looked back at me in a way I hadn’t seen for a long time, a way that made the other things all right. He looked back at me—the thought sprang to mind—like a man who believed in things. The next morning I woke before my alarm and hurried over to the oval mirror in the hall. My image glowed back at me; even my rumpled pajamas had a certain jaunty look. In the polished glass the dull walls seemed brighter, the bedroom door a richer brown. In the bathroom mirror I shone forth; the whiteness of the sink burned in the glass; the towels looked fuller. Downstairs, the reflected window in the half bath showed part of a brilliant curtain, beyond which lay the green grass of childhood summers. All day at work I thought of nothing but those shining surfaces, like coins catching the sun, and when I came home I went from mirror to mirror, striking poses, turning my head from side to side. Because I prided myself on never having false hopes, on never permitting myself to imagine that things were better than they were, I asked myself whether I might be allowing the mirrors to deceive me. Maybe the greenish-white polish contained a chemical that, upon contact with glass, produced an optical distortion. Maybe the words “Miracle Polish” had caused cells in my brain to fire in a series of associations that affected the way I saw the reflected world. Whatever was happening, I knew that I needed another opinion, from someone I could trust. It was Monica who would set me straight, Monica who would know—Monica, who looked at the world through large, kind, skeptical eyes, darkened by many disappointments. Monica arrived, as she did twice a week after work, once on Tuesdays and once, with her overnight bag, on Fridays, and as always when I greeted her I was careful not to look too closely at her, for Monica was likely to draw back and say “Is something wrong?” while raising her hand anxiously to her hair. She had a habit of assessing her looks mercilessly: she approved of her eyes, liked the shape of her wrists and the length of her fingers, put up with her calves, but was unforgiving about her thighs, her chin, her biggish knees, her hips, her upper arms. She fretted over any imperfection in her skin, like a mosquito bite or a heat rash or a tiny pimple, and often wore a hidden Band-Aid on a shoulder or calf, holding some ointment in place. She wore long skirts that came down to her ankles, with plain blouses over plain white bras; she liked to mix dark greens, dark browns, and dark grays. Her shoulder-length brown hair was usually straight and parted in the middle, though sometimes she pulled it back and gathered it in a big dark clip that looked like an enormous insect. She inspected herself in front of any mirror, searching for flaws like a teen-age girl before a big party. In fact she was forty and worked as an administrative assistant at the local high school. For years we had edged toward each other without moving all the way. I liked how she hesitated a little before easing into a smile; liked the slight heaviness of her body, its faint awkwardness, its air of mild tiredness; liked how, when she took off her shoes and placed her feet on the hassock, she would wiggle her toes slowly and say, crinkling her eyes, “That feels really, really good.” Sometimes, in a certain light, when she held her body a certain way, I would see her as a woman for whom things had not worked out as she had hoped, a woman sinking slowly into defeat. Then a burst of fellow feeling would come over me, for I knew how difficult it was, waiting for something better, waiting for something that was never going to happen. I took her upstairs to the oval mirror and switched on the light. “Look at that!” I said, and swept out my arm in a stagy way. It was a gesture meant to imply that what I had to show her was nothing much, really, nothing to be taken seriously. I had hoped the reflection in the polished mirror would please her in some way, but I hadn’t expected what I saw—for there she was, without a touch of weariness, a fresh Monica, a vibrant Monica, a Monica with a glow of pleasure in her face. She was dressed in clothes that no longer seemed a little drab, a little elderly, but were handsomely understated, seductively restrained. Not for a moment did the mirror make her look young, or beautiful, for she was not young and she was not beautiful. But it was as if some inner constriction had dissolved, some sense of her drifting gradually into unhappiness. In the mirror she gave forth a fine resilience. Monica saw it; I saw her see it; and she began turning her body from side to side, smoothing down her long skirt over her hips, pulling her shoulders back, arranging her hair. Now in the mornings I rose with a kind of zest and went directly to the hall mirror, where even my tumbled hair gave me a look of casual confidence, and the shadowy folds under my eyes spoke of someone in the habit of facing and overcoming obstacles. In my cubicle I worked with concentration and with an odd lightness of heart, and when I returned home in the late afternoon I looked at myself in all four mirrors. It struck me that before I could reach the oval mirror in the upstairs hall, I had to pass through the front hall, cross the dusky living room with its sagging couch, walk the length of the kitchen, and climb two sets of creaking stairs, the long one up to the landing and the short one up to the hall. One night after dinner I drove to the outskirts of town, where the old shopping center faced off against the new mall in a battle of slashed prices. In the aisle after blenders and juicers I came to them. I saw tall narrow mirrors, square mirrors framed in oak and dark walnut, round mirrors like gigantic eyeglass lenses, cheval mirrors, mirrors framed in coppered bronze, mirrors with rows of hooks along the bottom. Avoiding my reflections as well as I could, for these mirrors showed only a tired man with a look of sorrow in his eyes, I chose a rectangular mirror with a cherrywood frame. At home I opened a drawer of the hutch and took out the brown bottle. With a few careful swipes of a cloth I polished the mirror. I hung it in the front hall, across from the closet and next to the boot tray with its old slippers and gardening shoes, and stepped back. In the light of the ceiling bulb I saw my reflection, standing with a cloth over his shoulder and looking out at me as if ready to hurl himself into whatever the day might bring. The sight of him standing there with his sleeves pushed up and his cloth over his shoulder and his look of readiness—all this made me smile, and the smile that came back to me seemed to stream out of the glass and into my arms, my chest, my face, my blood. The next day after work I stopped at a furniture store and bought another mirror. At home I polished it and hung it in the kitchen, facing the table. As I ate my dinner I was able to look up whenever I liked and see the oak table, the gleaming plate with its chicken leg and baked potato, the glowing silverware, and my reflection looking up alertly, like someone whose attention has been called to an important matter. On Friday, Monica entered the front hall and stopped sharply when she saw the mirror. She glanced at me and seemed about to say something, then turned her face away. In front of the mirror she stared at herself thoughtfully for a long while. Without turning back to me, she said she supposed it wouldn’t be such a bad idea to be able to check her hair and blouse before entering the living room, especially when it was pouring down rain, or when the wind was blowing. I said nothing as I watched her reflection push her hair boldly from her cheek. Together she and Monica moved toward the edge of the mirror and disappeared into the living room. In the kitchen I saw Monica’s lips pull into a little tight circle. It was an expression I’d never cared for, with its combination of petulance and stubborn severity, but in the new mirror I saw only a flirtatious pout. “It’s just an experiment,” I said. “If you really don’t like it—” “But it’s your house,” she said. “But that isn’t the point,” I said. She threw me a look and lowered her eyes; it was a way she had of protesting silently. She sat with her back to the mirror as I brewed her a pot of herb tea. Seated across from her, I was able to look beyond her strained face to the back of her head, the back of her blouse collar showing through her hair, the top of her shoulder blades. They all seemed to be enjoying themselves as she talked to me about her troubles with the lawn man. Once, when she turned to look out the window, I saw in the mirror the curved line of her forehead, the upward slant of the bottom of her nose, the little slope between her nostrils and her upper lip, and I was struck by the fine liveliness of her profile. I let a day pass, but the next day I bought a large dark-framed mirror for the living room and hung it across from the couch. I took out my brown bottle and polished the mirror well, and when I stepped back I admired the new room that sprang into view in the polished depths. Monica would, of course, push her lips together, but she would come to see it was all for the best. The mirrors of my house filled me with such a sense of gladness that a room without one struck me as a dark cell. I brought home a full-length mirror for the TV room, a rectangular mirror with a simple frame for the upstairs bedroom, an identical one for the guest room down the hall. At a yard sale I bought an old shield-shaped mirror that I hung in the cellar, behind the washer and dryer. One evening when I entered the kitchen a restlessness seized me, and when I returned from the mall I hung a second mirror in the kitchen, between the two windows. “Next year, I’m pleasuring myself.”Buy the print » Monica said nothing; I could feel her opposition hardening in her like a muscle. I wasn’t unaware that I was behaving oddly, like a man in the grip of an obsession. At the same time, what I was doing felt entirely natural and necessary. Some people added windows to brighten their homes—I bought mirrors. Was it such a bad thing? I kept seeing them at yard sales, leaning against rickety tables piled with pink dishes, or hanging in hallways and bedrooms at estate sales at the fancy end of town. I added a second one to the living room, a third to the upstairs bath. In the front hall, on the back of the front door, I hung a mirror framed in a dark wood that matched the color of the umbrella stand. When I passed by my mirrors, when I caught even a glimpse of myself as I walked into a room, I felt a surge of well-being. What was the harm? Now and then Monica tried to be playful about it all. “What?” she would say. “Only one mirror on the landing?” Then her expression would change as she saw me sinking into thought. Once, she said, “You know, sometimes I think you like me better there”—she pointed to a mirror—“than here”—she pointed to herself. She said it teasingly, with a little laugh, but in her look was an anxious question. As if to prove her wrong, I turned my full attention to her. Before me I saw a woman with a worried forehead and unhappy eyes. I imagined her gazing out at me from all the mirrors of my house, with eyes serene and full of hope, and an impatience came over me as I looked at her dark-brown sweater, at the hand nervously smoothing her dark-green skirt, at the lines of tension in her mouth. In order to demonstrate to Monica that all was well between us, that nothing had changed, that I was no slave to mirrors, I proposed a Saturday picnic. We packed a lunch in a basket and took a long drive out to the lake. Monica had put on a big-brimmed straw hat I had never seen before, and a new light-green blouse with a little shimmer in it; in the car she took off her hat and placed it on her lap as she sat back with half-closed eyes and let the sunlight ripple over her face. A tiny green jewel sparkled on her earlobe. At the picnic grounds we sat at one of the sunny-and-shady tables scattered under the high pines that grew at the edge of a small beach. It was a hot, drowsy day; the smoke of grills rose into the branches; a man stood with one foot on his picnic-table bench, an arm resting on his thigh as he held a can of beer and stared out at the beach and the water; kids ran among the tables; on the beach, three boys in knee-length bathing trunks were playing catch with enormous baseball gloves and a lime-green tennis ball; a plump mother and her gaunt teen-age son were hitting a volleyball back and forth; young women in bikinis and men with white hair on their chests strolled on the sand; in the water, a few people were splashing and laughing; a black dog with tall ears was swimming toward shore with a wet stick in its mouth; farther out, you could see canoes moving and oars lifting with sun flashes of spray; and when I turned to Monica I saw the whole afternoon flowing into her face and eyes. After the picnic, we walked along a trail that led partway around the lake. Here and there, on narrow strips of sand at the lake edge, people lay on their backs on towels in the sun. We made our way down to the shore, through prickly bushes; on the sand Monica pulled off her sandals, and lifting up her long skirt she stepped into the water and threw back her head to take in the sun with closed eyes. At that moment it seemed to me that everything was possible for Monica and me; and going up to her I said, “I’ve never seen you like this!” With her eyes still closed she said, “I’m not myself today!” She began to laugh. Then I began to laugh, because of what we had both said, and because of her laughter and the sun and the sky and the lake. On the ride home she fell asleep with her head against my shoulder. The long outing had tired me, too, though not in the same way. In the course of the afternoon an uneasiness had begun to creep into me. The glare of the sun on the water hurt my eyes; the heat pressed down on me; there was a slowness in things, a sluggishness; Monica seemed to walk with more effort, as if the air were a hot heaviness she was pushing her way through. The two of us, she in her straw hat and I in my cargo shorts, seemed to me actors playing the part of ordinary people, enjoying a day at the lake. In fact I was a man weighed down with disappointment, a man for whom things had not worked out the way he had once imagined, a quiet man, cautious in his life, timid when you came right down to it, though content enough to drift along through the little rituals of his day. And Monica? I glanced over at her. The back of her hand lay on her leg. The four fingers were leaning to one side, the thumb hung in front of them—and something about those fingers and that thumb seemed to me the shape of despair. But when I opened my front door and stepped into the hall behind Monica, then the good feeling returned. In the mirror we stood there, she in her shimmering green blouse and I with a glow of sunburn on my face. Deep in the shine of the polished glass, her hand rose in a graceful arc to remove her straw hat. In the living room I snatched glimpses of her in both mirrors as she walked buoyantly toward the kitchen. In the sunny kitchen her cheerful reflection picked up a pitcher of water that caught the light. I looked at the second mirror, where she began to raise a glass of shining water, paused suddenly, and opened her mouth in a lusty yawn. “I’d like to lie down,” Monica said. I turned my head and saw her tight lips and tired eyelids. I followed her as she made her way slowly up the stairs and past the new mirror on the landing. For a moment her hair glowed at me from the glass. At the top of the stairs she walked sternly and without a glance past the oval mirror and into the bedroom, where I watched her bright reflection lie down on the bed and close her eyes. I, too, was tired, I was more than tired, but the sheer pleasure of being home filled me with a restless energy that drove me to stride through all the rooms of the house. From time to time I stopped before a polished mirror to turn my head this way and that. It was as if my house, with its many mirrors, drew all the old heaviness and weariness from my body; and in a sudden burst of inspiration I took out the bottle of Miracle Polish, which was still two-thirds full, and went down to the cellar, where I applied it to a new mirror that had been leaning against the side of the washing machine, waiting for me to decide where to hang it. Later that evening, as we sat in the living room, Monica still seemed tired, and a little moody. I had led her to the couch and tried to position her so that she could see her good-humored reflection, but she refused to look at herself. I could feel resistance coming out of her like the push of a hand. In the mirror I admired a shoulder of her blouse. Then I glanced over at the other Monica, the one sitting stiffly and very quietly on the couch. I had the sense of a sky darkening before a storm. “Can’t,” I thought I heard her say, so softly that I wondered if she had spoken at all; or perhaps she had said “Can.” “What did you—” I breathed out, barely able to hear my own words. “I can’t,” she said, and now there was no mistaking it. “Such a perfect day. And now—this.” She raised her arm in a weary sweeping motion that seemed to include the entire room, the entire universe. In the mirror her reflection playfully swept out her arm. “I can’t. I tried, but I can’t. I can’t. You’ll have to—you’ll have to choose.” “Choose?” Her answer was so hushed that it seemed barely more than an exhalation of air. “Between me and—her.” “You mean . . . her?” “I hate her,” she whispered, and burst into tears. She immediately stopped, took a deep breath, and burst into tears again. “You don’t look at me,” she said. “But that’s not—” I said. “I have to go,” she said, and stood up. She was no longer crying. She took another deep breath and rubbed her nostrils with the back of a bent finger. She reached into a pocket of her skirt and pulled out a tissue that crumbled into fuzz. “Here,” I said, holding out my handkerchief. She hesitated, took it from me, and dabbed at her nostrils. She handed back the handkerchief. She looked at me and turned to leave. “Don’t,” I said. “Me or her,” she whispered, and was out the door. During the next week I flung myself into my work, which was just complicated enough to require my full attention, without interesting me in the least. At five o’clock I came directly home, where I felt soothed in every room. But I was no child, no naïve self-deceiver intent on evading a predicament. I wanted to understand things; I wanted to make up my mind. From the beginning there had been a deep kinship between Monica and me. She was wary, trained to expect little of life, grateful for small pleasures, on her guard against promises, accustomed to making the best of things, in the habit of both wanting and not daring to want something more. Now Miracle Polish had come along, with its air of swagger and its taunting little whisper. Why not? it seemed to say. Why on earth not? But the mirrors that strengthened me, that filled me with new life, made Monica bristle. Did she feel that I preferred a false version of her, a glittering version, to the flesh-and-blood Monica with her Band-Aids and big knees and her burden of sorrows? What drew me was exactly the opposite. In the shining mirrors I saw the true Monica, the hidden Monica, the Monica buried beneath years of discouragement. Far from escaping into a world of polished illusions, I was able to see, in the depths of those mirrors, the world no longer darkened by diminishing hopes and fading dreams. There, all was clear, all was possible. Monica, I understood perfectly, would never see things as I did. When she looked in the mirrors, she saw only a place that kept pulling me away from her and, in that place, a rival of whom she was desperately jealous. I felt myself moving slowly in the direction of a dangerous decision I did not wish to make, like someone swerving on an icy road toward an embankment. It wasn’t until another week had passed that I knew what I was going to do. Summer was in its fullness; on front porches, neighbors fanned themselves with folded newspapers; sprinklers sent arcs of spray onto patches of lawn and strips of driveway, which shone in the sun like black licorice; at the top of a ladder, a man in a baseball cap moved a paintbrush lazily back and forth. It was Saturday afternoon. I had called Monica that morning and told her I had something important to show her. She was to meet me on the front porch. We sat there drinking lemonade, like an old married couple, watching the kids passing on bicycles, a squirrel scampering along a telephone wire. A robin was pecking furiously at the roadside grass. After a while I said, “Let’s go inside.” She turned to me then, as if she were about to ask a question. “If that’s what you want,” she finally said, and turned both hands palm up. When we stepped into the front hall, Monica stopped. She stopped so abruptly that it was as if someone had put a heavy hand on her shoulder. I watched her stare at the place where the mirror had hung. She looked at me, and looked again at the wall. Then she turned and looked at the back of the front door. Its dark panels shone dully under the hall light. Monica reached out and touched her fingers to my arm. I took her through every room of the house, stopping before familiar walls. In the living room a photograph of my parents looked out at us from the wall where one mirror had hung. The other place was bare except for two small holes in the faded wallpaper, with its pattern of tall vases filled with pale flowers. In the kitchen a new poster showed many kinds of tea. In place of the oval mirror in the upstairs hall, there was a framed painting of an old mill beside a brown pond with two ducks. New bathroom cabinets with bevelled-edge mirrors hung over the upstairs and downstairs sinks. I could see the gratitude rushing into Monica’s cheeks. When the tour was over, I led her to the drawer in the hutch and removed the brown bottle. In the kitchen she watched me pour the thick greenish-white liquid into the sink. I washed out the empty bottle and dropped it into the garbage pail next to the stove. She turned to me and said, “This is the most wonderful gift that you—” “We’re not done yet,” I said, with a touch of excitement in my voice, and led her through the kitchen door and down the four wooden steps into the back yard. Against the back of the house all the mirrors stood lined up, slanted at different angles. There it was, the oval mirror from the upstairs hall, leaning over a cellar window. There they were, the two front-hall mirrors, the kitchen mirrors in their wooden frames, the shield-shaped mirror from the cellar, the living-room mirrors, the bedroom mirrors, the full-length mirror from the TV room, a pair of guest-room mirrors, the upstairs-bathroom mirror removed from its cabinet, the mirror from the landing, the downstairs-bathroom mirror, and other mirrors that I had bought and polished and stored in closets, ready to be hung: square mirrors and round mirrors, swivel mirrors on wooden stands, a mirror shaped like a four-leaf clover. In the bright sun, the polished mirrors gleamed like jewels. “Here they are!” I said, throwing out my hand. I began walking along in front of them, from one end to the other. As I passed from mirror to mirror slanted against the house, I could see different parts of me: my shoes and pant cuffs, my belt and the bottom of my shirt, my sudden whole shape in the tall mirror, my swinging hand. Now and then I caught pieces of Monica’s rival, standing back on the green, green grass. “And now,” I said, as if I were addressing a crowd—and I paused for dramatic effect. I glanced at Monica, who stood there with a look that was difficult to fathom, a worried look, it seemed to me, and I wanted to assure her that there was nothing to worry about, I was doing it all for her, everything would soon be fine. I bent over behind a broad mirror at the end of the row and withdrew a hammer. And, raising the hammer high, I swung it against the glass. Then I walked back along that row of mirrors, swinging the hammer and sending bright spikes of glass into the summer air. “There!” I cried, and smashed another. “See!” I shouted. I swung, I smashed. Lines of wetness ran along my face. Bits of mirror clung to my shirt. It was over faster than I’d thought possible. All along the back of the house, broken mirror-glass lay glittering on the grass. Here and there, an empty frame showed triangles of glass still clinging to the wood. I looked at the hammer in my hand. Suddenly I threw it across the yard, hurled it high into the row of spruces at the back. I could hear the hammer falling slowly through the needly branches. “There!” I said to Monica. I made a wiping gesture with both hands, the way you do when you’re done with something. Then I began walking up and down in front of her. A terrible excitement burned in me. I could feel my blood beating in my neck. I imagined it bursting through the skin in brilliant gushes of red. “She’s gone! That’s what you wanted! Isn’t it? Isn’t it? All gone! Bye-bye! Are you happy now? Are you?” I stopped in front of her. “Are you? Are you?” I bent close. “Are you? Are you? Are you?” I bent closer still. I bent so close that I couldn’t see her anymore. “Are you? Are you? Are you? Are you? Are you?” Monica did the only thing she could do: she fled. But first she stood there as if she were about to speak. She stared at me with the look of a woman who has been struck repeatedly across the face. There was hurt in that look, and tiredness, and a sort of pained tenderness. And along with it all came a quiet sureness, as of someone who has made up her mind. Then she turned and walked away. There is a restlessness so terrible that you can no longer bear to sit still in your house. You walk from room to room like someone visiting a deserted town. Every day I mourned for my mirrors with their gleam of Miracle Polish. Where they’d once hung I saw only patterns in wallpaper, framed paintings, door panels, lines of dust. One day I drove out to the mall and came home with an oval mirror in a plain dark frame, which I hung in the upstairs hall; I used it strictly for checking my suit jacket. Once, when the doorbell rang, I rushed downstairs to the front door, but it was only a boy with a jar collecting money for a new Scout troop. I could feel grayness sifting down on me like dust. A bottle of Miracle Polish—was it so much to ask? One of these days the stranger is bound to come again. He’ll walk toward my house with his heavy case tugging him to one side. In my living room he’ll snap open the clasps and show me the brown bottles, row on row. Mournfully he’ll tell me that it’s my lucky day. In a voice that is calm, but decisive and self-assured, I’ll tell him that I want every bottle, every last one. When I close my eyes, I can see the look of suspicion on his face, along with a touch of slyness, a shadow of contempt, and the beginnings of unbearable hope. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Stain	Credit Illustration by Annette Marnat The old man’s daughter made inquiries in the village, looking for someone to go there every weekday and keep an eye on him, to clean the place and cook something for his lunch and tea. He wasn’t incapacitated, but he wasn’t used to looking after himself. Marina needed the money. So every morning, after she dropped Liam off at school, she made her way up through the churchyard and across the park to the square stone house on the corner where the old man lived. Rooks squawked, scattered out of the beech trees by the wind; unkempt grass blew around the molehills; swallows were dark scratches on the light. Marina was tall and athletic-looking, in black leggings and trainers and a pink puffa jacket, with a freckled face and a ponytail of tangled curling auburn hair. She walked with a long stride, swinging her shopping bag, bent forward, as if she were oblivious or shy, although she was well known in the village. She’d had plenty of little jobs doing housework, and had worked in the dry cleaner’s before she was married. Reliable and thoughtful, an oddball who kept herself apart from the other mothers, she was just the right choice for handling a difficult old man. She told him that she had been looking at this house all her life—she’d passed it every day when she was a child herself, walking to school—but she’d never been inside before. She didn’t volunteer this right away; she waited first to see whether he wanted her to talk. Her husband, Gary, had warned her that the old man and his daughter would be used to having black servants waiting on them hand and foot, but it wasn’t really like that. Wendy had left South Africa and come to live in England before Marina was even born, and she said that she never wanted to go back—there was so much violence there now. And the old man didn’t seem to be any kind of slave driver. He liked to sit and watch Marina work sometimes, but he always asked her courteously first whether she minded. “So what d’you think of the house, now you’re inside it?” he asked. “You’ve got a nice lot of space,” she said, sitting back on her haunches, wiping her hot face on her arm. She was scouring the linoleum on the kitchen floor, on her hands and knees with a scrubbing brush and a bucket, because of the stubborn greasy dirt. She told him that you could fit her whole house in his drawing room. When she was a child, this house from the outside, with its tall façade and many blind-looking windows, had seemed to stand for all the grandeur and beauty she could imagine. In reality, inside it was dingy and half-furnished and needed a coat of paint. The kitchen and the bathrooms hadn’t been altered in thirty years; in the kitchen she had to manage with a single stainless-steel sink and no dishwasher. The previous owners had left some furniture in the upstairs rooms, but the upholstery was worn and grubby; the old man hadn’t brought much from South Africa. They had plenty of money: Wendy’s own place was as luxurious inside as pictures in a magazine. It was the old man’s choice, his obstinacy, to live in the house without renovating it. He missed the sun, sitting with a blanket over his knees even in warm weather. Although he was eighty-nine, he didn’t look that old. He was thickset with broad shoulders, his white hair sprouting up stiffly, his small eyes, lost under baggy eyelids, set far back above his flattened cheekbones. His face was expressive and ravaged, like an actor’s. Marina imagined how hard it was for a man who must once have been so vigorous to accept this diminished life, using a cane to get around, with no one to command except her. He’d had to give up driving because of his glaucoma; anyway, he had no friends to visit in this country, apart from his daughter. Because he talked about the vines he’d tended in South Africa, and because he was so deeply tanned, his skin like tough yellow leather, Marina thought he must have been a farmer and spent his days outdoors. The vacuum cleaner died on Marina one morning while she was doing the stairs, and he told her to bring it to where he was sitting, in the room he called the office, poring over bank statements and bills. (He had business interests, he told her, though he wasn’t a businessman.) He took the thing to pieces with a screwdriver on top of the desk, painstakingly, with trembling fingers, peering at it through his magnifying glass. When he was concentrating, he stuck out the tip of his tongue at one corner of his mouth, just as Liam did. He got the vacuum going again and that cheered him up. Marina noticed that at lunch that day he ate more hungrily. He said that he liked meat, meat more than anything, and he complimented her gravy (everybody liked her gravy), but usually he managed only a few mouthfuls, pushing whatever vegetables she’d cooked for him to one side of the plate. She had to tuck a napkin under his chin, to keep him from dropping food on his shirtfront. The next day, she brought an Airfix model in her shopping bag, a Spitfire that someone had given Liam for Christmas; it was too difficult for Liam, and she wondered if the old man would enjoy putting it together. She worried that she was overstepping the mark, insulting him with a child’s toy, but he seemed pleased; he told her that he’d had a pilot’s license for years, flying small planes. His hands weren’t steady enough, though, to control the tiny pieces of the model—you needed tweezers to put the pilot and the propellers in place, and the glue got everywhere, the pieces stuck to his fingers. Marina had to help him paint it, and put the stickers on, according to the instructions. He was discouraged and disappointed in himself; he blamed his eyes. “You could write your memoirs,” she suggested. “That’s what my grandpa did, because he was in the war. He dictated them into a recorder, and my auntie typed them up. You could pay someone to do it.” The old man laughed sourly, tapping his forehead. “Better not. Better to keep it all in here where it’s safe.” She got him to talk about the weather in South Africa, the landscape and the wild animals. He said that the fruit and vegetables over here tasted of nothing, so she picked peas and broad beans from his own vegetable patch, which Wendy tended, and got him to shell them for her, sitting in his garden, saucepan on his lap, colander at his side for the empty pods. If you asked him in the right way, as though you needed his help, then he didn’t mind being put to work. When he’d shelled them himself, he would sometimes eat them with his lunch. She saw that he was depressed because he was bored. She could tell as soon as she arrived in the morning if he was in a mood. He sulked; he pretended not to hear her come in the back door, calling out to him; he knocked things over deliberately; he snarled into the phone. (He was always on the telephone, fussing over his investments.) When he was pleased with himself, he was emotional, jovial. He snatched Marina’s hand and squeezed it, said that she was like another daughter to him. There were real tears in his eyes. He wanted to know all about Gary and Liam and her parents and her childhood. He liked to hear the story of her walking past his house when she was a girl. “I wish I’d lived here then,” he said. “I’d have invited you inside. You could have played in the garden.” But once he pushed her hand away in irritation when she brought him a cup of hot coffee, so that it spilled all down her front, and then he was in an agony of contrition—he tried to get down on his knees to ask forgiveness. “Don’t be so silly,” Marina said calmly. “I’m not scalded. And it’s only an old apron.” “Can I buy you a new washing machine?” he said. “I mean for your own home. To make up for it. I’m a horrible old man.” She laughed. “Listen to you. What are you on about? I’ve got a perfectly good washing machine.” Wendy called at the house most days, in her four-by-four with tinted windows and the two dogs in the back—to drop off her father’s shopping, or to work in his garden, or take him to his medical appointments (he had prostate problems and diabetes). She wasn’t known for her tact; she was always managing to upset the women who worked for her in her fancy gift shop (which was only a hobby—her divorce had left her with more than enough money). But Marina didn’t take offense when Wendy tried ordering her around, finding fault. Wendy was a dumpy little woman, nervous and punctilious, with the same wide-apart eyes and flattened cheekbones as the old man, her hair dyed black and cut in a shape like a pixie’s cap. Apparently, she had a wardrobe full of beautiful clothes that she couldn’t get into anymore. You could hardly hear her South African accent, though you could cut her father’s with a knife. “Don’t tell any folks in town that Old Bessie’s a parasite, O.K.?”Buy the print » After all those years apart, father and daughter were almost strangers to each other; Wendy was embarrassed if he had to lean on her for support when they went out together, for drinks or to a concert in the village. He was forceful and charming, and made a point of winning over Wendy’s friends, but in his company she was awkward. She knew how to show affection only to her dogs. She’d wanted her father to come over, but now that she’d got him here she didn’t know what to do with him. People said that there was a brother still in South Africa, but the family had lost contact with him; he’d had mental-health problems, or he’d spent time in prison for cheating pensioners out of their money. Marina was settling in at the big house. When she went up to dust the bedrooms on the second floor, which were never used, she liked to stand dreaming, looking down from the windows on her old life in the street below. She persuaded the old man to come to church with her on Sundays. And she took Liam to play in the garden after school, thinking that it would be good for the old man. He’d hardly known his grandchildren, Wendy’s three sons, when they were small, and they didn’t seem eager to make contact with him now. One was an architect and one was in banking; Anthony, the youngest, still lived at home, and was supposed to be setting up some sort of business on the Internet. Glancing out from the kitchen, where she was fixing something that the old man could heat up for his supper later, Marina saw his white head and the boy’s round fair head bent intently over something or other that Liam had dug up out of the earth—a snail shell or a broken bit of china. The flame of her love for her child lapped for that moment around the lonely old man, too: the baggy, age-spotted hands cupped around the child’s tiny, unspoiled, tender ones. Wendy came into the kitchen with a basket full of courgettes and lettuce, wanting to wash her hands in the sink, clicking her tongue impatiently when it was full of peelings. Holding her hands under the running water, she stared out the window at her father playing with Liam. “He was never like that with us,” she said, not as if she were complaining, just passing on information. Sometimes when she’d been working in the garden her usual stiffness unwound. “He’s growing garrulous in his old age. Child-friendly. Religious. What a turnup.” “You grew up on a farm, didn’t you?” “Is that what he told you?” “He talked about growing things.” “There was a farm in the Cape. It was my grandparents’, but we always kept it up. And Dad made a go of it again after he retired. Just something to keep him busy.” Mostly Wendy kept herself carefully closed off from Marina, behind a preoccupied, worldly surface, always hurrying somewhere, flashing her car keys about like an insignia. In the back of the four-by-four, along with the dogs, there were boxes full of the retro stuff she sold for so much money in her shop: enamel watering cans artfully rusted, worn old trowels tied up with hairy twine, bits of slate to use as plant labels, rickety iron garden chairs, carbolic soap. These were for people who played at gardening, Marina thought. But Wendy herself was an expert, gifted gardener. As well as growing vegetables in her father’s garden, she was clearing the little paths edged with lavender around an old sundial, and replanting the herbaceous border in front of the yew hedge with delphinium, verbascum, and phlox. In church, Marina only half listened to the words of the service; she went into a kind of trance. She sometimes thought she might fall asleep while she had her head in her hands and was meant to be praying. The important thing was her immersion in the subdued light and the pocket of damp, different air inside the church walls. Afterward, she and Liam walked the old man back across the park; he leaned on her, stumbling on the tussocky grass, making her feel his dead weight. His force hadn’t drained away altogether, but it was uncoördinated, outside his control. He wore dark glasses in the sunshine to protect his eyes. At the house, she would pour him a brandy and settle him to wait for Wendy, who came to fetch him for Sunday lunch. He didn’t want the television on—he said he couldn’t see it, didn’t care for it anyway. “Watch out for him,” Gary said. “Old men get some funny ideas.” But nothing ever happened that was wrong. He kissed her on the cheek with his wet mouth every day when she arrived and when she left; if he got the chance he tried to put his arm around her shoulders or her waist. Once or twice he touched her legs, not lewdly, but she reproached him and he was abashed; he retreated into gloom, wouldn’t speak for hours. Marina didn’t tell Gary about any of this. She thought how hard it must be, at the end of your life, to be deprived forever of physical contact. Her own body felt luxuriantly wrapped in touching—Gary’s and Liam’s. She hardly knew where her body stopped and her little boy’s started. Couldn’t she spare the old man a little out of her surplus? “I’m sorry for him,” she said to Gary. “And the money’s useful.” Gary worked for his brother, who laid patios and garden paths, but there wasn’t much business; people were cutting back in the recession. Marina didn’t tell him, either, that the old man put extra money in the envelope he gave her every week, crushing it clumsily into her pocket or into the bib of her apron while she was rolling out plain scones on the kitchen table. Every week, once she’d washed and dried her hands and counted the money, she took out the extra and gave it firmly back to him, so that there could be no mistake. She knew where to draw the line. “Please take it,” he said, pushing it at her. “There’s plenty more where that came from. Make me happy by taking it. What do I want with it now, at my age, in this condition? I want to give it to your family.” “These are just dreams,” she said. “They’re nonsense. You don’t know us.” “You’re good people, I know you are. I watch you. I want to help your husband out, let him start up a little business of his own. I want to set up a trust fund, so that your boy can go to a decent school.” “To give something like that to someone, you have to be a relative. Or you have to have known them all your life, through thick and thin. This story you’ve dreamed up about us isn’t real. You haven’t even met my husband.” “It’s you who doesn’t know about the real world,” he said impatiently. “Money changes things, if you’ve got it. You can change anything.” “I don’t want change, then.” “I don’t believe you.” Sometimes after church he persuaded her to have a drop of brandy with him in the drawing room while he waited for Wendy. It was sweet, and not harsh, as she’d expected; she rarely drank alcohol, so it went straight to her head. Liam would be playing in the garden. Because of the brandy, when she looked out the window she seemed to be looking down on him from a great distance, at his bare knees and bent head as he crouched, stroking the neighbors’ tabby. She could hear the coaxing, chirruping noises he was making. The drawing room ran right through the house—it had sash windows at front and back. She loved the way the light sprang across from one wall to the other, as if in a conversation. The old man told her that all his life he’d thought only about his career and not enough about his family; he’d forgotten the religion he’d believed in when he was a boy. He said that after his wife died he’d gone off the rails—he’d been with all kinds of women, he’d paid for prostitutes. Would God forgive him? Marina stopped him. She said that it wasn’t right for her to know those things if his own daughter didn’t. “Could I tell her?” he barked, in an outbreak of rough contempt. All the time Marina kept him safe, at arm’s length, putting him off gently, smiling, laughing. But he told her nonetheless that she was a beautiful and graceful young woman. (Those weren’t words that Gary ever would have used.) She was ashamed of feeling secretly gratified. She said that he had to stop talking such rubbish. He told her about his travels all over Africa. He’d been to Singapore and Cairo and Australia and California. Marina knew that she was unsophisticated, that her life must seem tame and timid to him. Sometimes it seemed timid to her; she chafed against its limits. The old man held something back, some knowledge or intimation, which made her life seem shallow by comparison—even if he was cantankerous and shaky on his legs, with his cavernous stale mouth and brown teeth. Then he wanted to give her the house. The story went around the village as a half-secret. Ten bedrooms, Queen Anne, Grade II-listed; it needed work, but had to be worth a million at least, even in the current market. Properties at the top of the ladder hadn’t lost much. The women in the shop looked at Wendy to see how she was taking it: she’d brought her father all the way over here to be with her, and now he was giving away her inheritance to the cleaning lady. (Though there was probably plenty more, apart from the house. He’d been putting money into a British bank account for years.) Marina knew what everyone was thinking. Of course she couldn’t take the house. What would they do, in any case—her and Gary and Liam—with all those rooms? The maintenance of those old places cost a fortune in itself; it would fall down around their ears. It was the old man’s fantasy—she never seriously considered it. He begged her to accept, and she refused. Then he told Wendy that he was leaving it to Marina anyway. There was a big confrontation; Wendy accused the pair of them of scheming behind her back. Marina, in tears, gave in her notice. “Captain’s log, supplemental.”Buy the print » That evening, Wendy telephoned to apologize. “I shouldn’t have lost my temper,” she said. “We’re both distraught at having upset you. I’d be so grateful if you’d give us another try. It would be difficult for us to find anyone else. My father’s not an easy man, and he’s grown very fond of you.” “But you’ll always think I’m after his money,” Marina said. Wendy recoiled at her bluntness, she could hear. (She had blenched once when Marina brought an armful of dirty sheets into the kitchen after the old man had had an accident in his bed.) “I’m sure it was all his idea,” she offered with chilly neutrality. “I know what my father’s like, once he fixes on something.” “I’ll go back if he stops trying to give me stuff.” “He says he’s sorry. It won’t happen again.” So Marina resumed making her way each morning, after she’d dropped Liam off at school, under the soughing, agitated trees in the churchyard and across the park—head down as usual, her long scissoring stride like a wading bird’s—to spend all day alone with the old man. Wendy offered her a raise, and she accepted it; Gary had always said that she ought to be paid better for the work she did, more like a full-time caregiver than a cleaner. (And, after all that, the extra was only deducted from her working tax credit.) For a while, after their row, the old man treated Marina as if she were made of glass, putting on a meek, modestly inquiring voice that wasn’t really his, asking for a gin-and-tonic before his lunch but “only if she had time.” This was nonsense and they both knew it, were relieved when he fell back into his usual peremptory intimacy. At least he’d stopped giving her presents. Yet, in some magical way, Marina did now succumb to the idea that the old house was hers—not forever but for the moment. She was getting to know it now that she had gone into every corner of it, scouring out the gritty dust and cobwebs and curled-up balls of dead wood lice, bleaching and disinfecting. She had even grown not to mind the faded furniture and the empty rooms, the staring rectangles on the wallpaper, where the previous owners had taken down their paintings. She cut flowers in the garden and arranged them in vases that she found in a cupboard under the stairs. She put out a linen napkin in a silver ring for the old man’s lunch. “Won’t you sit with me?” he asked her humbly. The food that Wendy brought him was too rich, cooked in olive oil or with cream sauces; he couldn’t always keep it down. Marina made plain food, and she cut the meat into little pieces for him, easy to chew and swallow. He got angry with his broken body, how it betrayed him. She rested her hand consolingly on his shoulder while he ate. She knew that she was a good nurse; her hands were good. She had looked after her own father in his last illness. For the old man’s ninetieth-birthday party, Wendy built a barbecue out of bricks, in a little paved area by one corner of the wall at the end of the garden. She told Marina that when she was a child she and her brother had spent every summer on their farm in the Western Cape, cooking most of their food outdoors on a braai or in a metal potjie, which sat over the fire. The old man was pleased with the idea of a party; it gave him something to look forward to. On the telephone, he ordered crates of his favorite Groot Constantia wine. His birthday was at the end of September and the sky was cloudless. Guests—mostly friends of Wendy’s—came strolling across the grass from where they had parked beside the church. The vicar came, with the next-door neighbors, and Anthony and another of Wendy’s sons, who brought his wife. Anthony and his brother took charge of grilling the meat, entering into the role with a lot of teasing banter, deferring to their grandfather’s expertise. They were good-looking young men, casually but expensively dressed, aware of conferring the favor of their youth on the elderly party. Marina had spoken to Anthony once or twice when he came to the house with Wendy; she’d never met the other one before. The old man had insisted that she bring Gary and Liam, though Gary was reluctant, sure he’d have nothing to say to these kinds of people. She had persuaded him to come for just an hour. At least he had Liam to look after; his responsibility for his son gave him something to do in a crowd and made him more confident. The guests gathered closer together, as the light went, around the barbecue’s radiant heat. Gary enjoyed himself after all. The old man made a fuss of him, filling up his glass; he wasn’t used to drinking wine and it helped him talk more easily, mostly about the local fishing. As if she were in a conspiracy with the old man, Marina noticed how cleverly he charmed her husband—while Liam, the only child at the party, ran in the dusk around the winding garden paths, lost in his own world. When Marina went into the kitchen to wash up, Wendy followed her, protesting theatrically that she could take it all home to put in her dishwasher. Wendy had been drinking, too; in company, her manner was jokey, almost flirtatious. She must have been pleased at having her handsome sons on display. She thanked Marina emotionally for everything she’d done for the old man, said she thought her dad was having a great day. Drying up the plates and cutlery and putting them away, Marina was relieved that the tension between her and Wendy seemed to be resolved; she covered the leftover food with cling film, restored order in the quiet kitchen. Gary took Liam home to put him to bed; she said she’d follow them soon. Voices floated subduedly through the open window. She knew the pattern of her movements in that kitchen by heart—her hand found its way in the shadows to each cupboard door or drawer. Tightening the taps, she wrung out the dishcloth and hung it across the drainer. She would have liked to slip away invisibly, but the old man called her over as she stepped out of the back door. (They never used the grand front door, which opened onto the street.) She was surprised that he could even see her through his dark glasses, from the far end of the garden; he had seemed sunk in sleep, hunched silent in his chair with a shawl over his shoulders as the others talked. Only his family were left around the barbecue. Wendy’s daughter-in-law, Jasmine, was yawning and shivering in her skimpy dress. Half standing up, the old man fumbled for Marina’s hand and kissed it. “Where have you been hiding away from me?” Everyone laughed. His words were slurring. She thought he’d had enough of the party and was probably ready for bed. “Have you met Marina, Jasmine? She’s my treasure.” Wendy chimed in. “We are very lucky to have Marina.” The old man wanted belatedly to make a speech. “I’ve been so fortunate to be surrounded with love in my old age, in a strange country where I didn’t look for it. Marina doesn’t know her own goodness. People like her and her family, they hold it all together for the rest of us, in their spirit. Some of us have had lives with every advantage, but we don’t deserve to kiss the hem of her garment.” Marina was embarrassed, and jarred by some false, sentimental note in his performance, which seemed aimed challengingly at his family. She pulled her hand away quickly. Anthony offered her a lift; he said he wanted an excuse to try out his brother’s Audi, but she insisted that she preferred to walk—it would take her only ten minutes. It was a relief to be out on the street alone. The high heels she’d worn for the party clicked and scraped too assertively on the pavement, so she bent and eased them off, then walked barefoot, carrying her shoes with the straps looped over her finger. She should have brought her trainers to change into. There was no one around, but a car came up behind her as she turned into the road off the high street which led to the little estate of ex-council houses where she lived. There was no pavement here, so she stood back for the car to pass. Instead, it drew up alongside her, sleek and low-slung, engine thrumming fluently. Anthony leaned across to push open the passenger door, his white shirt gleaming in the light from the instrument panel. “Get in,” he said. “I’m driving it back to Mum’s. I’ll drop you off.” “Really, I like the walk,” Marina protested. “Gets my head clear.” But he wouldn’t take no for an answer. When she moved on, he followed at her speed, nosing the car along in stops and starts, revving the engine persuasively. She felt its hot breath on her bare legs. Anthony opened the door again. “Come on. Hop in.” Exasperated, conscious that people must be listening behind all the windows in the street, she got in. Despite the fine night, Anthony had the air-conditioning on, and in the sealed, cold atmosphere the smell of the leather upholstery was strong. “Nice motor, isn’t it?” he said. He dropped his glance briefly from the road, noticing her feet. “You funny thing. You’ve taken your shoes off.” “Can’t walk quick in my heels.” He was amused. “But don’t you mind getting your feet dirty?” “Take the left here at the fork. Then it’s the first right.” “I know where you live. But we’re going the long way round. I want to have a little talk with you.” Marina was furious with herself for having accepted the lift against her better judgment. “Don’t be silly, Anthony. I’m tired and I want to get home.” Buy the print » She rattled the handle of the car door, but Anthony seemed to have locked it by pressing something on his side; he put his foot down on the accelerator. They left the last houses of the village behind and were quickly onto the country road, where the car’s headlights tunnelled into the darkness under the trees. Marina wasn’t frightened—she was too full of outrage, folding her arms tightly around her bag and pressing it to her chest. How dare he carry her off as if she didn’t count? They were probably more or less the same age, she and this boy, but she felt herself immeasurably older than he was. She had a child of her own, whereas he still lived like a child in his mother’s house; Wendy complained that he left his dirty clothes on the floor for her to pick up. Yet somehow Anthony undermined her with self-doubt—his fresh, plump face unmarked by trouble and his voice so blandly assured. “Please take me back,” she said as calmly as she could, and Anthony assured her that he’d turn around as soon as he had the chance. About a quarter of a mile up the road, he steered the Audi into a lay-by where tourists sometimes parked their cars to walk the forest trails. Marina struggled again with the door. “Let me out here,” she insisted. “I want to walk back.” He reached across her to unlock the door. Shrinking back inside her seat belt, she was smothered for a moment in the warm cotton smell of his shirt, perfumed with cologne and barbecue smoke. He laughed at her. “Don’t worry. I haven’t got any designs on your virtue. I’ll drive you home in a moment, or you can walk in your bare feet if you prefer it. Like I said, I just want to talk to you about something. I want to warn you about my grandfather, that’s all. For your own good. He’s got a big crush on you, he wants to give you presents—and why shouldn’t he? But I thought you ought to know a bit more about him before you make up your mind whether to accept them.” He pushed the car door wide open and they listened to the muted, tickling noises the engine made as it cooled. “I don’t even want his presents,” Marina said. “Your mother knows that. I don’t even take them.” “Well, just in case.” And he told her what the old man had been involved in, in the seventies and eighties, working in special operations for the South African Defense Force. “The details are pretty murky,” Anthony said. “A lot of accusations were flying around.” Somehow the old man had got away with an amnesty—perhaps because he was already in his late sixties by then, retired to his farm. “I don’t condemn him. I don’t think you can condemn anything, unless you were there. Mum said there was no point in telling you—it’s all old history now. He’s just a sad old man. But I thought that you might like to know, that’s all.” She meant to look it up on the Internet when she got home (Anthony had said that some of the stories were there if you searched for his grandfather’s name), but she didn’t. She lay in bed beside Gary, who was sound asleep, and eventually she fell asleep herself. By the time she woke, Gary was moving around in the kitchen downstairs, putting the kettle on for tea and preparing Liam’s breakfast. Through the floor, she could hear Liam’s questions and Gary’s low-voiced responses—not so much answers as reassurances of his steady presence. Marina felt burdened, as if she’d woken from a clinging, unpleasant dream. Once, when she was a girl, walking with Gary in the woods, they’d come across something inexplicable and horrible—the rotting head of some creature caught in the cleft branch of a tree, a chain of vertebrae dangling below it. Because the vertebrae looked like a long neck, she’d thought at first that it must be a goose or a swan that had got trapped somehow; then she saw teeth, and tufts of gristly fur stuck to the skull. Gary had poked at it with a stick. It was a mammal, perhaps a big stoat; Gary could only think that it must have been dropped from the sky by a bird of prey, the flesh falling away from the backbone as it decayed. Marina had looked at the thing coolly, but then as she walked on its reality had taken up residence inside her. There was no violent shock, only a settled change, and the realization—a surprise—that you couldn’t undo the knowledge of the thing with the same calm ease with which you had taken it in. And for a while afterward everything she looked at had seemed unclean, had revealed a leering, repulsive side she’d never seen before. She thought with distaste now of the old man’s soiled linen soaking in a bucket. She couldn’t forgive herself for her innocence, which seemed willful in retrospect; she remembered how the old man had courted and flattered her. As soon as she’d heard the things that Anthony listed, she had no doubt that some of them were true—enough of them for it not to matter which. They must have been written on the old man’s surface, she thought, but she’d been too ignorant to read them. Gary asked wasn’t she going to work today? Marina didn’t want to, but she didn’t want to explain to Gary, either, so she dressed and took Liam to school, then went into the churchyard. Clouds blew across the patchy sunshine. A new grave was littered with dead flowers still wrapped in cellophane, sodden ribbons, a child’s paper windmill. Already the old man would be missing her. He was probably telephoning right now, to find out where she was. She kept her mobile switched off. Should she go up to the house? Was that her duty? She had thought she might go into the church to pray for guidance, but as soon as she sat down in the churchyard that idea sickened her, too, as another fake. Instead, she set out for Wendy’s, wanting to talk to her. It was along the way that Anthony had driven the night before; less than ten minutes by car, but quite a walk. Wendy’s house, rectangular and substantial, newly painted cream, was set back from the road; when Marina was halfway up the gravelled drive she caught sight of Wendy standing at one of the upstairs windows as if she were looking out for her, expecting her. Wendy waved urgently; moments later, she appeared at the front door in a white towelling bathrobe and flip-flops, her hair scraped back from her forehead under a stretch band. She hurried up to Marina, seizing her hands. Naked of its makeup, greasy with cleanser, her face looked dazzled and bewildered. “Is he gone?” “I don’t know,” Marina said, thinking she must mean Anthony. “What’s extraordinary,” Wendy hurried on, not in her usual mocking, drawling voice but exalted and excited, “is that I’ve always dreamed of it happening just like this. In the dream, it’s always morning and overcast, I’m running a bath in the en suite and I get undressed, the tap’s still running, everything’s steamy. Then in the dream I get this premonition that it’s going to happen, right now—and that’s when the phone rings and it’s my useless brother, ringing to tell me that Dad’s dead. But the dream’s changed since Dad came to live here. Now it’s always you instead, bringing the news. You’re always coming up the drive, wearing your pink jacket—I see your red hair. While I was running my bath this morning, I looked out and saw you, and it was exactly like it was in the dream, so I just knew.” Marina calmed her down and explained that she hadn’t seen the old man yet this morning, that as far as she knew he was fine. Although Wendy seemed to listen, she was still agitated. She asked Marina to wait while she dressed. Then they drove down into the village together, to check on him. Wendy never asked why Marina had come to see her, and her explanation was overtaken by events. The old man had died peacefully in his sleep. Almost peacefully. There was some evidence of a struggle with the bedclothes. He had fallen halfway out of the bed when they found him, with his head on the floor. He did leave Marina the house in his will—he’d changed it only a few weeks before his death—but she wouldn’t take it. The solicitors said that her refusal was unusual but not unprecedented; she had to sign a disclaimer in order to give the house back. Eventually, Wendy got builders into it, renovating from top to bottom, doing it up beautifully. Then she moved in herself and put her other place on the market. She tried to give Marina some money instead of the house, but Marina wouldn’t touch a penny. It caused trouble between her and Gary. Gary didn’t see why she shouldn’t have something, and Marina’s mother agreed: they could put it aside, in case Liam wanted to go to college later. But once Marina got an idea into her head there was no changing it. Gary knew that better than anyone. In the end, he went along with what she wanted. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet

